FILE:TEL/TEL-8K-20100722060709.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
         Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
         Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
         Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
         Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On July 22, 2010, Tyco Electronics Ltd. (the "Company") issued a press release reporting the Company's third quarter results for fiscal 2010. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated by reference in this Item 2.02.
 
Item 7.01.  Regulation FD Disclosure
 
The Company will hold a conference call and webcast on July 22, 2010 (see information in the press release attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 under "Conference Call and Webcast").  A copy of the slide materials to be discussed at the conference call and webcast is being furnished pursuant to Regulation FD as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by reference, and the slide materials also can be accessed at the "Investors" section of the Company's website (www.tycoelectronics.com).
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d)        Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
 
Third Quarter Results
                 
Net Sales of $3.08 Billion Increased 23 Percent Year-Over-Year and 4 Percent Sequentially
                 
GAAP Operating Income of $467 Million; Adjusted Operating Income of $463 Million, Up From $127 Million in Prior-Year Period and a 13 Percent Increase Sequentially; Adjusted Operating Margin of 15 Percent
                 
Diluted Earnings Per Share From Continuing Operations (GAAP EPS) of $0.72; Adjusted EPS of $0.70, Up From $0.16 in Prior-Year Period and a 9 Percent Increase Sequentially
                 
Cash From Continuing Operations of $375 Million; Free Cash Flow of $283 Million
 
Fourth Quarter and Full Year Outlook
                 
Company Expects Fourth Quarter Net Sales of $3.05 to $3.15 Billion, Up 13 to 17 Percent Year-Over-Year
                 
Fourth Quarter GAAP EPS Expected to be $0.65 to $0.69; Adjusted EPS Expected to be $0.68 to $0.72, Compared to $0.30 in Prior-Year Quarter
                 
Full Year Sales Expected to be Approximately $12.0 Billion, Up 17 Percent Year-Over-Year
                 
Full Year GAAP EPS Expected to be $2.40 to $2.44; Adjusted EPS Expected to be $2.49 to $2.53, Compared to $0.81 in the Prior Year
                 
Free Cash Flow of Approximately $1.3 Billion Expected for the Full Year
 
SCHAFFHAUSEN, Switzerland  July 22, 2010  Tyco Electronics Ltd. (NYSE: TEL) today reported results for the fiscal third quarter ended June 25, 2010.  The company reported a net sales increase of 23 percent year-over-year, and 4 percent sequentially, to $3.08 billion.  GAAP EPS were $0.72 for the quarter, compared to $0.05 in the prior-year period.  Included in the GAAP EPS were $0.02 per share of income related to tax and other items, net of restructuring charges.  This compares to $0.11 per share of
net charges in the prior-year quarter.  Adjusted EPS were $0.70 in the quarter, compared to $0.16 in the prior-year quarter.
 
"We had another outstanding quarter and we are raising our fourth quarter outlook," said Tyco Electronics Chief Executive Officer Tom Lynch.  "Sequentially, orders and sales were up 7 and 4 percent respectively, our adjusted operating margin improved to 15 percent and we generated $283 million of free cash flow.  Fourth quarter results will be similar to the third quarter, with sales expected to be approximately $3.1 billion and adjusted EPS of $0.68 to $0.72."
 
The following discussion includes non-GAAP financial measures which are described at the end of this press release.  For a reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures, see the attached tables.  All dollar amounts are pre-tax and stated in millions.
 
 
Sales grew 23 percent compared to the prior-year quarter and 4 percent sequentially.  Organically, sales increased 24 percent compared to the prior year and 7 percent sequentially.  By segment, and on an organic basis, sales in the Electronic Components segment increased 8 percent sequentially, with broad-based growth in consumer and industrial markets.  Sales increased 17 percent sequentially in the Network Solutions segment due to increased capital spending in infrastructure markets and a normal seasonal increase.  Sales in the Specialty Products segment grew 10 percent sequentially, primarily reflecting growth in aerospace and defense, touch systems and circuit protection markets.  In the Subsea Communications segment, sales decreased 18 percent sequentially.
 
The adjusted operating margin improved to 15 percent, compared to 13.9 percent in the prior quarter. The operating margin improvement was due to volume increases and productivity gains.
 
CASH FLOW
 
Cash from continuing operations was $375 million during the quarter, compared to $336 million in the
year-ago period.  Free cash flow was $283 million, compared to $327 million in the prior-year period.
 
ORDERS
 
Total company orders increased 41 percent compared to the prior year and 7 percent sequentially.  The book-to-bill ratio was 1.06 in the quarter.  Excluding the company's Subsea Communications segment, which is a project-oriented business with uneven order patterns, orders increased 38 percent year-over-year and 4 percent sequentially and the book-to-bill ratio was 1.08.
 
FOURTH QUARTER AND FULL YEAR FISCAL 2010 OUTLOOK
 
For the fourth quarter, the company expects net sales of $3.05 to $3.15 billion, an increase of 13 to 17 percent over the prior-year period.  GAAP EPS are expected to be $0.65 to $0.69, including restructuring and other charges of approximately $0.03 per share.  Adjusted EPS are expected to be $0.68 to $0.72, compared to adjusted EPS of $0.30 in the prior-year period.
 
For the full fiscal year, the company expects sales of approximately $12.0 billion, an increase of 17 percent over the prior year.  GAAP EPS are expected to be $2.40 to $2.44, including restructuring and other charges of approximately $0.09 per share.  Adjusted EPS are expected to be $2.49 to $2.53, compared to adjusted EPS of $0.81 in the prior-year period.  This outlook assumes current foreign exchange rates.
 
ADC ACQUISITION
 
On July 13, 2010, the company announced its intent to acquire ADC (NASDAQ: ADCT) for $12.75 per share in cash, or an enterprise value of approximately $1.25 billion.  The transaction is expected to close by the end of the calendar year.
 
ABOUT TYCO ELECTRONICS
 
Tyco Electronics Ltd. is a leading global provider of engineered electronic components, network solutions, specialty products and subsea communication systems, with fiscal 2009 sales of $10.3 billion to customers in more than 150 countries. We design, manufacture and market products for customers in a broad array of industries including automotive; data communication systems and consumer electronics; telecommunications; aerospace, defense and marine; medical; energy; and lighting. With approximately 7,000 engineers and worldwide manufacturing, sales and customer service capabilities, Tyco Electronics' commitment is our customers' advantage. More information on Tyco Electronics can be found at http://www.tycoelectronics.com/.
CONFERENCE CALL AND WEBCAST
 
   
The company will hold a conference call for investors today beginning at 8:30 a.m. EDT.
 
   
Internet users will be able to access the company's earnings webcast, , at the "Investors" section of
including slide materials
Tyco Electronics' website:
http://investors.tycoelectronics.com
.
 
   
For both "listen-only" telephone participants and those participants who wish to take part in the question-and-answer portion of the call, the dial-in number in the United States is (800) 230-1085.  The telephone dial-in number for participants outside the United States is (612) 234-9960.
 
   
An audio replay of the conference call will be available beginning at 10:30 a.m. on July 22, 2010 and ending at 11:59 p.m. on July 29, 2010.  The dial-in number for participants in the United States is (800) 475-6701.  For participants outside the United States, the replay dial-in number is (320) 365-3844. The replay access code for all callers is 162015.
 
NON-GAAP MEASURES
 
"Organic Sales Growth," "Adjusted Operating Income," "Adjusted Operating Margin,"
"Adjusted Other Income, Net,"
"Adjusted Income Tax (Expense) Benefit," "Adjusted Income from Continuing Operations,"  "Adjusted Earnings Per Share," and "Free Cash Flow" (FCF) are non-GAAP measures and should not be considered replacements for GAAP results.
 
"Organic Sales Growth" is a useful measure used by the company to measure the underlying results and trends in the business.  The difference between reported net sales growth (the most comparable GAAP measure) and Organic Sales Growth (the non-GAAP measure) consists of the impact from foreign currency, acquisitions and divestitures.  Organic Sales Growth is a useful measure of the company's performance because it excludes items that:  i) are not completely under management's control, such as the impact of foreign currency exchange; or ii) do not reflect the underlying growth of the company, such as acquisition and divestiture activity.  The limitation of this measure is that it excludes items that have an impact on the company's sales.  This limitation is best addressed by using organic sales growth in combination with the GAAP results. See the accompanying tables to this press release for the reconciliation presenting the components of Organic Sales Growth.
 
The company has presented its operating income before special items including charges related to legal settlements and reserves, restructuring charges, impairment charges, acquisition related charges, and other income or charges ("Adjusted Operating Income").  The company utilizes Adjusted Operating Income to assess segment level core operating performance and to provide insight to management in evaluating segment operating plan execution and underlying market conditions.  It is also a significant component in the company's incentive compensation plans. Adjusted Operating Income is a useful measure for investors because it better reflects the company's underlying operating results, trends and the comparability of these results between periods.  The difference between Adjusted Operating Income and operating income (the most comparable GAAP measure) consists of the impact of charges related to legal settlements and reserves, restructuring charges, impairment charges, acquisition related charges, and other income or charges that may mask the underlying operating results and/or business trends.  The limitation of this measure is that it excludes the financial impact of items that would otherwise either increase or decrease the company's reported operating income. This limitation is best addressed by using Adjusted Operating Income in combination with operating income (the most comparable GAAP measure) in order to better understand the amounts, character and impact of any increase or decrease on reported results.
 
The company has presented its operating margin before special items including charges related to legal settlements and reserves, restructuring charges, impairment charges, acquisition related charges, and other income or charges ("Adjusted Operating Margin").  The company presents Adjusted Operating
Margin before special items to give investors a perspective on the underlying business results.  Because the company cannot predict the amount and timing of such items and the associated charges or gains that will be recorded in the company's financial statements, it is difficult to include the impact of those items in the forecast.
 
The company has presented other income, net before special items including tax sharing income related to certain proposed adjustments to prior period tax returns and other tax items and the gain on retirement of debt ("Adjusted Other Income, Net"). The company presents Adjusted Other Income, Net as it believes that it is appropriate for investors to consider results excluding these items in addition to its results in accordance with GAAP. The difference between Adjusted Other Income, Net and other income, net (the most comparable GAAP measure) consists of tax sharing income related to certain proposed adjustments to prior period tax returns and other tax items and the gain on retirement of debt. The limitation of this measure is that it excludes the financial impact of items that would otherwise either increase or decrease other income, net. This limitation is best addressed by using Adjusted Other Income, Net in combination with other income, net (the most comparable GAAP measure) in order to better understand the amounts, character and impact of any increase or decrease in reported amounts.
 
The company has presented income tax (expense) benefit after adjusting for the tax effect of special items including charges related to restructuring, impairment charges, acquisition related charges, and other income or charges, and certain significant special tax items ("Adjusted Income Tax (Expense) Benefit").  The company presents Adjusted Income Tax (Expense) Benefit to provide investors further information regarding the tax effects of adjustments used in determining the non-GAAP financial measure Adjusted Income from Continuing Operations (as defined below).  The difference between Adjusted Income Tax (Expense) Benefit and income tax (expense) benefit (the most comparable GAAP measure) is the tax effect of adjusting items and certain significant special tax items.  The limitation of this measure is that it excludes the financial impact of items that would otherwise either increase or decrease income tax (expense) benefit. This limitation is best addressed by using Adjusted Income Tax (Expense) Benefit in combination with income tax (expense) benefit (the most comparable GAAP measure) in order to better understand the amounts, character and impact of any increase or decrease in reported amounts.
 
The company has presented income from continuing operations attributable to Tyco Electronics Ltd. before special items including charges related to legal settlements and reserves, restructuring charges, impairment charges, acquisition related charges, tax sharing income related to certain proposed adjustments to prior period tax returns and other tax items, certain significant special tax items, other income or charges, and, if applicable, related tax effects ("Adjusted Income from Continuing Operations").  The company presents Adjusted Income from Continuing Operations as it believes that it is appropriate for investors to consider results excluding these items in addition to its results in accordance with GAAP.  Adjusted Income from Continuing Operations provides additional information regarding the company's underlying operating results, trends and the comparability of these results between periods.  The difference between Adjusted Income from Continuing Operations and income from continuing operations attributable to Tyco Electronics Ltd. (the most comparable GAAP measure) consists of the impact of charges related to legal settlements and reserves, restructuring charges, impairment charges, acquisition related charges, tax sharing income related to certain proposed adjustments to prior period tax returns and other tax items, certain significant special tax items, other income or charges, and, if applicable, related tax effects.  The limitation of this measure is that it excludes the financial impact of items that would otherwise either increase or decrease the company's reported results. This limitation is best addressed by using Adjusted Income from Continuing Operations in combination with income from continuing operations attributable to Tyco Electronics Ltd. (the most comparable GAAP measure) in order to better understand the amounts, character and impact of any increase or decrease in reported amounts.
 
The company has presented diluted earnings per share from continuing operations attributable to Tyco Electronics Ltd. before special items, including charges related to legal settlements and reserves, restructuring charges, impairment charges, acquisition related charges, tax sharing income related to certain proposed adjustments to prior period tax returns and other tax items, certain significant special tax
items, other income or charges, and, if applicable, related tax effects ("Adjusted Earnings Per Share"). The company presents Adjusted Earnings Per Share because it believes that it is appropriate for investors to consider results excluding these items in addition to its results in accordance with GAAP.  The company believes such a measure provides a picture of its results that is more comparable among periods since it excludes the impact of special items, which may recur, but tend to be irregular as to timing, thereby making comparisons between periods more difficult. This limitation is best addressed by using Adjusted Earnings Per Share in combination with diluted earnings per share from continuing operations attributable to Tyco Electronics Ltd. (the most comparable GAAP measure) in order to better understand the amounts, character and impact of any increase or decrease on reported results.
 
"Free Cash Flow" (FCF) is a useful measure of the company's cash generation which is free from any significant existing obligation.  The difference between cash flows from operating activities (the most comparable GAAP measure) and FCF (the non-GAAP measure) consists mainly of significant cash outflows that the company believes are useful to identify.  FCF permits management and investors to gain insight into the amount that management employs to measure cash that is free from any significant existing obligation.  The difference reflects the impact from:
 
                 
net capital expenditures,
                 
voluntary pension contributions, and
                 
cash impact of special items.
 
Net capital expenditures are subtracted because they represent long-term commitments.  Voluntary pension contributions are subtracted from the GAAP measure because this activity is driven by economic financing decisions rather than operating activity.  The company forecasts its cash flow results excluding any voluntary pension contributions because it has not yet made a determination about the amount and timing of any future such contributions.  In addition, the company's forecast excludes the cash impact of special items because the company cannot predict the amount and timing of such items.
 
The limitation associated with using FCF is that it subtracts cash items that are ultimately within management's and the Board of Directors' discretion to direct and that therefore may imply that there is less or more cash that is available for the company's programs than the most comparable GAAP measure.  This limitation is best addressed by using FCF in combination with the GAAP cash flow results.
 
FCF as presented herein may not be comparable to similarly-titled measures reported by other companies.  The measure should be used in conjunction with other GAAP financial measures.  Investors are urged to read the company's financial statements as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, as well as the accompanying tables to this press release that show all the elements of the GAAP measures of Cash Flows from Operating Activities, Cash Flows from Investing Activities, Cash Flows from Financing Activities and a reconciliation of the company's total cash and cash equivalents for the period.  See the accompanying tables to this press release for a cash flow statement presented in accordance with GAAP and a reconciliation presenting the components of FCF.
 
Because the company does not predict the amount and timing of special items that might occur in the future, and its forecasts are developed at a level of detail different than that used to prepare GAAP-based financial measures, the company does not provide reconciliations to GAAP of its forward-looking financial measures.
 
CORRECTION OF IMMATERIAL ERRORS
 
During the third quarter of fiscal 2010, the Company identified certain errors in its accounting for income taxes. These errors related to the adoption of the uncertain tax position provisions of ASC 740, Income Taxes, in fiscal 2008 and data utilized in the determination of the Company's income tax provision in fiscal 2005 through fiscal 2009.
The Company has evaluated the effects of these errors individually and in the aggregate and determined that its prior period financial statements are not materially misstated.  However, the Company has determined that the cumulative effect of correcting these errors in the third quarter of fiscal 2010 would be material to the fiscal 2010 financial statements.  Therefore, the Company has corrected these errors in the affected prior periods.  More information related to these corrections is provided in the schedules attached accompanying this press release.
 
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
 
This release may contain certain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to risks, uncertainty and changes in circumstances, which may cause actual results, performance, financial condition or achievements to differ materially from anticipated results, performance, financial condition or achievements. All statements contained herein that are not clearly historical in nature are forward-looking and the words "anticipate," "believe," "expect," "estimate," "plan," and similar expressions are generally intended to identify forward-looking statements. Tyco Electronics has no intention and is under no obligation to update or alter (and expressly disclaims any such intention or obligation to do so) its forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except to the extent required by law.  The forward-looking statements in this release include statements addressing our future financial condition and operating results
and the acquisition of ADC Telecommunications, Inc. (ADC). Examples of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements include, among others, business, economic, competitive and regulatory risks, such as developments in the credit markets; conditions affecting demand for products, particularly the automotive industry and the telecommunications, computer and consumer electronics industries; future goodwill impairment; competition and pricing pressure; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices; political, economic and military instability in countries in which we operate; compliance with current and future environmental and other laws and regulations; the possible effects on us of changes in tax laws, tax treaties and other legislation;
the risk that the ADC transaction may not be consummated; the risk that a regulatory approval that may be required for the transaction is not obtained or is obtained subject to conditions that are not anticipated; the risk that ADC will not be integrated successfully into Tyco Electronics; and the risk that revenue opportunities, cost savings and other anticipated synergies from the transaction may not be fully realized or may take longer to realize than expected. More detailed information about these and other factors is set forth in Tyco Electronics' Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended Sept. 25, 2009 and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarterly periods ended Dec. 25, 2009 and Mar. 26, 2010, as well as in Tyco Electronics' Current Reports on Form 8-K and other reports filed by Tyco Electronics with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
 
 
 
(1) Free cash flow is a non-GAAP measure.  See description of non-GAAP measures contained in this release.
 
 
 
(1) Not meaningful.
 
 
 
 
 
(1) Represents the change in net sales resulting from volume and price changes, before consideration of acquisitions, divestitures, and the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates.  Organic net sales growth is a non-GAAP measure.  See description of non-GAAP measures contained in this release.
(2) Represents the change in net sales resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates.
(3) Industry end market information about net sales is presented consistently with our internal management reporting and may be periodically revised as management deems necessary.
 
 
 
 
(1) Represents the change in net sales resulting from volume and price changes, before consideration of acquisitions, divestitures, and the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates.  Organic net sales growth is a non-GAAP measure.  See description of non-GAAP measures contained in this release.
(2) Represents the change in net sales resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates.
(3) Industry end market information about net sales is presented consistently with our internal management reporting and may be periodically revised as management deems necessary.
 
 
 
 
 
(1) Includes income tax expense related to certain proposed adjustments to prior year tax returns and income tax benefits associated with the completion of an audit of prior year tax returns.  Also includes the related impact to other income pursuant to the Tax Sharing Agreement with Tyco International and Covidien.
(2) Consists of $7 million of credits related to pre-separation securities litigation.
(3) See description of non-GAAP measures contained in this release.
 
 
(1) See description of non-GAAP measures contained in this release.
 
 
 
(1) Includes $81 million recorded in net restructuring and other charges and a $3 million credit recorded in cost of sales.
(2) Includes income tax expense related to certain proposed adjustments to prior year tax returns and income tax benefits associated with the settlement of an audit of prior year tax returns as well as the related impact to other income pursuant to the Tax Sharing Agreement with Tyco International and Covidien.  Also includes an income tax benefit recognized in connection with a reduction in the valuation allowance associated with certain tax loss carryforwards.
(3) Consists of $7 million of credits related to pre-separation securities litigation.
(4) See description of non-GAAP measures contained in this release.
 
 
 
 
(1) Includes $329 million recorded in restructuring and other charges, net and a $1 million credit recorded in cost of sales.
(2) Consists of $144 million of charges related to the settlement of pre-separation securities litigation recorded in pre-separation litigation charges and $8 million of costs related to a product liability matter from several years ago recorded in selling, general, and administrative expenses.
(3) See description of non-GAAP measures contained in this release.
(4) GAAP diluted shares excludes 1 million of non-vested restricted share awards and non-vested options as the inclusion of these securities would have been anti-dilutive.  Such amounts are included in non-GAAP diluted shares.
(5) Not meaningful.
 
 
 
(1) Includes income tax expense related to certain proposed adjustments to prior year tax returns and the related impact to other income pursuant to the Tax Sharing Agreement with Tyco International and Covidien.  Also includes an income tax benefit recognized in connection with a reduction in the valuation allowance associated with certain tax loss carryforwards.
(2) See description of non-GAAP measures contained in this release.
 
 
(1) Includes $46 million recorded in net restructuring and other charges and a $1 million credit recorded in cost of sales.
(2) Includes an income tax benefit primarily related to proposed adjustments to prior year tax returns, and charges to other expense pursuant to the Tax Sharing Agreement with Tyco International and Covidien.
(3) See description of non-GAAP measures contained in this release.
 
(1) Includes $375 million recorded in net restructuring and other charges and a $2 million credit recorded in cost of sales.
(2) Includes an income tax benefit primarily related to proposed adjustments to prior year tax returns, and charges to other expense pursuant to the Tax Sharing Agreement with Tyco International and Covidien.
(3) Consists of $144 million of charges related to the settlement of pre-separation securities litigation and $8 million of costs related to a product liability matter from several years ago recorded in selling, general, and administrative expenses.  Also includes net gain related to retirement of debt of $19 million.
(4) See description of non-GAAP measures contained in this release.
(5) GAAP diluted shares excludes 1 million of non-vested restricted share awards and non-vested options as the inclusion of these securities would have been anti-dilutive.  Such amounts are included in non-GAAP diluted shares.
(6) Not meaningful.
 
 
The impact of correcting the immaterial errors on the Company's Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations is as follows:
 
 
 
The impact of correcting the immaterial errors on the Company's Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets is as follows:
 
 
The impact of correcting the immaterial errors on the Company's Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows is as follows:
 

Exhibit 99.2
 


