FILE:TEL/TEL-8K-20110513111511.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
         Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
         Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
         Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
         Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 5.02.  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
On May 9, 2011, Joseph B. Donahue was promoted to the position of Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of TE Connectivity Ltd. ("TE" or the "Company").  Mr. Donahue will continue to have responsibility for TE's Transportation Solutions segment.  In connection with his promotion, Mr. Donahue will receive an increase in his annual base salary to $605,000 and it is expected that he will receive an additional equity incentive award.  At the time that the Management Development and Compensation Committee of the Company's Board of Directors grants Mr. Donahue an additional equity incentive award in connection with Mr. Donahue's promotion, which is expected to occur within the next sixty days, the Company will file an amendment to this Form 8-K disclosing its terms.  Background information on Mr. Donahue can be found in the Company's proxy statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on January 20, 2011.  A copy of the press release announcing Mr. Donahue's promotion is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)           Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
 
Schaffhausen, SwitzerlandMay 12, 2011TE Connectivity (NYSE: TEL), formerly Tyco Electronics, today announced the promotion of Joe Donahue to the newly created role of Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer (COO).
 
As COO, Donahue now will be responsible for the company's global operations, which span more than 50 countries, and have oversight for the company's businesses in emerging markets, specifically China, India and South America, which account for nearly a quarter of the company's revenues. He also will continue to have responsibility for TE's Transportation Solutions segment.
 
"Joe has done an exceptional job leading our Transportation Solutions segment and our Automotive business, and will now bring his outstanding leadership to bear across the entire company in operations and emerging markets," said TE CEO Tom Lynch.
 
Donahue joined the company in 1982 and has served in a variety of engineering, operations and leadership assignments across various TE businesses.
 
ABOUT TE CONNECTIVITY
 
TE Connectivity is a global, $12.1 billion company that designs and manufactures over 500,000 products that connect and protect the flow of power and data inside the products that touch
every aspect of our lives. Our nearly 100,000 employees partner with customers in virtually every industryfrom consumer electronics, energy and healthcare, to automotive, aerospace and communication networksenabling smarter, faster, better technologies to connect products to possibilities.
More information on TE Connectivity can be found at http://www.te.com.


