FILE:TEL/TEL-8K-20110720060917.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
         Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
         Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
         Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
         Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On July 20, 2011, TE Connectivity Ltd. (the "Company") issued a press release reporting the Company's third quarter results for fiscal 2011. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated by reference in this Item 2.02.
 
Item 7.01.  Regulation FD Disclosure
 
The Company will hold a conference call and webcast on July 20, 2011 (see information in the press release attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 under "Conference Call and Webcast").  A copy of the slide materials to be discussed at the conference call and webcast is being furnished pursuant to Regulation FD as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by reference, and the slide materials also can be accessed at the "Investors" section of the Company's website (www.te.com).
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d)        Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
 
Third Quarter Results
     
Net Sales of $3.7 Billion, Up 21 Percent Year-Over-Year
     
GAAP EPS of $0.80; Adjusted EPS of $0.78, Up From $0.70 in Prior Year
     
Free Cash Flow of $340 Million, Up From $283 Million in Prior Year
 
Outlook
     
Fourth Quarter:
     
Sales of $3.9 to $4.0 Billion, Up 24 to 28 Percent From Prior Year
     
Adjusted EPS of $0.84 to $0.88, Up From $0.72 in the Prior Year
 
     
Full Year:
     
Sales of $14.3 to $14.4 Billion, Up 18 to 19 Percent From Prior Year
     
Adjusted EPS of $3.06 to $3.10, Up 20 to 22 Percent From Prior Year
     
Free Cash Flow in Excess of $1.3 Billion
 
SCHAFFHAUSEN, Switzerland  Jul. 20, 2011  TE Connectivity Ltd.
(NYSE: TEL) today reported results for the fiscal third quarter ended Jun. 24, 2011.  The company reported a net sales increase of 21 percent year-over-year, and 7 percent sequentially, to $3.7 billion.  Earnings Per Share from Continuing Operations (GAAP EPS) were $0.80 for the quarter, compared to $0.72 in the prior-year period.  Included in the GAAP EPS were $0.02 per share of ADC acquisition-related charges, $0.01 per share of restructuring and other charges and $0.05 of tax-related income.  This compares to $0.01 per share of restructuring and other charges and $0.04 per share of income related to tax and other items in the prior-year quarter.  Adjusted EPS were $0.78 in the quarter, up 11 percent compared to $0.70 in the prior-year quarter.
 
"Our third quarter results were strong and our earnings represent a new high for TE. We continue to capitalize on automotive sales growth and investment in broadband networks, particularly outside of the United States.  These trends more than offset the impact on our company from the Japan earthquake," said TE Connectivity Chief Executive Officer Tom Lynch.  "Although there is macroeconomic uncertainty, we expect our momentum to continue through the fourth quarter and to deliver full year adjusted earnings per share in excess of $3.00, up about 20 percent from last year."
 
UPDATED 2011 OUTLOOK
 
For the fourth quarter, the company expects net sales of $3.9 to $4.0 billion, an increase of 24 to 28 percent over the prior-year period.  GAAP EPS are expected to be $0.76 to $0.80, including acquisition-related and restructuring and other charges of $0.08.  Adjusted EPS are expected to be $0.84 to $0.88, compared to adjusted EPS of $0.72 in the prior-year period.  Included in the adjusted EPS guidance are $240 million of sales and $0.05 of EPS due to the additional week in the fourth quarter.
 
For the full fiscal year, whichincludes 53 weeks, the company expects sales of $14.3 to $14.4 billion, an increase of 18 to 19 percent over the prior year.  GAAP EPS are expected to be $2.83 to $2.87, including acquisition-related and restructuring and other charges of approximately $0.23 per share.  Adjusted EPS are expected to be $3.06 to $3.10, up 20 to 22 percent compared to adjusted EPS of $2.54 in the prior year.  Included in the adjusted EPS guidance are approximately $950 million of sales and $0.12 of adjusted EPS due to the ADC acquisition, $240 million of sales and $0.05 of EPS due to the additional week in the fiscal year 2011, as well as the negative impact of approximately $120 million of sales and $0.08 of EPS due to the Japan earthquake.
 
This outlook assumes current foreign exchange and commodity rates.
 
Information about TE Connectivity's use of non-GAAP financial measures is described at the end of this press release.  For a reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures, see the attached tables.
 
FISCAL THIRD QUARTER 2011 RESULTS
 
All dollar amounts are pre-tax and stated in millions.
 
 
Sales grew 21 percent compared to the prior-year quarter and 5 percent organically.  Overall growth includes 10 percent from the ADC acquisition and 7 percent from currency translation.  By segment, and on an organic basis, sales in Transportation Solutions were up 11 percent compared to the prior year, driven primarily by increased automotive production and increased electronic content in automobiles.  Network Solutions sales were up 7 percent compared to the prior year driven by double-digit increases in the telecom networks and energy businesses.  Sales in Communications and Industrial Solutions were down 1 percent compared to the prior year.  Strength in the industrial market was offset by declines in the company's consumer devices business.  The adjusted operating margin was slightly better than expected at 13.1 percent in the quarter.
 
CASH FLOW
 
Cash from continuing operations was $438 million during the quarter.  Free cash flow was $340 million.  The company continues to expect free cash flow in excess of $1.3 billion in fiscal 2011, excluding the estimated $105 million of cash expenditures related to the ADC acquisition.
 
ORDERS
 
Total company orders were $3.9 billion, an increase of 19 percent compared to the prior year and 6 percent organically.  The book-to-bill ratio was 1.04 overall and 1.00, excluding the Subsea Communications business.
 
ABOUT TE CONNECTIVITY
 
TE Connectivity is a global, $12.1 billion company that designs and manufactures over 500,000 products that connect and protect the flow of power and data inside the products that touch every aspect of our lives. Our nearly 100,000 employees partner with customers in virtually every industryfrom consumer electronics, energy and healthcare, to automotive, aerospace and communication networksenabling smarter, faster, better technologies to connect products to possibilities. More information on TE Connectivity can be found at http://www.te.com.
 
CONFERENCE CALL AND WEBCAST
 
                 
The company will hold a conference call for investors today beginning at 8:30 a.m. EDT.
 
                 
Internet users will be able to access the company's earnings webcast, , at the "Investors" section of TE Connectivity's website: http://investors.te.com.
including slide materials
 
                 
For both "listen-only" participants and those participants who wish to take part in the question-and-answer portion of the call, the telephone dial-in number in the United States is (800) 230-1074. The telephone dial-in number for participants outside the United States is (612) 332-0725.
 
                 
An audio replay of the conference call will be available beginning at 10:30 a.m. EDT on July 20, 2011 and ending at 11:59 p.m. EDT on July 27, 2011. The dial-in number for participants in the United States is (800) 475-6701.  For participants outside the United States, the replay dial-in number is (320) 365-3844. The replay access code for all callers is 205447.
 
NON-GAAP MEASURES
 
"Organic Sales Growth," "Adjusted Operating Income," "Adjusted Operating Margin," "Adjusted Other Income, Net," "Adjusted Income Tax Expense," "Adjusted Income from Continuing Operations," "Adjusted Earnings Per Share," and "Free Cash Flow" (FCF) are non-GAAP measures and should not be considered replacements for GAAP results.
 
"Organic Sales Growth" is a useful measure used by us to measure the underlying results and trends in the business.  The difference between reported net sales growth (the most comparable GAAP measure) and Organic Sales Growth (the non-GAAP measure) consists of the impact from foreign currency exchange rates, acquisitions, divestitures, and an additional week in the fourth quarter of the fiscal years which are 53 weeks in length.  Organic Sales Growth is a useful measure of our performance because it excludes items that: i) are not completely under management's control, such as the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates; or ii) do not reflect the underlying growth of the company, such as acquisition and divestiture activity and the impact of an additional week in the fourth quarter of the fiscal years which are 53 weeks in length.  The limitation of this measure is that it excludes items that have an impact on our sales.  This limitation is best addressed by using organic sales growth in combination with the GAAP results.  See the accompanying tables to this release for the reconciliation presenting the components of Organic Sales Growth.
 
We have presented operating income before special items including charges or income related to legal settlements and reserves, restructuring and other charges, and acquisition related charges ("Adjusted Operating Income").  We utilize Adjusted Operating Income to assess segment level core operating performance and to provide insight to management in evaluating segment operating plan execution and underlying market conditions.  It is also a significant component in our incentive compensation plans.  Adjusted Operating Income is a useful measure for investors because it better reflects our underlying
operating results, trends, and the comparability of these results between periods.  The difference between Adjusted Operating Income and operating income (the most comparable GAAP measure) consists of the impact of charges or income related to legal settlements and reserves, restructuring and other charges, and acquisition related charges that may mask the underlying operating results and/or business trends.  The limitation of this measure is that it excludes the financial impact of items that would otherwise either increase or decrease our reported operating income.  This limitation is best addressed by using Adjusted Operating Income in combination with operating income (the most comparable GAAP measure) in order to better understand the amounts, character and impact of any increase or decrease on reported results.
 
We have presented operating margin before special items including charges or income related to legal settlements and reserves, restructuring and other charges, and acquisition related charges ("Adjusted Operating Margin").  We present Adjusted Operating Margin before special items to give investors a perspective on the underlying business results.  It is also a significant component in our incentive compensation plans.  Because we cannot predict the amount and timing of such items and the associated charges or gains that will be recorded in our financial statements, it is difficult to include the impact of those items in the forecast.
 
We have presented other income, net before special items including tax sharing income related to certain proposed adjustments to prior period tax returns and other tax items ("Adjusted Other Income, Net").  We present Adjusted Other Income, Net as we believe that it is appropriate for investors to consider results excluding these items in addition to results in accordance with GAAP.  The difference between Adjusted Other Income, Net and other income, net (the most comparable GAAP measure) consists of tax sharing income related to certain proposed adjustments to prior period tax returns and other tax items.  The limitation of this measure is that it excludes the financial impact of items that would otherwise either increase or decrease other income, net.  This limitation is best addressed by using Adjusted Other Income, Net in combination with other income, net (the most comparable GAAP measure) in order to better understand the amounts, character and impact of any increase or decrease in reported amounts.
 
We have presented income tax expense after adjusting for the tax effect of special items including charges related to restructuring and other charges, acquisition related charges, and certain significant special tax items ("Adjusted Income Tax Expense").  We present Adjusted Income Tax Expense to provide investors further information regarding the tax effects of adjustments used in determining the non-GAAP financial measure Adjusted Income from Continuing Operations (as defined below).  The difference between Adjusted Income Tax Expense and income tax expense (the most comparable GAAP measure) is the tax effect of adjusting items and certain significant special tax items.  The limitation of this measure is that it excludes the financial impact of items that would otherwise either increase or decrease income tax expense.  This limitation is best addressed by using Adjusted Income Tax Expense in combination with income tax expense (the most comparable GAAP measure) in order to better understand the amounts, character and impact of any increase or decrease in reported amounts.
 
We have presented income from continuing operations attributable to TE Connectivity Ltd. before special items including charges or income related to legal settlements and reserves, restructuring and other charges, acquisition related charges, tax sharing income related to certain proposed adjustments to prior period tax returns and other tax items, certain significant special tax items, and, if applicable, related tax effects ("Adjusted Income from Continuing Operations").  We present Adjusted Income from Continuing Operations as we believe that it is appropriate for investors to consider results excluding these items in addition to results in accordance with GAAP.  Adjusted Income from Continuing Operations provides additional information regarding our underlying operating results, trends and the comparability of these results between periods.  The difference between Adjusted Income from Continuing Operations and income from continuing operations attributable to TE Connectivity Ltd. (the most comparable GAAP measure) consists of the impact of charges or income related to legal settlements and reserves, restructuring and other charges, acquisition related charges, tax sharing income related to certain proposed adjustments to prior period tax returns and other tax items, certain significant special tax items, and, if applicable, related tax effects.  The limitation of this measure is that it excludes the financial impact
of items that would otherwise either increase or decrease our reported results.  This limitation is best addressed by using Adjusted Income from Continuing Operations in combination with income from continuing operations attributable to TE Connectivity Ltd. (the most comparable GAAP measure) in order to better understand the amounts, character and impact of any increase or decrease in reported amounts.
 
We have presented diluted earnings per share from continuing operations attributable to TE Connectivity Ltd. before special items, including charges or income related to legal settlements and reserves, restructuring and other charges, acquisition related charges, tax sharing income related to certain proposed adjustments to prior period tax returns and other tax items, certain significant special tax items, and, if applicable, related tax effects ("Adjusted Earnings Per Share").  We present Adjusted Earnings Per Share because we believe that it is appropriate for investors to consider results excluding these items in addition to results in accordance with GAAP.  We believe such a measure provides a picture of our results that is more comparable among periods since it excludes the impact of special items, which may recur, but tend to be irregular as to timing, thereby making comparisons between periods more difficult.  It is also a significant component in our incentive compensation plans.  The limitation of this measure is that it excludes the financial impact of items that would otherwise either increase or decrease our reported results.  This limitation is best addressed by using Adjusted Earnings Per Share in combination with diluted earnings per share from continuing operations attributable to TE Connectivity Ltd. (the most comparable GAAP measure) in order to better understand the amounts, character and impact of any increase or decrease on reported results.
 
"Free Cash Flow" (FCF) is a useful measure of our cash generation which is free from any significant existing obligation.  It is also a significant component in our incentive compensation plans.  The difference between cash flows from operating activities (the most comparable GAAP measure) and FCF (the non-GAAP measure) consists mainly of significant cash outflows and inflows that we believe are useful to identify.  FCF permits management and investors to gain insight into the amount that management employs to measure cash that is free from any significant existing obligation.  The difference reflects the impact from:
 
             
net capital expenditures,
             
voluntary pension contributions, and
             
cash impact of special items.
 
Net capital expenditures are subtracted because they represent long-term commitments.  Voluntary pension contributions are subtracted from the GAAP measure because this activity is driven by economic financing decisions rather than operating activity.  We forecast our cash flow results excluding any voluntary pension contributions because we have not yet made a determination about the amount and timing of any such future contributions.  In addition, our forecast excludes the cash impact of special items because we cannot predict the amount and timing of such items.
 
The limitation associated with using FCF is that it subtracts cash items that are ultimately within management's and the Board of Directors' discretion to direct and that therefore may imply that there is less or more cash that is available for the company's programs than the most comparable GAAP measure.  This limitation is best addressed by using FCF in combination with the GAAP cash flow results.
 
FCF as presented herein may not be comparable to similarly-titled measures reported by other companies.  The measure should be used in conjunction with other GAAP financial measures.  Investors are urged to read our financial statements as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, as well as the accompanying tables to this release that show all the elements of the GAAP measures of Cash Flows from Operating Activities, Cash Flows from Investing Activities, Cash Flows from Financing Activities and a reconciliation of our total cash and cash equivalents for the period.  See the accompanying tables to this release for a cash flow statement presented in accordance with GAAP and a reconciliation presenting the components of FCF.
Because we do not predict the amount and timing of special items that might occur in the future, and our forecasts are developed at a level of detail different than that used to prepare GAAP-based financial measures, we do not provide reconciliations to GAAP of our forward-looking financial measures.
 
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
 
This release contains certain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to risks, uncertainty and changes in circumstances, which may cause actual results, performance, financial condition or achievements to differ materially from anticipated results, performance, financial condition or achievements.  All statements contained herein that are not clearly historical in nature are forward-looking and the words "anticipate," "believe," "expect," "estimate," "plan," and similar expressions are generally intended to identify forward-looking statements. We have no intention and are under no obligation to update or alter (and expressly disclaim any such intention or obligation to do so) our forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except to the extent required by law.  The forward-looking statements in this release include statements addressing our future financial condition and operating results.  Examples of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements include, among others, business, economic, competitive and regulatory risks, such as developments in the credit markets; conditions affecting demand for products, particularly the automotive industry and the telecommunications, computer and consumer electronics industries; future goodwill impairment; competition and pricing pressure; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices; natural disasters and political, economic and military instability in countries in which we operate; compliance with current and future environmental and other laws and regulations; the possible effects on us of changes in tax laws, tax treaties and other legislation;
the risk that ADC's operations will not be successfully integrated into ours; and the risk that revenue opportunities, cost savings and other anticipated synergies from the transaction may not be fully realized or may take longer to realize than expected.  More detailed information about these and other factors is set forth in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended Sept. 24, 2010 and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarterly periods ended Dec. 24, 2010 and Mar. 25, 2011, as well as in our Current Reports on Form 8-K and other reports filed by us with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
 
 
(1) Free cash flow is a non-GAAP measure.  See description of non-GAAP measures contained in this release.
 
 
 
 
 
 
(1) Represents the change in net sales resulting from volume and price changes, before consideration of acquisitions, divestitures, and the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Organic net sales growth is a non-GAAP measure. See description of non-GAAP measures contained in this release.
(2) Represents the change in net sales resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates.
(3) Industry end market information about net sales is presented consistently with our internal management reporting and may be periodically revised as management deems necessary.
 
 
 
(1) Represents the change in net sales resulting from volume and price changes, before consideration of acquisitions, divestitures, and the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Organic net sales growth is a non-GAAP measure. See description of non-GAAP measures contained in this release.
(2) Represents the change in net sales resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates.
(3) Industry end market information about net sales is presented consistently with our internal management reporting and may be periodically revised as management deems necessary.
 
 
 
(1) Includes $8 million of restructuring charges, $3 million of non-cash amortization associated with acquisition accounting-related adjustments recorded in cost of sales, and $1 million of ADC acquisition and integration costs.
(2) Includes income tax benefits associated with the settlement of certain tax matters related to an audit of prior year tax returns.  Also includes the related impact to other income pursuant to the Tax Sharing Agreement with Tyco International and Covidien.
(3) See description of non-GAAP measures contained in this release.
 
 
 
(1) Includes income tax expense related to certain proposed adjustments to prior year tax returns and income tax benefits associated with the completion of an audit of prior year tax returns.  Also includes the related impact to other income pursuant to the Tax Sharing Agreement with Tyco International and Covidien.
(2) Consists of $7 million of income related to pre-separation securities litigation.
(3) See description of non-GAAP measures contained in this release.
 
 
(1) Includes $60 million of restructuring charges, $40 million of non-cash amortization associated with fair value adjustments primarily related to acquired inventories and customer order backlog recorded in cost of sales, and $19 million of ADC acquisition and integration costs.
(2) Includes income tax benefits associated with the
settlement of certain tax matters related to
an audit of prior year tax returns.  Also includes the related impact to other income pursuant to the Tax Sharing Agreement with Tyco International and Covidien.
(3) See description of non-GAAP measures contained in this release.
 
(1) Includes $81 million recorded in net restructuring and other charges and a $3 million credit recorded in cost of sales.
(2) Includes income tax expense related to certain proposed adjustments to prior year tax returns and income tax benefits associated with the settlement of an audit of prior year tax returns as well as the related impact to other income pursuant to the Tax Sharing Agreement with Tyco International and Covidien.  Also includes an income tax benefit recognized in connection with a reduction in the valuation allowance associated with certain tax loss carryforwards.
(3) Consists of $7 million of income related to pre-separation securities litigation.
(4) See description of non-GAAP measures contained in this release.
 
(1) Includes $30 million of non-cash amortization associated with fair value adjustments primarily related to acquired inventories and customer order backlog recorded in cost of sales, $17 million of restructuring charges, and $1 million of ADC acquisition and integration costs.
(2) See description of non-GAAP measures contained in this release.
 
(1) Includes income tax expense related to certain proposed adjustments to prior year tax returns and income tax benefits associated with the settlement of an audit of prior year tax returns as well as the related impact to other income pursuant to the Tax Sharing Agreement with Tyco International and Covidien.
(2) See description of non-GAAP measures contained in this release.
 
 
 
 
(1) Includes $137 million recorded in net restructuring and other charges and a $3 million credit recorded in cost of sales.
(2) Includes income tax expense related to certain proposed adjustments to prior year tax returns and income tax benefits associated with the settlement of an audit of prior year tax returns as well as the related impact to other income pursuant to the Tax Sharing Agreement with Tyco International and Covidien.  Also includes an income tax benefit recognized in connection with a reduction in the valuation allowance associated with certain tax loss carryforwards.
(3) Consists of $8 million of acquisition and integration costs and $7 million of income related to pre-separation securities litigation.
(4) See description of non-GAAP measures contained in this release.
 

Exhibit 99.2


