FILE:TEL/TEL-8K-20120717070805.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Item 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On July 17, 2012, TE Connectivity Ltd. (the "Company" or "TE") issued a press release reporting the Company's preliminary third quarter results for fiscal 2012. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated by reference in this Item 2.02.
 
Item 5.02.  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
On July 17, 2012, the Company announced that effective August 1, 2012 Terrence Curtin, who is currently the Company's Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, will become the President of TE's Industrial Solutions Segment, a new segment which will include TE's Industrial, Energy, and Aerospace, Defense and Marine businesses. Robert (Bob) Hau, 46, will succeed Mr. Curtin as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer effective August 1, 2012. Mr. Hau served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Lennox International Inc., beginning October 2009. He was also Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for Honeywell International's Aerospace Business Group from 2006 to 2009. Mr. Hau holds a BS in Business Administration from Marquette University and an MBA in Finance from the University of Southern California.
 
Mr. Hau's compensation arrangement provides for him to (i) be paid $1,700,000 in a sign-on bonus, (ii) be paid $2,000,000 in restricted stock units as a sign-on equity grant, (iii) be paid a starting base salary of $540,000, subject to an annual upward adjustment, (iv) be eligible for an annual bonus of up to 75% of base salary, in accordance with the annual bonus plan then in effect for executive officers of the Company, (v) be eligible for a long-term incentive bonus with a target valued at $1,800,000 to be comprised of equity-based awards, (vi) receive deferred compensation and welfare benefits made available generally from time to time to executive officers of the Company, (vii) be paid vacation and certain relocation benefits and (viii) and be eligible for certain benefits under the Tyco Electronics Severance Plan for U.S. Officers and Executives, as described in the Company's proxy statement for its annual general meeting held on March 7, 2012, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on January 13, 2012.
 
Also, on July 17, 2012, the Company announced that effective August 1, 2012 Joe Donahue, who is currently Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer and President of the Company's Transportation Solutions Segment, will become the President of the Company's Networks Solutions Segment, which includes TE's Telecom Networks, Data Communications, Enterprise Networks and Subsea Communications businesses.  Alan Clarke, who is the current President of the Networks Solutions Segment, will retire as of December 31, 2012.
 
Item 7.01.  Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
The press release which is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated by reference in this Item 7.01, also announces a new four segment reporting structure that will be effective at the beginning of the Company's fiscal year 2013, which begins on September 29, 2012.
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)
                                
Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: July 17, 2012

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
SCHAFFHAUSEN, Switzerland, July 17, 2012  TE Connectivity Ltd. (NYSE: TEL) today announced the following changes to its leadership team:
 
                 
Terrence Curtin, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, has been named President, Industrial Solutions.  This new segment will include TE's Industrial, Energy, and Aerospace, Defense and Marine businesses.
                 
Robert (Bob) Hau will succeed Mr. Curtin as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.  Mr. Hau joins TE from Lennox International, where he most recently served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.  Prior to his tenure at Lennox, he was at Honeywell International, where he last served as CFO of Honeywell's Aerospace Business Group.
                 
Joe Donahue, Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer and President, Transportation Solutions, has been appointed President, Network Solutions, succeeding Alan Clarke who will retire at the end of the calendar year.  The Network Solutions segment includes TE's Telecom Networks, Data Communications, Enterprise Networks and Subsea Communications businesses.
                 
Steve Merkt will succeed Mr. Donahue and has been promoted to President, Transportation Solutions.  He previously served as President of TE's Automotive business.
                 
James O'Toole will continue to serve as President of the Company's Consumer Solutions businesses (Consumer Devices and Appliance), which will now become a stand-alone segment.
 
"TE's vision is to be our customers' first choice for connectivity solutions.  This new segment structure is the next step to achieving this vision by grouping our businesses to better meet the evolving and expanding needs of our customers," said Tom Lynch, TE's Chief Executive Officer.  "Our four segment leadersTerrence Curtin, Joe Donahue, Steve Merkt and James O'Tooleare proven leaders with a strong track record of performance at TE.  We are also very pleased to have Bob Hau join our team as CFO. Bob is a talented financial leader with strong operating skills honed at Allied Signal, Honeywell and Lennox."
 
The changes will be effective August 1, 2012.  During the fourth quarter, the Company will transition to the new segment structure and all changes to segment reporting will be effective at the beginning of the Company's fiscal year 2013, which begins on September 29, 2012.
 
PRELIMINARY THIRD-QUARTER RESULTS
 
The Company is also providing the following preliminary results for its fiscal third quarter ended June 29, 2012.
 
                 
Sales were $3.5 billion
                 
Diluted Earnings Per Share from Continuing Operations (GAAP EPS) are expected to be approximately $0.60
                 
Adjusted EPS are expected to be $0.79
 
"Our performance in the quarter was solid and we expect to report adjusted EPS and operating margins that are in line with our expectations," said Mr. Lynch.  "The current economic environment continues to be uncertain and our sales in the quarter were slightly below our guidance range due to the weakening of the Euro and demand in the Networks segment that was softer than anticipated."
 
The Company will report complete results for its fiscal third quarter before trading begins on July 25, 2012.
 
NON-GAAP MEASURE
 
We present diluted earnings per share from continuing operations attributable to TE Connectivity Ltd. before special items, including charges or income related to legal settlements and reserves, restructuring and other charges, acquisition related charges, impairment charges, tax sharing income related to certain proposed adjustments to prior period tax returns and other tax items, certain significant special tax items, other income or charges, if any, and, if applicable, related tax effects ("Adjusted Earnings Per Share").  We present Adjusted Earnings Per Share because we believe that it is appropriate for investors to consider results excluding these items in addition to results in accordance with GAAP.  We believe such a measure provides a picture of our results that is more comparable among periods since it excludes the impact of special items, which may recur, but tend to be irregular as to timing, thereby making comparisons between periods more difficult.  It also is a significant component in our incentive compensation plans.  The limitation of this measure is that it excludes the financial impact of items that would otherwise either increase or decrease our reported results.  This limitation is best addressed by using Adjusted Earnings Per Share in combination with diluted earnings per share from continuing operations attributable to TE Connectivity Ltd. (the most comparable GAAP measure) in order to better understand the amounts, character and impact of any increase or decrease on reported results.
 
ABOUT TE CONNECTIVITY
 
TE Connectivity (NYSE: TEL) is a global, $14 billion company that designs and manufactures approximately 500,000 products that connect and protect the flow of power and data inside the products that touch every aspect of our lives. Our nearly 100,000 employees partner with customers in virtually every industryfrom consumer electronics, energy and healthcare, to automotive, aerospace and communication networksenabling smarter, faster, better technologies to connect products to possibilities. Find more information about TE Connectivity at http://www.te.com.
 
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
 
This release contains certain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to risks, uncertainty and changes in circumstances, which may cause actual results, performance, financial condition or achievements to differ materially from anticipated results, performance, financial condition or achievements. All statements contained herein that are not clearly historical in nature are forward-looking and the words "anticipate," "believe," "expect," "estimate," "plan," and similar expressions are generally intended to identify forward-looking statements. We have no intention and are under no obligation to update or alter (and expressly disclaim any such intention or obligation to do so) our forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except to the extent required by law. The forward-looking statements in this release include statements addressing our future financial condition and operating results. Examples of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements include, among others, business, economic, competitive and regulatory risks, such as conditions affecting demand for products, particularly in the automotive industry and the telecommunications, computer and consumer electronics industries; competition and pricing pressure; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices; natural disasters and political, economic and military instability in countries in which we operate; developments in the credit markets; future goodwill impairment; compliance with current and future environmental and other laws and regulations; the possible effects on us of changes in tax laws, tax treaties and other legislation.  More detailed information about these and other factors is set forth in TE Connectivity Ltd.'s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011 and our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the periods ended December 30, 2011 and March 30, 2012, Current Reports on Form 8-K and other reports filed by us with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  TE will provide additional discussion and analysis and other important information concerning its third quarter financial results and condition when it reports its actual results.
 
 
Contacts
 
 
 


