FILE:TEL/TEL-8K-20120125060804.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
         Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
         Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
         Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
         Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On January 25, 2012, TE Connectivity Ltd. (the "Company") issued a press release reporting the Company's first quarter results for fiscal 2012. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated by reference in this Item 2.02.
 
Item 7.01.  Regulation FD Disclosure
 
The Company will hold a conference call and webcast on January 25, 2012 (see information in the press release attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 under "Conference Call and Webcast").  A copy of the slide materials to be discussed at the conference call and webcast is being furnished pursuant to Regulation FD as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by reference, and the slide materials also can be accessed at the "Investors" section of the Company's website (www.te.com).
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d)        Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
SCHAFFHAUSEN, Switzerland  Jan. 25, 2012  TE Connectivity Ltd. (NYSE: TEL) today reported results for the fiscal first quarter ended Dec. 30, 2011.  The company reported net sales of $3.3 billion.  Earnings Per Share from Continuing Operations (GAAP EPS) were $0.59 for the quarter and adjusted EPS were $0.66.  Included in the GAAP EPS were $0.03 per share of restructuring and other charges, $0.01 per share of acquisition-related charges and $0.04 per share of tax items.  Free cash flow was $85 million for the quarter.
 
Total company orders were $3.2 billion in the first quarter.  The book-to-bill ratio was 0.95 overall, and 0.98 excluding the Subsea Communications business.
 
"The first quarter was a slow start to our fiscal year due to lower-than-expected demand in our Communications and Industrial Solutions segment and our Telecom Networks business.  This more than offset continued strength in our Transportation Solutions segment," said TE Connectivity Chief Executive Officer Tom Lynch.  "We delivered adjusted operating margins above 12 percent despite the lower sales volume due to pricing and cost reduction actions we implemented in the second half of last year."
 
2012 OUTLOOK
 
For the second quarter, the company expects net sales of $3.3 to $3.4 billion and adjusted EPS of $0.64 to $0.68.  GAAP EPS are expected to be $0.57 to $0.61, including restructuring and acquisition-related charges of $0.07.
For the full year, the company expects sales of $13.8 to $14.2 billion and adjusted EPS of $2.90 to $3.10.  GAAP EPS are expected to be $2.70 to $2.90, including restructuring and acquisition-related charges of $0.20.  This compares to fiscal 2011 revenue of $14.0 billion and adjusted EPS of $3.03 excluding the additional week in the year.
 
"We expect second quarter sales and earnings to be similar to the first quarter.  We also expect our second half sales to increase by approximately 10 percent compared to the first half due to normal seasonal increases and the completion of customer inventory corrections," said Lynch.  "At these sales levels, our adjusted operating margins should return to about 14 percent."
 
This outlook assumes current foreign exchange and commodity rates and does not include the results from the planned Deutsch acquisition.
 
FISCAL FIRST QUARTER RESULTS
 
 
ADDITIONAL ITEMS
 
                 
On November 29, 2011, the company made an irrevocable and binding offer to purchase the outstanding share capital of Deutsch Group SAS.  After completion of the required consultation with Deutsch's French workers councils, the offer was accepted on December 8, 2011. On December 14, 2011, the company and the sellers entered into a sale and purchase agreement.
 
                 
At the company's Annual General Meeting of Shareholders on March 7, 2012, shareholders will be asked to approve a recommendation to increase the quarterly dividend by 17 percent to $0.21 per share for the four fiscal quarters beginning with the third quarter of 2012.
 
Information about TE Connectivity's use of non-GAAP financial measures is described at the end of this press release.  For a reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures, see the attached tables.
ABOUT TE CONNECTIVITY
 
TE Connectivity is a global, $14 billion company that designs and manufactures approximately 500,000 products that connect and protect the flow of power and data inside the products that touch every aspect of our lives. Our nearly 100,000 employees partner with customers in virtually every industryfrom consumer electronics, energy and healthcare, to automotive, aerospace and communication networksenabling smarter, faster, better technologies to connect products to possibilities. More information on TE Connectivity can be found at http://www.te.com.
 
CONFERENCE CALL AND WEBCAST
 
                 
The company will hold a conference call for investors today beginning at 8:30 a.m. EST.
 
                 
Internet users will be able to access the company's earnings webcast, , at the "Investors" section of TE Connectivity's website: http://investors.te.com.
including slide materials
 
                 
For both "listen-only" participants and those participants who wish to take part in the question-and-answer portion of the call, the telephone dial-in number in the United States is (800) 230-1059. The telephone dial-in number for participants outside the United States is (612) 234-9960.
 
                 
An audio replay of the conference call will be available beginning at 10:30 a.m. EST on January 25, 2012 and ending at 11:59 p.m. EST on February 1, 2012. The dial-in number for participants in the United States is (800) 475-6701.  For participants outside the United States, the replay dial-in number is (320) 365-3844. The replay access code for all callers is 231116.
 
NON-GAAP MEASURES
 
"Organic Sales Growth," "Adjusted Operating Income," "Adjusted Operating Margin," "Adjusted Income Tax Expense," "Adjusted Income from Continuing Operations," "Adjusted Earnings Per Share," and "Free Cash Flow" (FCF) are non-GAAP measures and should not be considered replacements for GAAP results.
 
"Organic Sales Growth" is a useful measure used by us to measure the underlying results and trends in the business.  The difference between reported net sales growth (the most comparable GAAP measure) and Organic Sales Growth (the non-GAAP measure) consists of the impact from foreign currency exchange rates, acquisitions and divestitures, if any, and an additional week in the fourth quarter of the fiscal year for fiscal years which are 53 weeks in length.  Organic Sales Growth is a useful measure of our performance because it excludes items that: i) are not completely under management's control, such as the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates; or ii) do not reflect the underlying growth of the company, such as acquisition and divestiture activity and the impact of an additional week in the fourth quarter of the fiscal year for fiscal years which are 53 weeks in length.  The limitation of this measure is that it excludes items that have an impact on our sales.  This limitation is best addressed by using organic sales growth in combination with the GAAP results.
 
We present operating income before special items including charges or income related to legal settlements and reserves, restructuring and other charges, acquisition related charges, impairment charges, and other income or charges, if any ("Adjusted Operating Income").  We utilize Adjusted
Operating Income to assess segment level core operating performance and to provide insight to management in evaluating segment operating plan execution and underlying market conditions.  It also is a significant component in our incentive compensation plans.  Adjusted Operating Income is a useful measure for investors because it better reflects our underlying operating results, trends, and the comparability of these results between periods.  The difference between Adjusted Operating Income and operating income (the most comparable GAAP measure) consists of the impact of charges or income related to legal settlements and reserves, restructuring and other charges, acquisition related charges, impairment charges, and other income or charges, if any, that may mask the underlying operating results and/or business trends.  The limitation of this measure is that it excludes the financial impact of items that would otherwise either increase or decrease our reported operating income.  This limitation is best addressed by using Adjusted Operating Income in combination with operating income (the most comparable GAAP measure) in order to better understand the amounts, character and impact of any increase or decrease on reported results.
 
We present operating margin before special items including charges or income related to legal settlements and reserves, restructuring and other charges, acquisition related charges, impairment charges, and other income or charges, if any ("Adjusted Operating Margin").  We present Adjusted Operating Margin before special items to give investors a perspective on the underlying business results.  It also is a significant component in our incentive compensation plans.  This measure should be considered in conjunction with operating margin calculated using our GAAP results in order to understand the amounts, character and impact of adjustments to operating margin.
 
We present income tax expense after adjusting for the tax effect of special items including charges related to restructuring and other charges, acquisition related charges, impairment charges, other income or charges, and certain significant special tax items, if any ("Adjusted Income Tax Expense").  We present Adjusted Income Tax Expense to provide investors further information regarding the tax effects of adjustments used in determining the non-GAAP financial measure Adjusted Income from Continuing Operations (as defined below).  The difference between Adjusted Income Tax Expense and income tax expense (the most comparable GAAP measure) is the tax effect of adjusting items and certain significant special tax items, if any.  The limitation of this measure is that it excludes the financial impact of items that would otherwise either increase or decrease income tax expense.  This limitation is best addressed by using Adjusted Income Tax Expense in combination with income tax expense (the most comparable GAAP measure) in order to better understand the amounts, character and impact of any increase or decrease in reported amounts.
 
We present income from continuing operations attributable to TE Connectivity Ltd. before special items including charges or income related to legal settlements and reserves, restructuring and other charges, acquisition related charges, impairment charges, tax sharing income related to certain proposed adjustments to prior period tax returns and other tax items, certain significant special tax items, other income or charges, if any, and, if applicable, related tax effects ("Adjusted Income from Continuing Operations").  We present Adjusted Income from Continuing Operations as we believe that it is appropriate for investors to consider results excluding these items in addition to results in accordance with GAAP.  Adjusted Income from Continuing Operations provides additional information regarding our underlying operating results, trends and the comparability of these results between periods.  The difference between Adjusted Income from Continuing Operations and income from continuing operations attributable to TE Connectivity Ltd. (the most comparable GAAP measure) consists of the impact of charges or income related to legal settlements and reserves, restructuring and other charges, acquisition related charges, impairment charges, tax sharing income related to certain proposed adjustments to prior period tax returns and other tax items, certain significant special tax items, other income or charges, if any, and, if applicable, related tax effects.  The limitation of this measure is that it excludes the financial impact of items that would otherwise either increase or decrease our reported results.  This limitation is best addressed by using Adjusted Income from Continuing Operations in combination with income from continuing operations attributable to TE Connectivity Ltd. (the most comparable GAAP measure) in order to better understand the amounts, character and impact of any increase or decrease in reported amounts.
We present diluted earnings per share from continuing operations attributable to TE Connectivity Ltd. before special items, including charges or income related to legal settlements and reserves, restructuring and other charges, acquisition related charges, impairment charges, tax sharing income related to certain proposed adjustments to prior period tax returns and other tax items, certain significant special tax items, other income or charges, if any, and, if applicable, related tax effects ("Adjusted Earnings Per Share").  We present Adjusted Earnings Per Share because we believe that it is appropriate for investors to consider results excluding these items in addition to results in accordance with GAAP.  We believe such a measure provides a picture of our results that is more comparable among periods since it excludes the impact of special items, which may recur, but tend to be irregular as to timing, thereby making comparisons between periods more difficult.  It also is a significant component in our incentive compensation plans.  The limitation of this measure is that it excludes the financial impact of items that would otherwise either increase or decrease our reported results.  This limitation is best addressed by using Adjusted Earnings Per Share in combination with diluted earnings per share from continuing operations attributable to TE Connectivity Ltd. (the most comparable GAAP measure) in order to better understand the amounts, character and impact of any increase or decrease on reported results.
 
"Free Cash Flow" (FCF) is a useful measure of our cash generation which is free from any significant existing obligation.  It also is a significant component in our incentive compensation plans.  The difference between cash flows from operating activities (the most comparable GAAP measure) and FCF (the non-GAAP measure) consists mainly of significant cash outflows and inflows that we believe are useful to identify.  FCF permits management and investors to gain insight into the amount that management employs to measure cash that is free from any significant existing obligation.  The difference reflects the impact from net capital expenditures, voluntary pension contributions, and special items, if any.
 
Net capital expenditures are subtracted because they represent long-term commitments.  Voluntary pension contributions are subtracted from the GAAP measure because this activity is driven by economic financing decisions rather than operating activity.  Certain special items, including net payments related to pre-separation tax matters and pre-separation litigation payments, also are considered by management in evaluating free cash flow.  We believe investors should consider these items in evaluating our free cash flow.  We forecast our cash flow results excluding any voluntary pension contributions because we have not yet made a determination about the amount and timing of any such future contributions.  In addition, our forecast excludes the cash impact of special items because we cannot predict the amount and timing of such items.
 
FCF as presented herein may not be comparable to similarly-titled measures reported by other companies.  The limitation associated with using FCF is that it subtracts cash items that are ultimately within management's and the Board of Directors' discretion to direct and that therefore may imply that there is less or more cash that is available for the company's programs than the most comparable GAAP measure.  This limitation is best addressed by using FCF in combination with the GAAP cash flow results.
 
Because we do not predict the amount and timing of special items that might occur in the future, and our forecasts are developed at a level of detail different than that used to prepare GAAP-based financial measures, we do not provide reconciliations to GAAP of our forward-looking financial measures.
 
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
 
This release contains certain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to risks, uncertainty and changes in circumstances, which may cause actual results, performance, financial condition or achievements to differ materially from anticipated results, performance, financial condition or achievements. All statements contained herein that are not clearly historical in nature are forward-looking and the words "anticipate," "believe," "expect," "estimate," "plan," and similar expressions are generally intended to identify forward-looking statements. We have no intention and are under no obligation to update or alter (and expressly disclaim any such intention or obligation to do so) our forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events
or otherwise, except to the extent required by law. The forward-looking statements in this release include statements addressing our future financial condition and operating results, dividends and our planned acquisition of Deutsch Group SAS ("Deutsch"). Examples of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements include, among others, business, economic, competitive and regulatory risks, such as conditions affecting demand for products, particularly in the automotive industry and the telecommunications, computer and consumer electronics industries; competition and pricing pressure; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices; natural disasters and political, economic and military instability in countries in which we operate; developments in the credit markets; future goodwill impairment; compliance with current and future environmental and other laws and regulations; the possible effects on us of changes in tax laws, tax treaties and other legislation; the risk that the acquisition of Deutsch may not be consummated; the risk that a regulatory approval that may be required for the Deutsch acquisition is not obtained or is obtained subject to conditions that are not anticipated; the risk that Deutsch's operations will not be successfully integrated into ours; and the risk that revenue opportunities, cost savings and other anticipated synergies from the Deutsch acquisition may not be fully realized or may take longer to realize than expected. More detailed information about these and other factors is set forth in TE Connectivity Ltd.'s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended Sept. 30, 2011 as well as in our Current Reports on Form 8-K and other reports filed by us with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(1) Free cash flow is a non-GAAP measure.  See description of non-GAAP measures contained in this release.
 
 
 
 
 
(1) Represents the change in net sales resulting from volume and price changes, before consideration of acquisitions, divestitures, and the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates.  Organic net sales growth is a non-GAAP measure.  See description of non-GAAP measures contained in this release.
(2) Represents the change in net sales resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates.
(3) Industry end market information about net sales is presented consistently with our internal management reporting and may be periodically revised as management deems necessary.
 
 
 
(1) Represents the change in net sales resulting from volume and price changes, before consideration of acquisitions, divestitures, the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, and the impact of an additional week in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011.  Organic net sales growth is a non-GAAP measure.  See description of non-GAAP measures contained in this release.
(2) Represents the change in net sales resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates.
(3) Represents the impact of an additional week in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011.
(4) Industry end market information about net sales is presented consistently with our internal management reporting and may be periodically revised as management deems necessary.
 
 
 
 
(1) Primarily relates to income tax expense associated with certain non-U.S tax rate changes.
(2) See description of non-GAAP measures contained in this release.
 
 
 
(1) Includes $35 million of restructuring charges, $17 million of ADC acquisition and integration costs, and $7 million of non-cash amortization associated with fair value adjustments to acquired inventories and customer order backlog recorded in cost of sales.
(2) See description of non-GAAP measures contained in this release.
 
 
 
 
(1) Includes $30 million of non-cash amortization associated with fair value adjustments primarily related to acquired inventories and customer order backlog recorded in cost of sales, $17 million of restructuring charges, and $1 million of ADC acquisition and integration costs.
(2) See description of non-GAAP measures contained in this release.
 
 
 
 
(1) Includes $22 million of restructuring charges and $1 million of non-cash amortization associated with acquisition accounting-related adjustments recorded in cost of sales.
(2) See description of non-GAAP measures contained in this release.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 


