Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition RESULTS OF OPERATIONS EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW This section provides an overview of our financial results, recent product and late stage pipeline developments, significant business development, and legal, regulatory, and other matters affecting our company and the pharmaceutical industry. Financial Results We achieved revenue growth of 7 percent in 2009, which was primarily driven by the collective growth of Alimta, Cymbalta, Humalog, and Zyprexa and the inclusion of Erbitux revenue as a result of the ImClone Systems Inc. (Imclone) acquisition in November 2008. The impact of changes in foreign currencies compared to the U.S. dollar on international inventories sold during the year decreased our cost of sales in 2009 and increased our cost of sales in 2008, which contributed to an improvement in gross margin. Marketing, selling, and administrative expenses grew at a slower rate than revenue, while our investment in research and development grew at a greater rate than sales. We incurred income tax expense of $1.03 billion in 2009 resulting in an effective tax rate of 19.2 percent. Earnings increased to $4.33 billion, and earnings per share increased to $3.94 per share, in 2009 as compared to a net loss of $2.07 billion, and a loss per share of $1.89 in 2008. Net income comparisons between 2009 and 2008 are affected by the impact of the following significant items: 2009 Acquisitions (Note 3) We incurred acquired in process research and development (IPRD) charges associated with an in licensing arrangement with Incyte Corporation (Incyte) of $90.0 million (pretax), which decreased earnings per share by $.05. Asset Impairments and Related Restructuring and Other Special Charges (Notes 5 and 14) We recognized asset impairments, restructuring, and other special charges of $462.7 million (pretax), which decreased earnings per share by $.29 for asset impairments and restructuring primarily related to the sale of our Tippecanoe Laboratories manufacturing site to an affiliate of Evonik Industries AG. We incurred pretax charges of $230.0 million representing the currently probable and estimable exposures in connection with the claims of several states related to Zyprexa, which decreased earnings per share by $.13. 18 2008 Acquisitions (Note 3) We recognized charges totaling $4.73 billion (pretax) associated with the acquisition of ImClone, which decreased earnings per share by $4.46. These amounts include an IPRD charge of $4.69 billion (pretax). The remaining net expenses are related to ImClones operating results subsequent to the acquisition, incremental interest costs, and amortization of the intangible asset associated with Erbitux. We also incurred IPRD charges of $28.0 million (pretax) associated with the acquisition of SGX Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (SGX), which decreased earnings per share by $.03. We incurred IPRD charges associated with licensing arrangements with BioMS Medical Corp. (BioMS) and TransPharma Medical Ltd. totaling $122.0 million (pretax), which decreased earnings per share by $.07. Asset Impairments and Related Restructuring and Other Special Charges (Notes 5 and 14) We recognized asset impairments, restructuring, and other special charges totaling $497.0 million (pretax), which decreased earnings per share by $.30. A similar charge of $57.1 million (pretax), which decreased earnings per share by $.04, was included in cost of sales. These charges were primarily associated with the sale of our Greenfield, Indiana site, the termination of the AIR Insulin program; and strategic exit activities related to manufacturing operations. We recorded charges of $1.48 billion (pretax) related to the federal and state Zyprexa investigations led by the U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania (EDPA), as well as the resolution of a multi state investigation regarding Zyprexa involving 32 states and the District of Columbia, which decreased earnings per share by $1.20. Other (Note 12) We recognized a discrete income tax benefit of $210.3 million as a result of the resolution of a substantial portion of the IRS audit of our federal income tax returns for the years 2001 through 2004, which increased earnings per share by $.19. Late Stage Pipeline Developments and Business Development Activity Our long term success depends, to a great extent, on our ability to continue to discover and develop innovative pharmaceutical products and acquire or collaborate on compounds currently in development by other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies. We currently have over 60 potential new drugs in human testing. A number of late stage pipeline developments and business development transactions occurred within the past year, including: Pipeline The United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved an expanded indication for Byetta as a standalone medication (monotherapy) along with diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes. The FDA approved Zyprexa Relprevv for extended release injectable suspension for the treatment of schizophrenia in adults. We also launched this product under the tradename Zypadhera in several countries within the European Union. We announced initial results from a Phase III clinical trial for arzoxifene. After reviewing the overall clinical profile of arzoxifene in light of currently available treatments, including our own osteoporosis products, we decided not to submit the compound for regulatory review. The FDA approved a new use for Forteo to treat osteoporosis associated with sustained, systemic glucocorticoid therapy in men and women at high risk of fracture. We and our partner BioMS discontinued Phase III clinical trials for dirucotide in patients with secondary progressive multiple sclerosis. Data showed that dirucotide did not meet the primary endpoint of delaying disease progression and there were no statistically significant differences between dirucotide and placebo on the secondary endpoints of the study. The FDA approved Effient tablets for the reduction of thrombotic cardiovascular events (including stent thrombosis) in patients with acute coronary syndromes (ACS) who are managed with an artery opening procedure known as percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). We and our partner, Daiichi Sankyo, Inc., launched Effient in the U.S. in August. The European Commission granted marketing authorization for Efient for the prevention of atherothrombotic events in patients with ACS undergoing PCI. The FDA approved Alimta as a maintenance therapy for locally advanced or metastatic non small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), specifically for patients with a nonsquamous histology whose disease has not progressed after four cycles of platinum based first line chemotherapy. The European Commission granted approval for the use of Alimta as monotherapy for maintenance treatment of patients with other than predominantly squamous cell histology in locally advanced or 19 metastatic NSCLC, whose disease has not progressed immediately following platinum based chemotherapy. Alimta received regulatory approval in Japan as both a first and second line treatment of NSCLC. We and our partners Amylin Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Amylin) and Alkermes, Inc., submitted a New Drug Application (NDA) to the FDA for exenatide once weekly. Exenatide once weekly is an investigational sustained release medication for type 2 diabetes that is injected subcutaneously and administered only once a week. We began enrolling patients in two separate but identical Phase III clinical trials of solanezumab, an anti amyloid beta monoclonal antibody being investigated as a potential treatment to delay the progression of mild to moderate Alzheimers disease. The trials each include a treatment period that lasts 18 months and are expected to enroll a total of 2,000 patients age 55 and over from 16 countries. The FDA approved two new combination indications for Zyprexa (olanzapine) and fluoxetine for the acute treatment of bipolar depression and TRD in adults. We received a complete response letter from the FDA for the first line squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck (SCCHN) supplemental Biologics License Application (sBLA) for Erbitux. Business Development We entered into an exclusive worldwide license and collaboration agreement with Incyte for the development and commercialization of Incytes oral JAK1/JAK2 inhibitor, and certain follow on compounds, for inflammatory and autoimmune diseases. The lead compound is currently being studied in a six month dose ranging Phase II trial for rheumatoid arthritis. We entered into a co promotion agreement with Kowa Pharmaceutical America to commercialize Livalo (pitavastatin) in the United States. Lilly and Kowa Company, Limited have also entered into a licensing agreement in Latin America. Livalo is a statin approved by the FDA in August 2009 for the treatment of primary hyperlipidemia and mixed dyslipidemia. We plan to launch Livalo in the U.S. in mid 2010. In January 2010, we restructured the collaboration agreement executed by Bristol Myers Squibb and ImClone in 2001 to allow for the co development and co commercialization of the late stage oncology molecule necitumumab (IMC 11F8), which is currently in Phase III clinical testing for non small cell lung cancer. Under the restructured agreement, both companies will share in the cost of developing and potentially commercializing necitumumab in the U.S., Canada and Japan. We maintain exclusive rights to necitumumab in all other markets. Legal, Regulatory, and Other Matters In September 2009, we set a goal to reduce our expected cost structure by $1 billion by the end of 2011. We also plan to lower global headcount to 35,000 by the end of 2011, excluding strategic sales force additions in high growth emerging markets and Japan, which could result in future periodic restructuring charges. In January 2009, we reached resolution with the Office of the U.S. Attorney for the EDPA, and the State Medicaid Fraud Control Units of 36 states and the District of Columbia, of an investigation related to our U.S. marketing and promotional practices with respect to Zyprexa. We recorded a charge of $1.42 billion for this matter in the third quarter of 2008. In 2009, we paid substantially all of this amount, as required by the settlement agreements. In addition, in October 2008, we reached a settlement with 32 states and the District of Columbia related to a multistate investigation brought under various state consumer protection laws, under which we paid $62.0 million. However, we were served with lawsuits brought by attorneys general of a number of states, alleging that Zyprexa caused or contributed to diabetes or high blood glucose levels, and that we improperly promoted the drug and seeking to recover the costs paid for Zyprexa through Medicaid and other drug benefit programs, as well as the costs alleged to have been incurred and that will be incurred to treat Zyprexa related illnesses. In 2009, we incurred pretax charges of $230.0 million, reflecting the probable and estimable exposures in connection with these claims. We have reached settlements or are in advanced discussions to settle all of the remaining state claims. The Pennsylvania case is set for trial in April 2010 in state court. Health care reform is currently the subject of intense debate in the U.S. Congress. The impact of reform on the pharmaceutical industry is uncertain. Most reform proposals intend to provide coverage for the uninsured, include increasing existing price rebates in federally funded health care programs and the expansion of rebates, or other pharmaceutical company discounts, into new programs. There are also proposals that will impose new fees on pharmaceutical industry sales of certain prescription pharmaceutical products. Certain federal and state health care reform proposals that go beyond providing additional health insurance coverage for the uninsured may also place downward pressure on pharmaceutical industry sales or prices. These proposals include reducing incentives for employer sponsored health care; 20 the creation of an independent commission to propose changes to Medicare, with a particular focus on the cost of biopharmaceuticals in Medicare Part D, which lowers the projections for future government spending in Medicare; and a government run public option with biopharmaceutical price setting capabilities. Additionally, various proposals could legalize the importation of prescription drugs and either allow, or require, the Secretary of Health and Human Services to negotiate drug prices within Medicare Part D directly with pharmaceutical manufacturers. In addition, the federal government is considering creating an expedited regulatory approval pathway for biosimilars (copies of biological compounds) for biologic products in the U.S.; the proposals vary as to which biologic products would be eligible, how quickly a biosimilar might reach the market, and the ability to interchange the biosimilar and the original biologic product at the pharmacy. We expect pricing pressures at the federal and state levels to become more severe, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations. In its budget submission to Congress in February 2010, the Obama administration proposed changes to the manner in which the U.S. would tax the international income of U.S. based companies. While it is uncertain how the U.S. Congress may address this issue, reform of U.S. taxation, including taxation of international income, continues to be a topic of discussion for the U.S. Congress. A significant change to the U.S. tax system, including changes to the taxation of international income, could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations. International operations also are generally subject to extensive price and market regulations, and there are many proposals for additional cost containment measures, including proposals that would directly or indirectly impose additional price controls, limit access to or reimbursement for our products, or reduce the value of our intellectual property protection. These proposals are expected to increase in both frequency and impact, given the effect of the downturn in the global economy on local governments. OPERATING RESULTS 2009 Revenue Our worldwide revenue for 2009 increased 7 percent, to $21.84 billion, driven primarily by growth of Alimta, Cymbalta, Humalog, and Zyprexa, and the inclusion of Erbitux revenue as a result of the ImClone acquisition. Worldwide sales volume increased 7 percent, while selling prices contributed 3 percent of revenue growth, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange rates of 3 percent. Revenue in the U.S. increased 12 percent, to $12.29 billion, due to higher prices and higher demand. Revenue outside the U.S. increased 1 percent, to $9.54 billion, due to increased demand, partially offset by the negative impact of foreign exchange rates and lower prices. The following table summarizes our revenue activity in 2009 compared with 2008: Year Ended Year Ended Percent December 31, 2009 December 31, 2008 Change Product U.S.1 Outside U.S. Total3 Total from 2008 (Dollars in millions) Zyprexa $ 2,331.7 $ 2,583.9 $ 4,915.7 $ 4,696.1 5 Cymbalta 2,551.8 523.0 3,074.7 2,697.1 14 Humalog 1,208.4 750.6 1,959.0 1,735.8 13 Alimta 815.6 890.4 1,706.0 1,154.7 48 Cialis 623.3 935.8 1,559.1 1,444.5 8 Gemzar 747.4 615.8 1,363.2 1,719.8 (21 ) Animal health products 672.2 535.0 1,207.2 1,093.3 10 Evista 682.2 348.1 1,030.4 1,075.6 (4 ) Humulin 402.4 619.6 1,022.0 1,063.2 (4 ) Forteo 518.3 298.4 816.7 778.7 5 Strattera 445.6 163.7 609.4 579.5 5 Other pharmaceutical products 739.9 1,168.4 1,908.1 1,887.5 1 Total net product sales 11,738.8 9,432.7 21,171.5 19,925.8 6 Collaboration and other revenue2 555.6 108.9 664.5 446.1 49 Total revenue $ 12,294.4 $ 9,541.6 $ 21,836.0 $ 20,371.9 7 1 U.S. revenue includes revenue in Puerto Rico. 2 Collaboration and other revenue is primarily composed of Erbitux royalties and 50 percent of Byettas gross margin in the U.S. 3 Numbers may not add due to rounding. 21 Zyprexa, our top selling product, is a treatment for schizophrenia, acute mixed or manic episodes associated with bipolar I disorder, and bipolar maintenance. Zyprexa sales in the U.S. increased 6 percent in 2009, due to higher prices, partially offset by reduced demand. Sales outside the U.S. increased 4 percent driven by increased demand, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange rates. Demand outside the U.S. was favorably impacted by the withdrawal of generic competition in Germany in early 2009. Sales of Cymbalta, a product for the treatment of major depressive disorder, diabetic peripheral neuropathic pain, generalized anxiety disorder, and fibromyalgia, increased 13 percent in the U.S., driven by higher prices and increased demand. Sales outside the U.S. increased 18 percent, driven by increased demand, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange rates and lower prices. Sales of Humalog, our injectable human insulin analog for the treatment of diabetes, increased 20 percent in the U.S., driven by higher prices, increased demand, and wholesaler buying patterns. Sales outside the U.S. increased 3 percent, driven by increased demand, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange rates. Sales of Alimta, a treatment for various cancers, increased 45 percent in the U.S., primarily driven by increased demand. Sales outside the U.S. increased 50 percent, driven by increased demand, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange rates. Demand outside the U.S. benefited from the addition of the non small cell lung cancer indication in Japan. Our sales of Cialis, a treatment for erectile dysfunction, increased 16 percent in the U.S., driven by higher prices, increased demand, and wholesaler buying patterns. Sales outside the U.S. increased 3 percent, driven by increased demand and to a lesser extent, higher prices, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange rates. Sales of Gemzar, a product approved to treat various cancers, increased 2 percent in the U.S., due primarily to higher prices. Sales outside the U.S. decreased 37 percent, driven by reduced demand and lower prices as a result of the entry of generic competition in most major markets, and to a lesser extent, the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange rates. Sales of Evista, a product for the prevention and treatment of osteoporosis in postmenopausal women and for reduction of risk of invasive breast cancer in postmenopausal women with osteoporosis and postmenopausal women at high risk for invasive breast cancer, decreased 3 percent in the U.S., driven by reduced demand, partially offset by higher prices. Sales outside the U.S. decreased 7 percent, driven by the outlicensing of Evista in most European markets and, to a lesser extent, lower prices. Sales of Humulin, an injectable human insulin for the treatment of diabetes, increased 6 percent in the U.S., due primarily to higher prices, partially offset by reduced demand. Sales outside the U.S. decreased 9 percent, driven by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange rates and, to a lesser extent, lower prices, partially offset by increased demand. Sales of Forteo, an injectable treatment for osteoporosis in postmenopausal women and men at high risk for fracture, increased 6 percent in the U.S., driven by higher prices, partially offset by reduced demand. Sales outside the U.S. increased 3 percent, driven by increased demand and prices, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange rates. Sales of Strattera, a treatment for attention deficit hyperactivity disorder in children, adolescents, and adults, increased 2 percent in the U.S., driven by higher prices, partially offset by reduced demand. Sales outside the U.S. increased 15 percent, driven by increased demand and higher prices, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange rates. Worldwide sales of Byetta, an injectable product for the treatment of type 2 diabetes, increased 6 percent to $796.5 million during 2009. We report as revenue our 50 percent share of Byettas gross margin in the U.S., 100 percent of Byetta sales outside the U.S., and our sales of Byetta pen delivery devices to Amylin. Our revenues increased 13 percent to $448.5 million in 2009. We report as revenue for Erbitux, a product approved to treat various cancers, the net royalties received from our collaboration partners and our product sales. Our revenues were $390.8 million in 2009, compared with $29.4 million in 2008. We acquired Erbitux as part of our acquisition of ImClone in November 2008. Animal health product sales in the U.S. increased 25 percent, primarily driven by the inclusion of Posilac sales following the acquisition completed October 2008. Sales outside the U.S. decreased 4 percent, driven primarily by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange rates. Gross Margin, Costs, and Expenses The 2009 gross margin increased to 80.6 percent of total revenue compared with 78.5 percent for 2008. This increase was due to the impact of changes in foreign currencies compared to the U.S. dollar on 22 international inventories sold during the year, which decreased cost of sales as in 2009, but increased cost of sales in 2008. Marketing, selling, and administrative expenses increased 4 percent in 2009 to $6.89 billion. The increase was driven by the increased marketing and selling expenses outside the U.S., higher incentive compensation, and the impact of the ImClone acquisition, partially offset by the movement of foreign exchange rates. Investment in research and development increased 13 percent, to $4.33 billion, due primarily to the ImClone acquisition and increased late stage clinical trial costs. We incurred an IPRD charge of $90.0 million in 2009, associated with the in licensing agreement with Incyte, compared with $4.84 billion in 2008. The 2008 IPRD charge included $4.69 billion resulting from the acquisition of ImClone. We recognized asset impairments, restructuring, and other special charges of $692.7 million in 2009, primarily related to asset impairment charges related to the sale of our Tippecanoe Laboratories manufacturing site and special charges related to Zyprexa litigation with multiple state attorneys general, compared with $1.97 billion in 2008. The 2008 charges were primarily associated with the resolution of Zyprexa investigations with the U.S. Attorney for the EDPA and multiple states. See Notes 3, 5 and 14 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. Other net, expense, (income) was a net expense in both years, increasing by $203.4 million, to $229.5 million in 2009, primarily due to lower interest income and higher interest expense resulting from the ImClone acquisition. We incurred income tax expense of $1.03 billion in 2009 resulting in an effective tax rate of 19.2 percent. The effective tax rate for 2009 was reduced due to the tax benefit of asset impairment and restructuring charges associated with the sale of the Tippecanoe site. We incurred tax expense of $764.3 million in 2008, despite having a loss before income taxes of $1.31 billion. Our net loss was driven by the $4.69 billion IPRD charge for ImClone and the $1.48 billion Zyprexa investigation settlements. The IPRD charge was not tax deductible, and only a portion of the Zyprexa investigation settlements was deductible. In addition, we recorded tax expense associated with the ImClone acquisition, as well as a discrete income tax benefit of $210.3 million for the resolution of a substantial portion of the 2001 2004 IRS audit. See Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. OPERATING RESULTS 2008 Financial Results We achieved worldwide sales growth of 9 percent, which was primarily driven by volume increases in several key products. The favorable impact of foreign exchange rates on cost of sales contributed to an improvement in gross margin. Marketing, selling, and administrative expenses grew at the same rate as sales, driven by pre launch activities associated with Effient, marketing costs associated with Cymbalta and Evista, the impact of foreign exchange rates, and increased litigation related expenses, while our investment in research and development grew 10 percent. We completed our acquisition of ImClone, resulting in a significant charge of $4.69 billion for IPRD and reached resolution on government investigations related to our past U.S. marketing and promotional practices for Zyprexa, resulting in an additional charge of $1.48 billion. We incurred tax expense of $764.3 million, despite a loss before income taxes of $1.31 billion, primarily caused by the non deductibility of the ImClone IPRD charge and the partial deductibility of the Zyprexa investigation settlements. Accordingly, earnings decreased to a net loss of $2.07 billion, and earnings per share decreased to a loss of $1.89 per share, in 2008 as compared with net income of $2.95 billion, and earnings per share of $2.71, in 2007. Net income comparisons between 2008 and 2007 are affected by the impact of several significant items. The significant items for 2008 are summarized in the Executive Overview. The 2007 items are summarized as follows: Acquisitions (Note 3) We incurred IPRD charges associated with the acquisitions of ICOS Corporation (ICOS), Hypnion, Inc. (Hypnion), and Ivy Animal Health, Inc. (Ivy), totaling $631.6 million (pretax), which decreased earnings per share by $.57. We incurred IPRD charges associated with our licensing arrangements with Glenmark Pharmaceuticals Limited India, MacroGenics, Inc., and OSI Pharmaceuticals, totaling $114.0 million (pretax), which decreased earnings per share by $.06. Asset Impairments and Related Restructuring and Other Special Charges (Notes 5 and 14) We recognized asset impairments, restructuring, and other special charges of $190.6 million (pretax), which decreased earnings per share by $.12. These charges were primarily associated with previously announced strategic decisions affecting manufacturing and research facilities. We incurred a special charge following a settlement with one of our insurance carriers over Zyprexa product liability claims, which led to a reduction of our expected product liability insurance recoveries, and other product liability charges. This resulted in a charge totaling $111.9 million (pretax), which decreased earnings per share by $.09. 23 Revenue Our worldwide revenue for 2008 increased 9 percent, to $20.37 billion, driven primarily by growth of Cymbalta, Cialis, Alimta, Humalog, and Gemzar. Worldwide sales volume increased 5 percent, while foreign exchange rates contributed 3 percent, and selling prices contributed 2 percent. (Numbers do not add due to rounding.) Revenue in the U.S. increased 8 percent, to $10.93 billion, driven primarily by increased sales of Cymbalta, Humalog, Cialis, and Alimta. Revenue outside the U.S. increased 11 percent, to $9.44 billion, driven primarily by revenue growth of Alimta, Cialis, Cymbalta, and Humalog. The following table summarizes our revenue activity in 2008 compared with 2007: Year Ended Year Ended Percent December 31, 2008 December 31, 2007 Change Product U.S.1 Outside U.S. Total Total from 2007 (Dollars in millions) Zyprexa $ 2,202.5 $ 2,493.6 $ 4,696.1 $ 4,761.0 (1 ) Cymbalta 2,253.8 443.3 2,697.1 2,102.9 28 Humalog 1,008.4 727.4 1,735.8 1,474.6 18 Gemzar 734.8 985.0 1,719.8 1,592.4 8 Cialis2 539.0 905.5 1,444.5 1,143.8 26 Alimta 561.9 592.8 1,154.7 854.0 35 Animal health products 537.3 556.0 1,093.3 995.8 10 Evista 700.5 375.1 1,075.6 1,090.7 (1 ) Humulin 380.9 682.3 1,063.2 985.2 8 Forteo 489.9 288.8 778.7 709.3 10 Strattera 437.8 141.7 579.5 569.4 2 Other pharmaceutical products 664.8 1,222.7 1,887.5 1,895.6 Total net product sales 10,511.6 9,414.2 19,925.8 18,174.7 10 Collaboration and other revenue3 418.5 27.6 446.1 458.8 (3 ) Total revenue $ 10,930.1 $ 9,441.8 $ 20,371.9 $ 18,633.5 9 1 U.S. revenue includes revenue in Puerto Rico. 2 Prior to the acquisition of ICOS in late January 2007, the Cialis revenue shown does not include net product sales in the joint venture territories of Lilly ICOS LLC (North America, excluding Puerto Rico, and Europe). Our share of the joint venture territory net product sales for January 2007, net of expenses and income taxes, is reported in other net, expense (income) in our consolidated statements of operations. Subsequent to the acquisition, all Cialis net product sales are reported in our net revenue. Worldwide 2008 revenue for Cialis grew 19 percent from 2007 revenue of $1.22 billion. 3 Collaboration and other revenue is primarily composed of 50 percent of Byettas gross margin in the U.S. Zyprexa sales in the U.S. decreased 1 percent in 2008, driven by reduced demand, partially offset by higher prices. Sales outside the U.S. decreased 1 percent, driven by decreased demand and, to a lesser extent, lower prices, partially offset by the favorable impact of foreign exchange rates. Demand outside the U.S. was unfavorably impacted by generic competition in Germany and Canada. Sales of Cymbalta increased 23 percent in the U.S., driven by increased demand and, to a lesser extent, higher prices. Sales outside the U.S. increased 66 percent, driven by increased demand and, to a lesser extent, the favorable impact of foreign exchange rates and higher prices. Higher demand outside the U.S. reflects increased demand in established markets as well as recent launches in new markets. Sales of Humalog increased 14 percent in the U.S., driven by increased demand and higher prices. Sales outside the U.S. increased 24 percent, driven by increased demand and, to a lesser extent, the favorable impact of foreign exchange rates. Sales of Gemzar increased 10 percent in the U.S., driven by increased demand and higher prices. Sales outside the U.S. increased 7 percent, driven primarily by the favorable impact of foreign exchange rates and, to a lesser extent, increased demand, partially offset by lower prices. Sales of Cialis increased 27 percent in the U.S., driven by increased demand and higher prices. Sales outside the U.S. increased 26 percent, driven by increased demand and, to a lesser extent, the favorable impact of foreign exchange rates and higher prices. Total worldwide sales of Cialis increased 19 percent 24 to $1.44 billion in 2008 as compared to $1.22 billion in 2007. This includes $72.7 million of sales in the Lilly ICOS joint venture territories for the 2007 period prior to the acquisition of ICOS. Sales of Alimta increased 25 percent in the U.S., driven by increased demand and, to a lesser extent, higher prices. Sales outside the U.S. increased 46 percent, driven by increased demand and, to a lesser extent, the favorable impact of foreign exchange rates. Sales of Evista decreased 1 percent in the U.S., driven by decreased demand, partially offset by higher prices. Sales outside the U.S. decreased 2 percent, driven by reduced demand and lower prices, partially offset by the favorable impact of foreign exchange rates. Sales of Humulin increased 4 percent in the U.S., driven by higher prices. Sales outside the U.S. increased 10 percent, driven by the favorable impact of foreign exchange rates and increased demand. Sales of Forteo decreased 1 percent in the U.S., driven by decreased demand, partially offset by higher prices. Sales outside the U.S. increased 34 percent, driven by increased demand and, to a lesser extent, the favorable impact of foreign exchange rates. Sales of Strattera decreased 6 percent in the U.S., driven by decreased demand, partially offset by higher prices. Sales outside the U.S. increased 35 percent, driven primarily by increased demand. Worldwide sales of Byetta increased 16 percent to $751.4 million during 2008. Our revenues increased 20 percent to $396.1 million in 2008. Animal health product sales in the U.S. increased 12 percent, driven by the inclusion of U.S. Posilac sales since the date of acquisition. Sales outside the U.S. increased 8 percent, driven by increased demand and, to a lesser extent, the favorable impact of foreign exchange rates. Gross Margin, Costs, and Expenses The 2008 gross margin increased to 78.5 percent of total revenue compared with 77.2 percent for 2007. This increase was primarily due to the favorable impact of foreign exchange rates. Marketing, selling, and administrative expenses increased 9 percent in 2008, to $6.63 billion. This increase was due to increased marketing and selling expenses, including prelaunch expenses for Effient and marketing costs associated with Cymbalta and Evista; the impact of foreign exchange rates; and increased litigation related expenses. Investment in research and development increased 10 percent, to $3.84 billion, due to increased late stage clinical trial and discovery research costs. Acquired IPRD charges related to the acquisitions of ImClone and SGX, as well as our in licensing arrangements with BioMS and TransPharma, were $4.84 billion in 2008 as compared to $745.6 million in 2007. We recognized asset impairments, restructuring, and other special charges of $1.97 billion in 2008, as compared to $302.5 million in 2007. The 2008 charges were primarily associated with the resolution of Zyprexa investigations with the U.S. Attorney for the EDPA and multiple states. See Notes 3, 5 and 14 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. Other net, expense (income) changed from net income of $122.0 million in 2007 to net expense of $26.1 million in 2008, primarily as a result of lower outlicensing income and increased net losses on investment securities in 2008 (the majority of which consisted of unrealized losses). We incurred tax expense of $764.3 million in 2008, despite having a loss before income taxes of $1.31 billion. Our net loss was driven by the $4.69 billion acquired IPRD charge for ImClone and the $1.48 billion Zyprexa investigation settlements. The IPRD charge was not tax deductible, and only a portion of the Zyprexa investigation settlements was deductible. In addition, we recorded tax expense associated with the ImClone acquisition, as well as a discrete income tax benefit of $210.3 million for the resolution of a substantial portion of the 2001 2004 IRS audit. The effective tax rate was 23.8 percent in 2007. See Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. FINANCIAL CONDITION As of December 31, 2009, cash, cash equivalents, and short term investments totaled $4.50 billion compared with $5.93 billion at December 31, 2008. The decrease in cash was driven by a reduction in short term borrowings of $5.82 billion and dividends paid of $2.15 billion, partially offset by cash from operations of $4.34 billion (which included payments related to the Zyprexa EDPA settlement of $1.39 billion) and proceeds of long term debt issuances of $2.40 billion. Capital expenditures of $765.0 million during 2009 were $182.2 million less than in 2008. We expect 2010 capital expenditures to be approximately $1.0 billion as we invest in our biotechnology capabilities, continue to upgrade our manufacturing and research facilities to enhance productivity and quality systems, and invest in the long term growth of our diabetes care products. Total debt at December 31, 2009, was $6.66 billion, a decrease of $3.80 billion from December 31, 2008 reflecting the pay down of our commercial paper that was issued to finance our acquisition of ImClone, partially offset by $2.40 billion of long term debt we issued in March 2009. Our current debt ratings from Standard Poors and Moodys remain at AA and A1, respectively. 25 Dividends of $1.96 per share were paid in 2009, an increase of 4 percent from 2008. In the fourth quarter of 2009, effective for the first quarter dividend in 2010, the quarterly dividend was maintained at $.49 per share, resulting in an indicated annual rate for 2010 of $1.96 per share. The year 2009 was the 125th consecutive year in which we made dividend payments. Despite increasing unemployment and declines in real consumer spending, consumer confidence has grown and job losses have slowed during the second half of 2009. Many financial institutions continue to have tightened lines of credit, thus reducing funding available to stimulate near term economic growth. While there are some positive signs, the prospects for recovery are uncertain. Pharmaceutical consumption has traditionally been relatively unaffected by economic downturns; however, an extended downturn could lead to a decline in overall prescriptions corresponding to the growth of the uninsured and underinsured population in the U.S. In addition, both private and public health care payers are facing heightened fiscal challenges due to the economic slowdown and are taking aggressive steps to reduce the costs of care, including pressures for increased pharmaceutical discounts and rebates and efforts to drive greater use of generic drugs. We continue to monitor the potential near term impact of prescription trends, the creditworthiness of our wholesalers and other customers and suppliers, the evolving health care debate, the federal governments involvement in the economic crisis, and various international government funding levels. We believe that cash generated from operations, along with available cash and cash equivalents, will be sufficient to fund our normal operating needs, including debt service, capital expenditures, costs associated with litigation and government investigations, and dividends in 2010. We believe that amounts accessible through existing commercial paper markets should be adequate to fund short term borrowings. Our access to credit markets has not been adversely affected by the illiquidity in the markets because of the high credit quality of our short and long term debt. We currently have $1.24 billion of unused committed bank credit facilities, $1.20 billion of which backs our commercial paper program and matures in May 2011. Various risks and uncertainties, including those discussed in Item 1A, Risk Factors, may affect our operating results and cash generated from operations. We depend on patents or other forms of intellectual property protection for most of our revenues, cash flows, and earnings. In the next three years we will lose effective exclusivity for Zyprexa in major European countries (September 2011) and the U.S. (October 2011); and for Humalog in major European countries (November 2010). Gemzar has already lost effective exclusivity in major European countries. In addition, we face U.S. patent litigation over several key patent protected products whose exclusivity extends beyond 2012, including Alimta, Cymbalta, Evista, Gemzar, and Strattera and it is possible we could face an unexpected loss of our effective exclusivity for one or more of these products prior to the end of 2012. Revenue from each of these products contributes materially to our results of operations, liquidity, and financial position, and the loss of exclusivity could result in a rapid and severe decline in revenue from the affected product. However, we plan to mitigate the effect on our operations, liquidity and financial position through growth in our remaining business and the previously announced plan to reduce our expected cost structure by $1 billion by the end of 2011. In the normal course of business, our operations are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates and currency values. These fluctuations can vary the costs of financing, investing, and operating. We address a portion of these risks through a controlled program of risk management that includes the use of derivative financial instruments. The objective of controlling these risks is to limit the impact on earnings of fluctuations in interest and currency exchange rates. All derivative activities are for purposes other than trading. Our primary interest rate risk exposure results from changes in short term U.S. dollar interest rates. In an effort to manage interest rate exposures, we strive to achieve an acceptable balance between fixed and floating rate debt positions and may enter into interest rate derivatives to help maintain that balance. Based on our overall interest rate exposure at December 31, 2009 and 2008, including derivatives and other interest rate risk sensitive instruments, a hypothetical 10 percent change in interest rates applied to the fair value of the instruments as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, would have no material impact on earnings, cash flows, or fair values of interest rate risk sensitive instruments over a one year period. Our foreign currency risk exposure results from fluctuating currency exchange rates, primarily the U.S. dollar against the euro and the Japanese yen, and the British pound against the euro. We face transactional currency exposures that arise when we enter into transactions, generally on an intercompany basis, denominated in currencies other than the local currency. We also face currency exposure that arises from translating the results of our global operations to the U.S. dollar at exchange rates that have fluctuated from the beginning of the period. We may use forward contracts and purchased options to manage our foreign currency exposures. Our policy outlines the minimum and maximum hedge coverage of such exposures. Gains and losses on these derivative positions offset, in part, the impact of currency fluctuations on the existing assets, liabilities, commitments, and anticipated revenues. Considering our derivative financial instruments outstanding at December 31, 2009 and 2008, a hypothetical 10 percent change in exchange rates (primarily against the U.S. dollar) as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, 26 respectively, would have no material impact on earnings, cash flows, or fair values of foreign currency rate risk sensitive instruments over a one year period. These calculations do not reflect the impact of the exchange gains or losses on the underlying positions that would be offset, in part, by the results of the derivative instruments. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations We have no off balance sheet arrangements that have a material current effect or that are reasonably likely to have a material future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures, or capital resources. We acquire and collaborate on assets still in development and enter into research and development arrangements with third parties that often require milestone and royalty payments to the third party contingent upon the occurrence of certain future events linked to the success of the asset in development. Milestone payments may be required contingent upon the successful achievement of an important point in the development life cycle of the pharmaceutical product (e.g., approval of the product for marketing by the appropriate regulatory agency or upon the achievement of certain sales levels). If required by the arrangement, we may have to make royalty payments based upon a percentage of the sales of the pharmaceutical product in the event that regulatory approval for marketing is obtained. Because of the contingent nature of these payments, they are not included in the table of contractual obligations. Individually, these arrangements are not material in any one annual reporting period. However, if milestones for multiple products covered by these arrangements would happen to be reached in the same reporting period, the aggregate charge to expense could be material to the results of operations in any one period. These arrangements often give us the discretion to unilaterally terminate development of the product, which would allow us to avoid making the contingent payments; however, we are unlikely to cease development if the compound successfully achieves clinical testing objectives. We also note that, from a business perspective, we view these payments as positive because they signify that the product is successfully moving through development and is now generating or is more likely to generate cash flows from sales of products. Our current noncancelable contractual obligations that will require future cash payments are as follows (in millions): Payments Due by Period Less Than 1 3 3 5 More Than Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years Long term debt, including interest payments1 $ 10,519.8 $ 243.4 $ 2,093.4 $ 1,563.7 $ 6,619.3 Capital lease obligations 39.2 13.5 13.3 9.0 3.4 Operating leases 403.4 109.1 156.1 78.3 59.9 Purchase obligations2 11,367.1 7,259.9 1,599.6 1,471.5 1,036.1 Other long term liabilities reflected on our balance sheet3 1,136.9 298.6 195.0 643.3 Other4 198.8 198.8 Total $ 23,665.2 $ 7,824.7 $ 4,161.0 $ 3,317.5 $ 8,362.0 1 Our long term debt obligations include both our expected principal and interest obligations and our interest rate swaps. We used the interest rate forward curve at December 31, 2009 to compute the amount of the contractual obligation for interest on the variable rate debt instruments and swaps. 2 We have included the following: Purchase obligations, consisting primarily of all open purchase orders at our significant operating locations as of December 31, 2009. Some of these purchase orders may be cancelable; however, for purposes of this disclosure, we have not distinguished between cancelable and noncancelable purchase obligations. Contractual payment obligations with each of our significant vendors, which are noncancelable and are not contingent. 3 We have included long term liabilities consisting primarily of our nonqualified supplemental pension funding requirements and deferred compensation liabilities. We excluded liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits of $1,088.4 million, as we cannot reasonably estimate the timing of future cash outflows associated with those liabilities. 4 This category comprises primarily minimum pension funding requirements. 27 The contractual obligations table is current as of December 31, 2009. We expect the amount of these obligations to change materially over time as new contracts are initiated and existing contracts are completed, terminated, or modified. APPLICATION OF CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES In preparing our financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), we must often make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses, and related disclosures. Some of those judgments can be subjective and complex, and consequently actual results could differ from those estimates. For any given individual estimate or assumption we make, it is possible that other people applying reasonable judgment to the same facts and circumstances could develop different estimates. We believe that, given current facts and circumstances, it is unlikely that applying any such other reasonable judgment would cause a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial position, or liquidity for the periods presented in this report. Our most critical accounting policies have been discussed with our audit committee and are described below. Revenue Recognition and Sales Return, Rebate, and Discount Accruals We recognize revenue from sales of products at the time title of goods passes to the buyer and the buyer assumes the risks and rewards of ownership. For more than 85 percent of our sales, this is at the time products are shipped to the customer, typically a wholesale distributor or a major retail chain. The remaining sales, which are outside the U.S., are recorded at the point of delivery. Provisions for returns, rebates, and discounts are established in the same period the related sales are recorded. We regularly review the supply levels of our significant products sold to major wholesalers in the U.S. and in major markets outside the U.S., primarily by reviewing periodic inventory reports supplied by our major wholesalers and available prescription volume information for our products, or alternative approaches. We attempt to maintain wholesaler inventory levels at an average of approximately one month or less on a consistent basis across our product portfolio. Causes of unusual wholesaler buying patterns include actual or anticipated product supply issues, weather patterns, anticipated changes in the transportation network, redundant holiday stocking, and changes in wholesaler business operations. In the U.S., the current structure of our arrangements does not provide an incentive for speculative wholesaler buying and provides us with data on inventory levels at our wholesalers. When we believe wholesaler purchasing patterns have caused an unusual increase or decrease in the sales of a major product compared with underlying demand, we disclose this in our product sales discussion if we believe the amount is material to the product sales trend; however, we are not always able to accurately quantify the amount of stocking or destocking. Wholesaler stocking and destocking activity historically has not caused any material changes in the rate of actual product returns. We establish sales return accruals for anticipated product returns. We record the return amounts as a deduction to arrive at our net product sales. Once the product is returned, it is destroyed. Consistent with Revenue Recognition accounting guidance, we estimate a reserve when the sales occur for future product returns related to those sales. This estimate is primarily based on historical return rates as well as specifically identified anticipated returns due to known business conditions and product expiry dates. Actual product returns have been less than one percent of our net sales over the past three years and have not fluctuated significantly as a percent of sales. We establish sales rebate and discount accruals in the same period as the related sales. The rebate and discount amounts are recorded as a deduction to arrive at our net product sales. Sales rebates and discounts that require the use of judgment in the establishment of the accrual include Medicaid, managed care, Medicare, chargebacks, long term care, hospital, patient assistance programs, and various other government programs. We base these accruals primarily upon our historical rebate and discount payments made to our customer segment groups and the provisions of current rebate and discount contracts. The largest of our sales rebate and discount amounts are rebates associated with sales covered by Medicaid. In determining the appropriate accrual amount, we consider our historical Medicaid rebate payments by product as a percentage of our historical sales as well as any significant changes in sales trends, an evaluation of the current Medicaid rebate laws and interpretations, the percentage of our products that are sold to Medicaid recipients, and our product pricing and current rebate and discount contracts. Although we accrue a liability for Medicaid rebates at the time we record the sale (when the product is shipped), the Medicaid rebate related to that sale is typically paid up to six months later. Because of this time lag, in any particular period our rebate adjustments may incorporate revisions of accruals for several periods. Most of our rebates outside the U.S. are contractual or legislatively mandated and are estimated and recognized in the same period as the related sales. In some large European countries, government rebates are based on the anticipated pharmaceutical budget deficit in the country. A best estimate of these 28 rebates, updated as governmental authorities revise budgeted deficits, is recognized in the same period as the related sale. If our estimates are not reflective of the actual pharmaceutical budget deficit, we adjust our rebate reserves. We believe that our accruals for sales returns, rebates, and discounts are reasonable and appropriate based on current facts and circumstances. U.S. sales returns, federally mandated Medicaid rebate and state pharmaceutical assistance programs (Medicaid) and Medicare rebates reduced sales by $1.20 billion, $1.03 billion, and $738.8 million in 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively. A 5 percent change in the sales return, Medicaid, and Medicare rebate amounts we recognized in 2009 would lead to an approximate $60 million effect on our income before income taxes. As of December 31, 2009, our sales returns, Medicaid, and Medicare rebate liability was $692.3 million. Our global rebate and discount liabilities are included in sales rebates and discounts on our consolidated balance sheet. Our global sales return liability is included in other current liabilities and other noncurrent liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet. Approximately 84 percent and 80 percent of our global sales return, rebate, and discount liability resulted from sales of our products in the U.S. as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The following represents a roll forward of our most significant U.S. returns, rebate, and discount liability balances, including Medicaid (in millions): 2009 2008 Sales return, rebate, and discount liabilities, beginning of year $ 806.5 $ 693.5 Reduction of net sales due to sales returns, discounts, and rebates1 2,233.8 1,864.9 Cash payments of discounts and rebates (2,076.7 ) (1,751.9 ) Sales return, rebate, and discount liabilities, end of year $ 963.6 $ 806.5 1 Adjustments of the estimates for these returns, rebates, and discounts to actual results were less than 0.1 percent of net sales for each of the years presented. Product Litigation Liabilities and Other Contingencies Product litigation liabilities and other contingencies are, by their nature, uncertain and are based upon complex judgments and probabilities. The factors we consider in developing our product litigation liability reserves and other contingent liability amounts include the merits and jurisdiction of the litigation, the nature and the number of other similar current and past litigation cases, the nature of the product and the current assessment of the science subject to the litigation, and the likelihood of settlement and current state of settlement discussions, if any. In addition, we accrue for certain product liability claims incurred, but not filed, to the extent we can formulate a reasonable estimate of their costs. We estimate these expenses based primarily on historical claims experience and data regarding product usage. We accrue legal defense costs expected to be incurred in connection with significant product liability contingencies when probable and reasonably estimable. We also consider the insurance coverage we have to diminish the exposure for periods covered by insurance. In assessing our insurance coverage, we consider the policy coverage limits and exclusions, the potential for denial of coverage by the insurance company, the financial condition of the insurers, and the possibility of and length of time for collection. In the past few years, we have been unable to obtain product liability insurance due to a very restrictive insurance market. Therefore, for substantially all of our currently marketed products, we have been and expect that we will continue to be completely self insured for future product liability losses. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to fully collect from our insurance carriers in the future. The litigation accruals and environmental liabilities and the related estimated insurance recoverables have been reflected on a gross basis as liabilities and assets, respectively, on our consolidated balance sheets. We believe that the accruals and related insurance recoveries we have established for product litigation liabilities and other contingencies are appropriate based on current facts and circumstances. Pension and Retiree Medical Plan Assumptions Pension benefit costs include assumptions for the discount rate, retirement age, and expected return on plan assets. Retiree medical plan costs include assumptions for the discount rate, retirement age, expected return on plan assets, and health care cost trend rates. These assumptions have a significant effect on the amounts reported. In addition to the analysis below, see Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding our retirement benefits. Periodically, we evaluate the discount rate and the expected return on plan assets in our defined benefit pension and retiree health benefit plans. In evaluating these assumptions, we consider many factors, including an evaluation of the discount rates, expected return on plan assets, and health care cost trend 29 rates of other companies; our historical assumptions compared with actual results; an analysis of current market conditions and asset allocations (approximately 88 percent of which are growth investments); and the views of leading financial advisers and economists. We use an actuarially determined, company specific yield curve to determine the discount rate. In evaluating our expected retirement age assumption, we consider the retirement ages of our past employees eligible for pension and medical benefits together with our expectations of future retirement ages. We believe our pension and retiree medical plan assumptions are appropriate based upon the above factors. If the health care cost trend rates were to be increased by one percentage point each future year, the aggregate of the service cost and interest cost components of the 2009 annual expense would increase by $18.9 million. A one percentage point decrease would lower the aggregate of the 2009 service cost and interest cost by $15.8 million. If the 2009 discount rate for the U.S. defined benefit pension and retiree health benefit plans (U.S. plans) were to be changed by a quarter percentage point, income before income taxes would change by $23.6 million. If the 2009 expected return on plan assets for U.S. plans were to be changed by a quarter percentage point, income before income taxes would change by $16.8 million. If our assumption regarding the 2009 expected age of future retirees for U.S. plans were adjusted by one year, our income before income taxes would be affected by $27.7 million. The U.S. plans represent approximately 82 percent of the total accumulated postretirement benefit obligation and approximately 83 percent of total plan assets at December 31, 2009. Impairment of Long Lived Assets We review the carrying value of long lived assets (both intangible and tangible) for potential impairment on a periodic basis and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. We determine impairment by comparing the projected undiscounted cash flows to be generated by the asset to its carrying value. If an impairment is identified, a loss is recorded equal to the excess of the assets net book value over its fair value, and the cost basis is adjusted. The estimated future cash flows, based on reasonable and supportable assumptions and projections, require managements judgment. Actual results could vary from these estimates. Income Taxes We prepare and file tax returns based on our interpretation of tax laws and regulations and record estimates based on these judgments and interpretations. In the normal course of business, our tax returns are subject to examination by various taxing authorities, which may result in future tax, interest, and penalty assessments by these authorities. Inherent uncertainties exist in estimates of many tax positions due to changes in tax law resulting from legislation, regulation, and or as concluded through the various jurisdictions tax court systems. We recognize the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from such a position are measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than 50 percent likelihood of being realized upon ultimate resolution. The amount of unrecognized tax benefits is adjusted for changes in facts and circumstances. For example, adjustments could result from significant amendments to existing tax law and the issuance of regulations or interpretations by the taxing authorities, new information obtained during a tax examination, or resolution of an examination. We believe that our estimates for uncertain tax positions are appropriate and sufficient to pay assessments that may result from examinations of our tax returns. We recognize both accrued interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense. We have recorded valuation allowances against certain of our deferred tax assets, primarily those that have been generated from net operating losses and tax credit carryforwards in certain taxing jurisdictions. In evaluating whether we would more likely than not recover these deferred tax assets, we have not assumed any future taxable income or tax planning strategies in the jurisdictions associated with these carryforwards where history does not support such an assumption. Implementation of tax planning strategies to recover these deferred tax assets or future income generation in these jurisdictions could lead to the reversal of these valuation allowances and a reduction of income tax expense. We believe that our estimates for the uncertain tax positions and valuation allowances against the deferred tax assets are appropriate based on current facts and circumstances. A 5 percent change in the amount of the uncertain tax positions and the valuation allowance would result in a change in net income of $41.8 million and $41.8 million, respectively. FINANCIAL EXPECTATIONS FOR 2010 For the full year of 2010, we expect earnings per share to be in the range of $4.65 to $4.85, excluding the potential impact of health care reform in the U.S. and restructuring charges resulting from previously announced strategic headcount reductions. We expect volume driven revenue growth in the high single digits, driven primarily by Alimta, Cymbalta, Humalog, Cialis, Effient and the exenatide franchise. We anticipate that gross margin as a percent of revenue will be flat to declining. Marketing, selling, and 30 administrative expenses are projected to grow in the low to mid single digits while research and development expenses are projected to grow in the low double digits. Other net, expense (income) is expected to be a net expense of between $150.0 million and $200.0 million. Cash flows are expected to be sufficient to fund capital expenditures of approximately $1.0 billion, anticipated business development activity, and our dividend. We caution investors that any forward looking statements or projections made by us, including those above, are based on managements belief at the time they are made. However, they are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially and will depend on, among other things, the continuing growth of our currently marketed products; developments with competitive products; the timing and scope of regulatory approvals and the success of our new product launches; asset impairments, restructurings, and acquisitions of compounds under development resulting in acquired in process research and development charges; foreign exchange rates and global macroeconomic conditions; changes in effective tax rates; wholesaler inventory changes; other regulatory developments, litigation, patent disputes, and government investigations; and the impact of governmental actions regarding pricing, importation, and reimbursement for pharmaceuticals, as well as proposed health care reform currently being discussed by the U.S. Congress. We undertake no duty to update these forward looking statements. LEGAL AND REGULATORY MATTERS We are a party to various legal actions and government investigations. The most significant of these are described below. While it is not possible to determine the outcome of these matters, we believe that, except as specifically noted below, the resolution of all such matters will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position or liquidity, but could possibly be material to our consolidated results of operations in any one accounting period. Patent Litigation We are engaged in the following patent litigation matters brought pursuant to procedures set out in the Hatch Waxman Act (the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984): Cymbalta: Sixteen generic drug manufacturers have submitted Abbreviated New Drug Applications (ANDAs) seeking permission to market generic versions of Cymbalta prior to the expiration of our relevant U.S. patents (the earliest of which expires in 2013). Of these challengers, all allege non infringement of the patent claims directed to the commercial formulation, and nine allege invalidity of the patent claims directed to the active ingredient duloxetine. Of the nine challengers to the compound patent claims, one further alleges invalidity of the claims directed to the use of Cymbalta for treating fibromyalgia, and one alleges the patent having claims directed to the active ingredient is unenforceable. In November 2008 we filed lawsuits in U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Indiana against Actavis Elizabeth LLC; Aurobindo Pharma Ltd.; Cobalt Laboratories, Inc.; Impax Laboratories, Inc.; Lupin Limited; Sandoz Inc.; and Wockhardt Limited, seeking rulings that the patents are valid, infringed, and enforceable. We filed similar lawsuits in the same court against Sun Pharma Global, Inc. in December 2008 and against Anchen Pharmaceuticals, Inc. in August 2009. The cases have been consolidated and actions against all but Wockhardt Limited have been stayed pursuant to stipulations by the defendants to be bound by the outcome of the litigation through appeal. Gemzar: Mayne Pharma (USA) Inc., now Hospira, Inc. (Hospira); Fresenius Kabi Oncology Plc (Fresenius); Sicor Pharmaceuticals, Inc., now Teva Parenteral Medicines, Inc. (Teva); and Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Inc. (Sun) each submitted an ANDA seeking permission to market generic versions of Gemzar prior to the expiration of our relevant U.S. patents (compound patent expiring in 2010 and method of use patent expiring in 2013), and alleging that these patents are invalid. Sandoz Inc. (Sandoz) and APP Pharmaceuticals, LLC (APP) have similarly challenged our method of use patent. We filed lawsuits in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Indiana against Teva (February 2006), Hospira (October 2006 and January 2008), Sandoz (October 2009), APP (December 2009), and Fresenius (February 2010), seeking rulings that our patents are valid and are being infringed. Sandoz withdrew its ANDA and the suit against it was dismissed in February 2010. The trial against Teva was held in September 2009 and we are waiting for a ruling. Tevas ANDAs have been approved by the FDA; however, Teva must provide 90 days notice prior to marketing generic Gemzar to allow time for us to seek a preliminary injunction. Both suits against Hospira have been administratively closed, and the parties have agreed to be bound by the results of the Teva suit. In November 2007, Sun filed a declaratory judgment action in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan, seeking rulings that our method of use and compound patents are invalid or unenforceable, or would not be infringed by the sale of Suns generic product. In August 2009, the District Court granted a motion by Sun for partial summary judgment, invalidating our method of use patent. We have appealed this decision. This ruling has no bearing on the compound patent. The trial originally scheduled for December 2009 has been postponed while the court considers Suns second summary judgment motion, related to the validity of our compound patent. 31 Sun and APP have received tentative approval for their products from the FDA, but are prohibited from entering the market by 30 month stays, which expire in June 2010 for Sun and May 2012 for APP. Alimta: Teva Parenteral Medicines, Inc. (Teva), APP, and Barr Laboratories, Inc. (Barr) each submitted ANDAs seeking approval to market generic versions of Alimta prior to the expiration of the relevant U.S. patent (licensed from the Trustees of Princeton University and expiring in 2016), and alleging the patent is invalid. We, along with Princeton, filed lawsuits in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware against Teva, APP, and Barr seeking rulings that the compound patent is valid and infringed. Trial is scheduled for November 2010 against Teva and APP. Evista: In 2006, Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. (Teva) submitted an ANDA seeking permission to market a generic version of Evista prior to the expiration of our relevant U.S. patents (expiring in 2012 2017) and alleging that these patents are invalid, not enforceable, or not infringed. In June 2006, we filed a lawsuit against Teva in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Indiana, seeking a ruling that these patents are valid, enforceable, and being infringed by Teva. The trial against Teva was completed in March 2009. In September 2009, the court upheld our method of use patents (the last expires in 2014). Teva has appealed that ruling. In addition, the court held that our particle size patent (expiring 2017) is invalid. We have appealed that ruling. Strattera: Actavis Elizabeth LLC (Actavis), Apotex Inc. (Apotex), Aurobindo Pharma Ltd. (Aurobindo), Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc. (Mylan), Sandoz Inc. (Sandoz), Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Limited (Sun), and Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. (Teva) each submitted an ANDA seeking permission to market generic versions of Strattera prior to the expiration of our relevant U.S. patent (expiring in 2017), and alleging that this patent is invalid. In 2007, we brought a lawsuit against Actavis, Apotex, Aurobindo, Mylan, Sandoz, Sun, and Teva in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey. The court has ruled on all pending summary judgment motions, and granted our infringement motion. The remaining invalidity defenses will be decided at trial, which could take place as early as the third quarter of 2010. Several companies have received tentative approval to market generic atomoxetine, but are prohibited from entering the market by a 30 month stay which expires in November 2010. We believe each of these Hatch Waxman challenges is without merit and expect to prevail in this litigation. However, it is not possible to determine the outcome of this litigation, and accordingly, we can provide no assurance that we will prevail. An unfavorable outcome in any of these cases could have a material adverse impact on our future consolidated results of operations, liquidity, and financial position. We have received challenges to Zyprexa patents in a number of countries outside the U.S.: In Canada, several generic pharmaceutical manufacturers have challenged the validity of our Zyprexa patent (expiring in 2011). In April 2007, the Canadian Federal Court ruled against the first challenger, Apotex Inc. (Apotex), and that ruling was affirmed on appeal in February 2008. In June 2007, the Canadian Federal Court held that an invalidity allegation of a second challenger, Novopharm Ltd. (Novopharm), was justified and denied our request that Novopharm be prohibited from receiving marketing approval for generic olanzapine in Canada. Novopharm began selling generic olanzapine in Canada in the third quarter of 2007. In September 2009, the Canadian Federal Court ruled against us in the Novapharm suit, finding our patent invalid. We have appealed this decision. If the decision is upheld, we could face liability for damages related to delays in the launch of generic olanzapine products; however, we have concluded at this time that the damages are not probable or estimable. In Germany, the German Federal Supreme Court upheld the validity of our Zyprexa patent (expiring in 2011) in December 2008, reversing an earlier decision of the Federal Patent Court. Following the decision of the Supreme Court, the generic companies who launched generic olanzapine based on the earlier decision either agreed to withdraw from the market or were subject to injunction. We are pursuing these companies for damages arising from infringement. We have received challenges in a number of other countries, including Spain, the United Kingdom (U.K.), and several smaller European countries. In Spain, we have been successful at both the trial and appellate court levels in defeating the generic manufacturers challenges, but additional actions are now pending. In the U.K., the generic pharmaceutical manufacturer Dr. Reddys Laboratories (UK) Limited (Dr. Reddys) has challenged the validity of our Zyprexa patent (expiring in 2011). In October 2008, the Patents Court in the High Court, London ruled that our patent was valid. Dr. Reddys appealed this decision. The U.K. Court of Appeal affirmed the validity of the patent in December 2009. Dr. Reddys did not seek further appeal to the U.K. Supreme Court, therefore the U.K. proceedings are concluded. We are vigorously contesting the various legal challenges to our Zyprexa patents on a country by country basis. We cannot determine the outcome of this litigation. The availability of generic olanzapine in additional markets could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations. Xigris and Evista: In June 2002, Ariad Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Ariad), the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, the Whitehead Institute for Biomedical Research, and the President and Fellows of Harvard 32 College in the U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts sued us, alleging that sales of two of our products, Xigris and Evista, were inducing the infringement of a patent related to the discovery of a natural cell signaling phenomenon in the human body, and seeking royalties on past and future sales of these products. Following jury and bench trials on separate issues, the U.S. District Court of Massachusetts entered final judgment in September 2007 that Ariads claims were valid, infringed, and enforceable, and finding damages in the amount of $65 million plus a 2.3 percent royalty on net U.S. sales of Xigris and Evista since the time of the jury decision. However, the Court deferred the requirement to pay any damages until after all rights to appeal are exhausted. In April 2009, the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit overturned the District Court judgment, concluding that Ariads asserted patent claims are invalid. In August 2009, the Court of Appeals agreed to review this decision en banc, thereby vacating the Court of Appeals decision. The en banc hearing occurred in December 2009 and we are awaiting a decision. Nevertheless, we believe that these allegations are without legal merit, that we will ultimately prevail on these issues, and therefore that the likelihood of any monetary damages is remote. Zyprexa Litigation We have been named as a defendant in a large number of Zyprexa product liability lawsuits in the U.S. and have been notified of many other claims of individuals who have not filed suit. The lawsuits and unfiled claims (together the claims) allege a variety of injuries from the use of Zyprexa, with the majority alleging that the product caused or contributed to diabetes or high blood glucose levels. The claims seek substantial compensatory and punitive damages and typically accuse us of inadequately testing for and warning about side effects of Zyprexa. Many of the claims also allege that we improperly promoted the drug. Almost all of the federal lawsuits are part of a Multi District Litigation (MDL) proceeding before The Honorable Jack Weinstein in the Federal District Court for the Eastern District of New York (MDL No. 1596). Since June 2005, we have entered into agreements with various claimants attorneys involved in U.S. Zyprexa product liability litigation to settle a substantial majority of the claims. The agreements cover a total of approximately 32,670 claimants, including a large number of previously filed lawsuits and other asserted claims. The two primary settlements were as follows: In 2005, we settled and paid more than 8,000 claims for $690.0 million, plus $10.0 million to cover administration of the settlement. In 2007, we settled and paid more than 18,000 claims for approximately $500 million. We are prepared to continue our vigorous defense of Zyprexa in all remaining claims. The U.S. Zyprexa product liability claims not subject to these agreements include approximately 170 lawsuits in the U.S. covering approximately 260 plaintiffs, of which about 140 cases covering about 150 plaintiffs are part of the MDL. The MDL cases have been scheduled for trial in groups, and no specific trial dates for trial groups have been assigned. We also have trials scheduled in Texas state court in May and August 2010 and in Ohio in August 2010. In January 2009, we reached resolution with the Office of the U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania (EDPA), and the State Medicaid Fraud Control Units of 36 states and the District of Columbia, of an investigation related to our U.S. marketing and promotional practices with respect to Zyprexa. As part of the resolution, we pled guilty to one misdemeanor violation of the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act for the off label promotion of Zyprexa in elderly populations as treatment for dementia, including Alzheimers dementia, between September 1999 and March 2001. We recorded a charge of $1.42 billion for this matter in the third quarter of 2008. In 2009, we paid substantially all of this amount, as required by the settlement agreements. As part of the settlement, we have entered into a corporate integrity agreement with the Office of Inspector General (OIG) of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), which requires us to maintain our compliance program and to undertake a set of defined corporate integrity obligations for five years. The agreement also provides for an independent third party review organization to assess and report on the companys systems, processes, policies, procedures, and practices. In October 2008, we reached a settlement with 32 states and the District of Columbia related to a multistate investigation brought under various state consumer protection laws. While there is no finding that we have violated any provision of the state laws under which the investigations were conducted, we accrued and paid $62.0 million and agreed to undertake certain commitments regarding Zyprexa for a period of six years, through consent decrees filed with the settling states. We have been served with lawsuits filed by the states of Alaska, Arkansas, Connecticut, Idaho, Louisiana, Minnesota, Mississippi, Montana, New Mexico, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Utah, and West Virginia alleging that Zyprexa caused or contributed to diabetes or high blood glucose levels, and that we improperly promoted the drug. These suits seek to recover the costs paid for Zyprexa through Medicaid and other drug benefit programs, as well as the costs alleged to have been incurred and that will be incurred by the states to treat Zyprexa related illnesses. The Connecticut, Idaho, Louisiana, Minnesota, Mississippi, Montana, New Mexico, and West Virginia cases are part of the MDL proceedings in the EDNY. 33 The Alaska case was settled in March 2008 for a payment of $15.0 million, plus terms designed to ensure, subject to certain limitations and conditions, that Alaska is treated as favorably as certain other states that may settle with us in the future over similar claims. We are in advanced discussions with the attorneys general for several of these states, seeking to resolve their Zyprexa related claims, and we have agreed to settlements with the states of Arkansas, Connecticut, Idaho, Mississippi, New Mexico, South Carolina, Utah, and West Virginia. In the second and third quarters of 2009, we incurred pretax charges of $105.0 million and $125.0 million, respectively, reflecting the currently probable and estimable exposures in connection with these claims. The Pennsylvania case is set for trial in April 2010 in state court. In 2005, two lawsuits were filed in the EDNY purporting to be nationwide class actions on behalf of all consumers and third party payors, excluding governmental entities, which have made or will make payments for their members or insured patients being prescribed Zyprexa. These actions have now been consolidated into a single lawsuit, which is brought under certain state consumer protection statutes, the federal civil RICO statute, and common law theories, seeking a refund of the cost of Zyprexa, treble damages, punitive damages, and attorneys fees. Two additional lawsuits were filed in the EDNY in 2006 on similar grounds. In September 2008, Judge Weinstein certified a class consisting of third party payors, excluding governmental entities and individual consumers. We appealed the certification order, and Judge Weinsteins order denying our motion for summary judgment, in September 2008. While the Second Circuit Court of Appeals heard oral arguments on the appeal in December 2009, no opinions have been rendered. In 2007, The Pennsylvania Employees Trust Fund brought claims in state court in Pennsylvania as insurer of Pennsylvania state employees, who were prescribed Zyprexa on similar grounds as described in the New York cases. As with the product liability suits, these lawsuits allege that we inadequately tested for and warned about side effects of Zyprexa and improperly promoted the drug. In December 2009, the court granted our summary judgment motion, dismissing the case. Plaintiffs have appealed this decision. In early 2005, we were served with four lawsuits seeking class action status in Canada on behalf of patients who took Zyprexa. One of these four lawsuits has been certified for residents of Quebec, and a second has been certified in Ontario and includes all Canadian residents except for residents of Quebec and British Columbia. The allegations in the Canadian actions are similar to those in the product liability litigation pending in the U.S. We are in advanced discussions to resolve all Zyprexa class action litigation in Canada. We cannot determine with certainty the additional number of lawsuits and claims that may be asserted. The ultimate resolution of Zyprexa product liability and related litigation could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations, liquidity, and financial position. Other Product Liability Litigation We have been named as a defendant in numerous other product liability lawsuits involving primarily diethylstilbestrol (DES), thimerosal, and Byetta. The majority of these claims are covered by insurance, subject to deductibles and coverage limits. Product Liability Insurance Because of the nature of pharmaceutical products, it is possible that we could become subject to large numbers of product liability and related claims for other products in the future. In the past several years, we have been unable to attain product liability insurance due to a very restrictive insurance market. Therefore, for substantially all of our currently marketed products, we have been and expect that we will continue to be completely self insured for future product liability losses. In addition, there is no assurance that we will be able to fully collect from our insurance carriers in the future. PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995 A CAUTION CONCERNING FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS Under the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, we caution investors that any forward looking statements or projections made by us, including those made in this document, are based on managements expectations at the time they are made, but they are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those projected. Economic, competitive, governmental, technological, legal, and other factors that may affect our operations and prospects are discussed earlier in this section and in Item 1A, Risk Factors. We undertake no duty to update forward looking statements. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk You can find quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk (e.g., interest rate risk) in Item 7 at Managements Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition. That information is incorporated in this report by reference. 34 
 
