Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition RESULTS OF OPERATIONS EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW This section provides an overview of our financial results, recent product and late stage pipeline developments, and legal, regulatory, and other matters affecting our company and the pharmaceutical industry. Financial Results We achieved revenue growth of 6 percent in 2010, which was primarily driven by the collective growth of Alimta, Cymbalta, animal health products, insulin products, Cialis, and Zyprexa, offset by the decline in Gemzar revenue. Cost of sales and marketing, selling, and administrative expenses grew at a slower rate than revenue, while our investment in research and development grew at a greater rate than revenue and our effective tax rate increased. As a result of these factors, as well as higher other income in 2010 and the items noted below, net income increased 17 percent to $5.07 billion, and earnings per share increased 16 percent to $4.58 per share, in 2010 as compared to $4.33 billion, or $3.94 per share, in 2009. 2010 U.S. Health Care Reform Due to the enactment of health care reform in the U.S. in March 2010, total revenue decreased by $229.0 million (pretax), or $.16 per share, in 2010 as a result of higher rebates. We also recorded a one time non cash deferred income tax charge in the first quarter of $85.1 million, or $.08 per share, associated with the imposition of tax on the prescription drug subsidy of our U.S. retiree health plan. Acquisitions (Note 3) We incurred acquired in process research and development (IPR&D) charges associated with the in licensing arrangement with Acrux Limited (Acrux) of $50.0 million (pretax), which decreased earnings per share by $.03. Asset Impairments and Related Restructuring and Other Special Charges (Notes 5 and 15) We recognized asset impairments, restructuring, and other special charges of $192.0 million (pretax), or $.13 per share, in 2010, primarily related to severance costs from previously announced strategic actions. 2009 Acquisitions (Note 3) We incurred acquired IPR&D charges associated with an in licensing arrangement with Incyte Corporation (Incyte) of $90.0 million (pretax), which decreased earnings per share by $.05. Asset Impairments and Related Restructuring and Other Special Charges (Notes 5 and 15) We recognized asset impairments, restructuring, and other special charges of $462.7 million (pretax), which decreased earnings per share by $.29, for asset impairments and restructuring primarily related to the sale of our Tippecanoe Laboratories manufacturing site. We incurred pretax charges of $230.0 million in connection with the claims of several states related to Zyprexa, which decreased earnings per share by $.13. Late Stage Pipeline Our long term success depends to a great extent on our ability to continue to discover and develop innovative pharmaceutical products and acquire or collaborate on compounds currently in development by other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies. We currently have more than 65 potential new drugs in human testing and a larger number of projects in preclinical development. There are many difficulties and uncertainties inherent in pharmaceutical research and development and the introduction of new products. There is a high rate of failure inherent in new drug discovery and development. The process to bring a drug from the discovery phase to regulatory approval can take 12 to 15 years or longer and cost more than $1 billion. Failure can occur at any point in the process, including late in the process after substantial investment. As a result, most research programs will not generate financial returns. New product candidates that 17 appear promising in development may fail to reach the market or may have only limited commercial success because of efficacy or safety concerns, inability to obtain necessary regulatory approvals, limited scope of approved uses, difficulty or excessive costs to manufacture, or infringement of the patents or intellectual property rights of others. Delays and uncertainties in the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approval process and the approval processes in other countries can result in delays in product launches and lost market opportunity. Consequently, it is very difficult to predict which products will ultimately be approved and the sales growth of those products. We manage research and development spending across our portfolio of molecules, and a delay in, or termination of, one project will not by itself necessarily cause a significant change in our total research and development spending. Due to the risks and uncertainties involved in the research and development process, we cannot reliably estimate the nature, timing, completion dates, and costs of the efforts necessary to complete the development of our research and development projects, nor can we reliably estimate the future potential revenue that will be generated from a successful research and development project. Each project represents only a portion of the overall pipeline and none are individually material to our consolidated research and development expense. While we do accumulate certain research and development costs on a project level for internal reporting purposes, we must make significant cost estimations and allocations, some of which rely on data that is neither reproducible nor validated through accepted control mechanisms. As a consequence, we do not have sufficiently reliable data to report on total research and development costs by therapeutic category. New molecular entities currently in Phase III clinical trial testing include the following: BAFF antibody an anti BAFF antibody for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis and lupus BI10773 a SGLT 2 inhibitor for the treatment of diabetes (in collaboration with Boehringer Ingelheim) Enzastaurin a small molecule for the treatment of diffuse large B cell lymphoma GLP 1 Fc a glucagon like peptide 1 analog for the treatment of type 2 diabetes Necitumumab a fully human monoclonal antibody being investigated as a treatment for non small cell lung cancer NERI a potent and highly selective norepinepherine reuptake inhibitor being investigated as a treatment for major depression Ramucirumab a monoclonal antibody being investigated as a treatment for metastatic breast and gastric cancers Solanezumab an amyloid beta (A&szlig;) antibody for the treatment of Alzheimers disease New molecular entities that have been submitted for regulatory review include the following: Arxxant a potential treatment for diabetic retinopathy Florbetapir a molecular imaging tool under investigation for the detection of beta amyloid plaque in the brain. The absence of beta amyloid plaque in the brain makes a diagnosis of Alzheimers disease unlikely. Linagliptin a DPP 4 inhibitor for the treatment of diabetes (in collaboration with Boehringer Ingelheim) Liprotamase a non porcine pancreatic enzyme replacement therapy The following are late stage pipeline developments that have occurred since January 1, 2010: Axiron. We entered into an exclusive worldwide license agreement in the first quarter for the commercialization of Acruxs experimental testosterone solution Axiron, which the FDA approved in the fourth quarter as a replacement therapy in men for certain conditions associated with a deficiency or absence of testosterone. We, along with our partner Acrux, expect to launch Axiron in the U.S. by mid 2011. BI10773 and linagliptin. In January 2011, we announced a global agreement with Boehringer Ingelheim to jointly develop and commercialize a portfolio of diabetes compounds currently in mid and late stage development. Included are Boehringer Ingelheims two oral diabetes agents, linagliptin and BI10773, as well as our two basal insulin analogues, LY2605541 and LY2963016, along with an option to co develop and co commercialize Lillys anti TGF beta monoclonal antibody. Bydureon U.S. In October 2010, the FDA issued a complete response letter regarding the New Drug Application (NDA) for Bydureon. In the complete response letter, the FDA requested a safety study to measure the potential for heart rhythm disturbances when exenatide is used at higher than average doses. Additionally, the FDA requested the results of the already completed DURATION 5 study to evaluate the efficacy, and the labeling of the safety and effectiveness, of the commercial formulation of Bydureon. We, along with our partners Amylin Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Amylin) and Alkermes, Inc. (Alkermes), plan to submit our reply to the complete response letter in the second half of 2011. Amylin received written feedback from the FDA indicating approval of the study design for the required safety study to support the regulatory application. The study is expected to begin in February. Based on the requirements for additional data, this will likely be considered a Class 2 resubmission requiring a six month review. Bydureon Europe. We, along with our partners Amylin and Alkermes, submitted Bydureon for review by the European Medicines Agency in the first quarter of 2010. 18 Cymbalta. The FDA approved Cymbalta for the management of chronic musculoskeletal pain in November 2010. This has been established in studies in patients with chronic low back pain and chronic pain due to osteoarthritis. Florbetapir. In December 2010, we completed the acquisition of Avid Radiopharmaceuticals, Inc. (Avid), a company developing novel molecular imaging compounds intended for the detection and monitoring of chronic human diseases. In addition, the FDA recently assigned priority review designation for Amyvid (florbetapir), Avids lead program in development. The Peripheral and Central Nervous System Drugs Advisory Committee of the FDA held a meeting to discuss Amyvids NDA in January 2011. The committee decided that it could not recommend approval of Amyvid at this time based on the currently available data (13 3), but voted unanimously (16 0) to recommend approval of Amyvid conditional on a reader training program that demonstrates reader accuracy and consistency through a re read of previously acquired scans. The committee supported that efficacy was established and there were no significant safety concerns. Liprotamase. In July 2010, we completed our acquisition of Alnara Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Alnara), a privately held company developing protein therapeutics for the treatment of metabolic diseases. In January 2011, the FDA Gastrointestinal Drugs Advisory Committee voted to recommend non approval of liprotamase, Alnaras non porcine pancreatic enzyme replacement therapy, for the treatment of exocrine pancreatic insufficiency (EPI). During the meeting, the committee had questions about the degree of efficacy of liprotamase and recommended that additional studies be conducted prior to considering approval of liprotamase for EPI. We will continue to work with the FDA to address the questions raised in the meeting as the agency moves toward a final decision on the application. Livalo. We, along with our partner, Kowa Pharmaceuticals America Inc., launched Livalo in the U.S. in the second quarter of 2010. In addition to a proper diet, Livalo is used for the treatment of high cholesterol (primary hyperlipidemia or mixed dyslipidemia) in adults. Necitumumab. In February 2011, we and Bristol Myers Squibb Company stopped enrollment in one of the two global Phase III studies evaluating necitumumab, an investigational anti cancer agent, as a first line treatment for advanced non small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). The decision to stop enrollment in the Phase III non squamous NSCLC INSPIRE trial followed an independent Data Monitoring Committee (DMC) recommendation that no new or recently enrolled patients continue treatment in the trial because of safety concerns related to thromboembolism (blood clots) in the experimental arm of the study. The same DMC also noted that patients who have already received two or more cycles of necitumumab appear to have a lower ongoing risk for these safety concerns. These patients may choose to remain on the trial, after being informed of the additional potential risks. Investigators will continue to assess patients after two cycles to determine if there is a potential benefit from treatment. Semagacestat. In August 2010, we halted development of semagacestat, a gamma secretase inhibitor being studied as a potential treatment for Alzheimers disease, because preliminary results from two ongoing long term Phase III studies showed the compound did not slow disease progression and was associated with worsening of clinical measures of cognition and the ability to perform activities of daily living. Tasisulam. In December 2010, we suspended all current Phase III studies evaluating tasisulam as a second line treatment for those with unresectable or metastatic melanoma. Tasisulam, an investigational, small molecule anti cancer compound, continues to be studied in other types of cancers. Teplizumab. In October 2010, we and our partner, MacroGenics, Inc., announced that an independent DMC completed a planned analysis of one year safety and efficacy data of the Prot&eacute;g&eacute; Phase III clinical trial of teplizumab, an investigational biologic under development for the treatment of individuals with recent onset type 1 diabetes. The DMC concluded that the primary efficacy endpoint of the study was not met. The DMC, noting that all administration of experimental drug had been completed, commented that appropriate safety monitoring is warranted. No unanticipated safety issues were identified in the DMCs review. The companies have decided to suspend further enrollment and dosing of patients in two other ongoing clinical trials of teplizumab in type 1 diabetes. In October 2010, we notified MacroGenics of our decision to terminate our collaboration agreement for the development of teplizumab. Legal, Regulatory, and Other Matters The U.S. compound patent for Gemzar expired November 15, 2010. Our method of use patent (expiring in 2013) was held invalid by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. We are seeking review by the U.S. Supreme Court, but generic gemcitabine was introduced to the U.S. market in mid November 2010, and Gemzar sales are experiencing a rapid and severe decline. The U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey ruled that our method of use patent for Strattera, which expires in 2017, is invalid. Our appeal to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit was heard in December 2010, and we are awaiting a ruling. The Court of Appeals has granted an injunction that prevents the launch of generic atomoxetine until a ruling is rendered. Several generic companies have tentative approval to market generic atomoxetine, and, should the appeal be unsuccessful, we would anticipate a rapid and severe decline in Strattera sales due to generic competition. The enactment of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and The Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 in March 2010 brings significant changes to U.S. health care. These changes began to 19 affect our financial results in the first quarter of 2010 and will continue to have significant impact on our results in the future. Changes to the rebates for prescription drugs sold to Medicaid beneficiaries, which increase the minimum statutory rebate for branded drugs from 15.1 percent to 23.1 percent, were generally effective in the first quarter of 2010. This rebate has been expanded to managed Medicaid, a program that provides for the delivery of Medicaid benefits via managed care organizations, under arrangements between those organizations and state Medicaid agencies. Additionally, a prescription drug discount program for outpatient drugs in certain types of health care facilities that serve low income and uninsured patients (known as 340B facilities) has been expanded. Also, there are changes to the tax treatment of subsidies paid by the government to employers, such as us, who provide their retirees with a drug benefit at least equivalent to the Medicare Part D drug benefit. Beginning in 2013, the federal government will tax the subsidy it provides to such employers. While this tax will not take effect for three more years, accounting rules dictate that we adjust our deferred tax asset through a one time non cash charge upon enactment of the tax law change, which we recorded in the first quarter of 2010. In addition, the federal government created an expedited regulatory approval pathway in the U.S. for biosimilars or follow on biologics (copies of biological compounds). Biologics will have at least 12 years of data package protection following launch. Congress is expected to take up patent law reform in 2011; some proposals would strengthen the pharmaceutical business model while others under consideration might pose some risks. Beginning in 2011, drug manufacturers will provide a discount of 50 percent of the cost of branded prescription drugs for Medicare Part D participants who are in the doughnut hole (the coverage gap in Medicare prescription drug coverage). The doughnut hole will be phased out by the federal government between 2011 and 2020. Additionally, beginning in 2011, a non tax deductible annual fee will be imposed on pharmaceutical manufacturers and importers that sell branded prescription drugs to specified government programs. This fee is allocated to companies based on their prior calendar year market share for branded prescription drug sales into these government programs. A guidance project is currently under way within the IRS and U.S. Treasury concerning the implementation of this fee. These costs will be included in marketing, selling, and administrative expense in our consolidated statement of operations. The Obama Administration proposed changes to the manner in which the U.S. would tax the international income of U.S. based companies. Some provisions changing taxation of international income were enacted in August 2010. These provisions did not have a material effect on our consolidated results of operations. While it is uncertain how the U.S. Congress may address U.S. tax policy matters in the future, reform of U.S. taxation, including taxation of international income, continues to be a topic of discussion for Congress and the Obama Administration. A significant change to the U.S. tax system, including changes to the taxation of international income, could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations. On October 25, 2010, Puerto Rico enacted income and excise tax legislation affecting our operations. This tax will be included in costs of sales in our consolidated statement of operations. We believe this tax should be creditable against our U.S. income taxes. Certain other federal and state health care proposals may continue to be debated, and could place downward pressure on pharmaceutical industry sales or prices. These proposals include legalizing the importation of prescription drugs and other cost control strategies. In addition, the constitutionality of U.S. health care reform is being challenged. We expect pricing pressures at state levels to become more severe, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations. International operations also are generally subject to extensive price and market regulations, and several European countries have recently required either price decreases or rebate increases in response to economic pressures. There are proposals for cost containment measures pending in a number of additional countries, including proposals that would directly or indirectly impose additional price controls, limit access to or reimbursement for our products, or reduce the value of our intellectual property protection. Such proposals are expected to increase in both frequency and impact, given the effect of the downturn in the global economy on local governments. 20 OPERATING RESULTS 2010 Revenue Our worldwide revenue for 2010 increased 6 percent, to $23.08 billion, driven by the collective growth of Alimta, Cymbalta, animal health products, insulin products, Cialis, and Zyprexa, offset by the decline in Gemzar revenue. Worldwide sales volume increased 3 percent, while selling prices contributed 2 percent of revenue growth, and the impact of foreign exchange rates was negligible. Revenue in the U.S. increased 5 percent, to $12.87 billion, due to higher prices. Revenue outside the U.S. increased 7 percent, to $10.21 billion, due to increased demand, partially offset by lower prices. In 2010, total revenue was reduced by $229.0 million due to the impact of U.S. health care reform. The following table summarizes our revenue activity in 2010 compared with 2009: Year Ended December 31, 2010 Year EndedDecember 31, 2009 Total PercentChange from 2009 Product U.S.1 Outside U.S. Total2 (Dollars in millions) Zyprexa $ 2,495.5 $ 2,530.9 $ 5,026.4 $ 4,915.7 2 Cymbalta 2,772.0 687.2 3,459.2 3,074.7 13 Alimta 957.1 1,251.5 2,208.6 1,706.0 29 Humalog 1,222.4 831.8 2,054.2 1,959.0 5 Cialis 658.1 1,041.4 1,699.4 1,559.1 9 Animal health products 775.1 616.3 1,391.4 1,207.2 15 Gemzar 723.3 426.1 1,149.4 1,363.2 (16 ) Humulin 470.8 618.0 1,088.9 1,022.0 7 Evista 681.8 342.6 1,024.4 1,030.4 (1 ) Forteo 499.0 331.0 830.1 816.7 2 Strattera 389.8 186.9 576.7 609.4 (5 ) Other pharmaceutical products 737.4 1,196.3 1,933.5 1,908.1 1 Total net product sales 12,382.3 10,060.0 22,442.2 21,171.5 6 Collaboration and other revenue3 483.3 150.4 633.8 664.5 (5 ) Total revenue $ 12,865.6 $ 10,210.4 $ 23,076.0 $ 21,836.0 6 1 U.S. revenue includes revenue in Puerto Rico. 2 Numbers may not add due to rounding. 3 Collaboration and other revenue is primarily composed of Erbitux royalties and 50 percent of Byettas gross margin in the U.S. Zyprexa, our top selling product, is a treatment for schizophrenia, acute mixed or manic episodes associated with bipolar I disorder, and bipolar maintenance. Zyprexa sales in the U.S. increased 7 percent in 2010, driven by higher prices, partially offset by lower demand. Sales outside the U.S. decreased 2 percent driven by lower prices and decreased demand in Europe and Canada, partially offset by the favorable impact of foreign exchange rates and increased demand in Japan. We will lose effective exclusivity for Zyprexa in the U.S. in October 2011. We will also lose effective exclusivity in most of Europe in 2011. In the five major European countries, which in the aggregate had approximately $1.40 billion in sales for 2010, we will lose effective exclusivity in April 2011 (Spain) and September 2011 (France, Germany, Italy, and the United Kingdom). Several manufacturers have received tentative approvals to market generic olanzapine, and we expect generic olanzapine to be introduced in these markets immediately following the expiration of the patents. While it is difficult to predict the precise impact on Zyprexa sales, we expect the introduction of generics to result in a rapid and severe decline in our Zyprexa sales, which will have a material adverse effect on results of operations and cash flows. In Japan, our second largest market for Zyprexa, with more than $400 million of sales in 2010, our patent expires in December 2015. Sales of Cymbalta, a product for the treatment of major depressive disorder, diabetic peripheral neuropathic pain, generalized anxiety disorder, and in the United States for the treatment of chronic musculoskeletal pain and the management of fibromyalgia, increased 9 percent in the U.S., driven primarily by higher prices. Sales outside the U.S. increased 31 percent, driven primarily by increased demand in Japan, Europe, and Canada. Sales of Alimta, a treatment for various cancers, increased 17 percent in the U.S., due primarily to increased demand. Sales outside the U.S. increased 41 percent, due to increased demand. Demand outside the U.S. was favorably affected by continued strong growth in Japan. Sales of Humalog, our injectable human insulin analog for the treatment of diabetes, increased 1 percent in the U.S., due to higher prices, partially offset by the impact of wholesaler buying patterns. Sales outside the U.S. increased 11 percent, driven by increased demand primarily in Japan and China. Sales of Cialis, a treatment for erectile dysfunction, increased 6 percent in the U.S., due to higher prices. Sales outside the U.S. increased 11 percent, due primarily to increased demand and, to a lesser extent, higher prices. 21 Sales of Gemzar, a product approved to treat various cancers, decreased 3 percent in the U.S., due to a rapid and severe decline in sales as a result of generic competition, which began in November 2010, following the expiration of the compound patent. Sales outside the U.S. decreased 31 percent, due primarily to generic competition in most major markets. We expect sales to decline in 2011, with severe declines in the U.S. Sales of Humulin, an injectable human insulin for the treatment of diabetes, increased 17 percent in the U.S., driven primarily by higher prices and increased demand. Sales outside the U.S. remained essentially flat when compared to 2009, due to lower prices offset by increased demand and the favorable impact of foreign exchange rates. Sales of Evista, a product for the prevention and treatment of osteoporosis in postmenopausal women and for reduction of risk of invasive breast cancer in postmenopausal women with osteoporosis and postmenopausal women at high risk for invasive breast cancer, remained essentially flat in the U.S., due to decreased demand offset by increased prices. Sales outside the U.S. decreased 2 percent, driven by lower prices and lower demand, partially offset by a favorable impact of foreign exchange rates. Sales of Forteo, an injectable treatment for osteoporosis in postmenopausal women and men at high risk for fracture and for glucocorticoid induced osteoporosis in postmenopausal women and men, decreased 4 percent in the U.S., driven by lower demand, partially offset by higher prices. Sales outside the U.S. increased 11 percent, due to increased demand and, to a lesser extent, higher prices. Sales of Strattera, a treatment for attention deficit hyperactivity disorder in children, adolescents, and in the U.S. in adults, decreased 13 percent in the U.S., due primarily to lower demand, and to a lesser extent, lower net effective selling prices. Sales outside the U.S. increased 14 percent, driven by increased demand, partially offset by lower prices. The U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey ruled that the U.S. method of use patent for Strattera, which expires in 2017, is invalid. We are currently appealing this decision to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. The Court of Appeals has granted an injunction that prevents the launch of generic atomoxetine until a ruling is rendered. While it is difficult to predict the precise impact on Strattera sales, if our appeal is unsuccessful, we expect that the introduction of generics would result in a rapid and severe decline in our U.S. Strattera sales. Worldwide sales of Byetta, an injectable product for the treatment of type 2 diabetes, decreased 11 percent to $710.2 million during 2010 due to competitive pressures in the U.S. and European markets. We report as revenue our 50 percent share of Byettas gross margin in the U.S., 100 percent of Byetta sales outside the U.S., and our sales of Byetta pen delivery devices to Amylin. Our revenues decreased 4 percent to $430.6 million in 2010. We report as revenue for Erbitux, a product approved to treat various cancers, the net royalties received from our collaboration partners and our product sales. Our revenues were $386.1 million in 2010, compared with $390.8 million in 2009. Animal health product sales in the U.S. and outside the U.S. increased 15 percent, due primarily to increased demand for our companion animal and feed additive products. Sales of Comfortis, a flea medication for dogs, increased 69 percent in 2010. Gross Margin, Costs, and Expenses Gross margin as a percent of total revenue increased by 0.5 percentage points in 2010 to 81.1 percent. This increase was due to lower manufacturing costs and higher selling prices, partially offset by the negative effect of foreign exchange rates on international inventories sold. Marketing, selling, and administrative expenses increased 2 percent in 2010 to $7.05 billion. The increase was driven by higher marketing and selling expenses outside the U.S., partially offset by lower administrative and litigation expenses and company wide cost containment efforts. Investment in research and development increased 13 percent, to $4.88 billion, due primarily to charges related to pipeline molecules, including charges related to business development activities and termination of clinical trials. We incurred an IPR&D charge of $50.0 million in 2010, associated with the in licensing agreement with Acrux, compared with $90.0 million in 2009 resulting from the in licensing agreement with Incyte. We recognized asset impairments, restructuring, and other special charges of $192.0 million in 2010, primarily related to severance and other related costs from previously announced strategic actions we are taking to reduce our cost structure and global workforce. In 2009, we recognized charges totaling $692.7 million for asset impairments, restructuring and other special charges. See Notes 3, 5 and 15 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. Other net, expense improved $224.5 million to a net expense of $5.0 million in 2010, due primarily to net gains on equity investments, lower net interest expense, damages recovered from generic pharmaceutical companies following Zyprexa patent litigation in Germany, and an insurance recovery associated with the theft of product at the companys Enfield, Connecticut, distribution center. The effective tax rate was 22.3 percent for the full year 2010. In 2009, the effective tax rate was 19.2 percent. The 2010 effective tax rate increased due to $85.1 million in additional tax expense in the first quarter related to U.S. health care reform. The 2009 effective tax rate was reduced due to the tax benefit of asset impairment and restructuring charges associated with the sale of the Tippecanoe Laboratories manufacturing site. 22 OPERATING RESULTS 2009 Financial Results We achieved revenue growth of 7 percent in 2009, which was primarily driven by the collective growth of Alimta, Cymbalta, Humalog, and Zyprexa and the inclusion of Erbitux revenue as a result of the ImClone Systems Inc. (ImClone) acquisition in November 2008. The impact of changes in foreign currencies compared to the U.S. dollar on international inventories sold during the year decreased our cost of sales in 2009 and increased our cost of sales in 2008, which contributed to an improvement in gross margin. Marketing, selling, and administrative expenses grew at a slower rate than revenue, while our investment in research and development grew at a greater rate than sales. We incurred income tax expense of $1.03 billion in 2009, resulting in an effective tax rate of 19.2 percent. Earnings increased to $4.33 billion, and earnings per share increased to $3.94 per share, in 2009 as compared to a net loss of $2.07 billion, and a loss per share of $1.89 in 2008. Net income comparisons between 2009 and 2008 are affected by the impact of several highlighted items. The highlighted items for 2009 are summarized in the Executive Overview. The 2008 highlighted items are summarized as follows: Acquisitions (Note 3) We recognized charges totaling $4.73 billion (pretax) associated with the acquisition of ImClone, which decreased earnings per share by $4.46. These amounts include an IPR&D charge of $4.69 billion (pretax). The remaining net expenses are related to ImClones operating results subsequent to the acquisition, incremental interest costs, and amortization of the intangible asset associated with Erbitux. We also incurred IPR&D charges of $28.0 million (pretax) associated with the acquisition of SGX Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (SGX), which decreased earnings per share by $.03. We incurred IPR&D charges associated with licensing arrangements with BioMS Medical Corp. (BioMS) and TransPharma Medical Ltd. totaling $122.0 million (pretax), which decreased earnings per share by $.07. Asset Impairments and Related Restructuring and Other Special Charges (Notes 5 and 15) We recognized asset impairments, restructuring, and other special charges totaling $497.0 million (pretax), which decreased earnings per share by $.30. A similar charge of $57.1 million (pretax), which decreased earnings per share by $.04, was included in cost of sales. These charges were primarily associated with the sale of our Greenfield, Indiana site; the termination of the AIR&reg; Insulin program; and strategic exit activities related to manufacturing operations. We recorded charges of $1.48 billion (pretax) related to the federal and state Zyprexa investigations led by the U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania (EDPA), as well as the resolution of a multi state investigation regarding Zyprexa involving 32 states and the District of Columbia, which decreased earnings per share by $1.20. Other (Note 13) We recognized a discrete income tax benefit of $210.3 million as a result of the resolution of a substantial portion of the IRS audit of our federal income tax returns for the years 2001 through 2004, which increased earnings per share by $.19. Revenue Our worldwide revenue for 2009 increased 7 percent, to $21.84 billion, driven primarily by growth of Alimta, Cymbalta, Humalog, and Zyprexa, and the inclusion of Erbitux revenue as a result of the ImClone acquisition. Worldwide sales volume increased 7 percent, while selling prices contributed 3 percent of revenue growth, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange rates of 3 percent. Revenue in the U.S. increased 12 percent, to $12.29 billion, due to higher prices and higher demand. Revenue outside the U.S. increased 1 percent, to $9.54 billion, due to increased demand, partially offset by the negative impact of foreign exchange rates and lower prices. 23 The following table summarizes our revenue activity in 2009 compared with 2008: Year Ended December 31, 2009 Year Ended December 31, 2008 Total PercentChangefrom 2008 Product U.S.1 Outside U.S. Total2 (Dollars in millions) Zyprexa $ 2,331.7 $ 2,583.9 $ 4,915.7 $ 4,696.1 5 Cymbalta 2,551.8 523.0 3,074.7 2,697.1 14 Humalog 1,208.4 750.6 1,959.0 1,735.8 13 Alimta 815.6 890.4 1,706.0 1,154.7 48 Cialis 623.3 935.8 1,559.1 1,444.5 8 Gemzar 747.4 615.8 1,363.2 1,719.8 (21 ) Animal health products 672.2 535.0 1,207.2 1,093.3 10 Evista 682.2 348.1 1,030.4 1,075.6 (4 ) Humulin 402.4 619.6 1,022.0 1,063.2 (4 ) Forteo 518.3 298.4 816.7 778.7 5 Strattera 445.6 163.7 609.4 579.5 5 Other pharmaceutical products 739.9 1,168.4 1,908.1 1,887.5 1 Total net product sales 11,738.8 9,432.7 21,171.5 19,925.8 6 Collaboration and other revenue3 555.6 108.9 664.5 446.1 49 Total revenue $ 12,294.4 $ 9,541.6 $ 21,836.0 $ 20,371.9 7 1 U.S. revenue includes revenue in Puerto Rico. 2 Numbers may not add due to rounding. 3 Collaboration and other revenue is primarily composed of Erbitux royalties and 50 percent of Byettas gross margin in the U.S. Zyprexa sales in the U.S. increased 6 percent in 2009, due to higher prices, partially offset by reduced demand. Sales outside the U.S. increased 4 percent driven by increased demand, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange rates. Demand outside the U.S. was favorably impacted by the withdrawal of generic competition in Germany in early 2009. Sales of Cymbalta in 2009 increased 13 percent in the U.S., driven by higher prices and increased demand. Sales outside the U.S. increased 18 percent, driven by increased demand, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange rates and lower prices. Sales of Humalog in 2009 increased 20 percent in the U.S., driven by higher prices, increased demand, and wholesaler buying patterns. Sales outside the U.S. increased 3 percent, driven by increased demand, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange rates. Sales of Alimta increased 45 percent in the U.S., primarily driven by increased demand. Sales outside the U.S. increased 50 percent, driven by increased demand, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange rates. Demand outside the U.S. benefited from the addition of the non small cell lung cancer indication in Japan. Our sales of Cialis increased 16 percent in the U.S., driven by higher prices, increased demand, and wholesaler buying patterns. Sales outside the U.S. increased 3 percent, driven by increased demand and, to a lesser extent, higher prices, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange rates. Sales of Gemzar increased 2 percent in the U.S., due primarily to higher prices. Sales outside the U.S. decreased 37 percent, driven by reduced demand and lower prices as a result of the entry of generic competition in most major markets, and to a lesser extent, the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange rates. Sales of Evista decreased 3 percent in the U.S., driven by reduced demand, partially offset by higher prices. Sales outside the U.S. decreased 7 percent, driven by the outlicensing of Evista in most European markets and, to a lesser extent, lower prices. Sales of Humulin increased 6 percent in the U.S., due primarily to higher prices, partially offset by reduced demand. Sales outside the U.S. decreased 9 percent, driven by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange rates and, to a lesser extent, lower prices, partially offset by increased demand. Sales of Forteo increased 6 percent in the U.S., driven by higher prices, partially offset by reduced demand. Sales outside the U.S. increased 3 percent, driven by increased demand and prices, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange rates. Sales of Strattera increased 2 percent in the U.S., driven by higher prices, partially offset by reduced demand. Sales outside the U.S. increased 15 percent, driven by increased demand and higher prices, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange rates. 24 Worldwide sales of Byetta increased 6 percent to $796.5 million during 2009. Our revenues increased 13 percent to $448.5 million in 2009. Erbitux revenues were $390.8 million in 2009, compared with $29.4 million in 2008. We acquired Erbitux as part of our acquisition of ImClone in November 2008. Animal health product sales in the U.S. increased 25 percent, primarily driven by the inclusion of Posilac sales following the acquisition completed October 2008. Sales outside the U.S. decreased 4 percent, driven primarily by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange rates. Gross Margin, Costs, and Expenses The 2009 gross margin increased to 80.6 percent of total revenue compared with 78.5 percent for 2008. This increase was due to the impact of changes in foreign currencies compared to the U.S. dollar on international inventories sold during the year, which decreased cost of sales in 2009, but increased cost of sales in 2008. Marketing, selling, and administrative expenses increased 4 percent in 2009 to $6.89 billion. The increase was driven by the increased marketing and selling expenses outside the U.S., higher incentive compensation, and the impact of the ImClone acquisition, partially offset by the movement of foreign exchange rates. Investment in research and development increased 13 percent, to $4.33 billion, due primarily to the ImClone acquisition and increased late stage clinical trial costs. We incurred an IPR&D charge of $90.0 million in 2009, associated with the in licensing agreement with Incyte, compared with $4.84 billion in 2008. The 2008 IPR&D charge included $4.69 billion resulting from the acquisition of ImClone. We recognized asset impairments, restructuring, and other special charges of $692.7 million in 2009, primarily related to asset impairment charges related to the sale of our Tippecanoe Laboratories manufacturing site and special charges related to Zyprexa litigation with multiple state attorneys general, compared with $1.97 billion in 2008. The 2008 charges were primarily associated with the resolution of Zyprexa investigations with the U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania and multiple states. See Notes 3, 5, and 15 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. Other net, expense was a net expense in both years, increasing by $203.4 million, to $229.5 million in 2009, primarily due to lower interest income and higher interest expense resulting from the ImClone acquisition. We incurred income tax expense of $1.03 billion in 2009 resulting in an effective tax rate of 19.2 percent. The effective tax rate for 2009 was reduced due to the tax benefit of asset impairment and restructuring charges associated with the sale of the Tippecanoe site. We incurred tax expense of $764.3 million in 2008, despite having a loss before income taxes of $1.31 billion. Our net loss was driven by the $4.69 billion IPR&D charge for ImClone and the $1.48 billion Zyprexa investigation settlements. The IPR&D charge was not tax deductible, and only a portion of the Zyprexa investigation settlements was deductible. In addition, we recorded tax expense associated with the ImClone acquisition, as well as a discrete income tax benefit of $210.3 million for the resolution of a substantial portion of the 2001 2004 IRS audit. See Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. FINANCIAL CONDITION As of December 31, 2010, cash, cash equivalents, and short term investments totaled $6.73 billion compared with $4.50 billion at December 31, 2009. The increase in cash was driven by cash from operations of $6.86 billion, partially offset by dividends paid of $2.17 billion, business and product acquisitions of $1.10 billion, and purchases of property and equipment of $694.3 million. Capital expenditures of $694.3 million during 2010 were $70.7 million less than in 2009. We expect 2011 capital expenditures to be between $800 million and $900 million as we invest in the long term growth of our diabetes care products, continue to upgrade our manufacturing and research facilities to enhance productivity and quality systems, and invest in our oncology biotechnology capabilities. Total debt at December 31, 2010, was $6.93 billion, an increase of $264.4 million from December 31, 2009, which was due to the $141.8 million increase in the fair value of hedged debt and an increase in short term debt of $130.7 million. Our current debt ratings from Standard & Poors and Moodys are AA and A2, respectively. Our Moodys long term debt rating was moved to A2 from A1 in November 2010. Our ratings outlook from both Moodys and Standard and Poors is stable. Dividends of $1.96 per share were paid in 2010 and 2009, 2010 was the 126th consecutive year in which we made dividend payments. In the fourth quarter of 2010, effective for the dividend to be paid in the first quarter of 2011, the quarterly dividend was maintained at $.49 per share, resulting in an indicated annual rate for 2011 of $1.96 per share. As of the fourth quarter of 2010, the U.S. and global economic recoveries proceed but face continued headwinds. U.S. economic data in the fourth quarter reflected a steady pace of economic recovery, though the rate of recovery has not been sufficient to materially reduce unemployment. Given persistently high unemployment and little sign of near term inflation risk, the U.S. Federal Reserve has maintained its accommodative monetary policy, most recently through its November 2010 announcement of expanded asset purchases. The Federal Reserve continues its policy stance of exceptionally low rates for an extended period to stimulate lending and economic growth. High sovereign debt levels and efforts at fiscal austerity in the U.S. and other developed countries continue to be a concern for many economists and are predicted to challenge the economic recovery globally. Given this backdrop, both private and public health care payers are facing heightened fiscal challenges and are taking steps to reduce the costs of care, 25 including pressures for increased pharmaceutical discounts and rebates in the U.S., price cuts in government systems outside the U.S., and efforts to drive greater use of generic drugs globally. We continue to monitor the potential near term impact of the economic environment on prescription trends, the creditworthiness of our wholesalers and other customers and suppliers, the uncertain impact of recent health care legislation, the federal governments involvement in the U.S. economy, and various international government funding levels. We believe that cash generated from operations, along with available cash and cash equivalents, will be sufficient to fund our normal operating needs, including debt service, capital expenditures, and dividends in 2011. We believe that amounts accessible through existing commercial paper markets should be adequate to fund short term borrowings. Because of the high credit quality of our short and long term debt, our access to credit markets has not been adversely affected. We currently have $1.24 billion of unused committed bank credit facilities, $1.20 billion of which backs our commercial paper program and matures in May 2011. Various risks and uncertainties, including those discussed in Item 1A, Risk Factors, and the Financial Expectations for 2011 section, may affect our operating results and cash generated from operations. We depend on patents or other forms of intellectual property protection for most of our revenues, cash flows, and earnings. Through 2014, we expect to lose effective exclusivity for the following key products: Zyprexa October 2011 (U.S.), various dates in 2011 (major Europe) Cymbalta June 2013 (U.S.) Humalog May 2013 (U.S.) Evista March 2014 (U.S.) Cymbalta could receive an additional six months of exclusivity, based on completion of pediatric studies. Gemzar has already lost effective exclusivity in the U.S. and major European countries (France, Germany, Italy, Spain and the United Kingdom), and Humalog has lost exclusivity in major European countries. In addition, we face U.S. patent litigation over Alimta, Cymbalta, and Strattera, and it is possible we could lose our effective exclusivity for one or more of these products prior to the expiration of the relevant patents. See the Hatch Waxman patent litigation discussion in Note 15 and in the Legal and Regulatory Matters section below. Revenue from Alimta, Cymbalta, Humalog, and Zyprexa contribute materially to our results of operations, liquidity, and financial position. The loss of exclusivity would likely result in generic competition, generally causing a rapid and severe decline in revenue from the affected product, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. However, our goal is to partially mitigate the effect on our operations, liquidity, and financial position through growth in our patent protected products that do not lose exclusivity during this period, in emerging markets, in Japan, and in our animal health business. Our expected growth in the emerging markets and Japan is attributable to both the growth of these markets and launches of patent protected products in these markets. In the normal course of business, our operations are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates and currency values. These fluctuations can vary the costs of financing, investing, and operating. We address a portion of these risks through a controlled program of risk management that includes the use of derivative financial instruments. The objective of controlling these risks is to limit the impact on earnings of fluctuations in interest and currency exchange rates. All derivative activities are for purposes other than trading. Our primary interest rate risk exposure results from changes in short term U.S. dollar interest rates. In an effort to manage interest rate exposures, we strive to achieve an acceptable balance between fixed and floating rate debt positions and may enter into interest rate derivatives to help maintain that balance. Based on our overall interest rate exposure at December 31, 2010 and 2009, including derivatives and other interest rate risk sensitive instruments, a hypothetical 10 percent change in interest rates applied to the fair value of the instruments as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, would have no material impact on earnings, cash flows, or fair values of interest rate risk sensitive instruments over a one year period. Our foreign currency risk exposure results from fluctuating currency exchange rates, primarily the U.S. dollar against the euro and the Japanese yen, and the British pound against the euro. We face transactional currency exposures that arise when we enter into transactions, generally on an intercompany basis, denominated in currencies other than the local currency. We also face currency exposure that arises from translating the results of our global operations to the U.S. dollar at exchange rates that have fluctuated from the beginning of the period. We may use forward contracts and purchased options to manage our foreign currency exposures. Our policy outlines the minimum and maximum hedge coverage of such exposures. Gains and losses on these derivative positions offset, in part, the impact of currency fluctuations on the existing assets, liabilities, commitments, and anticipated revenues. Considering our derivative financial instruments outstanding at December 31, 2010 and 2009, a hypothetical 10 percent change in exchange rates (primarily against the U.S. dollar) as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, would have no material impact on earnings, cash flows, or fair values of foreign currency rate risk sensitive instruments over a one year period. These calculations do not reflect the impact of the exchange gains or losses on the underlying positions that would be offset, in part, by the results of the derivative instruments. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations We have no off balance sheet arrangements that have a material current effect or that are reasonably likely to have a material future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures, or capital resources. We acquire and collaborate on assets still in development and enter into research and development arrangements with third parties that often require milestone 26 and royalty payments to the third party contingent upon the occurrence of certain future events linked to the success of the asset in development. Milestone payments may be required contingent upon the successful achievement of an important point in the development life cycle of the pharmaceutical product (e.g., approval of the product for marketing by the appropriate regulatory agency or upon the achievement of certain sales levels). If required by the arrangement, we may have to make royalty payments based upon a percentage of the sales of the pharmaceutical product in the event that regulatory approval for marketing is obtained. Because of the contingent nature of these payments, they are not included in the table of contractual obligations. Individually, these arrangements are not material in any one annual reporting period. However, if milestones for multiple products covered by these arrangements would happen to be reached in the same reporting period, the aggregate charge to expense could be material to the results of operations in any one period. These arrangements often give us the discretion to unilaterally terminate development of the product, which would allow us to avoid making the contingent payments; however, we are unlikely to cease development if the compound successfully achieves milestone objectives. We also note that, from a business perspective, we view these payments as positive because they signify that the product is successfully moving through development and is now generating or is more likely to generate cash flows from sales of products. Our current noncancelable contractual obligations that will require future cash payments are as follows (in millions): Payments Due by Period Total Less Than 1 Year 1 3 Years 3 5 Years More Than 5 Years Long term debt, including interest payments1 $ 9,965.2 $ 205.8 $ 1,936.7 $ 1,429.1 $ 6,393.6 Capital lease obligations 38.9 13.9 13.1 8.5 3.4 Operating leases 572.3 108.7 162.6 103.2 197.8 Purchase obligations2 11,806.2 9,206.6 1,105.7 740.5 753.4 Other long term liabilities reflected on our balance sheet3 1,252.9 0.0 309.2 238.8 704.9 Other4 298.3 298.3 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total $ 23,933.8 $ 9,833.3 $ 3,527.3 $ 2,520.1 $ 8,053.1 1 Our long term debt obligations include both our expected principal and interest obligations and our interest rate swaps. We used the interest rate forward curve at December 31, 2010, to compute the amount of the contractual obligation for interest on the variable rate debt instruments and swaps. 2 We have included the following: Purchase obligations, consisting primarily of all open purchase orders at our significant operating locations as of December 31, 2010. Some of these purchase orders may be cancelable; however, for purposes of this disclosure, we have not distinguished between cancelable and noncancelable purchase obligations. Contractual payment obligations with each of our significant vendors, which are noncancelable and are not contingent. 3 We have included long term liabilities consisting primarily of our nonqualified supplemental pension funding requirements and deferred compensation liabilities. We excluded long term liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits of $1.23 billion, as we cannot reasonably estimate the timing of future cash outflows associated with those liabilities. 4 This category consists of various miscellaneous items expected to be paid in the next year, none of which are individually material. The contractual obligations table is current as of December 31, 2010. We expect the amount of these obligations to change materially over time as new contracts are initiated and existing contracts are completed, terminated, or modified. APPLICATION OF CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES In preparing our financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), we must often make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses, and related disclosures. Some of those judgments can be subjective and complex, and consequently actual results could differ from those estimates. For any given individual estimate or assumption we make, it is possible that other people applying reasonable judgment to the same facts and circumstances could develop different estimates. We believe that, given current facts and circumstances, it is unlikely that applying any such other reasonable judgment would cause a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial position, or liquidity for the periods presented in this report. Our most critical accounting policies have been discussed with our audit committee and are described below. Revenue Recognition and Sales Return, Rebate, and Discount Accruals We recognize revenue from sales of products at the time title of goods passes to the buyer and the buyer assumes the risks and rewards of ownership. For approximately 85 percent of our sales, this is at the time products are shipped to the customer, typically a wholesale distributor or a major retail chain. The remaining sales, which are outside the U.S., are recorded at the point of delivery. Provisions for returns, rebates, and discounts are established in the same period the related sales are recorded. 27 We regularly review the supply levels of our significant products sold to major wholesalers in the U.S. and in major markets outside the U.S., primarily by reviewing periodic inventory reports supplied by our major wholesalers and available prescription volume information for our products, or alternative approaches. We attempt to maintain wholesaler inventory levels at an average of approximately one month or less on a consistent basis across our product portfolio. Causes of unusual wholesaler buying patterns include actual or anticipated product supply issues, weather patterns, anticipated changes in the transportation network, redundant holiday stocking, and changes in wholesaler business operations. In the U.S., the current structure of our arrangements does not provide an incentive for speculative wholesaler buying and provides us with data on inventory levels at our wholesalers. When we believe wholesaler purchasing patterns have caused an unusual increase or decrease in the sales of a major product compared with underlying demand, we disclose this in our product sales discussion if we believe the amount is material to the product sales trend; however, we are not always able to accurately quantify the amount of stocking or destocking. Wholesaler stocking and destocking activity historically has not caused any material changes in the rate of actual product returns. We establish sales return accruals for anticipated product returns. We record the return amounts as a deduction to arrive at our net product sales. Once the product is returned, it is destroyed. Consistent with revenue recognition accounting guidance, when sales occur we estimate a reserve for future product returns related to those sales. This estimate is primarily based on historical return rates as well as specifically identified anticipated returns due to known business conditions and product expiry dates. Actual product returns have been less than one percent of our net sales over the past three years and have not fluctuated significantly as a percent of sales. We establish sales rebate and discount accruals in the same period as the related sales. The rebate and discount amounts are recorded as a deduction to arrive at our net product sales. Sales rebates and discounts that require the use of judgment in the establishment of the accrual include Medicaid, managed care, Medicare, chargebacks, long term care, hospital, patient assistance programs, and various other government programs. We base these accruals primarily upon our historical rebate and discount payments made to our customer segment groups and the provisions of current rebate and discount contracts. The largest of our sales rebate and discount amounts are rebates associated with sales covered by Medicaid. In determining the appropriate accrual amount, we consider our historical Medicaid rebate payments by product as a percentage of our historical sales as well as any significant changes in sales trends, an evaluation of the current Medicaid rebate laws and interpretations, the percentage of our products that are sold to Medicaid recipients, and our product pricing and current rebate and discount contracts. Although we accrue a liability for Medicaid rebates at the time we record the sale (when the product is shipped), the Medicaid rebate related to that sale is typically paid up to six months later. Because of this time lag, in any particular period our rebate adjustments may incorporate revisions of accruals for several periods. Most of our rebates outside the U.S. are contractual or legislatively mandated and are estimated and recognized in the same period as the related sales. In some large European countries, government rebates are based on the anticipated pharmaceutical budget deficit in the country. A best estimate of these rebates, updated as governmental authorities revise budgeted deficits, is recognized in the same period as the related sale. If our estimates are not reflective of the actual pharmaceutical budget deficit, we adjust our rebate reserves. We believe that our accruals for sales returns, rebates, and discounts are reasonable and appropriate based on current facts and circumstances. U.S. sales returns, federally mandated Medicaid rebate and state pharmaceutical assistance programs (Medicaid), and Medicare rebates reduced sales by $1.66 billion, $1.20 billion, and $1.03 billion in 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively. A 5 percent change in the sales return, Medicaid, and Medicare rebate amounts we recognized in 2010 would lead to an approximate $85 million effect on our income before income taxes. As of December 31, 2010, our sales returns, Medicaid, and Medicare rebate liability was $858.3 million. Our global rebate and discount liabilities are included in sales rebates and discounts on our consolidated balance sheet. Our global sales return liability is included in other current liabilities and other noncurrent liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet. Approximately 83 percent and 84 percent of our global sales return, rebate, and discount liability resulted from sales of our products in the U.S. as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The following represents a roll forward of our most significant U.S. returns, rebate, and discount liability balances, including Medicaid (in millions): 2010 2009 Sales return, rebate, and discount liabilities, beginning of year $ 963.6 $ 806.5 Reduction of net sales due to sales returns, discounts, and rebates1 2,876.1 2,233.8 Cash payments of discounts and rebates (2,684.4 ) (2,076.7 ) Sales return, rebate, and discount liabilities, end of year $ 1,155.3 $ 963.6 1 Adjustments of the estimates for these returns, rebates, and discounts to actual results were less than 0.3 percent of net sales for each of the years presented. 28 Product Litigation Liabilities and Other Contingencies Product litigation liabilities and other contingencies are, by their nature, uncertain and are based upon complex judgments and probabilities. The factors we consider in developing our product litigation liability reserves and other contingent liability amounts include the merits and jurisdiction of the litigation, the nature and the number of other similar current and past litigation cases, the nature of the product and the current assessment of the science subject to the litigation, and the likelihood of settlement and current state of settlement discussions, if any. In addition, we accrue for certain product liability claims incurred, but not filed, to the extent we can formulate a reasonable estimate of their costs. We estimate these expenses based primarily on historical claims experience and data regarding product usage. We accrue legal defense costs expected to be incurred in connection with significant product liability contingencies when probable and reasonably estimable. We also consider the insurance coverage we have to diminish the exposure for periods covered by insurance. In assessing our insurance coverage, we consider the policy coverage limits and exclusions, the potential for denial of coverage by the insurance company, the financial condition of the insurers, and the possibility of and length of time for collection. In the past several years, we have been unable to obtain product liability insurance due to a very restrictive insurance market. Therefore, for substantially all of our currently marketed products, we have been and expect that we will continue to be completely self insured for future product liability losses. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to fully collect from our insurance carriers in the future. The litigation accruals and environmental liabilities and the related estimated insurance recoverables have been reflected on a gross basis as liabilities and assets, respectively, on our consolidated balance sheets. Pension and Retiree Medical Plan Assumptions Pension benefit costs include assumptions for the discount rate, retirement age, and expected return on plan assets. Retiree medical plan costs include assumptions for the discount rate, retirement age, expected return on plan assets, and health care cost trend rates. These assumptions have a significant effect on the amounts reported. In addition to the analysis below, see Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding our retirement benefits. Annually, we evaluate the discount rate and the expected return on plan assets in our defined benefit pension and retiree health benefit plans. In evaluating these assumptions, we consider many factors, including an evaluation of the discount rates, expected return on plan assets, and health care cost trend rates of other companies; our historical assumptions compared with actual results; an analysis of current market conditions and asset allocations (approximately 80 percent of which are growth investments); and the views of leading financial advisers and economists. We use an actuarially determined, company specific yield curve to determine the discount rate. In evaluating our expected retirement age assumption, we consider the retirement ages of our past employees eligible for pension and medical benefits together with our expectations of future retirement ages. If the health care cost trend rates were to be increased by one percentage point each future year, the aggregate of the service cost and interest cost components of the 2010 annual expense would increase by $14.4 million. A one percentage point decrease would lower the aggregate of the 2010 service cost and interest cost by $11.7 million. If the 2010 discount rate for the U.S. defined benefit pension and retiree health benefit plans (U.S. plans) were to be changed by a quarter percentage point, income before income taxes would change by $28.7 million. If the 2010 expected return on plan assets for U.S. plans were to be changed by a quarter percentage point, income before income taxes would change by $18.3 million. If our assumption regarding the 2010 expected age of future retirees for U.S. plans were adjusted by one year, our income before income taxes would be affected by $33.3 million. The U.S. plans represent approximately 81 percent of the total accumulated postretirement benefit obligation and approximately 83 percent of total plan assets at December 31, 2010. Impairment of Indefinite Lived and Long Lived Assets We review the carrying value of long lived assets (both intangible and tangible) for potential impairment on a periodic basis and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. We determine impairment by comparing the projected undiscounted cash flows to be generated by the asset to its carrying value. If an impairment is identified, a loss is recorded equal to the excess of the assets net book value over its fair value, and the cost basis is adjusted. Goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets are reviewed for impairment at least annually and when certain impairment indicators are present. When required, a comparison of fair value to the carrying amount of assets is performed to determine the amount of any impairment. There are several methods that can be used to determine the estimated fair value of the IPR&D acquired in a business combination, all of which require multiple assumptions. We utilize the income method, which applies a probability weighting that considers the risk of development and commercialization, to the estimated future net cash flows that are derived from projected sales revenues and estimated costs. These projections are based on factors such as relevant market size, patent protection, historical pricing of similar products, and expected industry trends. The estimated future net cash flows are then discounted to the present value using an appropriate discount rate. This analysis is performed for each project independently. For IPR&D assets, the risk of failure has been factored into the fair value measure and there can be no certainty that these assets ultimately will yield a successful product, as discussed previously in the Late Stage Pipeline section. 29 The nature of the pharmaceutical business is high risk and requires that we invest in a large number of projects to build a successful portfolio of approved products. As such, it is likely that some IPR&D assets will become impaired at some time in the future. The estimated future cash flows, based on what we believe to be reasonable and supportable assumptions and projections, require managements judgment. Actual results could vary from these estimates. Income Taxes We prepare and file tax returns based on our interpretation of tax laws and regulations and record estimates based on these judgments and interpretations. In the normal course of business, our tax returns are subject to examination by various taxing authorities, which may result in future tax, interest, and penalty assessments by these authorities. Inherent uncertainties exist in estimates of many tax positions due to changes in tax law resulting from legislation, regulation, and or as concluded through the various jurisdictions tax court systems. We recognize the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from such a position are measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than 50 percent likelihood of being realized upon ultimate resolution. The amount of unrecognized tax benefits is adjusted for changes in facts and circumstances. For example, adjustments could result from significant amendments to existing tax law and the issuance of regulations or interpretations by the taxing authorities, new information obtained during a tax examination, or resolution of an examination. We believe that our estimates for uncertain tax positions are appropriate and sufficient to pay assessments that may result from examinations of our tax returns. We recognize both accrued interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense. We have recorded valuation allowances against certain of our deferred tax assets, primarily those that have been generated from net operating losses and tax credit carryforwards in certain taxing jurisdictions. In evaluating whether we would more likely than not recover these deferred tax assets, we have not assumed any future taxable income or tax planning strategies in the jurisdictions associated with these carryforwards where history does not support such an assumption. Implementation of tax planning strategies to recover these deferred tax assets or future income generation in these jurisdictions could lead to the reversal of these valuation allowances and a reduction of income tax expense. A 5 percent change in the amount of the uncertain tax positions and the valuation allowance would result in a change in net income of $53.5 million and $23.7 million, respectively. FINANCIAL EXPECTATIONS FOR 2011 For the full year of 2011, we expect earnings per share to be in the range of $3.92 to $4.07, which includes the dilutive impact of the upfront fee and other anticipated expenses related to the collaboration with Boehringer Ingelheim, but excludes potential restructuring charges primarily related to severance and other related costs from previously announced strategic actions that we are taking to reduce our cost structure and global workforce. We expect that total revenue growth will be flat to slightly increasing, which assumes we maintain our patent exclusivity for U.S. Strattera sales, and also assumes rapid and severe erosion of global Zyprexa sales after patent expirations in major markets, including the U.S. starting in October 2011, and the continued severe erosion of U.S. Gemzar sales. We anticipate that the impact of U.S. health care reform will lower 2011 revenue by $400 million to $500 million. We expect these reductions in revenue to be offset by sales growth of Alimta, Cialis, Cymbalta, Effient, Humalog, and animal health products. We anticipate that gross margin as a percent of revenue will decline approximately two percentage points. Marketing, selling, and administrative expenses are projected to grow in the low to mid single digits and include an estimated $150 million to $200 million in non tax deductible expense for the mandatory pharmaceutical manufacturers fee associated with U.S. health care reform, while research and development expense growth is expected to be relatively flat. Other net, expense is expected to be a net expense of between $50 million and $150 million. Cash flows are expected to be sufficient to fund capital expenditures of between $800 and $900 million, as well as anticipated business development activity and our dividend. PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995 A CAUTION CONCERNING FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS Under the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, we caution investors that any forward looking statements or projections made by us, including those above, are based on managements belief at the time they are made. However, they are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially and will depend on, among other things, the continuing growth of our currently marketed products; developments with competitive products; the implementation of U.S. health care reform; the timing and scope of regulatory approvals and the success of our new product launches; asset impairments, restructurings, and acquisitions of compounds under development resulting in acquired IPR&D charges; foreign exchange rates and global macroeconomic conditions; changes in effective tax rates; wholesaler inventory changes; other regulatory developments, litigation, patent disputes, and government investigations; the impact of governmental actions regarding pricing, importation, and reimbursement for pharmaceuticals; and other factors that may affect our operations and prospects are discussed earlier in this section and in Item 1A, Risk Factors. We undertake no duty to update these forward looking statements. 30 LEGAL AND REGULATORY MATTERS We are a party to various legal actions and government investigations. The most significant of these are described below. While it is not possible to determine the outcome of these matters, we believe that, except as specifically noted below, the resolution of all such matters will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position or liquidity, but could possibly be material to our consolidated results of operations in any one accounting period. Patent Litigation We are engaged in the following U.S. patent litigation matters brought pursuant to procedures set out in the Hatch Waxman Act (the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984): Cymbalta: Sixteen generic drug manufacturers have submitted Abbreviated New Drug Applications (ANDAs) seeking permission to market generic versions of Cymbalta prior to the expiration of our relevant U.S. patents (the earliest of which expires in 2013). Of these challengers, all allege non infringement of the patent claims directed to the commercial formulation, and nine allege invalidity (and some also allege nonenforceability) of the patent claims directed to the active ingredient duloxetine. Of the nine challengers to the compound patent claims, one further alleges invalidity of the claims directed to the use of Cymbalta for treating fibromyalgia. In November 2008 we filed lawsuits in U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Indiana against Actavis Elizabeth LLC; Aurobindo Pharma Ltd.; Cobalt Laboratories, Inc.; Impax Laboratories, Inc.; Lupin Limited; Sandoz Inc.; and Wockhardt Limited, seeking rulings that the compound patent claims are valid, infringed, and enforceable. We filed similar lawsuits in the same court against Sun Pharma Global, Inc. in December 2008 and against Anchen Pharmaceuticals, Inc. in August 2009. The cases have been consolidated and actions against all but Wockhardt Limited have been stayed pursuant to stipulations by the defendants to be bound by the outcome of the litigation through appeal. The Wockhardt Limited trial is scheduled to begin in June 2011. Gemzar: Teva Parenteral Medicines, Inc. (Teva); Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Inc. (Sun) and several other generic companies sought permission to market generic versions of Gemzar prior to the expiration of our relevant U.S. patents (compound patent expiring in 2010 and method of use patent expiring in 2013). We filed lawsuits in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Indiana against Teva (February 2006) and several other generic companies, seeking rulings that our patents are valid and are being infringed. In November 2007, Sun filed a declaratory judgment action in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan, seeking rulings that our method of use and compound patents are invalid or unenforceable, or would not be infringed by the sale of Suns generic product. In August 2009, the district court in Michigan granted a motion by Sun for partial summary judgment, invalidating our method of use patent, and the opinion was affirmed by a panel of the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit in July 2010. We are seeking review of this decision by the U.S. Supreme Court. In March 2010, the district court in Indiana upheld the validity of our compound patent in the Teva case, but applied collateral estoppel with regard to our method of use patent, given the ruling in the Sun case. Generic gemcitabine was introduced to the U.S. market in mid November 2010. Alimta: Teva; APP Pharmaceuticals, LLC (APP); and Barr Laboratories, Inc. (Barr) each submitted ANDAs seeking approval to market generic versions of Alimta prior to the expiration of the relevant U.S. patent (licensed from the Trustees of Princeton University and expiring in 2016), and alleging the patent is invalid. We, along with Princeton, filed lawsuits in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware against Teva, APP, and Barr seeking rulings that the compound patent is valid and infringed. In November 2010, the district court ruled from the bench that judgment would be entered in Lillys favor, upholding the patents validity. Plaintiffs may appeal this decision once the judgment is entered. Evista: In 2006, Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. (Teva USA) submitted an ANDA seeking permission to market a generic version of Evista prior to the expiration of our relevant U.S. patents (expiring in 2012 2017) and alleging that these patents are invalid, not enforceable, or not infringed. In June 2006, we filed a lawsuit against Teva USA in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Indiana, seeking a ruling that these patents are valid, enforceable, and being infringed by Teva USA. In September 2009, the court upheld our method of use patents (the last expires in 2014) and the court held that our particle size patents (expiring 2017) are invalid. Both rulings were upheld by the appeals court in September 2010, and the period for further appeals has expired. Strattera: Actavis Elizabeth LLC (Actavis), Apotex Inc. (Apotex), Aurobindo Pharma Ltd. (Aurobindo), Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc. (Mylan), Sandoz Inc. (Sandoz), Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Limited (Sun Ltd.), and Teva USA each submitted an ANDA seeking permission to market generic versions of Strattera prior to the expiration of our relevant U.S. patent (expiring in 2017), and alleging that this patent is invalid. In 2007, we brought a lawsuit against Actavis, Apotex, Aurobindo, Mylan, Sandoz, Sun Ltd., and Teva USA in the U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey. In August 2010, the court ruled that our patent is invalid. Several companies have received final approval to market generic atomoxetine, but the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit granted an injunction prohibiting the launch of generic atomoxetine until the court renders an opinion. The appeal was heard by the court in December 2010 and we are waiting for a ruling. Zydus Pharmaceuticals (Zydus) filed an action in the New Jersey district court in October 2010 seeking a declaratory judgment that it has the right to launch a generic atomoxetine product, based on the district court ruling. We believe that Zydus is subject to the injunction issued by the court of appeals. 31 We believe each of these Hatch Waxman challenges is without merit and expect to prevail in this litigation. However, it is not possible to determine the outcome of this litigation, and accordingly, we can provide no assurance that we will prevail. An unfavorable outcome in any of these cases could have a material adverse impact on our future consolidated results of operations, liquidity, and financial position. We have received challenges to Zyprexa patents in a number of countries outside the U.S.: In Canada, several generic pharmaceutical manufacturers have challenged the validity of our Zyprexa patent (expiring in 2011). In April 2007, the Canadian Federal Court ruled against the first challenger, Apotex Inc. (Apotex), and that ruling was affirmed on appeal in February 2008. In June 2007, the Canadian Federal Court held that an invalidity allegation of a second challenger, Novopharm Ltd. (Novopharm), was justified and denied our request that Novopharm be prohibited from receiving marketing approval for generic olanzapine in Canada. Novopharm began selling generic olanzapine in Canada in the third quarter of 2007. In September 2009, the Canadian Federal Court ruled against us in the Novapharm suit, finding our patent invalid. However, in July 2010 the appeals court set aside the decision and remitted the limited issues of utility and sufficiency of disclosure to the trial court. In Germany, the German Federal Supreme Court upheld the validity of our Zyprexa patent (expiring in 2011) in December 2008, reversing an earlier decision of the Federal Patent Court. Following the decision of the Supreme Court, the generic companies who launched generic olanzapine based on the earlier decision either agreed to withdraw from the market or were subject to injunction. We have negotiated settlements of the damages arising from infringement with most of the generic companies. We have received challenges in a number of other countries, including Spain, Austria, Australia, Portugal, and several smaller European countries. In Spain, we have been successful at both the trial and appellate court levels in defeating the generic manufacturers challenges, but additional actions against multiple generic companies are now pending. In March 2010, the District Court of Hague ruled against us and revoked our compound patent in the Netherlands. We have appealed this decision. We have also successfully defended Zyprexa patents in Austria and Portugal. We are vigorously contesting the various legal challenges to our Zyprexa patents on a country by country basis. We cannot determine the outcome of this litigation. The availability of generic olanzapine in additional markets could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations. Zyprexa Litigation We were named as a defendant in a large number of Zyprexa product liability lawsuits in the U.S. and notified of other claims of individuals who have not filed suit. The lawsuits and unfiled claims (together the claims) allege a variety of injuries from the use of Zyprexa, with the majority alleging that the product caused or contributed to diabetes or high blood glucose levels. The claims seek substantial compensatory and punitive damages and typically accuse us of inadequately testing for and warning about side effects of Zyprexa. Many of the claims also allege that we improperly promoted the drug. Almost all of the federal lawsuits are part of a Multi District Litigation (MDL) proceeding before The Honorable Jack Weinstein in the Federal District Court for the Eastern District of New York (EDNY) (MDL No. 1596). Since June 2005, we have settled approximately 32,720 claims. The two primary settlements were as follows: In 2005, we settled and paid more than 8,000 claims for approximately $700 million. In 2007, we settled and paid more than 18,000 claims for approximately $500 million. We are prepared to continue our vigorous defense of Zyprexa in all remaining claims, consisting of approximately 70 lawsuits in the U.S. covering approximately 150 plaintiffs, of which about 50 lawsuits covering about 50 plaintiffs are part of the MDL. We have a trial scheduled in Texas State court in August 2011. In January 2009, we reached resolution with the Office of the U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania (EDPA), and the State Medicaid Fraud Control Units of 36 states and the District of Columbia, of an investigation related to our U.S. marketing and promotional practices with respect to Zyprexa. As part of the resolution, we pled guilty to one misdemeanor violation of the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act for the off label promotion of Zyprexa in elderly populations as treatment for dementia, including Alzheimers dementia, between September 1999 and March 2001. We recorded a charge of $1.42 billion for this matter in the third quarter of 2008 and paid substantially all of this amount in 2009. As part of the settlement, we have entered into a corporate integrity agreement with the Office of Inspector General (OIG) of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), which requires us to maintain our compliance program and to undertake a set of defined corporate integrity obligations for five years. The agreement also provides for an independent third party review organization to assess and report on the companys systems, processes, policies, procedures, and practices. In October 2008, we reached a settlement with 32 states and the District of Columbia related to a multistate investigation brought under various state consumer protection laws. While there was no finding that we violated any provision of the state laws under which the investigations were conducted, we paid $62.0 million and agreed to undertake certain commitments regarding Zyprexa for a period of six years, through consent decrees filed with the settling states. We were served with lawsuits filed by the states of Alaska, Arkansas, Connecticut, Idaho, Louisiana, Minnesota, Mississippi, Montana, New Mexico, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Utah, and West Virginia alleging that Zyprexa 32 caused or contributed to diabetes or high blood glucose levels, and that we improperly promoted the drug. We settled the Zyprexa related claims of all of these states, incurring pretax charges of $230.0 million in 2009 and $15.0 million in 2008. In 2005, two lawsuits were filed in the EDNY purporting to be nationwide class actions on behalf of all consumers and third party payors, excluding governmental entities, which have made or will make payments for their members or insured patients being prescribed Zyprexa. These actions were consolidated into a single lawsuit, brought under certain state consumer protection statutes, the federal civil RICO statute, and common law theories, seeking a refund of the cost of Zyprexa, treble damages, punitive damages, and attorneys fees. Two additional lawsuits were filed in the EDNY in 2006 on similar grounds. As with the product liability suits, these lawsuits allege that we inadequately tested for and warned about side effects of Zyprexa and improperly promoted the drug. In September 2008, Judge Weinstein certified a class consisting of third party payors, excluding governmental entities and individual consumers and denied our motion for summary judgment. In September 2010, both decisions were reversed by the Second Circuit Court of Appeals, which found that the case cannot proceed as a class action and entered a judgment in our favor on plaintiffs overpricing claim. Plaintiffs are seeking review of this decision by the U.S. Supreme Court. An unfavorable outcome in this case could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations, liquidity, and financial position. Other Product Liability Litigation We have been named as a defendant in numerous other product liability lawsuits involving primarily diethylstilbestrol (DES), thimerosal, and Byetta. Approximately a third of these claims are covered by insurance, subject to deductibles and coverage limits. Product Liability Insurance Because of the nature of pharmaceutical products, it is possible that we could become subject to large numbers of product liability and related claims for other products in the future. In the past several years, we have been unable to obtain product liability insurance due to a very restrictive insurance market. Therefore, for substantially all of our currently marketed products, we have been and expect that we will continue to be completely self insured for future product liability losses. In addition, there is no assurance that we will be able to fully collect from our insurance carriers in the future. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk You can find quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk (e.g., interest rate risk) in Item 7 at Managements Discussion and Analysis Financial Condition. That information is incorporated in this report by reference. 33 
 
