FILE:CMCSA/CMCSA-8K-20050606153441.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.03. Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
 
Restatement of Comcast Corporation Articles of Incorporation
 
On February 17, 2005, the Board of Directors of Comcast Corporation (the 
Company
) approved the restatement of the Companys Articles of Incorporation (the 
Articles
) effective as of June 1, 2005. The Restated Articles of Incorporation was filed with the Pennsylvania Department of State on June 1, 2005 and restates without change all of the operative provisions of the Companys Articles of Incorporation, as previously amended and restated. The purpose of the restatement was to remove certain inoperative provisions of the Articles by: (i) eliminating obsolete defined terms and (ii) eliminating certain corporate governance provisions in Article SIXTH of the Articles that were originally added to the Articles in connection with Companys acquisition of AT&T Corp.s broadband business in 2002 and that have since become inoperative due to the occurrence of specified events or the passage of time. No shareholder vote was required for this restatement under Pennsylvania law. The form of the Restated Articles of Incorporation is attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 3.1.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(c)
  
   
Exhibits
3.1
  
 
Restated Articles of Incorporation of Comcast Corporation
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 3.1
The Restated Articles of Incorporation of the Corporation are hereby restated in their entirety so as to read as follows:
FIRST: The name of the Corporation is Comcast Corporation (the
Corporation
).
SECOND: The location and post office address of the Corporations current registered office in this Commonwealth is:
1500 Market Street, 35th Floor
Philadelphia, PA 19102-2148
THIRD: The Corporation is incorporated under the provisions of the Business Corporation Law of 1988. The purpose or purposes for which the Corporation is organized are:
To have unlimited power to engage in and to do any lawful act concerning any or all lawful business for which corporations may be incorporated under the Business Corporation Law.
FOURTH: The term of its existence is perpetual.
FIFTH: A. The aggregate number of shares which the Corporation shall have authority to issue is SEVEN BILLION FIVE HUNDRED MILLION (7,500,000,000) shares of Class A Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share, SEVEN BILLION FIVE HUNDRED MILLION (7,500,000,000) shares of Class A Special Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share, SEVENTY FIVE MILLION (75,000,000) shares of Class B Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share, and TWENTY MILLION (20,000,000) shares of Preferred Stock, which the Board of Directors may issue, in one or more series, without par value, with full, limited, multiple, fractional, or no voting rights, and with such designations, preferences, qualifications, privileges, limitations, restrictions, options, conversion rights and other special or relative rights as shall be fixed by the Board of Directors.
B. The descriptions, preferences, qualifications, limitations, restrictions and the voting, special or relative rights in respect of the shares of each class of Common Stock are as follows:
1. (a) Subject to paragraph (B)(1)(c) of this Article FIFTH, each share of Class A Common Stock shall entitle the holder thereof to the number of votes equal to a quotient the numerator of which is the excess of (i) the Total Number of Votes (as defined below) over (ii) the sum of (A) the Total Number of B Votes (as defined below) and (B) the Total Number of Other Votes (as defined below) and the denominator of which is the number of outstanding shares of Class A Common Stock (
provided
that if at any time there are no outstanding shares of Class B Common Stock, each share of Class A Common Stock shall entitle the holder thereof to one (1) vote) and each share of Class B Common Stock shall entitle the holder thereof to fifteen (15) votes. Holders of shares of Class A Special Common Stock shall not be entitled to vote for the election of Directors (as defined below in Article SIXTH) or any other matter except as may be required by applicable law, in which case each share of Class A Special Common Stock shall entitle the holder thereof to the same number of votes to which each holder of Class A Common Stock is entitled for each of such holders shares of Class A Common Stock.
Total Number of Votes
on any record date is equal to a quotient the numerator of which is the Total Number of B Votes on such record date and the denominator of which is the B Voting Percentage (as defined below) on such record date.
Total Number of B Votes
on any record date is equal to the product of (i) 15 and (ii) the number of outstanding shares of Class B Common Stock on such record date.
Total Number of Other Votes
on any record date means the aggregate number of votes to which holders of all classes of capital stock of the Corporation other than holders of Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock are entitled to cast on such record date in an election of Directors.
B Voting Percentage
on any record date means the portion (expressed as a percentage) of the total number of votes entitled to be cast in an election of Directors by the holders of capital stock of the Corporation to which all holders of Class B Common Stock are entitled to cast on
 
 
such record date in an election of Directors, as specified and determined pursuant to paragraph (B)(1)(c) of this Article FIFTH.
(b) Except as provided in Article SEVENTH or required by applicable law, only the holders of Class A Common Stock, the holders of Class B Common Stock and the holders of any other class or series of Common Stock, Preferred Stock or other class of capital stock of the Corporation (if any) with voting rights shall be entitled to vote and shall vote as a single class on all matters with respect to which a vote of the shareholders of the Corporation is required or permitted under applicable law, these Restated Articles of Incorporation, or the By-Laws of the Corporation. Whenever applicable law, these Restated Articles of Incorporation or the By-Laws of the Corporation provide for a vote of the shareholders of the Corporation on any matter, approval of such matter shall require the affirmative vote of a majority of the votes cast by the holders entitled to vote thereon unless otherwise expressly provided under applicable law, these Restated Articles of Incorporation or the By-Laws of the Corporation.
(c) Notwithstanding any other provision of these Restated Articles of Incorporation, including paragraph (B)(1)(a) of this Article FIFTH, but subject to Article SEVENTH, with respect to any matter on which the holders of Class B Common Stock and the holders of one or more classes or series of Common Stock, Preferred Stock or any other class of capital stock of the Corporation (if any) vote as a single class, each share of Class B Common Stock shall entitle the holder thereof to the number of votes necessary so that, if all holders of Class B Common Stock and all holders of each such other class or series of Common Stock, Preferred Stock and other class of capital stock of the Corporation (if any) were to cast all votes they are entitled to cast on such matter, the holders of the Class B Common Stock in the aggregate would cast thirty three and one-third (33 1/3) per cent of the total votes cast by all such holders, subject to reduction as set forth in the following sentence. If at any time after November 18, 2002 for any reason whatsoever the number of shares of Class B Common Stock outstanding at such time is reduced below the number of shares of Class B Common Stock outstanding on November 18, 2002 (appropriately adjusted for any stock dividend paid in Class B Common Stock, stock splits or reverse stock splits of the Class B Common Stock or combinations, consolidations or reclassifications of the Class B Common Stock), the percentage specified in the preceding sentence shall be reduced to a percentage equal to the product of (i) thirty three and one-third (33 1/3) and (ii) the fraction obtained by dividing the number of shares of Class B Common Stock outstanding at such time by the number of shares of Class B Common Stock outstanding on November 18, 2002 (appropriately adjusted for any stock dividend paid in Class B Common Stock, stock splits or reverse stock splits of the Class B Common Stock or combinations, consolidations or reclassifications of the Class B Common Stock). No reduction in the percentage of the voting power of the Class B Common Stock pursuant to the preceding sentence shall be reversed by any issuance of Class B Common Stock that occurs after such reduction.
2. The holders of Class A Common Stock, the holders of Class A Special Common Stock and the holders of Class B Common Stock shall be entitled to receive, from time to time, when and as declared, in the discretion of the Board of Directors, such cash dividends as the Board of Directors may from time to time determine, out of such funds as are legally available therefor, in proportion to the number of shares held by them, respectively, without regard to class.
3. The holders of Class A Common Stock, the holders of Class A Special Common Stock, and the holders of Class B Common Stock shall be entitled to receive, from time to time, when and as declared by the Board of Directors, such dividends of stock of the Corporation or other property as the Board of Directors may determine, out of such funds as are legally available therefor. Stock dividends on, or stock splits of, any class of Common Stock shall not be paid or issued unless paid or issued on all classes of Common Stock, in which case they shall be paid or issued only in shares of that class;
provided, however,
that stock dividends on, or stock splits of, Class B Common Stock may be paid or issued in shares of Class A Special Common Stock. Any decrease in the number of shares of any class of Common Stock resulting from a combination or consolidation of shares or other capital reclassification shall not be permitted unless parallel action is taken with respect to each other class of Common Stock, so that the number of shares of each class of Common Stock outstanding shall be decreased proportionately. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, in the event of a distribution of property, plan of merger or consolidation, plan of asset transfer, plan of division, plan of exchange, or recapitalization pursuant to which the holders of Class A Common Stock, the holders of Class A Special
 
 
Common Stock and the holders of Class B Common Stock would be entitled to receive equity interests of one or more corporations (including, without limitation, the Corporation) or other entities, or rights to acquire such equity interests, then the Board of Directors may, by resolution duly adopted, provide that the holders of Class A Common Stock, the holders of Class A Special Common Stock, and the holders of Class B Common Stock, respectively and as separate classes, shall receive with respect to their Class A Common Stock, Class A Special Common Stock, or Class B Common Stock (whether by distribution, exchange, redemption or otherwise), in proportion to the number of shares held by them, equity interests (or rights to acquire such equity interests) of separate classes or series having substantially equivalent relative designations, preferences, qualifications, privileges, limitations, restrictions and rights as the relative designations, preferences, qualifications, privileges, limitations, restrictions and rights of the Class A Common Stock, Class A Special Common Stock and Class B Common Stock. Except as provided above, if there should be any distribution of property, merger, consolidation, purchase or acquisition of property or stock, asset transfer, division, share exchange, recapitalization or reorganization of the Corporation, the holders of Class A Common Stock, the holders of Class A Special Common Stock, and the holders of Class B Common Stock shall receive the shares of stock, other securities or rights or other assets as would be issuable or payable upon such distribution, merger, consolidation, purchase or acquisition of such property or stock, asset transfer, division, share exchange, recapitalization or reorganization in proportion to the number of shares held by them, respectively, without regard to class.
4. Each share of Class B Common Stock shall be convertible at the option of the holder thereof into one share of Class A Common Stock or one share of Class A Special Common Stock. Each share of Class B Common Stock shall be cancelled after it has been converted as provided herein.
5. Subject to Article SEVENTH and except as otherwise permitted by applicable law, each and any provision of these Restated Articles of Incorporation may from time to time, when and as desired, be amended by a resolution of the Board of Directors and the affirmative vote of a majority of the votes cast by all shareholders entitled to vote thereon, as determined in accordance with the provisions of this Article FIFTH. There shall be no class voting on any such amendments or on any other matter except as shall be required by Article SEVENTH or by applicable law, in which case there shall be required the affirmative vote of a majority of the votes cast by the holders of the outstanding shares of each class entitled to vote by Article SEVENTH or by applicable law, voting as a separate class.
6. If there should be any merger, consolidation, purchase or acquisition of property or stock, separation, reorganization, division or share exchange, the Board of Directors shall take such action as may be necessary to enable the holders of the Class B Common Stock to receive upon any subsequent conversion of their stock into Class A Common Stock or Class A Special Common Stock (as the case may be), in whole or in part, in lieu of any shares of Class A Common Stock or Class A Special Common Stock (as the case may be) of the Corporation, the shares of stock, securities, or other assets as would be issuable or payable upon such merger, consolidation, purchase, or acquisition of property or stock, separation, reorganization, division or share exchange in respect of or in exchange for such share or shares of Class A Common Stock or Class A Special Common Stock (as the case may be).
7. In the event of any liquidation, dissolution or winding up (either voluntary or involuntary) of the Corporation, the holders of Class A Common Stock, the holders of Class A Special Common Stock and the holders of Class B Common Stock shall be entitled to receive the assets and funds of the Corporation in proportion to the number of shares held by them, respectively, without regard to class.
8. At all times the Board of Directors shall take such action to adjust the conversion privileges of the Class B Common Stock and the number of shares of Class B Common Stock to be outstanding after any particular transaction to prevent the dilution of the conversion rights of the holders of Class B Common Stock.
9. Except as expressly set forth in these Restated Articles of Incorporation (including, without limitation, this Article FIFTH and Article SEVENTH), the rights of the holders of Class A Common Stock, the rights of the holders of Class A Special Common Stock and the rights of the holders of Class B Common Stock shall be in all respects identical.
 
 
10. Neither the holders of the Class A Common Stock nor the holders of the Class B Common Stock nor the holders of any other class or series of Common Stock, Preferred Stock or other class of capital stock of the Corporation shall have cumulative voting rights.
C. Pursuant to the authority granted to the Board of Directors in paragraph A of this Article FIFTH, the Board of Directors has fixed and designated a Series A Participating Cumulative Preferred Stock having the voting rights and designations, preferences, qualifications, privileges, limitations, restrictions, and other special and relative rights as are hereinafter set forth:
1. The shares of such series shall be designated as Series A Participating Cumulative Preferred Stock (the 
Series A Preferred Stock
), and the number of shares constituting such series shall be 2,500,000. Such number of shares of the Series A Preferred Stock may be increased or decreased by resolution of the Board of Directors; provided that no decrease shall reduce the number of shares of Series A Preferred Stock to a number less than the number of shares then outstanding plus the number of shares issuable upon exercise or conversion of outstanding rights, options or other securities issued by the Corporation.
2. (a) The holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors out of funds legally available for the purpose, quarterly dividends payable on March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31 of each year (each such date being referred to herein as a 
Quarterly Dividend Payment Date
), commencing on the first Quarterly Dividend Payment Date after the first issuance of any share or fraction of a share of Series A Preferred Stock, in an amount per share (rounded to the nearest cent) equal to the greater of (i) $10.00 and (ii) subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth, 1000 times the aggregate per share amount of all cash dividends or other distributions and 1000 times the aggregate per share amount of all non-cash dividends or other distributions (other than (A) a dividend payable in shares of Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Corporation (the 
Common Stock
) or (B) a subdivision of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise)) declared on the Common Stock since the immediately preceding Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, or, with respect to the first Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, since the first issuance of any share or fraction of a share of Series A Preferred Stock. If the Corporation, at any time after November 18, 2002 (the 
Rights Declaration Date
), pays any dividend on Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock or effects a subdivision or combination of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise) into a greater or lesser number of shares of Common Stock, then in each such case the amount to which holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock were entitled immediately prior to such event under clause (ii) of the preceding sentence shall be adjusted by multiplying such amount by a fraction the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.
(b) The Corporation shall declare a dividend or distribution on the Series A Preferred Stock as provided in paragraph (C)(2)(a) of this Article FIFTH immediately after it declares a dividend or distribution on the Common Stock (other than as described in clauses (ii)(A) and (ii)(B) of the first sentence of paragraph (C)(2) (a) of this Article FIFTH); provided that if no dividend or distribution shall have been declared on the Common Stock during the period between any Quarterly Dividend Payment Date and the next subsequent Quarterly Dividend Payment Date (or, with respect to the first Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, the period between the first issuance of any share or fraction of a share of Series A Preferred Stock and such first Quarterly Dividend Payment Date), a dividend of $10.00 per share on the Series A Preferred Stock shall nevertheless be payable on such subsequent Quarterly Dividend Payment Date.
(c) Dividends shall begin to accrue and be cumulative on outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock from the Quarterly Dividend Payment Date next preceding the date of issuance of such shares of Series A Preferred Stock, unless the date of issuance of such shares is on or before the record date for the first Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, in which case dividends on such shares shall begin to accrue and be cumulative from the date of issue of such shares, or unless the date of issue is a date after the record date for the determination of holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock entitled to receive a quarterly dividend and on or before such Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, in which case dividends shall begin to accrue and be cumulative from such Quarterly Dividend Payment Date. Accrued but unpaid dividends shall not bear interest. Dividends paid on
 
 
shares of Series A Preferred Stock in an amount less than the total amount of such dividends at the time accrued and payable on such shares shall be allocated pro rata on a share-by-share basis among all such shares at the time outstanding. The Board of Directors may fix a record date for the determination of holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock entitled to receive payment of a dividend or distribution declared thereon, which record date shall not be more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for the payment thereof.
3. In addition to any other voting rights required by law, the holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall have the following voting rights:
(a) Each share of Series A Preferred Stock shall entitle the holder thereof to a number of votes equal to 1000 (as adjusted as described below, the 
Adjustable Factor
) times the number of votes a share of Class A Common Stock is entitled to cast on all matters submitted to a vote of stockholders of the Corporation. For purposes of calculating the number of votes a share of Class A Common Stock is entitled to cast on all matters submitted to a vote of stockholders of the Corporation, as set forth in these Restated Articles of Incorporation, votes represented by shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall be included in the Total Number of Other Votes (as defined in paragraph (B)(1)(a) of this Article FIFTH). If the Corporation shall at any time after the Rights Declaration Date pay any dividend on Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock or effect a subdivision or combination of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise) into a greater or lesser number of shares of Common Stock, then in each such case the number of votes per share to which holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock were entitled immediately prior to such event shall be adjusted by multiplying the Adjustable Factor by a fraction the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.
(b) Except as otherwise provided herein or by law, the holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock and the holders of shares of Common Stock shall vote together as a single class on all matters submitted to a vote of stockholders of the Corporation.
(c) (i) If at any time dividends on any Series A Preferred Stock shall be in arrears in an amount equal to six quarterly dividends thereon, the occurrence of such contingency shall mark the beginning of a period (herein called a 
default period
) which shall extend until such time when all accrued and unpaid dividends for all previous quarterly dividend periods and for the current quarterly dividend period on all shares of Series A Preferred Stock then outstanding shall have been declared and paid or set apart for payment. During each default period, all holders of Preferred Stock and any other series of Preferred Stock then entitled as a class to elect directors, voting together as a single class, irrespective of series, shall have the right to elect two additional Directors to the Board of Directors.
(ii) During any default period, such voting right of the holders of Series A Preferred Stock may be exercised initially at a special meeting called pursuant to paragraph (C)(3)(c)(iii) of this Article FIFTH or at any annual meeting of stockholders, and thereafter at annual meetings of stockholders; provided that neither such voting right nor the right of the holders of any other series of Preferred Stock, if any, to increase, in certain cases, the authorized number of Directors shall be exercised unless the holders of 10% in number of shares of Preferred Stock outstanding shall be present in person or by proxy. The absence of a quorum of holders of Common Stock shall not affect the exercise by holders of Preferred Stock of such voting right. If at any meeting at which holders of Preferred Stock shall initially exercise such voting right the number of additional Directors which may be so elected does not amount to the required number, the holders of the Preferred Stock shall have the right to make such increase in the number of Directors as shall be necessary to permit the election by them of the required number. After the holders of the Preferred Stock shall have initially exercised their right to elect two additional Directors in any default period and during the continuance of such period, the number of Directors shall not be increased or decreased except by vote of the holders of Preferred Stock as herein provided or pursuant to the rights of any equity securities ranking senior to or pari passu with the Series A Preferred Stock.
(iii) Unless the holders of Preferred Stock shall have previously exercised their right to elect Directors during an existing default period, the Board of Directors may order, or any stockholder or stockholders
 
 
owning in the aggregate not less than 10% of the total number of shares of Preferred Stock outstanding, irrespective of series, may request, the calling of a special meeting of holders of Preferred Stock, which meeting shall thereupon be called by the Chief Executive Officer, the President, a Vice President or the Secretary of the Corporation. Notice of such meeting and of any annual meeting at which holders of Preferred Stock are entitled to vote pursuant to this paragraph (C)(3)(c) (iii) of this Article FIFTH shall be given to each holder of record of Preferred Stock by mailing a copy of such notice to him at the address of such holder shown on the registry books of the Corporation. Such meeting shall be called for a time not earlier than 20 days and not later than 60 days after such order or request or in default of the calling of such meeting within 60 days after such order or request, such meeting may be called on similar notice by any stockholder or stockholders owning in the aggregate not less than 10% of the total number of shares of Preferred Stock outstanding, irrespective of series. Notwithstanding the provisions of this paragraph (C)(3)(c)(iii) of this Article FIFTH, no such special meeting shall be called during the period within 60 days immediately preceding the date fixed for the next annual meeting of stockholders.
(iv) In any default period, the holders of Common Stock, and other classes of stock of the Corporation if applicable, shall continue to be entitled to elect the whole number of Directors until the holders of Preferred Stock shall have exercised their right to elect two Directors voting as a class, after the exercise of which right (x) the Directors so elected by the holders of Preferred Stock shall continue in office until their successors shall have been elected by such holders or until the expiration of the default period, and (y) any vacancy in the Board of Directors may (except as provided in paragraph (C)(3)(c)(ii) of this Article FIFTH) be filled by vote of a majority of the remaining Directors theretofore elected by the holders of the class of stock which elected the Director whose office shall have become vacant. References in this paragraph (C)(3)(c) of this Article FIFTH to Directors elected by the holders of a particular class of stock shall include Directors elected by such Directors to fill vacancies as provided in clause (y) of the foregoing sentence.
(v) Immediately upon the expiration of a default period, (x) the right of the holders of Preferred Stock as a class to elect Directors shall cease, (y) the term of any Directors elected by the holders of Preferred Stock as a class shall terminate, and (z) the number of Directors shall be such number as may be provided for in these Restated Articles of Incorporation or by-laws irrespective of any increase made pursuant to the provisions of Section (C)(3)(c)(ii) of this Article SIXTH (such number being subject, however, to change thereafter in any manner provided by law or in these Restated Articles of Incorporation or by-laws). Any vacancies in the Board of Directors effected by the provisions of clauses (y) and (z) in the preceding sentence may be filled by a majority of the remaining Directors.
(d) These Restated Articles of Incorporation shall not be amended in any manner (whether by merger or otherwise) so as to adversely affect the powers, preferences or special rights of the Series A Preferred Stock without the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock, voting separately as a class.
(e) Except as otherwise provided herein, holders of Series A Preferred Stock shall have no special voting rights, and their consent shall not be required for taking any corporate action.
4. (a) Whenever quarterly dividends or other dividends or distributions payable on the Series A Preferred Stock as provided in paragraph (C)(2) of this Article FIFTH are in arrears, thereafter and until all accrued and unpaid dividends and distributions, whether or not declared, on outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall have been paid in full, the Corporation shall not:
(i) declare or pay dividends on, or make any other distributions on, any shares of stock ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) to the Series A Preferred Stock;
(ii) declare or pay dividends on, or make any other distributions on, any shares of stock ranking on a parity (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) with the Series A Preferred Stock, except dividends paid ratably on the Series A Preferred Stock and all such other parity stock on which dividends are payable or in arrears in proportion to the total amounts to which the holders of all such shares are then entitled;
 
(iii) redeem, purchase or otherwise acquire for value any shares of stock ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) to the Series A Preferred Stock; provided that the Corporation may at any time redeem, purchase or otherwise acquire shares of any such junior stock in exchange for shares of stock of the Corporation ranking junior (as to dividends and upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up) to the Series A Preferred Stock; or
(iv) redeem, purchase or otherwise acquire for value any shares of Series A Preferred Stock, or any shares of stock ranking on a parity (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) with the Series A Preferred Stock, except in accordance with a purchase offer made in writing or by publication (as determined by the Board of Directors) to all holders of Series A Preferred Stock and all such other parity stock upon such terms as the Board of Directors, after consideration of the respective annual dividend rates and other relative rights and preferences of the respective series and classes, shall determine in good faith will result in fair and equitable treatment among the respective series or classes.
(b) The Corporation shall not permit any subsidiary of the Corporation to purchase or otherwise acquire for value any shares of stock of the Corporation unless the Corporation could, under paragraph 4(a), purchase or otherwise acquire such shares at such time and in such manner.
5. Any shares of Series A Preferred Stock redeemed, purchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation in any manner whatsoever shall be retired and canceled promptly after the acquisition thereof. All such shares shall upon their cancellation become authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock without designation as to series and may be reissued as part of a new series of Preferred Stock to be created by resolution or resolutions of the Board of Directors as permitted by these Restated Articles of Incorporation or as otherwise permitted under Pennsylvania Law.
6. Upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, no distribution shall be made (a) to the holders of shares of stock ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) to the Series A Preferred Stock unless, prior thereto, the holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall have received $10.00 per share, plus an amount equal to accrued and unpaid dividends and distributions thereon, whether or not declared, to the date of such payment; provided that the holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive an aggregate amount per share, subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth, equal to 1000 times the aggregate amount to be distributed per share to holders of Common Stock, or (b) to the holders of stock ranking on a parity (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) with the Series A Preferred Stock, except distributions made ratably on the Series A Preferred Stock and all such other parity stock in proportion to the total amounts to which the holders of all such shares are entitled upon such liquidation, dissolution or winding up. If the Corporation shall at any time after the Rights Declaration Date pay any dividend on Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock or effect a subdivision or combination of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise) into a greater or lesser number of shares of Common Stock, then in each such case the aggregate amount to which holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock were entitled immediately prior to such event under the proviso in clause (a) of the preceding sentence shall be adjusted by multiplying such amount by a fraction the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.
7. If the Corporation shall enter into any consolidation, merger, combination or other transaction in which the shares of Common Stock are exchanged for or changed into other stock or securities, cash or any other property, then in any such case the shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall at the same time be similarly exchanged for or changed into an amount per share, subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth, equal to 1000 times the aggregate amount of stock, securities, cash or any other property, as the case may be, into which or for which each share of Common Stock is changed or exchanged. If the Corporation shall at any time after the Rights Declaration Date pay any dividend on Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock or effect a subdivision or combination of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise) into a greater or lesser number of shares of Common Stock, then in each such case the amount set forth in the preceding sentence with respect to the exchange or change of shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall be adjusted by multiplying such amount by a fraction the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.
 
 
8. The Series A Preferred Stock shall not be redeemable.
9. The Series A Preferred Stock shall rank junior (as to dividends and upon liquidation, dissolution and winding up) to all other series of the Corporations Preferred Stock except any series that specifically provides that such series shall rank junior to or on a parity with the Series A Preferred Stock.
10. Series A Preferred Stock may be issued in fractions of a share which shall entitle the holder, in proportion to such holders fractional shares, to exercise voting rights, receive dividends, participate in distributions and to have the benefit of all other rights of holders of Series A Preferred Stock.
SIXTH: Governance
A.
 
Definitions
1.
Board of Directors
means the Board of Directors of the Corporation.
2.
CEO
means the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation.
3.
Chairman
means the Chairman of the Board of Directors.
4.
Director
means a director of the Corporation.
5.
Independent Person
means an independent person with respect to the Corporation (determined in accordance with
 
the rules of the principal stock exchange or interdealer quotation system on which the class of Corporations common stock with the greatest aggregate market capitalization (as determined in good faith by the Board of Directors) is traded), it being understood that none of the spouse, parents, siblings, lineal descendants, aunts, uncles, cousins and other close relatives (or their respective spouses) of Mr. Brian L. Roberts will be deemed Independent Persons at any time.
B.
 
Board of Directors. At all times, the Board of Directors shall include a majority of Independent Persons. Following the occurrence of a vacancy on the Board of Directors that results in the absence of a majority of Independent Persons on the Board of Directors, and notwithstanding the occurrence of such vacancy, the Board of Directors shall take all actions necessary to fill such vacancy with an Independent Person nominated by the governance and directors nominating committee of the Board of Directors and approved by the Board of Directors. In addition to the foregoing, for a ninety (90) day period following the occurrence of a vacancy in the Board of Directors that results in less than a majority of Independent Persons serving on the Board of Directors, the Directors then in office shall have and may exercise all of the powers of the Board of Directors to the extent provided under these Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation, the Bylaws of the Corporation and applicable law.
C.
 
Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President
1. Chairman.
(a) The Chairman shall be Mr. Brian L. Roberts if he is willing and available to serve.
(b) The Chairman shall preside at all meetings of the shareholders of the Corporation and of the Board of Directors. In the absence of the Chairman, if the Chairman and the CEO are not the same person, the CEO shall chair such meetings.
 
(c) The Chairman shall have the authority to call special meetings of the Board of Directors, in the manner provided by the By-Laws of the Corporation.
(d) Removal of the Chairman shall require the affirmative vote of at least 75% of the entire Board of Directors until the earlier to occur of (i) the date on which Mr. Brian L. Roberts is no longer the Chairman and (ii) May 26, 2010.
2. Chief Executive Officer and President.
(a) The CEO shall be Mr. Brian L. Roberts if he is willing and available to serve. For so long as Mr. Brian L. Roberts shall be the CEO, he shall also be the President of the Corporation.
(b) The powers, rights, functions and responsibilities of the CEO shall include, without limitation, the following, subject to the control and direction of the Board of Directors:
(i) the supervision, coordination and management of the Corporations business, operations, activities, operating expenses and capital allocation;
(ii) matters relating to officers (other than the Chairman) and employees, including, without limitation, hiring, terminating, changing positions and allocating responsibilities of such officers and employees;
provided
that, if the Chairman and the CEO are not the same person, the CEO shall consult with the Chairman in connection with the foregoing as it relates to the senior executives of the Corporation;
(iii) all of the powers, rights, functions and responsibilities typically exercised by a chief executive officer and president of a corporation; and
(iv) the authority to call special meetings of the Board of Directors, in the manner provided by the By-Laws of the Corporation.
(c) Removal of the CEO shall require the affirmative vote of at least 75% of the entire Board of Directors until the earlier to occur of (i) the date on which Mr. Brian L. Roberts ceases to be the CEO and (ii) May 26, 2010.
D. Executive Committee. If the Board of Directors decides to establish an Executive Committee, if he is willing and able to serve and for so long as he shall be a member of the Board of Directors, Mr. Ralph J. Roberts shall be the Chairman of the Executive Committee.
E. Amendment. Subject to paragraph (F) of this Article SIXTH, until the earlier to occur of (i) the date on which Mr. Brian L. Roberts is no longer serving as the Chairman or the CEO and (ii) May 26, 2010, the provisions of this Article SIXTH and the provisions of Article 9 of the By-Laws may not be amended, altered, repealed or waived in any respect without the prior approval of at least 75% of the entire Board of Directors.
F. Termination. If Mr. Brian L. Roberts is no longer serving as the Chairman or the CEO, the provisions of this Article SIXTH (other than paragraphs (A) and (B)) shall terminate automatically without any further action of the Board of Directors or the shareholders of the Corporation.
SEVENTH: In addition to any other approval required by law or by these Restated Articles of Incorporation, and notwithstanding any provision of Article FIFTH, the approval of the holders of Class B Common Stock, voting separately as a class, shall be necessary to approve (i) any merger or consolidation of the Corporation with another entity or any other transaction, in each case that requires the approval of the shareholders of the Corporation pursuant to the law of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania or other applicable law, or any other transaction that would result in any person or group (as such term is defined in Section 13(d)(3) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) owning shares representing in excess of 10% of the combined voting power of the resulting or surviving corporation, or any issuance of securities (other than pursuant to director or officer stock option or purchase plans) requiring shareholder approval under the applicable rules and regulations of any stock exchange or quotation system, (ii) any issuance of shares of Class B Common Stock or any securities exercisable or exchangeable for or convertible into shares of Class B Common Stock or (iii) any amendment to these Restated Articles of Incorporation (including, without limitation, any amendment to elect to have any of Subchapters E, F, G, H, I and J or Section 2538 of Subchapter D, in each case of Chapter 25 of the Business Corporation Law of 1988, be applicable to the Corporation or any amendment to this Article SEVENTH) or the By-Laws of the Corporation or any other action (including, without limitation, the adoption, amendment or redemption of a shareholder rights plan) that would, in any such case, limit the rights of the holders of Class B Common Stock or any subsequent transferee of Class B Common Stock to transfer, vote or otherwise exercise rights with respect to capital stock of the Corporation. In addition to any other approval required by law or by these Restated Articles of Incorporation, and notwithstanding any provision of Article FIFTH, the approval of the holder of any class or series of shares of the Corporation shall be necessary to approve any amendment to these Restated Articles of Incorporation which would make any change in the preferences, limitations or rights of the shares of such class or series adverse to such class or series.
 
EIGHTH: Special meetings of shareholders may be called only by the Board of Directors and may not be called by shareholders of the Corporation.
NINTH: The shareholders of the Corporation shall not be permitted to act by written consent in lieu of a meeting;
provided
that notwithstanding the foregoing, the holders of a majority of the Class B Common Stock shall be permitted to act by written consent in lieu of a meeting in the exercise of their approval rights under Article SEVENTH.
TENTH: The Board of Directors shall have the power to amend the By-Laws to the extent provided therein, subject only to applicable law. Any amendment to the By-Laws approved by the shareholders of the Corporation shall not be deemed to have been adopted by the Corporation unless it has been previously approved by the Board of Directors.
ELEVENTH: No person who is or was a Director shall be personally liable, as such, for monetary damages (other than under criminal statutes and under federal, state and local laws imposing liability on directors for the payment of taxes) unless the persons conduct constitutes self-dealing, willful misconduct or recklessness. No amendment or repeal of this Article ELEVENTH shall apply to or have any effect on the liability or alleged liability of any person who is or was a Director for or with respect to any acts or omissions of the Director occurring prior to the effective date of such amendment or repeal. If the Business Corporation Law of 1988 is amended to permit a Pennsylvania corporation to provide greater protection from personal liability for its directors than the express terms of this Article ELEVENTH, this Article ELEVENTH shall be construed to provide for such greater protection.
TWELFTH: No person who is or was an officer of the Corporation shall be personally liable, as such, for monetary damages (other than under criminal statutes and under federal, state and local laws imposing liability on directors for the payment of taxes) unless the persons conduct constitutes self-dealing, willful misconduct or recklessness. No amendment or repeal of this Article TWELFTH shall apply to or have any effect on the liability or alleged liability of any person who is or was an officer of the Corporation for or with respect to any acts or omissions of the officer occurring prior to the effective date of such amendment or repeal. If the Business Corporation Law of 1988 is amended to permit a Pennsylvania corporation to provide greater protection from personal liability for its officers than the express terms of this Article TWELFTH, this Article TWELFTH shall be construed to provide for such greater protection.
THIRTEENTH: Any or all classes and series of shares of the Corporation, or any part thereof, may be represented by uncertificated shares to the extent determined by the Board of Directors, except that shares represented by a certificate that is issued and outstanding shall continue to be represented thereby until the certificate is surrendered to the Corporation. Within a reasonable time after the issuance or transfer of uncertificated shares, the Corporation shall send to the registered owner thereof a written notice containing the information required to be set forth or stated on certificates. The rights and obligations of the holders of shares represented by certificates and the rights and obligations of the holders of uncertificated shares of the same class and series shall be identical.
 
FOURTEENTH: Subchapters E, F, G, H, I and J and Section 2538 of Subchapter D, in each case of Chapter 25 of the Business Corporation Law of 1988, shall not be applicable to the Corporation.
FIFTEENTH: Henceforth, these Restated Articles of Incorporation supersede the original Articles of Incorporation and all prior amendments thereto and restatements thereof.


