FILE:CMCSA/CMCSA-8K-20051220102658.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
           
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12(b))
o
           
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
           
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
           
 
Item 5.02  Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
 
On December 14, 2005, the Board of Directors of Comcast Corporation elected Jeffrey A. Honickman to the Board effective December 19, 2005.  Mr. Honickman has not yet been named to any committee of the Board.  There are no arrangements or understandings between Mr. Honickman and any other persons pursuant to which Mr. Honickman was selected as a director.  Mr. Honickman has not entered into any transaction with Comcast Corporation that is required to be disclosed under Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K.  A copy of the press release announcing the election of Mr. Honickman to the Board of Directors is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01(d) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Contact: Tim Fitzpatrick, 215-981-8515
 
 
Philadelphia (Monday, December 19, 2005)
Comcast Corporation (Nasdaq: CMCSA, CMCSK), the nation's leading provider of cable, entertainment and communications products and services, announced today that Jeffrey A. Honickman has been appointed an independent director of Comcast Corporation.
 
Honickman, 48, is chief executive officer of an affiliated group of bottling and distribution companies which include the Pepsi-Cola Bottling Company of New York and the Canada Dry Bottling Company of New York.
 
Comcast Chairman and CEO Brian L. Roberts said, "Jeffrey is a respected and entrepreneurial business leader, and our board and shareholders will benefit from his insight and experience."
 
Honickman's appointment fills the vacancy created by the August death of Joseph L. Castle, II.  Independent directors constitute two-thirds, or eight of twelve members, of Comcast's board.
Honickman holds an MBA in Finance from Drexel University and a BS Degree in Accounting from George Washington University.  He resides in the Philadelphia area with his wife and their family.
 
About Comcast Corporation
Comcast Corporation (Nasdaq: CMCSA, CMCSK) (www.comcast.com) is the nation's leading provider of cable, entertainment and communications products and services. With 21.4 million cable customers, 8.1 million high-speed Internet customers, and 1.2 million voice customers, Comcast is principally involved in the development, management and operation of broadband cable networks and in the delivery of programming content.
 
The Company's content networks and investments include E! Entertainment Television, Style Network, The Golf Channel, OLN, G4, AZN Television, PBS KIDS Sprout, TV One and four regional Comcast SportsNets. The Company also has a majority ownership in Comcast-Spectacor, whose major holdings include the Philadelphia Flyers NHL hockey team, the Philadelphia 76ers NBA basketball team and two large multipurpose arenas in Philadelphia. Comcast Class A common stock and Class A Special common stock trade on The NASDAQ Stock Market under the symbols CMCSA and CMCSK, respectively.


