FILE:CMCSA/CMCSA-8K-20060727070534.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
On July 27, 2006, Comcast Corporation ("Comcast") issued a press release reporting the results of its operations for the three months and six months ended June 30, 2006. The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. Comcast does not intend for this Item 2.02 or Exhibit 99.1 to be treated as "filed" under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or incorporated by reference into its filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Philadelphia, PA  July 27, 2006Comcast Corporation (Nasdaq: CMCSA, CMCSK) today reported results for the quarter ended June 30, 2006.
The following table highlights results for the second quarter of 2006 (dollars in millions, except per share amounts; units in thousands):
 
Brian L. Roberts, Chairman and CEO of Comcast Corporation said, "Record results for the 2
nd
quarter highlight the continued strength of our business and the power of our connection to our customers. This terrific performance included another quarter of double digit revenue and Operating Cash Flow growth and the highest level of second quarter RGU additions in the Company's history. In particular, the rapid growth of Comcast Digital Voice demonstrates its massive appeal  and we are just getting started. As we continue to roll out our triple play offer, we are now more confident than ever that it represents a meaningful engine for growth and a significant advantage over our competition."
"Overall, these results demonstrate that our strategy of delivering superior products and services to our customers is working. With a strong first half behind us, and significant momentum propelling us forward, we see our growth accelerating and are extremely optimistic about the remainder of 2006. This outlook is reflected in the increase in our 2006 guidance."
Cable Segment Results
2
increased 11% to $5.9 billion in the second quarter of 2006 reflecting strong growth in each of our services driven by record setting RGU additions.
Revenue
 
 
(RGUs)
Revenue generating units
3
increased 816,000 in the second quarter of 2006, a 61% increase from the prior year. Comcast ended the second quarter of 2006 with 43.2 million RGUs, an increase of 3.3 million units from one year ago.
(as defined in Table 7) grew 14% to $2.5 billion in the second quarter of 2006 and resulted in Operating Cash Flow margin of 41.4%, an increase from the 40.3% reported in the same quarter of 2005. The margin improvement reflects strong revenue growth and our continuing success in controlling the growth of operating costs even as we experience higher activity from record RGU additions.
Operating Cash Flow
Video
 
 
Video revenue increased 8% to $3.7 billion in the second quarter of 2006, reflecting growth in digital customers and increased demand for more digital and interactive features. Comcast ended the quarter with 10.5 million digital video subscribers, a 15% increase from one year ago. As expected, the number of basic cable subscribers declined during the second quarter of 2006 due to seasonal disconnects associated with the number of markets we serve in vacation and university communities. Basic video subscribers declined 0.1% or 66,000 subscribers during the second quarter of 2006 compared to a decline of 79,000 subscribers and 96,000 in the second quarters of 2005 and 2004, respectively. Comcast had 21.7 million basic cable subscribers as of June 30, 2006.
Growth in video revenue and digital cable subscribers continues to reflect increasing consumer demand for new digital features including ON DEMAND, digital video recorders (DVR) and HDTV programming. Driven by ON DEMAND movie and event purchases, pay-per-view revenues increased 30% in the second quarter of 2006 from the same time in 2005. Video revenue growth also benefited from the increase in the number of digital customers subscribing to DVR and/or HDTV services
3.
As of June 30, 2006, 30% of digital customers subscribed to these advanced services compared to 19% in the prior year.
High-Speed Internet
 
High-Speed Internet revenues increased 22% to $1.2 billion in the second quarter of 2006, reflecting a 1.6 million or 20% increase in subscribers from the prior year and stable average monthly revenue per subscriber. Comcast ended the second quarter of 2006 with 9.3 million high-speed Internet subscribers or 22% penetration of available homes.
Phone
 
 
Phone revenue increased 23% to $214 million reflecting a $67 million increase in CDV revenues as a result of the significant increase in CDV subscribers, offset by a $27 million decline in circuit-switched phone revenues as Comcast focuses on marketing CDV.
Comcast ended the second quarter of 2006 with a total of 1.7 million phone customers. Customer additions in the second quarter of 2006 include 306,000 new CDV customers offset by the loss of 79,000 circuit-switched customers. On a net basis, Comcast added 227,000 new phone customers in the second quarter of 2006 compared to 2,000 in 2005.
revenue increased 8% to $394 million in the second quarter of 2006 when compared to 2005, reflecting strong growth in political advertising due to several primary races in Comcast markets. Excluding political advertising, our core advertising business increased 6% from the prior year.
Advertising
 
 
of $965 million in the second quarter of 2006 remained relatively unchanged when compared to one year ago. In the second quarter of 2006 and consistent with the prior year, 74% of cable capital expenditures were variable and directly associated with new product launches and strong consumer demand for our products.
Capital expenditures
Content Segment Results
4
Comcast's Content segment consists of our national cable networks E! Entertainment Television and Style Network (E! Networks), The Golf Channel, OLN, G4 and AZN Television.
The Content segment reported second quarter 2006 revenue of $273 million, a 17% increase from 2005 reflecting increases in network ratings, advertising revenue and distribution revenue. Operating Cash Flow declined 35% to $60 million in the second quarter of 2006, primarily reflecting programming and production expenses related to OLN's coverage of the National Hockey League (NHL).
Corporate and Other
4
Corporate and Other includes Comcast Spectacor, corporate overhead and other operations and eliminations between Comcast's businesses. In the second quarter of 2006, Comcast reported Corporate and Other revenue of $24 million and an Operating Cash Flow loss of $84 million, as compared to revenue of $34 million and an Operating Cash Flow loss of $75 million in 2005.
Consolidated Results
increased 17% to $1.2 billion in the second quarter of 2006 due to strong results at Comcast Cable including record-setting RGU additions, as described above. Similarly, strong results at Comcast Cable increased consolidated operating income 19% to $2.3 billion for the six months ended June 30, 2006.
Operating Income
increased to $460 million, or $0.22 per share, in the second quarter of 2006, compared to net income of $430 million or $0.19 per share in the second quarter of 2005. In addition to strong operating results at Comcast Cable, the current quarter also included other income of $85 million primarily related to the sale of certain investments. The prior-year quarter results include investment gains of $176 million, primarily related to an increase in the fair market value of our investment portfolio.
Net income
Net income increased to $926 million, or $0.43 per share, in the six months ended June 30, 2006 compared to net income of $573 million, or $0.26 per share, in the prior year. Strong results at Comcast Cable and a lower tax rate contributed to the growth in net income on a year-to-date basis. Income tax expense reflects a benefit primarily related to the favorable resolution of certain tax matters. The income tax rate for the first half of 2006 excluding this benefit was approximately 46%.
increased to $3.2 billion for the six months ended June 30, 2006 from $2.5 billion in 2005 due primarily to stronger operating results and changes in operating assets and liabilities.
Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities
(described further on Table 4) increased $572 million to $1.3 billion for the six months ended June 30, 2006 compared to $756 million in 2005, due primarily to growth in consolidated Operating Cash Flow and changes in working capital. The conversion rate of Operating Cash Flow into Free Cash Flow increased to 29% in the first half of 2006 from 18% in the first half of 2005.
Free Cash Flow
Share Repurchase Program
Comcast repurchased $685 million or 22 million shares of its Class A Special Common Stock during the second quarter of 2006, more than double the level of repurchases in the second quarter of 2005. Remaining availability under the Company's stock repurchase program is $3.9 billion. Comcast expects such repurchases to occur from time to time in the open market or in private transactions, subject to market conditions.
Since the inception of the repurchase program in December 2003, the Company has invested $6.4 billion in its common stock and related securities reducing the number of shares outstanding by nearly 10%. These investments include repurchasing $5.0 billion or 176 million shares of common stock and paying $1.4 billion to redeem several debt issues exchangeable into 47 million shares of common stock.
 
 
2006 Financial Outlook
For 2006, excluding pending transactions with Adelphia and Time Warner, Comcast increases its previously issued guidance, as follows:
Cable
 
 
 
 
Consolidated
 
 
For 2006, excluding pending transactions with Adelphia and Time Warner, Comcast reaffirms the following previously issued guidance:
 
* Includes the impact of expensing stock options in 2005 and 2006. The impact on Operating Cash Flow for 2005 had we expensed stock options would have been an incremental expense of approximately $166 million, including $117 million at Comcast Cable (see Table 7-A and 7-B).
** Free Cash Flow is defined as "Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities From Continuing Operations" (as stated in our Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows) reduced by capital expenditures and cash paid for intangible assets; and increased by any payments related to certain non-operating items, net of estimated tax benefits (such as income taxes on investment sales, and non-recurring payments related to income tax and litigation contingencies of acquired companies). Please see Table 4 for further details.
Conference Call Information
Comcast Corporation will host a conference call with the financial community today July 27, 2006 at 8:30 a.m. Eastern Time (ET). The conference call will be broadcast live on the Company's Investor Relations website at www.cmcsa.com or www.cmcsk.com. A recording of the call will be available on the Investor Relations website starting at 12:30 p.m. ET on July 27, 2006. Those parties interested in participating via telephone should dial (800) 263-8495 with the conference ID number 9949190. A telephone replay will begin immediately following the call until July 28, 2006 at midnight ET. To access the rebroadcast, please dial (800) 642-1687 and enter passcode number 9949190. To automatically receive Comcast financial news by email, please visit www.cmcsa.com or www.cmcsk.com and subscribe to email alerts.
This press release contains forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned that such forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual events or our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any such forward-looking statements. Readers are directed to Comcast's periodic and other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) for a description of such risks and uncertainties.
In this discussion we sometimes refer to financial measures that are not presented according to generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Certain of these measures are considered "non-GAAP financial measures" under the SEC regulations; those rules require the supplemental explanation and reconciliation provided in Table 7 of this release. All percentages are calculated based on actual amounts. Minor differences may exist due to rounding.
About Comcast:
Comcast Corporation (Nasdaq: CMCSA, CMCSK) (http://www.comcast.com) is the nation's leading provider of cable, entertainment and communications products and services. With 21.7 million cable customers, 9.3 million high-speed Internet customers, and 1.7 million voice customers, Comcast is principally involved in the development, management and operation of broadband cable networks and in the delivery of programming content.
The Company's content networks and investments include E! Entertainment Television, Style Network, The Golf Channel, OLN, G4, AZN Television, PBS KIDS Sprout, TV One and four regional Comcast SportsNets. The Company also has a majority ownership in Comcast-Spectacor, whose major holdings include the Philadelphia Flyers NHL hockey team, the Philadelphia 76ers NBA basketball team and two large multipurpose arenas in Philadelphia. Comcast Class A common stock and Class A Special common stock trade on The NASDAQ Stock Market under the symbols CMCSA and CMCSK, respectively.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Non-GAAP and Other Financial Measures
Operating Cash Flow is the primary basis used to measure the operational strength and performance of our businesses. Free Cash Flow is an additional performance measure used as an indicator of our ability to repay debt, make investments and return capital to investors, principally through stock repurchases. We also adjust certain historical data on a pro forma basis following significant acquisitions or dispositions to enhance comparability.
Operating Cash Flow is defined as operating income before depreciation and amortization, excluding impairment charges related to fixed and intangible assets and gains or losses on sale of assets, if any. As such, it eliminates the significant level of non-cash depreciation and amortization expense that results from the capital intensive nature of our businesses and intangible assets recognized in business combinations, and is unaffected by our capital structure or investment activities. Our management and Board of Directors use this measure in evaluating our consolidated operating performance and the operating performance of all of our operating segments. This metric is used to allocate resources and capital to our operating segments and is a significant component of our annual incentive compensation programs. We believe that Operating Cash Flow is also useful to investors as it is one of the bases for comparing our operating performance with other companies in our industries, although our measure of Operating Cash Flow may not be directly comparable to similar measures used by other companies.
As Operating Cash Flow is the measure of our segment profit or loss, we reconcile it to operating income, the most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP), in the business segment footnote of our quarterly and annual financial statements. Therefore, we believe our measure of Operating Cash Flow for our business segments is not a "non-GAAP financial measure" as contemplated by Regulation G adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission. Consolidated Operating Cash Flow is a non-GAAP financial measure.
Beginning in 2006, we changed our definition of Free Cash Flow, which is a non-GAAP financial measure, to mean "Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities From Continuing Operations" (as stated in our Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows) reduced by capital expenditures and cash paid for intangible assets; and increased by any payments related to certain non-operating items, net of estimated tax benefits (such as income taxes on investment sales, and non-recurring payments related to income tax and litigation contingencies of acquired companies). We believe that Free Cash Flow is also useful to investors as it is one of the bases for comparing our performance with other companies in our industries, although our measure of Free Cash Flow may not be comparable to similar measures used by other companies.
Pro forma data is used by management to evaluate performance when significant acquisitions or dispositions occur. Historical data reflects results of acquired businesses only after the acquisition dates while pro forma data enhances comparability of financial information between periods by adjusting the data as if the acquisitions (or dispositions) occurred at the beginning of the prior year. Our pro forma data is only adjusted for the timing of acquisitions and does not include adjustments for costs related to integration activities, cost savings or synergies that have been or may be achieved by the combined businesses. We believe our pro forma data is not a non-GAAP financial measure as contemplated by Regulation G.
In certain circumstances we also present data, as adjusted, in order to enhance comparability between periods. In connection with the adoption of FAS 123R, we have adjusted 2005 data as if stock options had been expensed.
Operating Cash Flow and Free Cash Flow should not be considered as substitutes for operating income (loss), net income (loss), net cash provided by operating activities or other measures of performance or liquidity reported in accordance with GAAP. Additionally, in the opinion of management, our pro forma data is not necessarily indicative of future results or what results would have been had the acquired businesses been operated by us after the assumed earlier date.
We provide reconciliations of Consolidated Operating Cash Flow in Table 1, Free Cash Flow in Table 4 and "as adjusted" in Table 7-A and 7-B.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


