FILE:CMCSA/CMCSA-8K-20060427070632.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On April 27, 2006, Comcast Corporation ("Comcast") issued a press release reporting the results of its operations for the three months ended March 31, 2006. The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. Comcast does not intend for this Item 2.02 or Exhibit 99.1 to be treated as "filed" under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or incorporated by reference into its filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Item 9.01. Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Philadelphia, PA  April 27, 2006Comcast Corporation (Nasdaq: CMCSA, CMCSK) today reported results for the quarter ended March 31, 2006.
The following table highlights results for the first quarter of 2006 compared to the first quarter of 2005 (dollars in millions, except per share amounts; units in thousands):
 
 
Brian L. Roberts, Chairman and CEO of Comcast Corporation said, "Our first quarter results set new records across the board. RGU additions accelerated in the first three months to the highest level in the Company's history. We posted record subscriber additions in digital, high-speed Internet and voice and added more basic subscribers this quarter than any first quarter in the last three years. This terrific performance reflects our success in delivering superior services and in forging broader relationships and stronger connections with our customers.
"The next several years will provide tremendous growth opportunities for Comcast. Comcast Digital Voice is available to more people every day, and by the end of this year we will be marketing our Triple Play' package of video, voice and data services to the majority of our customers. This will continue to reinforce our competitive advantage and position us to deliver more value to our customers and shareholders."
Cable Segment Results
(2)
Cable revenue increased 9% to $5.6 billion in the first quarter of 2006 reflecting the addition of 965,000 new video, high-speed Internet and phone subscriptions. At the same time we maintained stable to higher average revenue per subscriber, as well as modest growth in our advertising business, as outlined below.
Video
 
Video revenue increased 6% to $3.6 billion in the first quarter of 2006, reflecting a 1.3 million or 14% increase in the number of digital customers from the first quarter of 2005. Comcast Cable ended the quarter with 10.1 million digital cable subscribers, a 47% penetration rate of the Company's 21.5 million basic cable subscribers.
Growth in video revenue and digital cable subscribers also reflects increasing consumer demand for new digital features including ON DEMAND, digital video recorders (DVR) and HDTV programming. Driven by ON DEMAND movie and event purchases, pay-per-view revenues increased 29% from the first quarter of 2005. Pay-per-view revenue has shown strong growth with the rollout of ON DEMAND, increasing more than 20% on average over the past two years. Further contributing to video revenue growth, 28% of digital customers subscribed to DVR and/or HDTV services as of March 31, 2006 compared to 17% in the prior year.
High-Speed Internet
 
High-Speed Internet revenues increased 22% to $1.1 billion in the first quarter of 2006, reflecting a 1.5 million or 21% increase in subscribers from the prior year and stable average monthly revenue per subscriber of $43.14. Comcast Cable ended the first quarter of 2006 with 9.0 million high-speed Internet subscribers or 22% penetration of available homes.
Phone
 
Phone revenue increased 9% to $191 million reflecting a $37 million increase in CDV revenues as a result of the significant increase in CDV subscribers, offset by a $21 million or 12% decline in circuit-switched phone revenues as Comcast transitions to marketing CDV. Comcast Cable ended the first quarter of 2006 with 416,000 CDV customers. On a net basis, Comcast Cable reported 141,000 net new phone customer additions in the first quarter of 2006 compared to 4,000 in 2005. By the end of 2006, CDV service will be marketed to 32 million homes or approximately 80% of Comcast's footprint.
(RGU) represent the sum of basic and digital video subscribers, high-speed Internet and phone subscribers. Comcast added a record level of 965,000 RGUs in the first quarter of 2006, a 64% increase from the same period in 2005. Comcast ended the first quarter of 2006 with 42 million RGUs, an increase of 3 million units from the prior year.
Revenue generating units
revenue increased 4% to $309 million in the first quarter of 2006 when compared to 2005, reflecting general weakness in the regional and national advertising marketplace.
Advertising
 
Cable results are presented on a pro forma, as adjusted, basis. Pro forma results adjust only for certain acquisitions and dispositions. There were no significant acquisitions or dispositions in the first quarter of 2006. These "as adjusted" results are presented as if stock options had been expensed in 2005. Please refer to Table 7-A for a reconciliation of "as adjusted" financial data.
(2)
 
(as defined in Table 7) grew 12% to $2.2 billion in the first quarter of 2006. Operating Cash Flow margin increased to 39.6% in the first quarter of 2006 from 38.6% in the same period of 2005 reflecting strong revenue growth and our continuing success in controlling the growth of operating costs.
Operating Cash Flow
of $864 million in the first quarter of 2006 remained relatively unchanged when compared to one year ago. In the first quarter of 2006 and consistent with the prior year, 74% of cable capital expenditures were variable and directly associated with new product deployment and strong consumer demand for our products.
Capital expenditures
Content Segment Results
(3)
Comcast's Content segment consists of our national cable networks E! Entertainment Television and Style Network (E! Networks), The Golf Channel, OLN, G4 and AZN Television.
The Content segment reported first quarter 2006 revenue of $239 million, a 12% increase from 2005 reflecting increases in network ratings and advertising revenue. Operating Cash Flow declined 34% to $50 million in the first quarter of 2006, primarily reflecting programming and production expenses related to OLN's coverage of the National Hockey League (NHL) beginning in the fourth quarter of 2005.
Corporate and Other
(3)
Corporate and Other includes Comcast Spectacor, corporate overhead and other operations and eliminations between Comcast's businesses. In the first quarter of 2006, Comcast reported Corporate and Other revenue of $74 million and an Operating Cash Flow loss of $64 million, as compared to revenue of $44 million and an Operating Cash Flow loss of $55 million in 2005. The increase in revenue reflects the return of National Hockey League games at Comcast Spectacor for the 2006 season.
Consolidated Results
increased 21% to $1.1 billion in the first quarter of 2006 due to strong results at Comcast Cable including record- setting subscriber additions, as described above.
Operating Income
increased to $466 million, or $0.22 per share, in the first quarter of 2006, compared to net income of $143 million or $0.06 per share in the first quarter of 2005. In addition to strong operational results at Comcast Cable, the current quarter also reflects investment gains of $64 million, the impact of stock option expense totaling $34 million and a lower income tax rate.
Net income
Investment gains were due primarily to increases in the fair market value of our investment portfolio while income tax expense reflects a benefit related to the favorable resolution of certain tax matters. The income tax rate for the first quarter of 2006 excluding this benefit was approximately 44%. The prior-year quarter results include investment losses related to declines in the fair market value of our investment portfolio of $36 million and a $108 million charge to other expense primarily related to a litigation settlement, net of other items.
increased to $1.7 billion in the first quarter of 2006 from $1.3 billion in the same period of 2005 due primarily to stronger operating results and changes in operating assets and liabilities.
Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities
(described further on Table 4) increased 136% to $775 million in the first quarter of 2006 compared to $328 million in 2005, due primarily to growth in consolidated Operating Cash Flow and changes in working capital. The conversion rate of Operating Cash Flow into Free Cash Flow increased to 35% in the first quarter of 2006 from 16% in the first quarter of last year.
Free Cash Flow
Share Repurchase Program
Comcast repurchased $723 million of its Class A Special Common Stock, or 27 million shares, during the first quarter of 2006. Remaining availability under the Company's stock repurchase program is $4.6 billion. Comcast expects such repurchases to occur from time to time in the open market or in private transactions, subject to market conditions.
Since the inception of the repurchase program in December 2003, the Company has invested $5.7 billion in its common stock and related securities. These investments include repurchasing $4.3 billion or 154
 
Adjusted as if stock options had been expensed in 2005.
(3)
 
million shares of its common stock and paying $1.4 billion to redeem several debt issues exchangeable into 47 million shares of Comcast common stock.
2006 Financial Outlook
For 2006, excluding pending transactions with Adelphia, Time Warner and Susquehanna Communications, Comcast affirms the following previously issued guidance:
 
 
 
 
 
 
* Includes the impact of expensing stock options in 2005 and 2006. The impact on Operating Cash Flow for 2005 had we expensed stock options would have been an incremental expense of approximately $166 million, including $117 million at Comcast Cable (see Table 7-A).
** Free Cash Flow is defined as "Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities From Continuing Operations" (as stated in our Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows) reduced by capital expenditures and cash paid for intangible assets; and increased by any payments related to certain non-operating items, net of estimated tax benefit (such as income taxes on investment sales, and non-recurring payments related to income tax and litigation contingencies of acquired companies). Please see Table 4 for further details.
Conference Call Information
Comcast Corporation will host a conference call with the financial community today April 27, 2006 at 8:30 a.m. Eastern Time (ET). The conference call will be broadcast live on the Company's Investor Relations website at www.cmcsa.com or www.cmcsk.com. A recording of the call will be available on the Investor Relations website starting at 12:30 p.m. ET on April 27, 2006. Those parties interested in participating via telephone should dial (800) 263-8495 with the conference ID number 7310744. A telephone replay will begin immediately following the call until April 28, 2006 at midnight ET. To access the rebroadcast, please dial (800) 642-1687 and enter passcode number 7310744. To automatically receive Comcast financial news by email, please visit www.cmcsa.com or www.cmcsk.com and subscribe to email alerts.
This press release contains forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned that such forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual events or our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any such forward-looking statements. Readers are directed to Comcast's periodic and other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) for a description of such risks and uncertainties.
In this discussion we sometimes refer to financial measures that are not presented according to generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Certain of these measures are considered "non-GAAP financial measures" under the SEC regulations; those rules require the supplemental explanation and reconciliation provided in Table 7 of this release. All percentages are calculated based on actual amounts. Minor differences may exist due to rounding.
About Comcast:
Comcast Corporation (Nasdaq: CMCSA, CMCSK) (www.comcast.com) is the nation's leading provider of cable, entertainment and communications products and services. With 21.5 million cable customers, 9.0 million high-speed Internet customers, and 1.5 million voice customers, Comcast is principally involved in the development, management and operation of broadband cable systems and in the delivery of programming content.
The Company's content networks and investments include E! Entertainment Television, Style Network, The Golf Channel, OLN, G4, AZN Television, PBS KIDS Sprout, TV One and four regional Comcast SportsNets. The Company also has a majority ownership in Comcast Spectacor, whose major holdings include the Philadelphia Flyers NHL hockey team, the Philadelphia 76ers NBA basketball team and two large multipurpose arenas in Philadelphia. Comcast Class A common stock and Class A Special common stock trade on The NASDAQ Stock Market under the symbols CMCSA and CMCSK, respectively.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(1) See Non-GAAP and Other Financial Measures in Table 7 for the definition Free Cash Flow.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Non-GAAP and Other Financial Measures
Operating Cash Flow is the primary basis used to measure the operational strength and performance of our businesses. Free Cash Flow is an additional performance measure used as an indicator of our ability to repay debt, make investments and return capital to investors, principally through stock repurchases. We also adjust certain historical data on a pro forma basis following significant acquisitions or dispositions to enhance comparability.
Operating Cash Flow is defined as operating income before depreciation and amortization, excluding impairment charges related to fixed and intangible assets and gains or losses on sales of assets, if any. As such, it eliminates the significant level of non-cash depreciation and amortization expense that results from the capital intensive nature of our businesses and intangible assets recognized in business combinations, and is unaffected by our capital structure or investment activities. Our management and Board of Directors use this measure in evaluating our consolidated operating performance and the operating performance of all of our operating segments. This metric is used to allocate resources and capital to our operating segments and is a significant component of our annual incentive compensation programs. We believe that Operating Cash Flow is also useful to investors as it is one of the bases for comparing our operating performance with other companies in our industries, although our measure of Operating Cash Flow may not be directly comparable to similar measures used by other companies.
As Operating Cash Flow is the measure of our segment profit or loss, we reconcile it to operating income, the most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP), in the business segment footnote of our quarterly and annual financial statements. Therefore, we believe our measure of Operating Cash Flow for our business segments is not a "non-GAAP financial measure" as contemplated by Regulation G adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission. Consolidated Operating Cash Flow is a non-GAAP financial measure.
Beginning in 2006, we changed our definition of Free Cash Flow, which is a non-GAAP financial measure, to mean "Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities From Continuing Operations" (as stated in our Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows) reduced by capital expenditures and cash paid for intangible assets; and increased by any payments related to certain non-operating items, net of estimated tax benefits (such as income taxes on investment sales, and non-recurring payments related to income tax and litigation contingencies of acquired companies). We believe that Free Cash Flow is also useful to investors as it is one of the bases for comparing our performance with other companies in our industries, although our measure of Free Cash Flow may not be comparable to similar measures used by other companies.
Pro forma data is used by management to evaluate performance when significant acquisitions or dispositions occur. Historical data reflects results of acquired businesses only after the acquisition dates while pro forma data enhances comparability of financial information between periods by adjusting the data as if the acquisitions (or dispositions) occurred at the beginning of the prior year. Our pro forma data is only adjusted for the timing of acquisitions and does not include adjustments for costs related to integration activities, cost savings or synergies that have been or may be achieved by the combined businesses. There were no significant acquisitions or dispositions causing pro forma adjustments to operating results in the first quarter of 2006. We believe our pro forma data is not a non-GAAP financial measure as contemplated by Regulation G.
In certain circumstances we also present data, as adjusted, in order to enhance comparability between periods. In connection with the adoption of FAS 123R, we have adjusted 2005 data as if stock options had been expensed.
Operating Cash Flow and Free Cash Flow should not be considered as substitutes for operating income (loss), net income (loss), net cash provided by operating activities or other measures of performance or liquidity reported in accordance with GAAP. Additionally, in the opinion of management, our pro forma data is not necessarily indicative of future results or what results would have been had the acquired businesses been operated by us after the assumed earlier date.
We provide reconciliations of Consolidated Operating Cash Flow in Table 1, Free Cash Flow in Table 4 and "as adjusted" in Table 7A.
 
 
 
(1) To be consistent with our management reporting, 2005 has been adjusted as if stock options had been expensed as of January 1, 2005. The adjustment by segment is $26 million for Cable, $1 million for Content and $12 million for Corporate and Other.
 


