FILE:CMCSA/CMCSA-8K-20070426070457.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On April 26, 2007, Comcast Corporation ("Comcast") issued a press release reporting the results of its operations for the three months ended March 31, 2007. The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. Comcast does not intend for this Item 2.02 or Exhibit 99.1 to be treated as "filed" under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or incorporated by reference into its filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
In the press release, Comcast presented non-GAAP financial measures, as defined in Regulation G and Item 10(e) of Regulation S-K promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission, as well as other financial measures. Non-GAAP financial measures differ from financial measures reported in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). Comcast provided reconciliations of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable financial GAAP measures in the tables accompanying the press release. In addition, in Table 7, entitled , Comcast disclosed why management believes the presentation of the non-GAAP financial measures it customarily presents provided useful information to investors in understanding Comcast's financial condition and results of operations as well as any additional purposes for which Comcast's management uses these as performance measures.
Non-GAAP and Other Financial Measures
In the press release, Comcast provided one additional non-GAAP financial measure to those described in Table 7, along with a reconciliation of this measure in Table 7B:
 
Comcast believes this additional non-GAAP measure provides useful information to investors. Among other things, it may help investors evaluate Comcast's ongoing operations, can assist in making meaningful period-over-period comparisons and can help identify trends that could otherwise be masked or distorted by the excluded items. In particular, net income in 2007 includes a significant non-operating gain resulting from the dissolution of our Texas and Kansas City Cable Partnership that did not occur in 2006.
Item 9.01. Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Philadelphia, PA  April 26, 2007Comcast Corporation (NASDAQ: CMCSA, CMCSK) today reported results for the quarter ended March 31, 2007. The following table highlights financial and operational results (dollars in millions, except per share amounts; units in thousands):
 
Brian L. Roberts, Chairman and CEO of Comcast Corporation, said, "We are off to a fabulous start to the year and see increasing momentum as we move ahead. Strong consumer demand for our superior products delivered through our Triple Play offering resulted in another quarter of record performance at our cable divisionand we are just getting started capitalizing on the triple play opportunity. This was our 3
rd
consecutive quarter of record-breaking RGU growth and the 27
th
consecutive quarter of double digit OCF growth. We are highly confident that our strategy and focus on operational execution and product innovation will deliver great results in 2007 and beyond."
Cable Segment Results
1
Revenue
increased 12% to $7.0 billion for the first quarter of 2007 reflecting increasing consumer demand for Comcast's services and the success of the Comcast Triple Play.
Revenue generating unit
(RGU)
2
additions increased 63% to a record 1.8 million in the first quarter of 2007 compared to 1.1 million additions in the same quarter of 2006. Comcast ended the first quarter of 2007 with 52.6 million RGUs.
Operating Cash Flow
(as defined in Table 7) grew 14% to $2.8 billion in the first quarter of 2007 resulting in an Operating Cash Flow margin of 39.9%, an increase from the 39.2% reported in the same quarter of 2006. The margin improvement reflects strong revenue growth and our continuing success in controlling the growth of operating costs, even as we experience higher service and installation activity from record RGU additions.
 
Video
 
Video revenue increased 8% to $4.4 billion in the first quarter of 2007, reflecting growth in digital cable customers and increased demand for new digital features including ON DEMAND, digital video recorders (DVR) and HDTV programming (HDTV), as well as higher basic cable pricing.
Basic cable subscribers increased by 75,000 to 24.2 million during the first quarter of 2007 with 13.3 million or 55% of video customers taking digital cable services. Comcast added 644,000 digital cable customers in the first quarter of 2007, an increase of 82% from the 355,000 digital cable customers added in the same period one year ago. The digital cable customer additions in the first quarter of 2007 include 337,000 digital cable and 307,000 digital starter subscribers. During the quarter, 535,000 digital cable customers added advanced services, like DVR and HDTV, to their digital service either by upgrading or as new customers. This compares to 310,000 additions in the same quarter one year ago. Pay-per-view revenue increased 26% to $181 million in the first quarter of 2007 driven by increasing ON DEMAND movie purchases. Pay-per-view revenue has increased more than 20% on average over each of the past nine quarters.
High-Speed Internet
 
 
High-speed Internet revenues increased 21% to $1.5 billion in the first quarter of 2007, reflecting a 1.9 million or 19% increase in subscribers from the prior year and stable average monthly revenue per subscriber of approximately $43. Comcast ended the first quarter of 2007 with 12.1 million high-speed Internet subscribers or 26% penetration of available homes.
Phone
 
 
Phone revenue increased 88% to $353 million in the first quarter of 2007 reflecting a $216 million increase in CDV revenues from the prior year as a result of the significant growth in CDV subscribers. The increase in phone revenue was partially offset by a $50 million or 38% decline in circuit-switched phone revenues as Comcast focuses on marketing CDV in most markets. Comcast ended the first quarter of 2007 with 2.4 million CDV customers or 7% of available homes.
Advertising
revenue decreased 3% to $313 million in the first quarter of 2007, due primarily to the impact of 12 broadcast weeks in the current quarter compared to 13 weeks in the same period of the prior year.
Capital expenditures
totaled $1.4 billion in the first quarter of 2007, driven by a 63% increase in RGU additions and include approximately $70 million related to network improvements and integration of the newly acquired cable systems from Adelphia and Time Warner. Consistent with historical trends, approximately 75% of cable capital expenditures in the first quarter of 2007 were variable and directly associated with demand for new products.
Programming Segment Results
Comcast's Programming segment consists of our national programming networks E! Entertainment Television and Style Network (E! Networks), The Golf Channel, VERSUS, G4, and AZN.
 
The Programming segment reported first quarter 2007 revenue of $302 million, a 27% increase from the first quarter of 2006 and Operating Cash Flow of $65 million, or a 30% increase, reflecting higher network ratings, advertising revenue and distribution revenue.
Corporate and Other
Corporate and Other includes Comcast Spectacor, corporate overhead and other operations, and eliminations between Comcast's businesses. For the first quarter 2007, Corporate and Other revenue increased to $88 million from the $87 million reported in the first quarter of 2006. The Operating Cash Flow loss for the first quarter of 2007 was $95 million compared to a loss of $55 million for the same period in 2006, primarily reflecting a decline in Operating Cash Flow at Comcast Spectacor and increased expenses at Comcast Interactive Media.
Consolidated Results
Revenue
increased 32% in the first quarter of 2007 to $7.4 billion while
Operating Cash Flow
increased 32% to $2.8 billion and
Operating Income
increased 26% to $1.3 billion. This significant growth was due to strong results at Comcast Cable and the impact of cable system acquisitions.
Net Income
increased to $837 million, or $0.26 per share, in the first quarter of 2007, compared to net income of $466 million or $0.15 per share in the first quarter 2006. In addition to strong operating results at Comcast Cable, the quarter includes a one-time gain, included in other income, of $500 million (or $300 million net of tax) related to the dissolution of our Texas/Kansas City Cable Partnership. As part of that transaction, Comcast received cable systems serving Houston, Texas. Excluding the gain associated with the partnership dissolution and reconciled in Table 7-B Adjusted Net Income for the first quarter of 2007 would be $537 million or $0.17 per share.
Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities
increased to $2.0 billion in the first quarter of 2007 from $1.7 billion in the same period of 2006 due primarily to strong operating results.
Free Cash Flow
(described further on Table 4) totaled $442 million in the first quarter of 2007 compared to $807 million in the same period of 2006, due primarily to growth in consolidated Operating Cash Flow offset by increased capital expenditures driven by record setting RGU additions.
Share Repurchase Program
Comcast repurchased $500 million of its Class A Special Common Stock, or 18.7 million shares, during the first quarter of 2007. Remaining availability, as of March 31, 2007, under the Company's stock repurchase program is $2.5 billion. Comcast expects such repurchases to occur from time to time in the open market or in private transactions, subject to market conditions.
Since the inception of the repurchase program in December 2003, the Company has invested $7.9 billion in its common stock and related securities. These investments include repurchasing $6.5 billion or 322.1 million shares of its common stock and paying $1.4 billion to redeem several debt issues exchangeable into 70.9 million shares of Comcast common stock.
2007 Financial Outlook
For 2007, Comcast reaffirms the following previously issued guidance:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes:
 
 
 
Conference Call Information
Comcast Corporation will host a conference call with the financial community today April 26, 2007 at 8:30 a.m. Eastern Time (ET). The conference call will be broadcast live on the Company's Investor Relations website at www.cmcsa.com or www.cmcsk.com. A recording of the call will be available on the Investor Relations website starting at 12:30 p.m. ET on April 26, 2007. Those parties interested in participating via telephone should dial (800) 263-8495 with the conference ID number 3378516. A telephone replay will begin immediately following the call until April 27, 2007 at midnight ET. To access the rebroadcast, please dial (800) 642-1687 and enter passcode number 3378516. To automatically receive Comcast financial news by email, please visit www.cmcsa.com or www.cmcsk.com and subscribe to email alerts.
This press release contains forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned that such forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual events or our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any such forward-looking statements. Readers are directed to Comcast's periodic and other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) for a description of such risks and uncertainties.
In this discussion, we sometimes refer to financial measures that are not presented according to generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. (GAAP). Certain of these measures are considered "non-GAAP financial measures" under the SEC regulations; those rules require the supplemental explanations and reconciliations provided in Table 7 of this release. All percentages
are calculated based on actual amounts. Minor differences may exist due to rounding.
About Comcast:
Comcast Corporation (Nasdaq: CMCSA, CMCSK) (http://www.comcast.com) is the nation's leading provider of cable, entertainment and communications products and services. With 24.2 million cable customers, 12.1 million high-speed Internet customers, and 3.0 million voice customers, Comcast is principally involved in the development, management and operation of cable systems and in the delivery of programming content.
Comcast's programming networks and investments include E! Entertainment Television, Style Network, The Golf Channel, VERSUS, G4, AZN Television, PBS KIDS Sprout, TV One, eight regional Comcast SportsNets and Comcast Interactive Media, which develops and operates Comcast's Internet business. Comcast also has a majority ownership in Comcast-Spectacor, whose major holdings include the Philadelphia Flyers NHL hockey team, the Philadelphia 76ers NBA basketball team and two large multipurpose arenas in Philadelphia.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Non-GAAP and Other Financial Measures
Operating Cash Flow is the primary basis used to measure the operational strength and performance of our businesses. Free Cash Flow is an additional performance measure used as an indicator of our ability to repay debt, make investments and return capital to investors, principally through stock repurchases. We also adjust certain historical data on a pro forma basis following certain acquisitions or dispositions to enhance comparability.
Operating Cash Flow is defined as operating income before depreciation and amortization, excluding impairment charges related to fixed and intangible assets and gains or losses on sale of assets, if any. As such, it eliminates the significant level of non-cash depreciation and amortization expense that results from the capital intensive nature of our businesses and intangible assets recognized in business combinations, and is unaffected by our capital structure or investment activities. Our management and Board of Directors use this measure in evaluating our consolidated operating performance and the operating performance of all of our operating segments. This metric is used to allocate resources and capital to our operating segments and is a significant performance measure in our annual incentive compensation programs. We believe that Operating Cash Flow is also useful to investors as it is one of the bases for comparing our operating performance with other companies in our industries, although our measure of Operating Cash Flow may not be directly comparable to similar measures used by other companies.
As Operating Cash Flow is the measure of our segment profit or loss, we reconcile it to operating income, the most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (GAAP), in the business segment footnote of our quarterly and annual financial statements. Therefore, we believe our measure of Operating Cash Flow for our business segments is not a "non-GAAP financial measure" as contemplated by Regulation G adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission. Consolidated Operating Cash Flow is a non-GAAP financial measure.
Free Cash Flow, which is a non-GAAP financial measure, is defined as "Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities From Continuing Operations" (as stated in our Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows) reduced by capital expenditures and cash paid for intangible assets; and increased by any payments related to certain non-operating items, net of estimated tax benefits (such as income taxes on investment sales, and non-recurring payments related to income tax and litigation contingencies of acquired companies). We believe that Free Cash Flow is also useful to investors as it is one of the bases for comparing our performance with other companies in our industries, although our measure of Free Cash Flow may not be comparable to similar measures used by other companies.
Pro forma data is used by management to evaluate performance when certain acquisitions or dispositions occur. Historical data reflects results of acquired businesses only after the acquisition dates while pro forma data enhances comparability of financial information between periods by adjusting the data as if the acquisitions or dispositions occurred at the beginning of the prior year. Our pro forma data is only adjusted for the timing of acquisitions or dispositions and does not include adjustments for costs related to integration activities, cost savings or synergies that have been or may be achieved by the combined businesses. We believe our pro forma data is not a non-GAAP financial measure as contemplated by Regulation G.
In certain circumstances we also present data, as adjusted, in order to enhance comparability between periods.
Operating Cash Flow and Free Cash Flow should not be considered as substitutes for operating income (loss), net income (loss), net cash provided by operating activities or other measures of performance or liquidity reported in accordance with GAAP. Additionally, in the opinion of management, our pro forma data is not necessarily indicative of future results or what results would have been had the acquired businesses been operated by us after the assumed earlier date.
We provide reconciliations of Consolidated Operating Cash Flow in Table 1, Free Cash Flow in Table 4, Pro Forma in Table 7-A and Adjusted Net Income in Table 7-B.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


