FILE:CMCSA/CMCSA-8K-20080501070553.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On May 1, 2008, Comcast Corporation ("Comcast") issued a press release reporting the results of its operations for the three months ended March 31, 2008. The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. Comcast does not intend for this Item 2.02 or Exhibit 99.1 to be treated as "filed" under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or incorporated by reference into its filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Philadelphia, PA  May 1, 2008Comcast Corporation (NASDAQ: CMCSA, CMCSK) today reported results for the quarter ended March 31, 2008. The following table highlights financial results (dollars in millions, except per share amounts):
 
 
 
 
See notes on page 4
Brian L. Roberts, Chairman and CEO of Comcast Corporation, said, "Our results for the first quarter mark a solid start to 2008. We delivered healthy growth in revenues, operating cash flow, free cash flow, adjusted EPS and strong unit additions. Our performance demonstrates that our operating strategy is working in an economic and competitive environment that continues to be challenging. We are confident that our outlook for 2008 is achievable and we are on track to deliver on our goal of consistent and profitable growth that builds long term shareholder value. In addition, we invested $1 billion to repurchase nearly 2% of our shares outstanding in the first quarter of 2008, and, on April 30, we made our first payment on our recently announced quarterly dividend to shareholders."
Consolidated Results
increased 14% in the first quarter of 2008 to $8.4 billion while (as defined in Table 7) increased 15% to $3.2 billion and increased 23% to $1.6 billion.
Revenue
Operating Cash Flow
Operating Income
This growth was due to strong operating results at Comcast Cable and in our Programming segment as well as the positive impact of cable acquisitions.
On a pro forma basis
2
, Consolidated Revenue increased 10% to $8.4 billion in the first quarter of 2008 while Consolidated Operating Cash Flow increased 12% to $3.2 billion.
in the first quarter of 2008 was $732 million, or $0.24 per share compared to $837 million or $0.26 per share in the prior year. Net income in 2008 and 2007 includes gains from the dissolution of cable partnerships. Excluding these one-time gains in both periods and as reconciled in Table 7-B, Adjusted Net Income for the first quarter of 2008 increased to $588 million, or $0.19 per share, compared to $537 million or $0.17 per share in the first quarter of 2007.
Net Income
increased to $2.3 billion for the three months ended March 31, 2008 from $2.0 billion in 2007 due primarily to strong operating results.
Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities
(described further on Table 4) totaled $702 million in the first quarter of 2008 as compared to $442 million in 2007. The increase in Free Cash Flow is due primarily to growth in consolidated Operating Cash Flow along with relatively unchanged capital expenditures at Comcast Cable totaling $1.4 billion.
Free Cash Flow
Pro Forma Cable Segment Results
3
increased 10% to $7.9 billion for the first quarter of 2008 as compared to $7.2 billion in the first quarter of 2007. The increase in first quarter revenue reflects price increases for our video services as well as solid unit growth for Comcast High-Speed Internet, Comcast Digital Voice and Comcast Digital Cable with advanced services, offset by modestly lower average revenue per unit on several products due to an increase in customers receiving service as part of a promotional offer or in a new product package.
Revenue
(as defined in Table 7) grew 9% to $3.1 billion in the first quarter of 2008 from $2.9 billion in the first quarter of 2007. Operating Cash Flow margin was 39.7%, a slight decrease from the 39.9% reported in the first quarter of 2007, reflecting an increase in marketing expenses as well as increased costs as Comcast scales its Business Class services.
Operating Cash Flow
Video
 
 
 
Video revenue increased 5% to $4.7 billion in the first quarter of 2008 from $4.5 billion in 2007. The revenue increase reflects price increases for basic and digital video services, growth in digital video customers, and increased demand for digital features including ON DEMAND, DVR and HDTV, offset in part by an increasing number of customers in promotional offers.
Comcast added 494,000 digital cable customers in the first quarter of 2008 including 310,000 full digital cable and 184,000 digital starter subscribers. During the quarter, 450,000 digital cable customers added advanced services, like DVR and HDTV, to their digital service either by upgrading or as new customers. As of March 31, 2008, 43% or 6.9 million of our digital cable customers receive advanced services, 33% or 5.3 million receive full digital cable, and 24% or 3.8 million are digital starter subscribers.
High-Speed Internet
 
High-speed Internet revenue increased 12% to $1.8 billion in the first quarter of 2008 from $1.6 billion in 2007. The revenue growth reflects a 1.6 million or 13% increase in subscribers from the prior year offset by a 2% decline in average monthly revenue per subscriber to $42.18. The strong subscriber and revenue growth in the first quarter of 2008 benefited from the introduction of additional promotional offers
 
See notes on page 4
 
and speed tiers, including Comcast's BLAST and Performance Plus services (8Mbps or higher service) and Comcast's Economy Internet service (768Kbps service).
Phone
 
Phone revenue increased 65% to $587 million in the first quarter of 2008 from $356 million in 2007. Reflecting the addition of 2.6 million CDV subscribers in the last twelve months, revenue from CDV service more than doubled to $573 million in the first quarter of 2008 compared to the same period of the prior year. Circuit-switched phone revenue declined $69 million to $14 million in the first quarter of 2008. Comcast has 66,000 circuit-switched customers, and expects to wind down that business by mid-year 2008.
revenue increased 6% to $344 million in the first quarter of 2008 from $322 million in 2007, due primarily to one additional week in the broadcast advertising calendar and an increase in political advertising including revenue from the U.S. presidential primary elections. Excluding the positive impact from the extra broadcast week and political advertising, advertising revenues decreased 5% from a year ago, reflecting softness in the advertising marketplace, particularly in auto and housing-related categories.
Advertising
Programming Segment Results
Comcast's Programming segment consists of our national programming networks E! Entertainment Television and Style Network (E! Networks), The Golf Channel, VERSUS, and G4.
The Programming segment reported first quarter 2008 revenue of $363 million, a 20% increase from the $302 million in 2007 reflecting one additional week in the broadcast advertising calendar, higher viewership as well as higher advertising and distribution revenue. Operating Cash Flow increased to $113 million or 76%, from the $65 million in 2007 due to the strong revenue.
Corporate and Other
Corporate and Other includes corporate overhead, Comcast Spectacor, Comcast Interactive Media (CIM), and other operations and eliminations between Comcast's businesses. For the first quarter of 2008, Corporate and Other revenue increased to $110 million from $88 million in the first quarter of 2007 primarily due to the strong performance at CIM from internet advertising and search revenue and the inclusion of Fandango. The Operating Cash Flow loss for the first quarter of 2008 decreased to $81 million compared to a loss of $96 million for the same period in 2007.
Share Repurchases and Dividends
In the first quarter of 2008, Comcast repurchased 53.1 million of its common shares for $1.0 billion, reducing the number of total shares outstanding by nearly 2%. In the twelve months leading up to March 31, 2008, Comcast repurchased 5% of its shares outstanding. As of March 31, 2008, Comcast had approximately $5.9 billion of availability remaining under its share repurchase authorization, which it intends to fully utilize by the end of 2009.
Since the inception of the repurchase program in December 2003, Comcast has invested $11.5 billion in its common stock and related securities, reducing the number of shares outstanding by 16%. These investments include repurchasing $10.1 billion or 489.4 million shares of its common stock and paying $1.4 billion to redeem several debt issues exchangeable into 70.9 million shares of Comcast common stock.
On February 14, 2008, Comcast's Board of Directors declared a $0.0625 quarterly cash dividend on Comcast common stock. The quarterly dividend totaling $185 million was paid on April 30, 2008.
2008 Financial Outlook
For 2008, Comcast reaffirms the following previously issued guidance:
 
 
 
See notes on page 4
 
The outlook above does not reflect the impact of any tax law changes including the U.S. Government economic stimulus package or any future sales or acquisitions of businesses or operating assets (or related tax effects).
Notes:
 
 
 
Conference Call Information
Comcast Corporation will host a conference call with the financial community today, May 1, 2008 at 8:30 a.m. Eastern Time (ET). The conference call will be broadcast live on Comcast's Investor Relations website at www.cmcsa.com or www.cmcsk.com. A recording of the call will be available on the Investor Relations website starting at 12:30 p.m. ET on May 1, 2008. Those parties interested in participating via telephone should dial (800) 263-8495 with the conference ID number 39992756. A telephone replay will begin immediately following the call until Friday, May 2, 2008 at midnight ET. To access the rebroadcast, please dial (800) 642-1687 and enter passcode number 39992756. To automatically receive Comcast financial news by email, please visit www.cmcsa.com or www.cmcsk.com and subscribe to email alerts.
This press release contains forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned that such forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual events or our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any such forward-looking statements. Readers are directed to Comcast's periodic and other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) for a description of such risks and uncertainties.
In this discussion, we sometimes refer to financial measures that are not presented according to generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. (GAAP). Certain of these measures are considered "non-GAAP financial measures" under the SEC regulations; those rules require the supplemental explanations and reconciliations provided in Table 7 of this release. All percentages are calculated based on actual amounts. Minor differences may exist due to rounding.
About Comcast Corporation
Comcast Corporation (Nasdaq: CMCSA, CMCSK) (http://www.comcast.com) is the nation's leading provider of entertainment, information and communications products and services. With 24.7 million cable customers, 14.1 million high-speed Internet customers, and 5.2 million voice customers, Comcast is principally involved in the development, management and operation of broadband cable systems and in the delivery of programming content.
Comcast's content networks and investments include E! Entertainment Television, Style Network, The Golf Channel, VERSUS, G4, PBS KIDS Sprout, TV One, ten Comcast SportsNet networks and Comcast Interactive Media, which develops and operates Comcast's Internet business. Comcast also has a majority ownership in Comcast-Spectacor, whose major holdings include the Philadelphia Flyers NHL hockey team, the Philadelphia 76ers NBA basketball team and two large multipurpose arenas in Philadelphia.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CPE includes costs incurred at the customer residence to secure new customers, revenue units and additional bandwidth revenues (e.g. digital converters). Scalable infrastructure includes costs, not CPE or network related, to secure growth of new customers, revenue units and additional bandwidth revenues or provide service enhancements (e.g. headend equipment). Line extensions include network costs associated with entering new service areas (e.g. fiber/coaxial cable). Support capital includes costs associated with the replacement or enhancement of non-network assets due to obsolescence and wear out (e.g. non-network equipment, land, buildings and vehicles). Upgrades include costs to enhance or replace existing fiber/coaxial cable networks, including network improvements. Business Services includes fiber/coax extension, electronics, CPE and costs to secure new customers.
Management evaluates capital expenditures by categorizing investments into three groups: Growth, Maintenance and Discretionary. Growth is directly tied to revenue generation and represents the costs required to secure new customers, revenue units or additional bandwidth revenues. Maintenance includes investments that allow the company to maintain its competitive position and provide a foundation for growth. Discretionary includes investments that lay the groundwork for future products and services, such as our investments in interactive advertising, cross-platform product development or switched digital video.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Non-GAAP and Other Financial Measures
Operating Cash Flow is the primary basis used to measure the operational strength and performance of our businesses. Free Cash Flow and Unlevered Free Cash Flow are additional performance measures used as indicators of our ability to service and repay debt, make investments and return capital to investors, through stock repurchases and dividends. We also adjust certain historical data on a pro forma basis following certain acquisitions or dispositions to enhance comparability.
Operating Cash Flow is defined as operating income before depreciation and amortization, excluding impairment charges related to fixed and intangible assets and gains or losses on sale of assets, if any. As such, it eliminates the significant level of non-cash depreciation and amortization expense that results from the capital intensive nature of our businesses and intangible assets recognized in business combinations, and is unaffected by our capital structure or investment activities. Our management and Board of Directors use this measure in evaluating our consolidated operating performance and the operating performance of all of our operating segments. This metric is used to allocate resources and capital to our operating segments and is a significant performance measure in our annual incentive compensation programs. We believe that Operating Cash Flow is also useful to investors as it is one of the bases for comparing our operating performance with other companies in our industries, although our measure of Operating Cash Flow may not be directly comparable to similar measures used by other companies.
As Operating Cash Flow is the measure of our segment profit or loss, we reconcile it to operating income, the most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (GAAP), in the business segment footnote of our quarterly and annual financial statements. Therefore, we believe our measure of Operating Cash Flow for our business segments is not a "non-GAAP financial measure" as contemplated by Regulation G adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission. Consolidated Operating Cash Flow is a non-GAAP financial measure.
Free Cash Flow, which is a non-GAAP financial measure, is defined as "Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities" (as stated in our Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows) reduced by capital expenditures and cash paid for intangible assets; and adjusted for any payments related to certain nonoperating items, net of estimated tax benefits (such as income taxes on investment sales, and nonrecurring payments related to income tax and litigation contingencies of acquired companies). Unlevered Free Cash Flow is Free Cash Flow before cash paid interest. We believe that Free Cash Flow and Unlevered Free Cash Flow are also useful to investors as the basis for comparing our performance and coverage ratios with other companies in our industries, although our measure of Free Cash Flow and Unlevered Free Cash Flow may not be comparable to similar measures used by other companies.
Pro forma data is used by management to evaluate performance when certain acquisitions or dispositions occur. Historical data reflects results of acquired businesses only after the acquisition dates while pro forma data enhances comparability of financial information between periods by adjusting the data as if the acquisitions or dispositions occurred at the beginning of the prior year. Our pro forma data is only adjusted for the timing of acquisitions or dispositions and does not include adjustments for costs related to integration activities, cost savings or synergies that have been or may be achieved by the combined businesses. We believe our pro forma data is not a non-GAAP financial measure as contemplated by Regulation G.
In certain circumstances we also present "adjusted" data, to exclude certain gains, losses or other charges, net of tax (such as from the sales of investments or dispositions of businesses). This "adjusted" data is a non-GAAP measure. We believe, among other things, that the "adjusted" data may help investors evaluate our ongoing operations and can assist in making meaningful period-over-period comparisons.
Operating Cash Flow, Free Cash Flow and Unlevered Free Cash Flow should not be considered as substitutes for operating income (loss), net income (loss), net cash provided by operating activities or other measures of performance or liquidity reported in accordance with GAAP. Additionally, in the opinion of management, our pro forma data is not necessarily indicative of future results or what results would have been had the acquired businesses been operated by us after the assumed earlier date.
We provide reconciliations of Consolidated Operating Cash Flow in Table 1, Free Cash Flow and Unlevered Free Cash Flow in Table 4, Pro Forma in Table 7-A and Adjusted Data in Table 7-B.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


