FILE:CMCSA/CMCSA-8K-20090218070525.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
 
 
Pursuant To Section 13 Or 15(d) of
The Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On February 18, 2009, Comcast Corporation (Comcast) issued a press release reporting the results of its operations for the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2008. The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. Exhibit 99.2 sets forth the reasons Comcast believes that presentation of the non-GAAP financial measures contained in the press release provides useful information to investors regarding Comcast's financial condition and results of operations.  To the extent material, Exhibit 99.2 also discloses the additional purposes, if any, for which Comcast's management uses these non-GAAP financial measures.  A reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures with the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures is included in the press release itself.  Comcast does not intend for this Item 2.02 or Exhibit 99.1 or Exhibit 99.2 to be treated as "filed" under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or incorporated by reference into its filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 
 
 
Item 9.01. Exhibits
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
COMCAST REPORTS FOURTH QUARTER AND YEAR END RESULTS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Philadelphia, PA  February 18, 2009 Comcast Corporation (NASDAQ: CMCSA, CMCSK) today reported results for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2008.
 
Brian L. Roberts, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Comcast Corporation, said, I am very pleased with our results and how we executed in 2008. Despite a very difficult economic environment, we met or exceeded all of our financial targets, demonstrating the strength of our subscription businesses. We also made progress in our key strategic initiatives, including improving the customer experience, deploying wideband in approximately 25% of our footprint, and beginning the process of going All-Digital.
 
For 2009, our goal is to continue to deliver growth even in this challenging environment and we remain focused on Free Cash Flow generation. In fact, as a result of our confidence in the Free Cash Flow capability of our business, today we are announcing an 8% increase in our dividend. We will also continue to invest to support long-term growth and extend our competitive advantage while strengthening our financial profile. We believe this approach and our focus on improving the customer experience will continue to drive shareholder value.
 
Consolidated Financial Results
increased 11% in 2008 to $34.3 billion, while increased 11% to $13.1 billion and increased 21% to $6.7 billion. This growth was due to solid operating results at Comcast Cable and in the Programming segment, as well as the positive impact of cable acquisitions and the dissolution of the Insight Midwest Partnership. On a pro forma basis, Consolidated Revenue increased 8% and Consolidated Operating Cash Flow increased 8%.
Revenue
Operating Cash Flow
Operating Income
1
 
For the quarter ended December 31, 2008, revenue increased 9% to $8.8 billion, Operating Cash Flow increased 9% to $3.4 billion, and Operating Income increased 20% to $1.8 billion, all compared to the same time period in 2007. On a pro forma basis, revenue increased 7% and Operating Cash Flow increased 7%.
 
For additional detail on revenue and operating expenses, customer metrics, and capital expenditures, please refer to the trending schedules on Comcasts Investor Relations website at www.cmcsa.com or www.cmcsk.com.
 
 
for 2008 was $0.86 compared to $0.83 in 2007, which includes a $600 million pretax impairment of the Clearwire investment in 2008, favorable income tax adjustments in 2008 and gains from the dissolution of cable partnerships in 2007 and 2008. Excluding these items, increased 23% to $0.91.
Earnings per Share (EPS)
Adjusted Earnings per Share
2
Earnings per Share for the quarter ended December 31, 2008 was $0.14 compared to $0.20 in the same time period in 2007; Adjusted Earnings per Share increased 35% to $0.27 in the fourth quarter.
 
 
(without the tax benefit from the 2008 Economic Stimulus package) totaled $3.7 billion in 2008 as compared to $2.3 billion in 2007, a 56% increase. The increase in Free Cash Flow (FCF) was due primarily to growth in Consolidated Operating Cash Flow and lower capital expenditures. During 2008, consolidated capital expenditures decreased 7% from the prior year to $5.7 billion, or 16.8% of total revenue, reflecting lower spending for residential services at Comcast Cable.
Free Cash Flow
 
 
Note: The definition of Free Cash Flow remains unchanged and specifically excludes any impact from the 2008 Economic Stimulus package.
2
Pro Forma Cable Segment Results
from the Cable segment increased 8% to $32.4 billion for 2008 as compared to $30.1 billion in 2007, reflecting the adoption of digital and advanced video services, rate increases, continued growth in high-speed Internet (HSI) and Comcast Digital Voice (CDV) penetration and strong growth in Business Services, partially offset by video customer losses and lower advertising revenue. The monthly average total revenue per video customer increased 9% from $101 to $110, reflecting an increasing number of customers taking multiple products. As of December 31, 2008, 23% of customers were three-product customers as compared to 16% at the end of 2007.
Revenue
grew 8% to $13.2 billion in 2008 from $12.2 billion in 2007. Operating Cash Flow margin was 40.6% in 2008 compared to 40.7% in 2007, reflecting operating efficiencies in CDV and HSI, offset by continued increases in video programming expenses and additional investments in Business Services. Comcast continues to focus on controlling operating expenses; however, the company incurred expenses related to a divisional restructuring and employee reductions, as well as the impact from two major hurricanes on Comcast systems in the southern U.S.  Excluding the impact of the hurricanes, which was $39 million, and $126 million of severance-related charges, Operating Cash Flow grew 9% in 2008.
Operating Cash Flow
 
For the quarter ended December 31, 2008, revenue from the Cable segment increased 7% to $8.3 billion and Operating Cash Flow increased 7% to $3.4 billion, a margin of 41.2%. Excluding the impact of the hurricanes and severance-related charges, which were $19 million and $63 million, respectively, Operating Cash Flow grew 9% in the fourth quarter of 2008.
As of December 31, 2008, Comcasts video, high-speed Internet and voice customers totaled 45.6 million, reflecting 2.6 million net additions during 2008.
Customers.
 
 
 
Programming Segment Results
Comcast's
Programming
segment consists of national
programming
netwo
rks E! Entertainment Television,
Style Network,
Golf Channel, VERSUS
,
and
G4
.
The Programming segment reported 2008 revenue of $1.4 billion, a 9% increase from 2007, reflecting higher distribution and advertising revenue, and strong international revenue growth. Operating Cash Flow increased 26% to $362 million in 2008, reflecting strong revenue growth and relatively stable production, programming and marketing expenses.
For the fourth quarter of 2008, Comcasts Programming segment reported revenue of $350 million compared to $348 million in the fourth quarter of 2007. Operating Cash Flow increased to $55 million, an increase of 10% from the same period last year.
 
Corporate and Other
In 2008, Comcast reported Corporate and Other revenue of $387 million, a 41% increase over last year, reflecting strong results at CIM and Comcast-Spectacor. The Operating Cash Flow loss for the year was $400 million compared to a loss of $423 million in 2007.
Corporate and Other includes corporate overhead, Comcast Interactive Media (CIM),
Comcast
-
Spectacor
,
 
and
other operations and
eliminations between Comcast's businesses.  
For the quarter ended December 31, 2008, Corporate and Other revenue increased to $119 million from the $89 million reported in 2007. The Operating Cash Flow loss for the fourth quarter of 2008 was $100 million compared to a loss of $91 million in the fourth quarter of 2007.
3
Share Repurchase and Dividend
During 2008, Comcast repurchased 140.9 million of its common shares for $2.8 billion, reducing the number of total shares outstanding by 4.7%. As of December 31, 2008, Comcast had approximately $4.1 billion of availability remaining under its share repurchase authorization. As previously disclosed, due to difficult economic conditions and instability in the capital markets, it is unlikely that the company will complete its share repurchase authorization by the end of 2009 as previously planned.
During 2008, Comcast paid three cash dividends totaling $547 million. On January 28, 2009, Comcast paid a quarterly cash dividend of $180 million.
Comcasts Board of Directors has declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.0675 a share on the companys common stock, payable on April 29, 2009 to shareholders of record as of the close of business on April 8, 2009. The planned annual dividend of $0.27 per share is an 8% increase from the companys previous dividend.
Notes:
 
 
 
###
Conference Call Information
Comcast Corporation will host a conference call with the financial community today, February 18, 2009 at 8:30 a.m. Eastern Time (ET).  The conference call willon Comcasts Investor Relations website at www.cmcsa.com or www.cmcsk.com.  A recording of the call will be available on the Investor Relations website starting at 12:30 p.m. ET on February 18, 2009.  Those parties interested in participating via telephone should dial (800) 263-8495 with the conference ID number 80065727.  A telephone replay will begin immediately following the call until Thursday, February 19, 2009 at midnight ET.  To access the rebroadcast, please dial (800) 642-1687 and enter passcode number 80065727.  To automatically receive Comcast financial news by email, please visit www.cmcsa.com or www.cmcsk.com and subscribe to email alerts.
be broadcast live
 
Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements.  Readers are cautioned that such forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual events or our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any such forward-looking statements.  Readers are directed to Comcasts periodic and other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) for a description of such risks and uncertainties. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
In this discussion, we sometimes refer to financial measures that are not presented according to generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. (GAAP).  Certain of these measures are considered non-GAAP financial measures under the SEC regulations; those rules require the supplemental explanations and reconciliations that are in Comcasts Form 8-K (Quarterly Earnings Release) furnished to the SEC.  All percentages are calculated based on actual amounts. Minor differences may exist due to rounding.
 
4
About Comcast Corporation
Comcast Corporation (Nasdaq: CMCSA, CMCSK) () is the nation's leading provider of entertainment, information and communications products and services. With 24.2 million cable customers, 14.9 million high-speed Internet customers, and 6.5 million Comcast Digital Voice customers, Comcast is principally involved in the development, management and operation of cable systems and in the delivery of programming content.
http://www.comcast.com
Comcast's content networks and investments include E! Entertainment Television, Style Network, Golf Channel, VERSUS, G4, PBS KIDS Sprout, TV One, ten Comcast SportsNet networks and Comcast Interactive Media, which develops and operates Comcast's Internet business. Comcast also has a majority ownership in Comcast-Spectacor, whose major holdings include the Philadelphia Flyers NHL hockey team, the Philadelphia 76ers NBA basketball team and two large multipurpose arenas in Philadelphia.
5
 
 
 
6
 
 
 
 
7
 
 
 
 
 
 
8
 
 
 
 
9
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.2  Explanation of Non-GAAP and Other Financial Measures
This Exhibit 99.2 to the accompanying Current Report on Form 8-K for Comcast Corporation (the "Company", "we", "us" or "our") sets forth the reasons we believe that presentation of financial measures not in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (GAAP) contained in the earnings press release filed as Exhibit 99.1 to the Form 8-K provides useful information to investors regarding Comcast's financial condition and results of operations.  To the extent material, this Exhibit also discloses the additional purposes, if any, for which Comcast's management uses these non-GAAP financial measures.  A reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures with the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures is included in the press release itself.
Operating Cash Flow is the primary basis used to measure the operational strength and performance of our businesses. Free Cash Flow and Unlevered Free Cash Flow are additional performance measures used as indicators of our ability to service and repay debt, make investments and return capital to investors, through stock repurchases and dividends. We also adjust certain historical data on a pro forma basis following certain acquisitions or dispositions to enhance comparability.
Operating Cash Flow is defined as operating income before depreciation and amortization, excluding impairment charges related to fixed and intangible assets and gains or losses on sale of assets, if any. As such, it eliminates the significant level of non-cash depreciation and amortization expense that results from the capital intensive nature of our businesses and intangible assets recognized in business combinations, and is unaffected by our capital structure or investment activities. Our management and Board of Directors use this financial measure in evaluating our consolidated operating performance and the operating performance of all of our operating segments. This metric is used to allocate resources and capital to our operating segments and is a significant performance measure in our annual incentive compensation programs.  We believe that Operating Cash Flow is also useful to investors as it is one of the bases for comparing our operating performance with other companies in our industries, although our measure of Operating Cash Flow may not be directly comparable to similar measures used by other companies.
As Operating Cash Flow is the measure of our segment profit or loss, we reconcile it to operating income, the most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP, in the business segment footnote of our quarterly and annual financial statements. Therefore, we believe our measure of Operating Cash Flow for our business segments is not a "non-GAAP financial measure" as contemplated by Regulation G adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission. Consolidated Operating Cash Flow is a non-GAAP financial measure.
Free Cash Flow, which is a non-GAAP financial measure, is defined as Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities (as stated in our Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows) reduced by capital expenditures and cash paid for intangible assets; and adjusted for any payments related to certain nonoperating items, net of estimated tax benefits (such as income taxes on investment sales, and nonrecurring payments related to income tax and litigation contingencies of acquired companies).  Unlevered Free Cash Flow is Free Cash Flow before cash paid interest.  We believe that Free Cash Flow and Unlevered Free Cash Flow are also useful to investors as the basis for comparing our performance and coverage ratios with other companies in our industries, although our measure of Free Cash Flow and Unlevered Free Cash Flow may not be comparable to similar measures used by other companies.
Pro forma data is used by management to evaluate performance when certain acquisitions or dispositions occur. Historical data reflects results of acquired businesses only after the acquisition dates while pro forma data enhances comparability of financial information between periods by adjusting the data as if the acquisitions or dispositions occurred at the beginning of the prior year.  Our pro forma data is only adjusted for the timing of acquisitions or dispositions and does not include adjustments for costs related to integration activities, cost savings or synergies that have been or may be achieved by the combined businesses.  We believe our pro forma data is not a non-GAAP financial measure as contemplated by Regulation G.
In certain circumstances we also present adjusted data, to exclude certain gains, losses or other charges, net of tax (such as from the sales of investments or dispositions of businesses). This adjusted data is a non-GAAP financial measure. We believe, among other things, that the adjusted data may help investors evaluate our ongoing operations and can assist in making meaningful period-over-period comparisons.
 
 
 
Exhibit 99.2  Explanation of Non-GAAP and Other Financial Measures, contd
Non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered as substitutes for operating income (loss), net income (loss), net cash provided by operating activities or other measures of performance or liquidity reported in accordance with GAAP.
Additionally, in the opinion of management, our pro forma data is not necessarily indicative of future results or what results would have been had the acquired businesses been operated by us after the assumed earlier date.
We provide reconciliations of Consolidated Operating Cash Flow in Table 1, Pro Forma in Table 4-A and Adjusted Data in Table 4-B set forth in Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.


