FILE:CMCSA/CMCSA-8K-20090213140527.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02.  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
On February 13, 2009, Mr. Brian L. Roberts, the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Comcast Corporation (the Company), entered into documentation (including an amendment to his employment agreement) pursuant to which (i) the term of his employment agreement (which would have otherwise expired on June 30, 2009) was extended to June 30, 2010; (ii) Mr. Roberts agreed that he will receive no increase to his base salary in 2009; (iii) Mr. Roberts elected to relinquish his right to base salary and annual cash bonus continuation for up to five years following his death; and (iv) Mr. Roberts elected to relinquish his right to reimbursement and tax-related payments from the Company in connection with the premiums for his term life and split-dollar life insurance polices.
 
In addition, Messrs. Michael J. Angelakis (the Companys Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer), Stephen B. Burke (the Companys Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer and President of the Companys Cable Division) and David L. Cohen (the Companys Executive Vice President) has each agreed not to receive any increase in his base salary in 2009.
 
Item 9.01(d)  Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
This AMENDMENT TO EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT (the Amendment), dated as of the 13 day of February, 2009, is between COMCAST CORPORATION, a Pennsylvania corporation (together with its subsidiaries, the Company) and BRIAN L. ROBERTS (Employee).
th
WHEREAS, the parties entered into an Employment Agreement dated as of January 1, 2005 (the Agreement) that sets forth the terms and conditions of Employees employment with the Company, and
WHEREAS, the parties desire to amend the Agreement on the terms and conditions contained herein.
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereto, intending to be legally bound hereby, agree as follows:
1.           Subparagraph 2(ii) of the Agreement is hereby deleted and replaced in its entirely by the following:  (ii) June 30, 2010.
2.           The following sentence is hereby added at the end of subparagraph 3(a) of the Agreement:  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the parties agree that Employee shall receive no increase in Base Salary during 2009 nor in 2010 prior to March 1.
3.           Subparagraphs 13(a)(i) and (b)(ii)(I) are hereby deleted.
4.           Except as modified hereby, the Agreement shall continue unmodified and in full force and effect.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed and delivered this Second Amendment as of the date first-above written.

Exhibit 99.2
This is my written notice of my voluntary waiver of my rights to bonus payments under Section 4.3 of the Comcast Corporation (the Company) 1992 Executive Split Dollar Life Insurance Plan, effective as of January 1, 2009.  This waiver does not affect: (i) my rights and obligations under the Split-Dollar Life Insurance Agreement dated as of October 9, 1992, as amended (the Agreement), among myself, the Company and Sheldon M. Bonovitz, Trustee U/D/T of Brian L. Roberts, dated October 5, 1992 (the Trust); (ii) the related Collateral Assignment, as amended (the Assignment), by the Trust, dated as of February 10, 1993; or (iii) the continued effectiveness of the life insurance policy referred to in such Agreement and the Assignment.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.3
This is my written notice of termination of: (i) the Term Life Insurance Premium and Tax Bonus Agreement dated as of September 23, 1998 (as amended by Amendment to Term Life Insurance Premium and Tax Bonus Agreement dated as of May 22, 2006); and (ii) Life Insurance Premium and Tax Bonus Agreement dated as of May 22, 2006 (as amended by Amendment to Life Insurance Premium and Tax Bonus Agreement dated as of September 15, 2006); in each case effective as of January 1, 2009.
 
 
 
 
 
 


