FILE:CMCSA/CMCSA-8K-20110503163209.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On May 3, 2011, Comcast Corporation ("Comcast") issued a press release reporting the results of its operations for the three months ended March 31, 2011. The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. Exhibit 99.2 sets forth the reasons Comcast believes that presentation of the non-GAAP financial measures contained in the press release provides useful information to investors regarding Comcast's financial condition and results of operations. To the extent material, Exhibit 99.2 also discloses the additional purposes, if any, for which Comcast's management uses these non-GAAP financial measures. A reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures with the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures is included in the press release itself. Comcast does not intend for this Item 2.02 or Exhibit 99.1 or Exhibit 99.2 to be treated as "filed" under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or incorporated by reference into its filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Item 9.01. Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
Philadelphia, PA  May 3, 2011 Comcast Corporation (NASDAQ: CMCSA, CMCSK) today reported results for the quarter ended March 31, 2011, including the results of NBCUniversal after January 28, 2011.
Brian L. Roberts, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Comcast Corporation, said, "We are off to a terrific start in 2011. Cable had an outstanding quarter with continuing momentum in both our residential and Business Services operations. We had particularly strong growth in high-speed Internet, consistent growth in voice services, and improving video customer results. In addition, our customer retention and service metrics have never been better, and we are leading the industry in delivering new products and innovations to our customers.
The performance of NBCUniversal was led by our cable networks, which posted strong growth across the board. While we've only been operating the NBCUniversal businesses for three months, we're encouraged by a seamless integration, and we are working diligently to invest and build value for our shareholders.
As we begin 2011, we remain focused on execution, which includes driving product leadership and innovation, enhancing our customers' experience, expanding the entertainment choices we offer consumers and realizing the opportunities of our wonderful company."
 
* Includes 2 months of NBCUniversal results.
For additional detail on segment revenue and expenses, customer metrics, capital expenditures, and free cash flow, please refer to the trending schedules on Comcast's Investor Relations website at www.cmcsa.com or www.cmcsk.com.
Consolidated Financial Results
 
increased 31.8% in the first quarter of 2011 to $12.1 billion, while increased 14.1% to $4.1 billion and increased 14.9% to $2.2 billion, primarily reflecting strong Cable Communications and Cable Networks results and the consolidation of NBCUniversal as of January 28, 2011. Excluding NBCUniversal transaction and related costs in the first quarter of 2011 and $14 million in the first quarter of 2010, Operating Cash Flow grew 16.6% (see Table 4).
Revenue
Operating Cash Flow
Operating Income
Earnings per Share
1
(EPS)
for the first quarter of 2011 was $0.34, a 9.7% increase from the $0.31 reported in the first quarter of 2010. Excluding NBCUniversal transaction and related costs, first quarter 2011 EPS increased 16.1% to $0.36 compared to $0.31 in the first quarter of 2010 (see Table 4).
increased 17.7% to $2.2 billion in the first quarter of 2011 from $1.9 billion in the first quarter of 2010. The increase in Free Cash Flow primarily reflects growth in consolidated operating cash flow, partially offset by higher capital expenditures.
Free Cash Flow
 
* Includes 2 months of NBCUniversal results.
Note: The definition of Free Cash Flow excludes any impact from the 2008-2011 Economic Stimulus packages. These amounts have been excluded from Free Cash Flow to provide an appropriate comparison. NM=comparison not meaningful.
During the first quarter of 2011, Comcast repurchased 23.3 million of its common shares for $525 million. As of March 31, 2011, Comcast had approximately $1.6 billion of availability remaining under its share repurchase authorization. In addition, during the first quarter of 2011, Comcast paid dividends totaling $262 million. Our dividend payment on April 27, 2011, reflected our previously announced 19% increase to $0.1125 per share compared to $0.0945 per share paid in the first quarter.
Share Repurchases and Dividends.
Pro Forma Financial Results
 
Pro forma results are presented as if the NBCUniversal transaction, which closed on January 28, 2011, was effective on January 1, 2010. These results are based on historical results of operations, adjusted for the effects of acquisition accounting and eliminating the costs and expenses directly related to the transaction, and are not necessarily indicative of what the results would have been had we operated NBCUniversal since January 1, 2010. These adjustments are subject to change as our acquisition accounting is finalized. (See Table 5 for reconciliations of pro forma financial data).
of $13.3 billion was flat compared to last year's results, which includes revenue generated by the 2010 Vancouver Olympics. Excluding the impact of the Olympics, pro forma revenue increased 6.1%. increased 7.8% to $4.2 billion compared to the first quarter of 2010. Excluding the Olympics and NBCUniversal non-recurring transaction-related costs that are included in our pro forma results, Operating Cash Flow increased 4.2% (see Table 6).
Consolidated Pro forma Revenue
Consolidated Pro forma Operating Cash Flow
 
Cable Communications
 
Pro forma Cable Communications ("Cable") results include our Video, High-Speed Internet, Voice, Advertising and Business Services operations and the businesses of Comcast Interactive Media that were not contributed to NBCUniversal. Pro forma Cable results exclude our Regional Sports Networks, which were contributed to NBCUniversal.
 
For the first quarter of 2011, Cable revenue increased 5.8% to $9.1 billion compared to $8.6 billion in the first quarter of 2010. This increase reflects growth across our residential Video, High-Speed Internet and Voice services, a 49.9% increase in Business Services and a 10.4% increase in advertising revenue. Reflecting a growing number of residential customers taking multiple products, rate adjustments, and a higher contribution from Business Services, monthly average total revenue per video customer increased 9.3% to $132.91.
Revenue.
. For the first quarter of 2011, Cable Operating Cash Flow increased 7.7% to $3.7 billion compared to $3.5 billion in last year's first quarter. This quarter's Operating Cash Flow margin was 41.3% compared to 40.5% in the first quarter of 2010. These results primarily reflect continued benefits from operational efficiencies, partially offset by increases in video programming and marketing expenses, as well as continued investment to expand our capabilities in Business Services.
Operating Cash Flow
For the first quarter of 2011, Cable capital expenditures increased 15.4% to $1.1 billion, reflecting increases in customer premise equipment (CPE) as we complete our All-Digital initiative, increased investment in network infrastructure to enable faster speeds in our High-Speed Internet business, and increased investment to support growth in Business Services.
Capital Expenditures.
As of March 31, 2011, Cable Video, High-Speed Internet and Voice customers totaled 49.0 million, an increase of 1.3 million or 2.8% over the prior year. In the first quarter, combined Video, High-Speed Internet and Voice customers increased by 639,000 or 8.3% over the prior year, and also reflected a sequential improvement from the fourth quarter of 2010 in net additions for all three products.
Customers.
 
 
NBCUniversal
 
Pro forma NBCUniversal results include its national cable programming networks, the NBC network and its owned NBC affiliated local television stations, the Telemundo network and its owned Telemundo affiliated local television stations, Universal Pictures filmed entertainment, the Universal Studios Hollywood theme park, and other related assets. Comcast's national cable programming networks, Regional Sports Networks (RSNs), Daily Candy and Fandango, which were contributed to NBCUniversal, are also included in these results.
of $4.3 billion decreased 11.5% compared to $4.9 billion in the first quarter of 2010 due to $782 million of revenue generated by the 2010 Vancouver Olympics. Excluding the impact of the Olympics, pro forma revenue increased 5.2%. increased 4.9% to $496 million compared to $473 million in the first quarter of 2010.
NBCUniversal Pro forma Revenue
NBCUniversal Pro forma Operating Cash Flow
 
NM=comparison not meaningful
Cable Networks
For the first quarter of 2011, revenue from the Cable Networks segment increased 13.3% to $2.0 billion compared to $1.8 billion in the first quarter of 2010. First quarter Operating Cash Flow increased 7.2% to $817 million compared to $762 million in the same period last year. These results reflect strong performance across our networks led by our RSNs, Bravo, USA and E!, partially offset by new investments in programming, advertising and promotion.
Broadcast Television
For the first quarter of 2011, revenue from the Broadcast Television segment decreased 34.9% to $1.4 billion compared to $2.1 billion in the first quarter of 2010 due to $782 million of revenue generated by the 2010 Vancouver Olympics. Excluding the impact of the Olympics, revenue increased 4.3% reflecting higher advertising revenue. First quarter Operating Cash Flow was $20 million compared to a loss of $182 million in the same period last year. Excluding the $223 million loss from the Olympics, Operating Cash Flow declined from $41 million to $20 million, primarily reflecting increased programming investment (see Table 6).
Filmed Entertainment
For the first quarter of 2011, revenue from the Filmed Entertainment segment decreased 8.2% to $975 million compared to $1,061 million in the first quarter of 2010, reflecting an increase in content licensing revenue, offset by lower theatrical and home entertainment revenue. First quarter Operating Cash Flow was a loss of $146 million compared to a loss of $12 million in the same period last year reflecting the decline in revenue and higher marketing costs in advance of April 2011 theatrical releases.
Theme Parks
Theme Parks segment revenue includes the results of Universal Hollywood, management fees from Universal Orlando and international licensing fees. Operating Cash Flow includes the results of Universal Hollywood and the equity income (loss) from Universal Orlando, which we eliminate through NBCUniversal Headquarters, Other and Eliminations.
 
For the first quarter of 2011, revenue for the Theme Parks increased 16.1% to $95 million compared to $82 million in the first quarter of 2010, reflecting the strong performance at the Hollywood park and higher fees from the Orlando parks. First quarter Operating Cash Flow was $41 million compared to a loss of $5 million in the same period last year. These results reflect increased equity income from Universal Orlando driven by the strength of attraction.
The Wizarding World of Harry Potter
Headquarters, Other and Eliminations
NBCUniversal Headquarters, Other and Eliminations include overhead and eliminations between the NBCUniversal businesses. Also included in these expenses are non-recurring transaction-related costs during the first quarter of 2011 that totaled $92 million.
Corporate, Other and Eliminations
 
Pro forma Corporate, Other and eliminations includes corporate operations, Comcast-Spectacor and eliminations between Comcast's businesses. For the first quarter of 2011, Corporate, Other and eliminations revenue was a loss of $143 million compared to a loss of $191 million reported in the first quarter of 2010. The Operating Cash Flow loss was $78 million compared to a loss of $89 million for the same time period in 2010.
Notes:
 
All percentages are calculated on whole numbers. Minor differences may exist due to rounding.
Conference Call Information
Comcast Corporation will host a conference call with the financial community tomorrow, May 4, 2011 at 8:30 a.m. Eastern Time (ET). The conference call and related materials will be broadcast live and posted on its Investor Relations website at or Those parties interested in participating via telephone should dial (800) 263-8495 with the conference ID number 54329300. A replay of the call will be available starting at 12:30 p.m. ET on May 4, 2011, on the Investor Relations website or by telephone. To access the telephone replay, which will be available until Wednesday, May 11, 2011 at midnight ET, please dial (800) 642-1687 and enter the conference ID number 54329300. To automatically receive Comcast financial news by email, please visit or and subscribe to email alerts.
www.cmcsa.com
www.cmcsk.com.
www.cmcsa.com
www.cmcsk.com
Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned that such forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual events or our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any such forward-looking statements. Readers are directed to Comcast's periodic and other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) for a description of such risks and uncertainties. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
In this discussion, we sometimes refer to financial measures that are not presented according to generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. (GAAP). Certain of these measures are considered "non-GAAP financial measures" under the SEC regulations; those rules require the supplemental explanations and reconciliations that are in Comcast's Form 8-K (Quarterly Earnings Release) furnished to the SEC.
 
About Comcast Corporation
Comcast Corporation (Nasdaq: CMCSA, CMCSK) is one of the nation's leading providers of entertainment, information and communications products and services. Comcast is principally involved in the operation of cable systems through Comcast Cable Communications and in the development, production and distribution of entertainment, news, sports and other content for global audiences through NBCUniversal. Comcast Cable Communications is one of the nation's largest video, high-speed Internet and phone providers to residential and business customers. Comcast is the majority owner and manager of NBCUniversal, which owns and operates entertainment and news cable networks, the NBC and Telemundo broadcast networks, local television station groups, television production operations, a major motion picture company and theme parks.
(www.comcast.com)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reconciliation of Operating Cash Flow Excluding NBCUniversal Transaction and Related Costs (Unaudited)
 
 
 
 
 
Reconciliation of EPS Excluding NBCUniversal Transaction and Related Costs (Unaudited)
 
 
 
 
 
 
Minor differences may exist due to rounding.
Note:
 
 
 
 
Reconciliation of GAAP to Pro Forma
(
1)
NBCUniversal Segment Financial Data (Unaudited)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2  Explanation of Non-GAAP and Other Financial Measures
This Exhibit 99.2 to the accompanying Current Report on Form 8-K for Comcast Corporation ("Company", "we", "us" or "our") sets forth the reasons we believe that presentation of financial measures not in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (GAAP) contained in the earnings press release filed as Exhibit 99.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K provides useful information to investors regarding our financial condition and results of operations. To the extent material, this Exhibit also discloses the additional purposes, if any, for which our management uses these non-GAAP financial measures. A reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures with the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures is included in the earnings press release itself.
Operating Cash Flow is the primary basis used to measure the operational strength and performance of our businesses. Free Cash Flow and Unlevered Free Cash Flow are additional performance measures used as indicators of our ability to service and repay debt, make investments and return capital to investors, through stock repurchases and dividends. We also adjust certain historical data on a pro forma basis following certain acquisitions or dispositions to enhance comparability.
Operating Cash Flow is defined as operating income before depreciation and amortization, excluding impairment charges related to fixed and intangible assets and gains or losses on sale of assets, if any. This measure eliminates the significant level of non-cash depreciation and amortization expense that results from the capital intensive nature of our businesses and from intangible assets recognized in business combinations. Additionally, it is unaffected by our capital structure or investment activities. In the Theme Parks segment, we also include the equity in income (loss) of investees in measuring operating income before depreciation and amortization. This amount is not included when we measure NBCUniversal and our consolidated Operating Cash Flow. Our management and Board of Directors use this financial measure to evaluate our consolidated operating performance and the operating performance of our operating segments and to allocate resources and capital to our operating segments. It is also a significant performance measure in our annual incentive compensation programs. We believe that Operating Cash Flow is useful to investors because it is one of the bases for comparing our operating performance with that of other companies in our industries, although our measure of Operating Cash Flow may not be directly comparable to similar measures used by other companies.
Because we use Operating Cash Flow to measure our segment profit or loss, we reconcile it to operating income, the most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP, in the business segment footnote to our quarterly and annual consolidated financial statements. Therefore, we believe our measure of Operating Cash Flow for our segments is not a "non-GAAP financial measure" as contemplated by Regulation G adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission. Consolidated Operating Cash Flow is a non-GAAP financial measure.
Free Cash Flow, which is a non-GAAP financial measure, is defined as "Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities" (as stated in our Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows) reduced by capital expenditures, cash paid for intangible assets and cash distributions to non-controlling interests; and adjusted for any payments and receipts related to certain nonoperating items, net of estimated tax benefits (such as income taxes on investment sales and nonrecurring payments related to income tax and litigation contingencies of acquired companies). Unlevered Free Cash Flow is Free Cash Flow before cash paid interest. We believe that Free Cash Flow and Unlevered Free Cash Flow are also useful to investors as the basis for comparing our performance and coverage ratios with other companies in our industries, although our measure of Free Cash Flow and Unlevered Free Cash Flow may not be comparable to similar measures used by other companies.
Pro forma data is used by management to evaluate performance when certain acquisitions or dispositions occur. Historical data reflects results of acquired businesses only after the acquisition dates while pro forma data enhances comparability of financial information between periods by adjusting the data as if the acquisitions or dispositions occurred at the beginning of the preceding year. Our pro forma data is adjusted for the timing of acquisitions or dispositions, the effects of acquisition accounting, eliminating the costs and expenses directly related to the transaction, but does not include adjustments for costs related to integration activities, cost savings or synergies that have been or may be achieved by the combined businesses. We believe our pro forma data is not a non-GAAP financial measure as contemplated by Regulation G.
In certain circumstances we also present "adjusted" data, to exclude certain gains, losses or other charges, net of tax (such as from the sales of investments or dispositions of businesses). This "adjusted" data is a non-GAAP financial measure. We believe, among other things, that the "adjusted" data may help investors evaluate our ongoing operations and can assist in making meaningful period-over-period comparisons.
Exhibit 99.2  Explanation of Non-GAAP and Other Financial Measures, cont'd
Non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered as substitutes for operating income (loss), net income (loss) attributable to Comcast Corporation, net cash provided by operating activities or other measures of performance or liquidity reported in accordance with GAAP.
Additionally, in the opinion of management, our pro forma data is not necessarily indicative of future results or what results would have been had the acquired businesses been operated by us after the assumed earlier date.
We provide reconciliations of Free Cash Flow in Exhibit 99.1 to this current report on Form 8-K, Consolidated Operating Cash Flow in Table 1 set forth in Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and "adjusted" data in Tables 4 and 6 set forth in Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.


