FILE:CMCSA/CMCSA-8K-20110701095809.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On June 30, 2011, Mr. Brian L. Roberts, the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Comcast Corporation, entered into an amendment to his employment agreement pursuant to which the term of his employment agreement (which otherwise would have expired on June 30, 2011) was extended to June 30, 2012.
Item 9.01(d). Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
This AMENDMENT NO 5 TO EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT is entered into on the 30
th
day of June, 2011, between COMCAST CORPORATION, a Pennsylvania corporation (together with its subsidiaries, the "Company"), and BRIAN L. ROBERTS ("Employee").
WHEREAS, the parties entered into an Employment Agreement dated as of January 1, 2005, as amended (the "Agreement"), that sets forth the terms and conditions of Employee's employment with the Company, and
WHEREAS, the parties desire to amend the Agreement on the terms and conditions contained herein.
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereto, intending to be legally bound hereby, agree as follows:
1. Subparagraph 2(ii) of the Agreement is hereby deleted and replaced in its entirety by the following: "(ii) June 30, 2012."
2. Except as modified hereby, the Agreement shall continue unmodified and in full force and effect.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed and delivered this Amendment No. 5 on the date first-above written.
 


