FILE:CMCSA/CMCSA-8K-20111123095025.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On November 22, 2011, Comcast Corporation (the "Company") entered into a new employment agreement with Mr. Michael J. Angelakis. The agreement changes Mr. Angelakis' title from Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer to Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer and secures his employment with the Company through June 30, 2016. The agreement also follows the standard form of employment agreement used by the Company for its named executive officers and includes an obligation to work full-time for the Company, as well as non-solicitation, non-competition and confidentiality obligations. The agreement does not provide for any increase in either base salary (Mr. Angelakis has had the same base salary since March 1, 2008) or annual cash bonus opportunity, which remains at 300% of base salary (based on the achievement of performance goals). The agreement continues the structure of Mr. Angelakis' prior employment agreement of crediting contributions to the Company's deferred compensation plan, with $2,125,000 being credited on the effective date of the agreement and a specified amount being credited on January 1 of each subsequent year, beginning in 2012 in the amount of $3,700,000, continuing in 2013 in the amount of $1,653,700 and then increasing by 5% each year thereafter from 2014 through 2016. Also under the agreement, Mr. Angelakis is entitled to receive two cash signing bonuses, each of $2,125,000, payable as soon as practicable following the effective date of the agreement and January 1, 2012. Mr. Angelakis, however, will be required to reimburse the Company for 100% of the amount of each signing bonus if, before November 22, 2012, the Company terminates his employment for cause or he terminates employment without good reason.
The above summary is qualified by its entirety by the terms and conditions set forth in the employment agreement, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 5.03. Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
On November 20, 2011, the Company's Board of Directors amended and restated the By-Laws of the Company to authorize the position of an officer-level Vice Chairman who is not also a director of the Company and to describe the rank and duties of any Vice Chairman.
The above description is qualified in its entirety by the full text of the Amended and Restated By-Laws of the Company, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 3.1.
Item 9.01(d). Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 3.1
Section 1.01The registered office of the Corporation shall be located within the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania at such place as the Board of Directors (hereinafter referred to as the "" or the "") shall determine from time to time.
. Registered Office.
Board of Directors
Board
Section 1.02The Corporation may also have offices at such other places, within or without the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, as the Board of Directors may determine from time to time.
. Other Offices.
Section 2.01Meetings of shareholders may be held at such geographic locations, within or without the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, as may be fixed from time to time by the Board of Directors. If no such geographic location is so fixed by the Board of Directors or the Board of Directors does not determine to hold a meeting by means of electronic technology (as provided in the next sentence) rather than at a geographic location, meetings of the shareholders shall be held at the executive office of the Corporation. If a meeting of the shareholders is held by means of the Internet or other electronic communications technology in a fashion pursuant to which the shareholders have the opportunity to read or hear the proceedings substantially concurrently with their occurrence, vote on matters submitted to the shareholders and pose questions to the Directors, the meeting need not be held at a particular geographic location.
. Place of Meetings of Shareholders.
Section 2.02. .
Annual Meetings of Shareholders
(a) Time. Subject to Article SIXTH of the Articles of Incorporation, a meeting of the shareholders of the Corporation shall be held in each calendar year, on such date and at such time as the Board of Directors may determine, or if the Board of Directors fails to set a date and time, on the second Thursday of June at 9:00 o'clock a.m., if not a holiday on which national banks are or may elect to be closed (""), and if such day is a Holiday, then such meeting shall be held on the next business day at such time.
Holiday
(b) Election of Directors. At each annual meeting, Directors shall be elected to serve for the ensuing year and until their successors shall have been selected and qualified or until their earlier death, resignation or removal.
Section 2.03Special meetings of the shareholders may be called at any time by the Board of Directors. Special meetings of the shareholders may not be called by shareholders. Upon the written instruction of the Board of Directors, which instruction specifies the general nature of the business to be transacted at such meeting as well as the date, time and place of such meeting, it shall be the duty of the Secretary to give due notice thereof as required by Section 2.04 hereof.
. Special Meetings of Shareholders.
Section 2.04Written notice, complying with Article 6 of these By-Laws, of any meeting of the shareholders, shall be given to each shareholder of record entitled to vote at the meeting, other than those excepted by Section 1707 of the Pennsylvania Business Corporation Law of 1988, as amended (the ""), at least twenty days prior to the day named for the meeting, except as provided in Section 6.07. Such notices may be given by, or at the direction of, the Secretary or his or her designated agent.
. Notices of Meetings of Shareholders.
Pennsylvania BCL
Section 2.05. .
Quorum of and Action by Shareholders
(a) General Rule. A meeting of shareholders duly called shall not be organized for the transaction of business unless a quorum is present as to at least one of the matters to be considered. Except as provided in subsections (c), (d) and (e) of this Section 2.05, the presence of shareholders entitled to cast at least a majority of the votes that all shareholders are entitled to cast on a particular matter to be acted upon at the meeting shall constitute a quorum for the purpose of consideration of and action on the matter. To the extent that a quorum is present with respect to consideration of and action on a particular matter or matters but a quorum is not present as to another matter or matters, consideration of and action on the matter or matters for which a quorum is present may occur, and, after such consideration and action, the meeting may be adjourned for purposes of the consideration of and action on the matter or matters for which a quorum is not present.
 
(b) Action by Shareholders. Except as otherwise specifically provided by law, all matters coming before a meeting of shareholders shall be determined by a vote of shares. Except as otherwise provided by a resolution adopted by the Board of Directors, by the Articles of Incorporation, by the Pennsylvania BCL or by these By-Laws, whenever any corporate action is to be taken by vote of the shareholders of the Corporation at a duly organized meeting of shareholders, it shall be authorized by a majority of the votes cast at the meeting by the holders of shares entitled to vote with respect to such matter; that in no event may the required shareholder vote be reduced below that provided above.
provided
(c) Continuing Quorum. The shareholders present at a duly organized meeting can continue to do business until adjournment, notwithstanding the withdrawal of enough shareholders to leave less than a quorum.
(d) Election of Directors at Adjourned Meetings. Those shareholders entitled to vote who attend a meeting at which Directors are to be elected that has been previously adjourned for lack of a quorum with respect thereto, although less than a quorum as fixed in subsection (a), shall nevertheless constitute a quorum for the purpose of electing Directors at such reconvened meeting.
(e) Conduct of Other Business at Adjourned Meetings. Those shareholders entitled to vote who attend a meeting at which a matter other than the election of directors is to be acted upon, that has been previously adjourned for one or more periods aggregating at least 15 days because of an absence of a quorum with respect thereto, although less than a quorum as fixed in subsection (a), shall nevertheless constitute a quorum for the purpose of acting upon such matter if the notice states that those shareholders who attend the adjourned meeting shall nevertheless constitute a quorum for the purpose of acting upon such matter.
Section 2.06. .
Adjournments
(a) General Rule. Adjournments of any regular or special meeting of shareholders, including one at which Directors are to be elected, may be taken for such periods as the shareholders present and entitled to vote shall direct.
(b) Lack of Quorum. Without limiting the generality of Section 2.06(c), if a meeting cannot be organized because a quorum has not attended, those shareholders present may, except as otherwise provided in the Pennsylvania BCL, adjourn the meeting to such time and place as they may determine. To the extent, as set forth in Section 2.05(a), that a quorum was not present with respect to consideration of and action on a particular matter at a duly called and organized meeting, consideration of and action on such matter may be adjourned to such date, time and place as those shareholders present may determine, and the balance of the matters to be considered at such meeting for which a quorum was present may be considered and acted upon at the initial meeting.
 
(c) Notice of an Adjourned Meeting. When a meeting of shareholders is adjourned, it shall not be necessary to give any notice of the adjourned meeting or of the business to be transacted at an adjourned meeting, other than by announcement at the meeting at which the adjournment is taken, unless the Board fixes a new record date for the adjourned meeting or the Pennsylvania BCL requires notice of the business to be transacted and such notice has not been previously given.
Section 2.07. .
Voting List, Voting and Proxies
(a) Voting List. The officer or agent having charge of the transfer books for shares of the Corporation shall make a complete list of the shareholders entitled to vote at any meeting of shareholders, arranged in alphabetical order, with the address of and the number of shares held by each. The list shall be produced and kept open at the date, time and place of the meeting and shall be subject to the inspection of any shareholder during the whole time of the meeting for the purposes thereof except that, if the Corporation has 5,000 or more shareholders, in lieu of the making of the list the Corporation may make the information therein available at the meeting by any other means.
(b) Method of Voting. At the discretion of the presiding officer of a meeting of shareholders, (i) in elections for directors voting need not be by ballot but may be taken by voice, show of hands or such other method determined by the presiding officer unless it is required by vote of the shareholders, before the vote begins, that the vote be taken by ballot and (ii) with respect to any other action to be taken by vote at the meeting, as set forth in Section 2.05(b), voting need not be by ballot but may be taken by voice, show of hands or such other method determined by the presiding officer to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law (including the Pennsylvania BCL).
(c) Proxies. At all meetings of shareholders, shareholders entitled to vote may attend and vote either in person or by proxy. Every proxy shall be executed or authenticated by the shareholder or by such shareholder's duly authorized attorney-in-fact and shall be filed with, or transmitted to, the Secretary or his or her designated agent. A shareholder or such shareholder's duly authorized attorney-in-fact may execute or authenticate in writing or transmit an electronic message authorizing another person to act for such shareholder by proxy. A proxy, unless coupled with an interest (as defined in Section 1759(d) of the Pennsylvania BCL), shall be revocable at will, notwithstanding any other agreement or any provision in the proxy to the contrary, but the revocation of a proxy shall not be effective until notice thereof has been given to the Secretary or his or her designated agent in writing or by electronic transmission. An unrevoked proxy shall not be valid after three years from the date of its execution unless a longer time is expressly provided therein. A proxy shall not be revoked by the death or incapacity of the maker unless, before the vote is counted or the authority is exercised, notice of the death or incapacity is given to the Secretary or his or her designated agent in writing or by electronic transmission.
 
(d) Judges of Election. In advance of any meeting of shareholders of the Corporation, the Board of Directors may appoint one or three Judges of Election, who need not be shareholders and who will have such duties as provided in Section 1765(a)(3) of the Pennsylvania BCL, to act at the meeting or any adjournment thereof. If one or three Judges of Election are not so appointed, the presiding officer of the meeting may, and on the request of any shareholder shall, appoint one or three Judges of Election at the meeting. In case any person appointed as a Judge of Election fails to appear or refuses to act, the vacancy may be filled by appointment made by the Board of Directors in advance of the convening of the meeting or at the meeting by the presiding officer. A person who is a candidate for office to be filled at the meeting shall not act as a Judge of Election. Unless the Pennsylvania BCL permits otherwise, this Section 2.07(d) may be modified only by a By-Law amendment adopted by the shareholders.
(e) No Action by Written Consent in Lieu of a Meeting. Subject to Article NINTH of the Articles of Incorporation, the shareholders shall not be permitted to act by written consent in lieu of a meeting.
Section 2.08The Board of Directors may permit, by resolution with respect to a particular meeting of the shareholders, or the presiding officer of such meeting may permit, one or more persons to participate in that meeting, count for the purposes of determining a quorum and exercise all rights and privileges to which such person might be entitled were such person personally in attendance, including the right to vote, by means of conference telephone or other electronic means, including, without limitation, the Internet. Unless the Board of Directors so permits by resolution, or the presiding officer of such meeting so permits, no person may participate in a meeting of the shareholders by means of conference telephone or other electronic means.
. Participation in Meetings by Electronic Means.
Section 2.09Except as otherwise provided by law (including but not limited to Rule 14a-8 promulgated under the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or any successor provision thereto) or in these By-Laws, the business which shall be conducted at any meeting of the shareholders shall (a) have been specified in the written notice of the meeting (or any supplement thereto) given by the Corporation, or (b) be brought before the meeting at the direction of the Board of Directors, or (c) be brought before the meeting by the presiding officer of the meeting unless a majority of the Directors then in office object to such business being conducted at the meeting, or (d) in the case of any matters intended to be brought by a shareholder before an annual meeting of shareholders for specific action at such meeting, have been specified in a written notice given to the Secretary, by or on behalf of any shareholder who shall have been a shareholder of record on the record date for such meeting and who shall continue to be entitled to vote thereat (the ""), in accordance with all of the following requirements:
. Business at Meetings of Shareholders.
Shareholder Notice
(i) Each Shareholder Notice must be delivered to, or mailed and received at, the principal executive offices of the Corporation (A) in the case of an annual meeting that is called for a date that is within 30 days before or after the anniversary date of the immediately preceding annual meeting of shareholders, not less than 60 days nor more than 90 days prior to such anniversary date, and (B) in the case of an annual meeting that is called for a date that is not within 30 days before or after the anniversary date of the immediately preceding annual meeting, not later than the close of business on the tenth day following the day on which notice of the date of the meeting was mailed or public disclosure of the date of the meeting was made, whichever occurs first; and
 
(ii) Each such Shareholder Notice must set forth: (A) the name and address of the shareholder who intends to bring the business before the meeting; (B) the general nature of the business which such shareholder seeks to bring before the meeting and the text of the resolution or resolutions which the proposing shareholder proposes that the shareholders adopt; and (C) a representation that the shareholder is a holder of record of the stock of the Corporation entitled to vote at such meeting and intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to bring the business specified in the notice before the meeting. The presiding officer of the meeting may, in his or her sole discretion, refuse to acknowledge any business proposed by a shareholder not made in compliance with the foregoing procedure.
Section 2.10.
Conduct Of Meetings Of Shareholders.
(a) Presiding Officer. There shall be a presiding officer at every meeting of the shareholders. Subject to Article SIXTH of the Articles of Incorporation, the presiding officer shall be appointed by the Board of Directors or in the manner authorized by the Board of Directors; that if a presiding officer is not designated by the Board of Directors or in the manner authorized by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board shall be the presiding officer.
provided
(b) Authority of Presiding Officer. Except as prescribed by the Board of Directors, the presiding officer shall determine the order of business and shall have the authority to establish rules for the conduct of the meeting of the shareholders.
(c) Procedural Standard. Any action by the presiding officer in adopting rules for, and in conducting, a meeting of the shareholders shall be fair to the shareholders. The conduct of the meeting need not follow or any other published rules for the conduct of a meeting.
Robert's Rules of Order
(d) Closing of the Polls. The presiding officer shall announce at the meeting of the shareholders when the polls close for each matter voted upon. If no announcement is made, the polls shall be deemed to have closed upon the final adjournment of the meeting. After the polls close, no ballots, proxies or votes, nor any revocations or changes thereto, may be accepted.
 
Section 3.01
. Board of Directors.
(a) General Powers. Except as otherwise provided by law, the Articles of Incorporation or these By-Laws, all powers of the Corporation shall be exercised by or under the authority of, and the business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed under the direction of, the Board of Directors.
(b) Number. The number of Directors shall be as determined by the Board of Directors from time to time.
(c) Vacancies. Each Director shall hold office until the expiration of the term for which such person was selected and until such person's successor has been selected and qualified or until such person's earlier death, resignation or removal. Subject to Article SIXTH of the Articles of Incorporation, any vacancies on the Board of Directors, including vacancies resulting from an increase in the number of Directors, may be filled by a majority vote of the remaining members of the Board of Directors, though less than a quorum, or by a sole remaining Director, or, if there are no remaining Directors, by the shareholders, and each person so selected shall be a Director to serve for the balance of the unexpired term.
(d) Removal. The entire Board of Directors or any individual Director may be removed from office only for cause by the vote of the shareholders entitled to elect directors.
(e) Qualification. A Director must be a natural person at least 18 years of age.
Section 3.02Meetings of the Board of Directors may be held at such place within or without the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania as the Board of Directors may appoint from time to time or as may be designated in the notice of the meeting.
. Place of Meetings.
Section 3.03A regular meeting of the Board of Directors shall be held immediately following each annual meeting of the shareholders, at the place where such meeting of the shareholders is held or at such other place and time after the annual meeting of shareholders as the Board of Directors may designate. Subject to Article SIXTH of the Articles of Incorporation, at such meeting, the Board of Directors shall elect officers of the Corporation. In addition to such regular meeting, the Board of Directors shall have the power to fix by resolution the place, date and time of other regular meetings of the Board of Directors.
. Regular Meetings.
 
Section 3.04Special meetings of the Board of Directors shall be held whenever ordered by the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, by the Board of Directors or by any officer of the Corporation authorized by Article SIXTH of the Articles of Incorporation to call special meetings of the Board of Directors for so long as such officer is also a Director of the Corporation.
. Special Meetings.
Section 3.05Any Director may participate in any meeting of the Board of Directors or of any committee ( such Director is otherwise entitled to participate), be counted for the purpose of determining a quorum thereof and exercise all rights and privileges to which such Director might be entitled were such Director personally in attendance, including the right to vote, or any other rights attendant to presence in person at such meeting, by means of conference telephone or other electronic technology by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other.
. Participation in Meetings by Electronic Means.
provided
Section 3.06
. Notices of Meetings of Board of Directors.
(a) Regular Meetings. No notice shall be required to be given of any regular meeting, unless the same is held at other than the place, date or time for holding such meeting as fixed in accordance with Section 3.03 of these By-Laws, in which event 48 hours' notice shall be given of the place and time of such meeting complying with Article 6 of these By-Laws.
(b) Special Meetings. Written notice stating the place, date and time of any special meeting of the Board of Directors shall be sufficient if given at least 48 hours, as provided in Article 6, in advance of the date and time fixed for the meeting.
Section 3.07A majority of the Directors in office shall be necessary to constitute a quorum for the transaction of business and, subject to Article SIXTH of the Articles of Incorporation and these By-Laws, the acts of a majority of the Directors present and voting at a meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the acts of the Board of Directors. If there is no quorum present at a duly convened meeting of the Board of Directors, the majority of those present may adjourn the meeting from place to place and from time to time.
. Quorum; Action by the Board of Directors.
Section 3.08Any action required or permitted to be taken at a meeting of the Board of Directors may be taken without a meeting if, prior or subsequent to the action, a consent or consents thereto by all of the Directors in office is filed with the Secretary.
. Informal Action by the Board of Directors.
 
Section 3.09.
Committees.
(a) Establishment and Powers. The Board of Directors of the Corporation may, by resolution adopted by a majority of the Directors in office, establish one or more committees to consist of one or more Directors of the Corporation. Any committee, to the extent provided in the applicable resolution of the Board of Directors or in the By-Laws, shall have and may exercise all of the powers and authority of the Board of Directors, except that a committee shall not have any power or authority as to the following:
(i) The submission to shareholders of any action requiring approval of shareholders under the Pennsylvania BCL.
(ii) The creation or filling of vacancies in the Board of Directors.
(iii) The adoption, amendment or repeal of the By-Laws.
(iv) The amendment or repeal of any resolution of the Board of Directors that by its terms is amendable or repealable only by the Board of Directors.
(v) Action on matters committed by the Articles of Incorporation, the By-Laws or resolution of the Board of Directors to another committee of the Board of Directors.
(b) Alternate Members. The Board of Directors may designate one or more Directors otherwise eligible to serve on a committee of the Board as alternate members of any committee who may replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of the committee or for the purpose of any written action by the committee. In the absence or disqualification of a member and alternate member or members of a committee, the member or members thereof present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not such member or members constitute a quorum, may unanimously appoint another Director to act at the meeting in the place of the absent or disqualified member.
(c) Term. Each committee of the Board of Directors shall serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors.
(d) Status of Committee Action. The term "" or "", when used in any provision of these By-Laws relating to the organization or procedures of or the manner of taking action by the Board of Directors, shall be construed to include and refer to any committee of the Board of Directors. Any provision of these By-Laws relating or referring to action to be taken by the Board of Directors or the procedure required therefor shall be satisfied by the taking of corresponding action by a committee of the Board of Directors to the extent authority to take the action has been delegated to the committee in accordance with this Section.
Board of Directors
Board
 
Section 3.10Nominations for the election of Directors may be made only (A) by the Board of Directors or (B) by any shareholder of record entitled to vote in the election of Directors generally at the record date of the meeting and also on the date of the meeting at which Directors are to be elected. However, any shareholder entitled to vote in the election of Directors generally may nominate one or more persons for election as Directors at a meeting only if written notice of such shareholder's intention to make such nomination or nominations has been delivered personally to, or been mailed to and received by the Corporation at, the principal executive offices of the Corporation, addressed to the attention of the Secretary, (a) with respect to an election to be held at an annual meeting that is called for a date that is within 30 days before or after the anniversary date of the immediately preceding annual meeting of shareholders, not less than 90 days nor more than 120 days prior to such anniversary date, and (b) with respect either to an election to be held at an annual meeting that is called for a date that is not within 30 days before or after the anniversary date of the immediately preceding annual meeting, or to a special meeting of shareholders called for the purpose of electing Directors, not later than the close of business on the tenth day following the day on which notice of the date of the meeting was mailed or public disclosure of the date of the meeting was made, whichever occurs first. Each such notice shall set forth: (i) the name and address of the shareholder intending to make the nomination and of the person or persons to be nominated; (ii) a representation that the shareholder is a holder of record of shares of the Corporation entitled to vote at such meeting and intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to nominate the person or persons specified in the notice; (iii) a description of all arrangements or understandings between the shareholder and each nominee and any other person or persons (naming such person or persons) pursuant to which the nomination or nominations are to be made by the shareholder; (iv) such other information regarding each nominee proposed by such shareholder as would have been required to be included in a proxy statement filed pursuant to the proxy rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission had the nominee been nominated by the Board of Directors; and (v) the written consent of each nominee to serve as a Director of the Corporation if so elected. The presiding officer of the meeting may, in his or her sole discretion, declare invalid or refuse to acknowledge any nomination not made in compliance with the foregoing procedure.
. Nomination.
Section 4.01The Corporation shall have a Chairman of the Board, a Chief Executive Officer, a President, a Secretary and a Treasurer who, subject to Article SIXTH of the Articles of Incorporation, shall be elected by
. Election and Office.
 
the Board of Directors. Subject to Article SIXTH of the Articles of Incorporation, the Board of Directors may create the positions of, define the powers and duties of and elect as additional officers one or more Vice Chairmen, one or more Vice Presidents, and one or more other officers or assistant officers. Any number of offices may be held by the same person. The Chairman of the Board must be a Director of the Corporation.
Section 4.02Each officer of the Corporation shall hold office until his successor is selected and qualified or until his earlier death, resignation or removal. Subject to Article SIXTH of the Articles of Incorporation, any officer may be removed by a vote of a majority of the Directors then in office. The terms of the Chairman of the Board and the Chief Executive Officer are fixed pursuant to Article SIXTH of the Articles of Incorporation.
. Term.
Section 4.03The Chairman of the Board shall have such powers and shall perform such duties as are provided in Article SIXTH of the Articles of Incorporation.
. Powers and Duties of the Chairman of the Board.
Section 4.04The Chief Executive Officer shall have such powers and shall perform such duties as are provided in Article SIXTH of the Articles of Incorporation.
. Powers and Duties of the Chief Executive Officer.
Section 4.05The President shall have such powers and shall perform such duties as may, subject to Article SIXTH of the Articles of Incorporation, from time to time be assigned to the President by the Board of Directors.
Powers and Duties of the President.
Section 4.06Unless otherwise determined by the Board of Directors, the Secretary shall be responsible for the keeping of the minutes of all meetings of the shareholders, the Board of Directors, and all committees of the Board, in books provided for that purpose, and for the giving and serving of all notices for the Corporation. The Secretary shall perform all other duties ordinarily incident to the office of Secretary and shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as may be assigned to the Secretary by the Board of Directors. The minute books of the Corporation may be held by a person other than the Secretary.
. Powers and Duties of the Secretary.
Section 4.07Unless otherwise determined by the Board of Directors, the Treasurer shall have charge of all the funds and securities of the Corporation. When necessary or proper, unless otherwise determined by the Board of Directors, the Treasurer shall endorse for collection on behalf of the Corporation checks, notes and other obligations, and shall deposit the same to the credit of the Corporation to such banks or depositories as the Board of Directors may designate and may sign all receipts and vouchers for payments made to the Corporation. The Treasurer shall be responsible for the regular entry in books of the Corporation to be kept for such purpose of a full and accurate account of all funds and securities received and
. Powers and Duties of the Treasurer.
 
paid by the Treasurer on account of the Corporation. Whenever required by the Board of Directors, the Treasurer shall render a statement of the financial condition of the Corporation. The Treasurer shall have such other powers and shall perform the duties as may be assigned to such officer from time to time by the Board of Directors. The Treasurer shall give such bond, if any, for the faithful performance of the duties of such office as shall be required by the Board of Directors.
Section 4.08Vice Chairmen, Executive Vice Presidents, Senior Vice Presidents, Vice Presidents and assistant officers shall have such rank as may be designated by the Board of Directors, provided that Vice Chairmen and Executive Vice Presidents shall serve as superior officers to Senior Vice Presidents and Senior Vice Presidents shall serve as superior officers to Vice Presidents. Vice Chairmen, Executive Vice Presidents, Senior Vice Presidents and Vice Presidents may be designated by the Board of Directors as having responsibility for a specific area of the Corporation's affairs, in which event such Vice Chairmen, Executive Vice Presidents, Senior Vice Presidents or Vice Presidents shall be superior to the other Vice Chairmen, Executive Vice Presidents, Senior Vice Presidents or Vice Presidents, respectively, in relation to matters within his or her area. The President shall be the superior officer of the Vice Chairmen, Executive Vice Presidents, Senior Vice Presidents, Vice Presidents and all other officer positions, unless the Board of Directors provides otherwise. The Treasurer and Secretary shall be the superior officers of the Assistant Treasurers and Assistant Secretaries, respectively. Vice Chairmen, Executive Vice Presidents, Senior Vice Presidents and assistant officers shall have such duties as may be assigned to them by the Board of Directors or the President.
. Rank and Duties of Vice Chairmen, Vice Presidents and Assistant Officers.
Section 4.09Subject to Article SIXTH of the Articles of Incorporation, the Board of Directors shall have the power to fill any vacancies in any office occurring for any reason.
. Vacancies.
Section 4.10Subject to Article SIXTH of the Articles of Incorporation, the Board of Directors may delegate the powers or duties of any officer of the Corporation to any other person from time to time.
. Delegation of Office.
Section 5.01.
Share Certificates.
(a) Execution. Unless otherwise provided by the Board of Directors, every share certificate shall be signed by two officers and sealed with the corporate seal, which may be a facsimile, engraved or printed, but where such certificate is signed by a transfer agent or a registrar, the signature of any corporate officer upon such certificate may be a facsimile, engraved or printed. In
 
case any officer who has signed, or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon, any share certificate shall have ceased to be such officer because of death, resignation or otherwise, before the certificate is issued, it may be issued with the same effect as if the officer had not ceased to be such at the date of its issue. The provisions of this Section shall be subject to any inconsistent or contrary agreement at the time between the Corporation and any transfer agent or registrar.
(b) Designations, Voting Rights, Preferences, Limitations and Special Rights. To the extent the Corporation is authorized to issue shares of more than one class or series, every certificate shall set forth upon the face or back of the certificate (or shall state on the face or back of the certificate that the Corporation will furnish to any shareholder upon request and without charge) a full or summary statement of the designations, voting rights, preferences, limitations and special rights of the shares of each class or series authorized to be issued so far as they have been fixed and determined and the authority of the Board of Directors to fix and determine the designations, voting rights, preferences, limitations and special rights of the classes and series of shares of the Corporation.
(c) Fractional Shares. Except as otherwise determined by the Board of Directors, shares or certificates therefor may be issued as fractional shares for shares held by any dividend reinvestment plan or employee benefit plan created or approved by the Corporation's Board of Directors, but not by any other person.
Section 5.02Transfer of shares shall be made on the books of the Corporation as required by law. A transfer of shares represented by a share certificate shall be made only upon surrender of the share certificate, duly endorsed or with duly executed stock powers attached and otherwise in proper form for transfer, which certificate shall be canceled at the time of the transfer
. Transfer of Shares.
Section 5.03
. Determination of Shareholders of Record.
(a) Fixing Record Date for Purposes of Meetings. The Board of Directors of the Corporation may fix a time prior to the date of any meeting of shareholders as a record date for the determination of the shareholders entitled to notice of, or to vote at, the meeting, which time, except in the case of an adjourned meeting, shall be not more than 90 days prior to the date of the meeting of shareholders. Only shareholders of record on the date fixed shall be so entitled notwithstanding any transfer of shares on the books of the Corporation after any record date fixed as provided in this subsection. When a determination of shareholders of record has been made as provided in this Section 5.03 for purposes of a meeting, the determination shall apply to any adjournment thereof unless the Board of Directors fixes a new record date for the adjourned meeting.
(b) Fixing Record Date for Purpose of Distributions. The Board of Directors of the Corporation may fix a time prior to the date of payment of a distribution as a record date for the determination of the shareholders entitled to be paid the distribution, which time shall be not more than 90 days prior to the
 
date of payment. Only shareholders of record on the date fixed shall be so entitled notwithstanding any transfer of shares on the books of the Corporation after any record date fixed as provided in this subsection.
(c) Fixing Record Date for Other Purposes. The Board of Directors of the Corporation may fix a time prior to an event or action as a record date for the determination of shareholders with respect to an event or action other than a meeting of shareholders or payment of a distribution, which time shall be not more than 90 days prior to the date of the event or action.
(d) Determination when No Record Date Fixed. If a record date is not fixed:
(i) The record date for determining shareholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of shareholders shall be at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which notice is given or, if notice is waived, at the close of business on the day immediately preceding the day on which the meeting is held.
(ii) The record date for determining shareholders for any other purpose shall be at the close of business on the day on which the Board of Directors adopts the resolution relating thereto.
(e) Certification by Nominee. The Board of Directors may adopt a procedure whereby a shareholder of the Corporation may certify in writing to the Corporation that all or a portion of the shares registered in the name of the shareholder are held for the account of a specified person or persons. The resolution of the Board of Directors may set forth:
(i) the classification of shareholder who may certify;
(ii) the purpose or purposes for which the certification may be made;
(iii) the form of certification and information to be contained therein;
(iv) if the certification is with respect to a record date, the time after the record date within which the certification must be received by the Corporation; and
(v) such other provisions with respect to the procedure as are deemed necessary or desirable.
Upon receipt by the Corporation of a certification complying with the procedure, the persons specified in the certification shall be deemed, for the purposes set forth in the certification, to be the holders of record of the number of shares specified in place of the shareholder making the certification.
 
Section 5.04Unless waived in whole or in part by the Board of Directors or any of the Chairman, any Vice Chairman, the President, any Senior Vice President, Secretary or Treasurer, unless the Board of Directors prohibits such waiver by such officer, any person requesting the issuance of a new certificate in lieu of an alleged lost, destroyed, mislaid or wrongfully taken certificate shall (a) give to the Corporation his or her bond of indemnity with an acceptable surety, and (b) satisfy such other requirements as may be imposed by the Corporation. Thereupon, a new share certificate shall be issued to the registered owner or his or her assigns in lieu of the alleged lost, destroyed, mislaid or wrongfully taken certificate; that the request therefor and issuance thereof have been made before the Corporation has notice that such shares have been acquired by a bona fide purchaser.
. Lost Share Certificates.
provided
Section 6.01Whenever any notice of a meeting of the Board of Directors or of shareholders is required to be given pursuant to these By-Laws or the Articles of Incorporation of the Corporation, as the same may be amended from time to time, or otherwise, the notice shall specify the geographic location, if any, date and time of the meeting; in the case of a special meeting of shareholders or where otherwise required by law or the By-Laws, the general nature of the business to be transacted at such meeting; and any other information required by law.
. Contents of Notice.
Section 6.02Any notice required to be given to any person under the provisions of the Articles of Incorporation or these By-Laws shall be given to the person either personally or by sending a copy thereof (i) by first class or express mail, postage prepaid, or courier service, charges prepaid, to such person's postal address appearing on the books of the Corporation, or, in the case of a Director, supplied by such Director to the Corporation for the purpose of notice or (ii) by facsimile transmission, e-mail or other electronic communication to such person's facsimile number or address for e-mail or other electronic communication supplied by such person to the Corporation for purposes of notice. Notice delivered pursuant to clause (i) of the preceding sentence shall be deemed to have been given to the person entitled thereto when deposited in the United States mail or with a courier service for delivery to that person, and notice pursuant to clause (ii) of the preceding sentence shall be deemed to have been given to the person entitled thereto when sent. Except as otherwise provided in these By-Laws, or as otherwise directed by the Board of Directors, notices of meetings may be given by, or at the direction of, the Secretary.
. Method of Notice.
 
Section 6.03
. Computing Time Periods.
(a) Days to be Counted. In computing the number of days for purposes of these By-Laws, all days shall be counted, including Saturdays, Sundays and any Holiday; that if the final day of any time period falls on a Saturday, Sunday or Holiday, then the final day shall be deemed to be the next day which is not a Saturday, Sunday or Holiday. In computing the number of days for the purpose of giving notice of any meeting, the date upon which the notice is given shall be counted but the day set for the meeting shall not be counted.
provided, however,
(b) One Day Notice. In any case where only one day's notice is being given, notice must be given at least 24 hours in advance of the date and time specified for the meeting in question by delivery in person or by telephone, telex, telecopier or similar means of communication.
Section 6.04Whenever any notice is required to be given under the provisions of the Pennsylvania BCL or other applicable law or the Articles of Incorporation or these By-Laws, a waiver thereof in writing, signed by the person or persons entitled to the notice, whether before or after the time stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent to the giving of the notice. Except as otherwise required by law or the next sentence, neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, a meeting need be specified in the waiver of notice of the meeting. In the case of a special meeting of shareholders, the waiver of notice shall specify the general nature of the business to be transacted. Attendance of a person at any meeting shall constitute a waiver of notice of the meeting except where a person attends a meeting for the express purpose of objecting, at the beginning of the meeting, to the transaction of any business because the meeting was not lawfully called or convened.
. Waiver of Notice.
Section 6.05Whenever the language of a proposed resolution is included in a written notice of a meeting required to be given under the provisions of the Pennsylvania BCL or the Articles of Incorporation or these By-Laws, the meeting considering the resolution may without further notice adopt it with such clarifying or other amendments as do not enlarge its original purpose.
. Modification of Proposal Contained in Notice.
Section 6.06Notice of any regular or special meeting of the shareholders, or any other notice required by the Pennsylvania BCL or by the Articles of Incorporation or these By-Laws to be given to all shareholders or to all holders of a class or a series of shares, may be given by any class of post-paid mail if the notice is deposited in the United States mail at least 20 days prior to the day named for the meeting or any corporate or shareholder action specified in the notice.
. Bulk Mail.
Section 6.07Notice or other communications need not be sent to any shareholder with whom the
. Shareholders Without Forwarding Addresses.
 
Corporation has been unable to communicate for more than 24 consecutive months because communications to the shareholder have been returned unclaimed or the shareholder has otherwise failed to provide the Corporation with a current address. Whenever the shareholder provides the Corporation with a current address, the corporation shall commence sending notices and other communications to the shareholder in the same manner as to other shareholders.
Section 7.01. .
Indemnification and Insurance
(a) Indemnification of Directors and Officers.
(i) Each Indemnitee (as defined below) shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Corporation to the fullest extent permitted by Pennsylvania law against all expense, liability and loss (including without limitation attorneys fees, judgments, fines, taxes, penalties, and amounts paid or to be paid in settlement) reasonably incurred or suffered by the Indemnitee in connection with any Proceeding (as defined below) arising out of or related to Indemnitee's service at any time in a Covered Capacity. No indemnification pursuant to this Section shall be made, however: (A) in any case where the act or failure to act giving rise to the claim for indemnification is determined by a court to have constituted wilful misconduct or recklessness; or (B) in connection with a Proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by an Indemnitee (except in connection with a Proceeding to enforce a right to indemnification or advancement of expenses under this Article 7), unless the Proceeding (or part thereof) was authorized by the Board of Directors.
(ii) The right to indemnification provided in this Section shall include the right to have the expenses incurred by the Indemnitee in participating in any Proceeding paid by the Corporation in advance of the final disposition of the Proceeding arising out of or related to Indemnitee's service at any time in a Covered Capacity automatically and without any action or approval required by the Board of Directors; that, if Pennsylvania law continues so to require, the payment of such expenses incurred by the Indemnitee in advance of the final disposition of a Proceeding shall be made only upon delivery to the Corporation of an undertaking, by or on behalf of the Indemnitee, to repay all amounts so advanced without interest if it shall ultimately be determined that the Indemnitee is not entitled to be indemnified under this Section or otherwise.
provided
(iii) For purposes of this Article, (A) "" shall mean each Director and each officer of the Corporation (including Directors and
Indemnitee
 
officers who have ceased serving in any such capacity) who was or is a party to, or is threatened to be made a party to, or is a witness or other participant in, any Proceeding, by reason of the fact that he or she is or was a Director or officer of the Corporation or is or was serving in any capacity at the request or for the benefit of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee, agent, partner, or fiduciary of, or in any other capacity for, another corporation or any limited liability company, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan, or other entity; (B) "" shall mean any threatened, pending or completed action, suit, claim, counterclaim, cross claim, arbitration, alternate dispute resolution mechanism, investigation, inquiry, administrative hearing or any other actual, threatened or completed proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative, including any appeal therefrom, and whether instituted by or on behalf of the Corporation or any other party; and (C) service as a Director or officer of the Corporation or in any other capacity of the type referred to in clause (A) of this paragraph shall be deemed service in a "".
Proceeding
Covered Capacity
(iv) The provisions of this Article shall inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by an Indemnitee's heirs, executors, administrators and legal representatives.
(b) Indemnification of Employees and Other Persons. The Corporation may, by action of its Board of Directors and to the extent provided in such action, indemnify employees and other persons, and provide for advancement of expenses to such persons in the manner set forth in (a)(ii), above, as though they were Indemnitees, except that, if Pennsylvania law continues to so require, to the extent that an employee or agent of the Corporation has been successful on the merits or otherwise in defense of any Proceeding or in defense of any claim, issue or matter therein, the Corporation shall indemnify such person against expenses (including attorneys' fees) actually and reasonably incurred by such person in connection therewith. Directors and officers of entities that have merged into, or have been consolidated with, or have been liquidated into, the Corporation shall not be Indemnitees with respect to Proceedings involving any action or failure to act of such Director or officer prior to the date of such merger, consolidation or liquidation, but such persons may be indemnified by the Board of Directors pursuant to the first sentence of this Section 7.02(b).
(c) Non-Exclusivity of Rights. The rights to indemnification and to the advancement of expenses provided in or pursuant to this Article shall not be exclusive of any other rights that any person may have or hereafter acquire under any statute, provision of the Articles of Incorporation or By-Laws, agreement, vote of shareholders or Directors, or otherwise.
(d) Insurance. The Corporation may purchase and maintain insurance, at its expense, for the benefit of any person on behalf of whom insurance is permitted to be purchased by Pennsylvania law against any expense, liability or
 
loss, whether or not the Corporation would have the power to indemnify such person under Pennsylvania or other law. The Corporation may also purchase and maintain insurance to insure its indemnification obligations whether arising hereunder or otherwise.
(e) Fund For Payment of Expenses. The Corporation may create a fund of any nature, which may, but need not be, under the control of a trustee, or otherwise may secure in any manner its indemnification obligations, whether arising hereunder, under the Articles of Incorporation, by agreement, vote of shareholders or Directors, or otherwise.
Section 7.02The provisions of this Article 7 shall constitute a contract between the Corporation and each of its Directors and officers which may be modified as to any Indemnitee only with that person's consent or as specifically provided in this Section. Notwithstanding any other provision of these By-Laws relating to their amendment generally, any repeal or amendment of this Article 7 which is adverse to any Indemnitee shall apply to such Indemnitee only on a prospective basis, and shall not reduce or limit the rights of an Indemnitee to indemnification or to the advancement of expenses with respect to any action or failure to act occurring prior to the time of such repeal or amendment. Notwithstanding any other provision of these By-Laws, no repeal or amendment of these By-Laws shall affect any or all of this Article so as either to reduce or limit indemnification or the advancement of expenses in any manner unless adopted by (a) the unanimous vote of the Directors of the Corporation then serving, or (b) the affirmative vote of shareholders entitled to cast at least eighty percent (80%) of the votes that all shareholders are entitled to cast in the election of Directors; that no such amendment shall have retroactive effect inconsistent with the preceding sentence.
. Amendment.
provided
Section 7.03References in this Article to Pennsylvania law or to any provision thereof shall be to such law, as it existed on the date this Article was adopted or as such law thereafter may be changed; that in the case of any change which: (a) limits the indemnification rights or the rights to advancement of expenses which the Corporation may provide, the rights to indemnification and to the advancement of expenses provided in this Article shall continue as theretofore to the extent permitted by law; and (b) permits the Corporation, without the requirement of any further action by shareholders or Directors, to provide broader indemnification rights or rights to the advancement of expenses than the Corporation was permitted to provide prior to such change, then the rights to indemnification and the advancement of expenses shall be so broadened to the extent permitted by law.
. Changes in Pennsylvania Law.
provided
 
Section 8.01Determination of Fiscal Year. The Board of Directors shall have the power by resolution to fix the fiscal year of the Corporation. If the Board of Directors shall fail to do so, the Chief Executive Officer shall fix the fiscal year.
. Determination of Fiscal Year.
Section 9.01In the event of any conflict between the provisions of these By-Laws and the provisions of the Articles of Incorporation, including, but not limited to, Article SIXTH of the Articles of Incorporation, the provisions of the Articles of Incorporation shall govern and control.
. Inconsistent Provisions.
Section 10.01. . Except as otherwise provided in these By-Laws or in the Articles of Incorporation, including Article SIXTH, Article SEVENTH and Article TENTH of the Articles of Incorporation:
Amendments
(a) Shareholders. The shareholders entitled to vote thereon shall have the power to alter, amend or repeal these By-Laws, by the vote of a majority of the votes cast at a duly organized meeting of shareholders by the holders of shares entitled to vote thereon, at any regular or special meeting, duly convened after notice to the shareholders of such purpose. In the case of a meeting of shareholders to amend or repeal these By-Laws, written notice shall be given to each shareholder that the purpose, or one of the purposes, of the meeting is to consider the adoption, amendment or repeal of the By-Laws.
(b) Board of Directors. The Board of Directors (but not a committee thereof) shall have the power to alter, amend and repeal these By-Laws, regardless of whether the shareholders have previously adopted the By-Law being amended or repealed, subject to the power of the shareholders to change such action; that the Board of Directors shall not have the power to amend these By-Laws on any subject that is expressly committed to the shareholders by the express terms hereof, by the Pennsylvania BCL or otherwise.
provided, however,
 
Section 11.01All words, terms and provisions of these By-Laws shall be interpreted and defined by and in accordance with the Pennsylvania BCL.
. Interpretation.
Section 11.02The provisions of these By-Laws are independent of and separable from each other, and no provision shall be affected or rendered invalid or unenforceable by virtue of the fact that for any reason any other or others of them may be invalid or unenforceable in whole or in part.
. Separability.
Section 12.01Any determination involving interpretation or application of these By-Laws made in good faith by the Board of Directors shall be final, binding and conclusive on all parties in interest.
. Effect of Board Determinations.
 

Exhibit 99.1
This EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT (the "Agreement") is entered into as of the 22
nd
day of November, 2011, between COMCAST CORPORATION, a Pennsylvania corporation (together with its subsidiaries, the "Company"), and MICHAEL J. ANGELAKIS ("Employee").
Employee desires to have Employee's employment relationship with the Company be governed by the terms and conditions of this Agreement, which include material benefits favorable to Employee. In return for such favorable benefits, Employee is agreeing to the terms and conditions contained in this Agreement, which include material obligations on Employee.
Intending to be legally bound, the Company and Employee agree as follows:
1. .
Position and Duties
(a) Employee shall continue to serve and the Company shall continue to employ Employee in the position set forth on Schedule 1. Employee shall report directly to the Company's Chief Executive Officer (currently Brian L. Roberts), in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. The duties of Employee will be those assigned by the Chief Executive Officer from time to time commensurate with Employee's education, skills and experience.
(b) Employee shall work full-time and devote Employee's reasonable best efforts to the business of the Company in a manner that will further the interests of the Company. Without the prior written consent of the Company, Employee shall not, directly or indirectly, work for or otherwise provide services to or on behalf of any person or business, other than the Company. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Employee may engage in non-compensatory civic and charitable activities with the consent of the Company, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed.
(c) Employee shall comply with all policies of the Company applicable to Employee, including the Employee Handbook and the Code of Conduct.
2. . The term of this Agreement (the "Term") shall be from the date first-above written (the "Commencement Date") through the first to occur of: (a) the date Employee's employment is terminated in accordance with Paragraph 6; or (b) June 30, 2016 (the date specified in subparagraph (b) above is referred to as the "Regular End Date"). Notwithstanding the end of the Term, the Company's obligation to make any payments expressly set forth herein to be made after the Term, and Employee's covenants contained in Paragraphs 8, 9 and 10, shall be enforceable after the end of the Term.
Term
3. .
Compensation
(a) . Employee's base salary ("Base Salary") from the Commencement Date through February 28, 2013 shall be at Employee's current annual rate and shall not be reduced other than as part of a salary reduction program effected on a basis consistent with that applicable to other employees at Employee's level. Employee shall thereafter be entitled to participate in any salary increase program offered during the Term, on a basis consistent with that applicable to other employees at Employee's level, taking into account Employee's position, duties and performance. Base Salary, less normal deductions, shall be paid to Employee in accordance with the Company's payroll practices in effect from time to time.
Base Salary
(b) . As soon as practicable after each of (i) the Commencement Date and (ii) January 1, 2012, Employee shall receive a cash signing bonus in the amount and on the terms set forth on Schedule 1.
Cash Signing Bonuses
(c) . Continuing in 2012, Employee shall be entitled to participate in any annual (or other) broad-based grant programs under the Company's Restricted Stock Plan and/or Stock Option Plan (or any successor equity-based compensation plan or plans) on a basis consistent with that applicable to other employees at Employee's level, taking into account Employee's position.
Restricted Stock/Stock Option Grants
(d) .
Cash Bonuses
(i) Employee shall be entitled to continue to participate in the Company's Cash Bonus Plan as set forth on Schedule 1 for the period from January 1, 2011 through December 31, 2011 and from January 1, 2012 through December 31, 2012. Employee's participation in such Plan will be pursuant to the terms and conditions thereof. The performance standards applicable to such cash bonus will be consistent with those applicable to other employees at Employee's level, taking into account Employee's position and duties.
(ii) Employee shall be entitled to continued participation in the Company's Cash Bonus Plan (or any successor performance-based cash incentive compensation plan) with respect to each calendar year (or portion thereof) in the Term subsequent to 2012 on a basis consistent with that applicable to other employees at Employee's level, taking into account Employee's position, duties and performance, provided that in no event will the percentage of eligible earnings target bonus potential thereunder be less than that set forth on Schedule 1.
 
(e) .
Deferred Compensation
(i) Employee shall be entitled to participate in the Company's deferred compensation plans and programs on the same terms as the Company's other senior executive officers.
(ii) In addition, the Company shall credit to Employee's account under, and pursuant to the terms and conditions of, the Company's 2005 Deferred Compensation Plan (or any successor plan), (A) as of the Commencement Date, $2,125,000, and (B) as of January 1 of each of the following calendar years, the following amounts:
 
4. . Employee shall be entitled to participate in the Company's health and welfare and other employee benefit plans and programs (including group insurance programs, vacation benefits and applicable directors and officers liability insurance and indemnification and advancement of expenses provisions relating to claims made by third parties against Employee in Employee's role as a director, officer or employee) ("Benefit Plans"), on terms (including cost) as are consistent with those made available to other employees at Employee's level, taking into account Employee's position and duties, in accordance with the terms of such plans and programs. Nothing in this Agreement shall limit the Company's right to modify or discontinue any Benefit Plans at any time, provided no such action may adversely affect any vested rights of Employee thereunder. The provisions of this Paragraph 4 shall not apply to compensation and benefit plans and programs specifically addressed in this Agreement, in which case the applicable terms of this Agreement shall control.
Benefit Plans and Programs
5. . The Company shall pay or reimburse Employee for reasonable travel, lodging, meals, entertainment and other reasonable expenses incurred by Employee in connection with the performance of Employee's duties hereunder, upon receipt of vouchers therefor submitted to the Company on a timely basis and in accordance with the Company's policies and practices in effect from time to time.
Business Expenses
6. . Employee's employment, and the Company's obligations under this Agreement (excluding any obligations the Company may have under Paragraph 7, any other obligations expressly set forth herein as surviving termination of employment, and any obligations with respect to any vested rights of Employee under any compensation or benefit plans or programs), shall or may be terminated, in the circumstances set forth below.
Termination
 
(a) . Employee's employment shall terminate automatically in the event of Employee's death.
Death
(b) . The Company may terminate Employee's employment in accordance with the provisions of applicable law, in the event Employee becomes substantially unable to perform Employee's duties hereunder due to partial or total disability or incapacity resulting from a mental or physical illness, injury or other health-related cause ("Disability") for a period of twelve (12) consecutive months or for a cumulative period of fifty-two (52) weeks in any two (2) calendar year period.
Disability
(c) .
Termination With Cause by the Company or Termination Without Good Reason by Employee
(i) The Company may terminate Employee's employment upon written notice following its determination that Employee has committed any of the following acts ("Termination With Cause"): conviction of a felony or a crime involving moral turpitude; fraud; embezzlement or other misappropriation of funds; material misrepresentation with respect to the Company; substantial and/or repeated failure to perform duties; gross negligence or willful misconduct in the performance of duties; material violation of the Employee Handbook, the Code of Conduct or any other written Company policy; or material breach of this Agreement (which, as to the last two items, if capable of being cured (as determined by the Company), shall remain uncured following ten (10) business days after written notice thereof).
(ii) Employee may terminate Employee's employment at any time upon twenty (20) business days prior written notice without Good Reason (as such item is defined in subparagraph (d)(ii) below) ("Termination Without Good Reason").
(d) .
Termination Without Cause by the Company or Termination With Good Reason by Employee
(i) The Company may terminate Employee's employment at any time for any reason (or for no reason) upon ten (10) business days' prior written notice ("Termination Without Cause").
(ii) Employee may terminate Employee's employment as a result of any of the following acts of the Company ("Termination With Good Reason") upon ten (10) business days prior written notice, provided Employee has provided Company such written notice within sixty (60) days of the occurrence thereof: a substantial demotion in Employee's position; or material breach of this Agreement (which, as to either such item, if capable of being cured (as determined by the Company), shall remain uncured following ten (10) business days after written notice thereof) ("Good Reason").
 
7. . Employee's sole entitlements as a result of a termination under Paragraph 6 shall be as set forth below.
Payments and Other Entitlements As a Result of Termination
(a) . Following termination due to death or Disability, Employee (or Employee's estate, as applicable) shall be entitled to payment of Employee's then-current Base Salary through the date of termination and for a period of three (3) months thereafter (payable in accordance with the Company's regular payroll practices), amounts accrued or payable under any Benefit Plans (payable at such times as provided therein), any accrued but unused vacation time, any amounts payable for any unreimbursed business expenses, any amount that otherwise would have been payable in the current year on account of the prior year's Cash Bonus Plan grant, and an amount on account of the current year's Cash Bonus Plan grant (pro-rated through the date of termination, and assuming achievement of performance targets at 100%) (in the case of each of the last two amounts, payable at such time as otherwise applicable absent such death or Disability). Except as otherwise provided herein, any amounts payable to Employee (or Employee's estate, as applicable) pursuant to this subparagraph (a) shall be paid no later than the 90
Death or Disability
th
day following the date of termination. In addition, Employee's stock options and restricted stock grants shall automatically vest in full, and the stock options shall remain exercisable for the balance of their remaining terms.
(b) . If Employee's employment terminates as a result of a Termination With Cause or Termination Without Good Reason, then subject to the provisions of subparagraph 8(c), Employee shall be entitled only to payment of Employee's then-current Base Salary through the date of termination (payable in accordance with the Company's regular payroll practices), amounts accrued or payable under any Other Benefit Plans (payable at such times as provided therein), any accrued but unused vacation time, any amounts payable for any unreimbursed business expenses, and any amount that otherwise would have been payable in the current year on account of the prior year's Cash Bonus Plan grant (payable at such time as otherwise applicable absent such termination). Except as otherwise provided herein, any amounts payable to Employee pursuant to this subparagraph (b) shall be paid no later than the 90
Termination With Cause by the Company or Termination Without Good Reason by Employee
th
day following the date of termination.
(c) . If Employee's employment is terminated as a result of a Termination Without Cause or Termination With Good Reason, and subject to Employee's entering into an agreement containing a release by Employee of the Company with respect to all matters relating to Employee's employment and the termination thereof (other than rights under this Agreement which by their express terms continue following termination of employment and any vested rights under any compensation or benefit plan or program) within thirty (30) days following the date of termination, in a form and containing terms as the Company customarily requires of terminated employees receiving salary continuation payments:
Termination Without Cause by the Company or Termination With Good Reason by Employee
 
(i) Provided Employee is alive at the time of payment or receipt thereof, Employee shall be entitled to: (A) receive Employee's then-current Base Salary in accordance with the Company's regular payroll practices; and (B) participate in the Company's health and welfare benefit plans and programs at the same cost to Employee as is applicable to active employees; in each case for the period of time set forth on Schedule 1 following the date of termination. Employee's rights under the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1986, as amended ("COBRA") shall run concurrently with Employee's participation during such period of time. To the extent the provision of health and welfare benefits to Employee pursuant to subparagraph (B) above constitutes a "deferral of compensation" within the meaning of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code (the "Code"), and its implementing regulations and guidance, the provision of such benefits shall be subject to the terms and conditions of subparagraph 13(a).
(ii) Employee shall also receive payment of Employee's then-current Base Salary through the date of termination (payable in accordance with the Company's regular payroll practices); amounts accrued or payable under any Benefit Plans (payable at such times as provided therein); any accrued but unused vacation time; any amounts payable for any unreimbursed business expenses; and any amount that otherwise would have been payable in the current year on account of the prior year's Cash Bonus Plan grant payable at such time as otherwise applicable absent such termination). Except as otherwise provided herein, any amounts payable to Employee pursuant to this subparagraph (ii) shall be paid no later than the 90
th
day following the date of termination.
(iii) Employee shall be obligated to seek reasonable other employment during the period in which Employee receives salary continuation payments under subparagraph (i) above, and the Company may request reasonable periodic written reports evidencing Employee's efforts to obtain such employment. Such salary continuation payments shall be subject to reduction in the amount of any salary, bonus, vested equity or other compensation earned or received by Employee for services through employment or self-employment during or on account of the period of time of salary continuation. Employee shall provide the Company with prompt written notice of any such employment and amounts. The Company's obligation to continue health and welfare benefits shall cease upon Employee's eligibility for health and welfare benefits from any subsequent employer.
(iv) Provided Employee is alive at the time of payment, Employee shall be entitled to receive payment on account of: (A) the current year's Cash Bonus Plan grant, without proration; and (B) the following year's Cash Bonus Plan grant, pro-rated based on the number of full months of employment in the year of termination; in each case, assuming achievement of performance targets at 100% (payable at such times as otherwise applicable absent such termination).
(v) Provided Employee is alive at the time of vesting, Employee shall have the right to continued vesting of Stock Option Plan and Restricted Stock Plan grants through the period of time set forth on Schedule 1, as if there had been no termination of employment
 
(subject to the achievement of any performance conditions in Restricted Stock Plan grants). Provided Employee is alive at the time of exercise, Employee shall have the right to exercise any vested Stock Option Plan grants through the period of time set forth on Schedule 1.
8. . Employee acknowledges and agrees that: Employee's skills, experience, knowledge and reputation are of special, unique and extraordinary value to the Company; Employee is and will continue to be privy to confidential and proprietary information, processes and know-how of the Company, the confidentiality of which has significant value to the Company and its future success; and the restrictions on Employee's activities as set forth below are necessary to protect the value of the goodwill and other tangible and intangible assets of the Company. Based upon the foregoing, Employee agrees as follows:
Non-Solicitation; Non-Competition; Confidentiality
(a) While employed by the Company (whether during the Term or thereafter), and for a period of one year after termination of Employee's employment for any reason (whether during the Term or thereafter), Employee shall not, directly or indirectly: (i) hire any employee of the Company (other than as a result of a general solicitation); (ii) solicit, induce, encourage or attempt to influence any employee, customer, consultant, independent contractor, service provider or supplier of the Company to cease to do business or terminate the employment or other relationship with the Company; or (iii) assist any other person, firm or entity in doing or performing any of the acts that Employee is prohibited from doing under subparagraphs (i) or (ii) above.
(b) (i) WHILE EMPLOYED BY THE COMPANY (WHETHER DURING THE TERM OR THEREAFTER), AND FOR A PERIOD OF ONE YEAR AFTER TERMINATION OF EMPLOYEE'S EMPLOYMENT PRIOR TO THE REGULAR END DATE BY EMPLOYEE (OTHER THAN AS A RESULT OF A TERMINATION WITH GOOD REASON) OR BY THE COMPANY AS A RESULT OF A TERMINATION WITH CAUSE, EMPLOYEE SHALL NOT, DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY, ENGAGE OR BE FINANCIALLY INTERESTED IN (AS AN AGENT, CONSULTANT, DIRECTOR, EMPLOYEE, INDEPENDENT CONTRACTOR, OFFICER, OWNER, PARTNER, MEMBER, PRINCIPAL OR OTHERWISE), ANY ACTIVITIES FOR A COMPETITIVE BUSINESS. A COMPETITIVE BUSINESS MEANS A BUSINESS (WHETHER CONDUCTED BY AN ENTITY OR INDIVIDUAL, INCLUDING EMPLOYEE IN SELF-EMPLOYMENT) THAT IS ENGAGED IN COMPETITION, DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY THROUGH ANY ENTITY CONTROLLING, CONTROLLED BY OR UNDER COMMON CONTROL WITH SUCH BUSINESS, WITH ANY OF THE BUSINESS ACTIVITIES CARRIED ON BY THE COMPANY OR BEING PLANNED BY THE COMPANY WITH EMPLOYEE'S PARTICIPATION.
(ii) TO APPROPRIATELY TAKE ACCOUNT OF THE HIGHLY COMPETITIVE ENVIRONMENT OF THE COMPANY'S BUSINESSES, THE PARTIES AGREE THAT ANY BUSINESS ENGAGED IN ANY OF THE ACTIVITIES SET FORTH ON
 
SCHEDULE 2 SHALL BE DEEMED TO BE A COMPETITIVE BUSINESS UNDER SUBPARAGRAPH (i) ABOVE.
(iii) THIS RESTRICTION SHALL APPLY IN ANY GEOGRAPHIC AREA IN THE WORLD IN WHICH THE COMPANY CARRIES OUT BUSINESS ACTIVITIES. EMPLOYEE AGREES THAT NOT SPECIFYING A MORE LIMITED GEOGRAPHIC AREA IS REASONABLE IN LIGHT OF THE BROAD GEOGRAPHIC SCOPE OF THE ACTIVITIES CARRIED OUT BY THE COMPANY IN THE WORLD.
(iv) For purposes of clarification of their intent, the parties agree that subparagraph (i) above restricts Employee from working on the account, or otherwise for the benefit, of a Competitive Business as a result of Employee's working as an employee, consultant or in any other capacity for a company or other entity that provides consulting, advisory, lobbying or similar services to other businesses.
(v) Nothing herein shall prevent Employee from owning for investment up to one percent (1%) of any class of equity security of an entity whose securities are traded on a national securities exchange or market. Further, nothing herein shall prevent Employee from being employed or otherwise engaged in any private equity or other financial services business (including related investing, monitoring and management activities (including serving as a director)) as long as the Employee is not employed by a Competitive Business as an officer or in any other operational capacity.
(c) IF EMPLOYEE TERMINATES EMPLOYMENT (OTHER THAN AS A RESULT OF A TERMINATION WITH GOOD REASON) AT ANY TIME FOLLOWING THE REGULAR END DATE, THEN PROVIDED THE COMPANY SO ELECTS BY WRITTEN NOTICE TO EMPLOYEE GIVEN WITHIN TEN (10) BUSINESS DAYS OF SUCH TERMINATION: (i) THE PROVISIONS OF SUBPARAGRAPH (b) ABOVE SHALL APPLY TO EMPLOYEE FOR A ONE-YEAR PERIOD FOLLOWING SUCH TERMINATION, PROVIDED THAT FOR THE PURPOSES OF THIS SUBPARAGRAPH THE TERM COMPETITIVE BUSINESS SHALL MEAN ANY OF THE FOLLOWING ENTITIES (OR THEIR SUCCESSORS) THAT IS ENGAGED IN COMPETITION WITH THE COMPANY'S BUSINESSES, DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY THROUGH ANY PARENT, SUBSIDIARY, AFFILIATE, JOINT VENTURE, PARTNERSHIP OR OTHERWISE: AT&T INC.; CBS CORPORATION; CENTURYLINK, INC.; DIRECTTV, INC.; DISH NETWORK CORPORATION; ECHOSTAR HOLDING CORPORATION; NEWS CORP. (INCLUDING FOX); THE WALT DISNEY COMPANY (INCLUDING ABC); TIME WARNER INC.; AND VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS, INC.; AND (ii) THE COMPANY SHALL PROVIDE TO EMPLOYEE, FOR A ONE-YEAR PERIOD FOLLOWING SUCH TERMINATION, THE PAYMENTS AND BENEFITS DESCRIBED IN SUBPARAGRAPHS 7(c)(i) AND 7(c)(iv) ON THE TERMS SET FORTH THEREIN (INCLUDING SUBJECT TO THE TERMS OF SUBPARAGRAPH 7(c)(iii)), AS IF EMPLOYEE HAD TERMINATED WITHOUT CAUSE.
 
(d) During the Term and at all times thereafter, Employee shall not, directly or indirectly, use for Employee's personal benefit, or disclose to or use for the direct or indirect benefit of anyone other than the Company (except as may be required within the scope of Employee's duties hereunder), any secret or confidential information, knowledge or data of the Company or any of its employees, officers, directors or agents ("Confidential Information"). Confidential Information includes, but is not limited to: the terms and conditions of this Agreement; sales, marketing and other business methods; policies, plans, procedures, strategies and techniques; research and development projects and results; software and firmware; trade secrets, know-how, processes and other intellectual property; information on or relating to past, present or prospective employees or suppliers; and information on or relating to past, present or prospective customers, including customer lists. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Confidential Information does not include information that: (i) is generally available to the public; (ii) is available to Employee on a nonconfidential basis from a source other than the Company, provided such source is not and was not bound by a confidentiality agreement with the Company or otherwise prohibited from transmitting such information to Employee by a contractual, legal or fiduciary obligation; or (iii) has been independently developed by Employee, as evidenced by written records. Employee agrees that Confidential Information is the exclusive property of the Company, and agrees that, immediately upon Employee's termination of employment for any reason (including after the Term), Employee shall deliver to the Company all correspondence, documents, books, records, lists and other materials containing Confidential Information that are within Employee's possession or control, regardless of the medium in which such materials are maintained. Employee shall retain no copies thereof in any medium. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, Employee agrees neither to prepare, participate in or assist in the preparation of any article, book, speech or other writing or communication relating to the past, present or future business, operations, personnel or prospects of the Company, nor to encourage or assist others to do any of the foregoing, without the prior written consent of the Company (which may be withheld in the Company's sole discretion). Nothing herein shall prevent Employee from: (A) complying with a valid subpoena or other legal requirement for disclosure of Confidential Information, provided that Employee shall use good faith efforts to notify the Company promptly and in advance of disclosure if Employee believes Employee is under a legal requirement to disclose Confidential Information otherwise protected from disclosure under this subparagraph; or (B) disclosing the terms and conditions of this Agreement to Employee's spouse or tax, accounting or legal advisors, or as necessary to enforce this Agreement.
(e) Employee acknowledges that the restrictions contained in this Paragraph 8, in light of the nature of the businesses in which the Company is engaged and Employee's position with the Company, are reasonable and necessary to protect the legitimate interests of the Company, and that any violation of these restrictions would result in irreparable injury to the Company. Employee therefore agrees that, in the event of Employee's violation or threatened violation of any of these restrictions: (i) the Company shall have the right to suspend or terminate any unaccrued payment obligations to Employee hereunder and/or Employee's unaccrued rights under any compensation or benefit plans and programs hereunder or thereunder (including in each case any arising following termination of employment); and (ii) the Company shall be entitled to
 
seek from any court of competent jurisdiction: (A) preliminary and permanent injunctive relief against Employee; (B) damages from Employee (including the Company's reasonable legal fees and other costs and expenses); and (C) an equitable accounting of all compensation, commissions, earnings, profits and other benefits to Employee arising from such violation; all of which rights shall be cumulative and in addition to any other rights and remedies to which the Company may be entitled as set forth herein or as a matter of law.
(f) Employee agrees that if any part of the restrictions contained in this Paragraph 8, or the application thereof, is construed to be invalid or unenforceable, the remainder of such restrictions or the application thereof shall not be affected and the remaining restrictions shall have full force and effect without regard to the invalid or unenforceable portions. If any restriction is held to be unenforceable because of the area covered, the duration thereof or the scope thereof, Employee agrees that the court making such determination shall have the power to reduce the area and/or the duration, and/or limit the scope thereof, and the restriction shall then be enforceable in its reduced form.
(g) If Employee violates any such restrictions, the period of such violation (from the commencement of any such violation until such time as such violation shall be cured by Employee) shall not count toward or be included in any applicable restrictive period.
(h) Employee agrees that prior to accepting employment with any other person or entity at any time during the one-year period following termination of employment referred to in subparagraph (b)(i) or (c)(i) above, Employee will provide the prospective employer with written notice of the provisions of this Paragraph 8, with a copy of such notice provided simultaneously to the Company.
9. . During the period of Employee's employment (whether during the Term or thereafter), and for a period of three (3) years thereafter, neither party shall, directly or indirectly, engage in any communication with any person or entity, including: (i) any actual or potential employer of Employee; (ii) any actual or potential employee, customer, consultant, independent contractor, investor, lender, service provider or supplier of the Company; or (iii) any media outlet; which constitutes a derogatory or disparaging statement  orally, written or otherwise  against the other party or, in the case of the Company, any of its employees, officers or directors. The foregoing shall not be deemed to restrict either party's obligation to testify truthfully in any proceeding or cooperate in any governmental investigation.
Non-Derogatory Statements
10. .
Company Property
(a) To the extent any Company Intellectual Property (as defined in subparagraph (e) below) is not already owned by the Company as a matter of law or prior written assignment by Employee to the Company, Employee hereby assigns to the Company, and agrees to assign the Company in the future (to the extent necessary), all right, title and interest that Employee now has or acquires in the future in and to any and all Company Intellectual Property. Employee shall
 
further cooperate with the Company in obtaining, protecting and enforcing its interests in Company Intellectual Property. Such cooperation shall be at the Company's expense, and shall include, at the Company's election, without limitation, signing all documents reasonably requested by the Company for patent, copyright and other Intellectual Property (as defined in subparagraph (e) below) applications and registrations, and individual assignments thereof, and providing other reasonably requested assistance. Employee's obligation to assist the Company in obtaining, protecting and enforcing Intellectual Property rights shall continue following Employee's employment with the Company, but the Company shall be obliged to compensate Employee at a then prevailing reasonable consulting rate for any time spent and any out-of-pocket expenses incurred at the Company's request for providing such assistance. Such compensation shall be paid irrespective of, and is not contingent upon, the substance of any testimony Employee may give or provide while assisting the Company.
(b) Employee shall use reasonable efforts to promptly disclose to the Company, or any person(s) designated by the Company, all Intellectual Property that is created, conceived or reduced to practice by Employee, either alone or jointly with others, during the term of Employee's employment with the Company, whether or not patentable or copyrightable or believed by Employee to be patentable or copyrighted, including without limitation any Intellectual Property (to be held in confidence by the Company) that qualifies fully as a nonassignable invention under Section 2870 of the California Labor Code ("Nonassignable IP"). If Employee contends that any such Intellectual Property qualifies as Nonassignable IP, Employee will promptly so notify the Company, and Employee agrees to cooperate fully with a review and verification process by the Company. In addition, Employee will promptly disclose to the Company (to be held in confidence) all patent applications filed by Employee or on his or her behalf within six months after termination of employment, and to cooperate fully with a review and determination by the Company as to whether such patent applications constitute or include Company Intellectual Property or Confidential Information. Employee has reviewed the notification on Schedule 3 and agrees that Employee's execution hereof acknowledges receipt of such notification.
(c) In the event that the Company is unable for any reason whatsoever to secure Employee's signature on any lawful and necessary document to apply for, execute or otherwise further prosecute or register any patent or copyright application or any other Intellectual Property application or registration, Employee hereby irrevocably designates and appoints the Company and its duly authorized officers and agents as Employee's agents and attorneys-in-fact to act for and on Employee's behalf and instead of Employee to execute and file such lawful and necessary documents and to do all other lawfully permitted acts to further prosecute, issue and/or register patents, copyrights and any other Intellectual Property rights registrations thereon with the same legal force and effect as if executed by Employee.
(d) To the extent any materials, including written, graphic or computer programmed materials, authored, prepared, contributed to or written by Employee, in whole or in part, during the term of employment by the Company and relating in whole or in part to the
 
business, products, services, research or development of the Company or its suppliers, distributors or customers qualify as "work made for hire," as such term is defined and used in the copyright laws of the United States, then such materials shall be done by Employee as "work made for hire" under such law.
(e) "Intellectual Property" means any and all ideas, inventions, formulae, know how, trade secrets, devices, designs, models, methods, techniques, processes, specifications, tooling, computer programs, software code, works of authorship, copyrighted and copyrightable works, mask works, trademarks and service marks, Internet domain names, technical and product information, patents and patent applications throughout the world and any other intellectual property rights or applications throughout the world. "Company Intellectual Property" means any Intellectual Property created, fixed, conceived or reduced to practice, in whole or in part, by Employee, either alone or jointly with others, whether or not such Intellectual Property is patentable or copyrightable, either (i) that relates to the Company's current or planned businesses or (ii) that is created, etc. during working hours, in the performance of Employee's duties or using the Company's information, facilities or equipment or other assets. "Company Intellectual Property" does not include Nonassignable IP.
11. .
Representations
(a) Employee represents that:
(i) Employee has had the opportunity to retain and consult with legal counsel and tax advisors of Employee's choice regarding the terms of this Agreement.
(ii) Subject to bankruptcy and insolvency laws and general equitable principles, this Agreement is enforceable against Employee in accordance with its terms.
(iii) This Agreement, and the performance of Employee's obligations hereunder, do not conflict with, violate or give rise to any rights of other persons or entities under, any agreement, benefit plan or program, order, decree or judgment to which Employee is a party or by which Employee is bound.
(b) The Company represents that:
(i) Subject to bankruptcy and insolvency laws and general equitable principles, this Agreement is enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms.
(ii) This Agreement, and the performance of the Company's obligations hereunder, do not conflict with, violate or give rise to any rights to other persons or entities under, any agreement, order, decree or judgment to which the Company is a party or by which it is bound.
 
12. . All compensation under this Agreement is subject to applicable tax withholding requirements and other deductions required by law. Employee agrees that the Company is entitled to deduct from monies payable and reimbursable to Employee hereunder all sums that Employee may owe the Company at any time.
Withholding/Deductions
13. .
Section 409A
(a) Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary or otherwise, except to the extent any expense, reimbursement or in-kind benefit provided to Employee does not constitute a "deferral of compensation" within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code, and its implementing regulations and guidance: (i) the amount of expenses eligible for reimbursement or in-kind benefits provided to Employee during any calendar year will not affect the amount of expenses eligible for reimbursement or in-kind benefits provided to Employee in any other calendar year; (ii) the reimbursements for expenses for which Employee is entitled to be reimbursed shall be made on or before the last day of the calendar year following the calendar year in which the applicable expense is incurred; and (iii) the right to payment or reimbursement or in-kind benefits hereunder may not be liquidated or exchanged for any other benefit.
(b) For purposes of the application of Treas.Reg.1.409A-1(b)(4) (or any successor provision), each payment in a series of payments provided to Employee pursuant to this Agreement will be deemed a separate payment.
(c) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement to the contrary, any payment or benefit described in Paragraph 7 that represents a "deferral of compensation" within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code shall only be paid or provided to Employee upon his "separation from service" within the meaning of Treas.Reg.1.409A-1(h) (or any successor regulation). To the extent compliance with the requirements of Treas.Reg.1.409A-3(i)(2) (or any successor provision) is necessary to avoid the application of an additional tax under Section 409A of the Code to payments due to Employee upon or following his "separation from service," then notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement (or any otherwise applicable plan, policy, agreement or arrangement), any such payments that are otherwise due within six months following Employee's "separation from service" will be deferred (without interest) and paid to Employee in a lump sum immediately following that six month period. In the event Employee dies during that six month period, the amounts deferred on account of Treas.Reg.1.409A-3(i)(2) (or any successor provision) shall be paid to the personal representatives of the Employee's estate within sixty (60) days following Employee's death. This provision shall not be construed as preventing payments pursuant to Paragraph 7 equal to an amount up to two (2) times the lesser of: (i) Employee's annualized compensation for the year prior to the "separation from service;" and (ii) the maximum amount that may be taken into account under a qualified plan pursuant to section 401(a)(17) of the Code, being paid to Employee in the first six months following his "separation from service."
(d) Anything to the contrary herein notwithstanding, all benefits or payments provided by the Company to Employee that would be deemed to constitute "nonqualified deferred
 
compensation" within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code are intended to comply with Section 409A of the Code. Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, distributions may only be made under this Agreement upon an event and in a manner permitted by Section 409A of the Code or an applicable exemption.
14. .
Successors
(a) If the Company merges into, or transfers all or substantially all of its assets to, or as part of a reorganization, restructuring or other transaction becomes a subsidiary of, another entity, such other entity shall be deemed to be the successor to the Company hereunder, and the term "Company" as used herein shall mean such other entity as is appropriate, and this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect.
(b) If the Company transfers part of its assets to another entity owned directly or indirectly by the shareholders of the Company (or any substantial portion of them), or transfers stock or other interests in a subsidiary of the Company directly or indirectly to the shareholders of the Company (or any substantial portion of them), and Employee works for the portion of the Company or the entity so transferred, then such other entity shall be deemed the successor to the Company hereunder, the term "Company" as used herein shall mean such other entity, and this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect.
15.
. TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, THE COMPANY AND EMPLOYEE HEREBY KNOWINGLY, VOLUNTARILY AND INTENTIONALLY WAIVE ANY RIGHT EITHER THEY OR THEIR HEIRS, EXECUTORS, ADMINISTRATORS, PERSONAL REPRESENTATIVES, SUCCESSORS OR ASSIGNS MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LITIGATION BASED ON OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT. BY WAIVING THE RIGHT TO A JURY TRIAL, NEITHER PARTY IS WAIVING A RIGHT TO SUE THE OTHER; RATHER, THE PARTIES ARE SIMPLY WAIVING THE RIGHT TO HAVE A JURY DECIDE THE CASE.
WAIVER OF RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY
16.
. EMPLOYEE AGREES THAT, UNLESS PROHIBITED BY APPLICABLE LAW, AND EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY AVAILABLE IN AN APPLICABLE FEDERAL, STATE OR LOCAL STATUTE OR ORDINANCE, EMPLOYEE'S REMEDY FOR BREACH OF THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER CLAIM OR CAUSE OF ACTION ARISING OUT OF EMPLOYEE'S EMPLOYMENT SHALL BE LIMITED TO ACTUAL ECONOMIC DAMAGES, AND EMPLOYEE SHALL NOT BE PERMITTED TO MAKE ANY CLAIM FOR OR RECOVER PUNITIVE, EXEMPLARY, COMPENSATORY (OTHER THAN BASED ON ACTUAL ECONOMIC LOSS), EMOTIONAL DISTRESS, OR SPECIAL DAMAGES.
LIMITATION ON DAMAGES
17. . Litigation concerning this Agreement, if initiated by or on behalf of Employee, shall be brought only in a state court in Philadelphia County, Pennsylvania or federal
Jurisdiction
 
court in the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, or, if initiated by the Company, in either such jurisdiction or in a jurisdiction in which Employee then resides or works. Employee consents to jurisdiction in any such jurisdiction, regardless of the location of Employee's residence or place of business. Employee and the Company irrevocably waive any objection, including any objection to the laying of venue or based on the grounds of forum non conveniens, which Employee or the Company may now or hereafter have, to the bringing of any action or proceeding in any such jurisdiction. Employee and the Company acknowledge and agree that any service of legal process by mail constitutes proper legal service of process under applicable law in any such action or proceeding. In any such litigation, the prevailing party shall be entitled to reimbursement from the other party for all costs of defending or maintaining such action, including reasonable attorneys' fees.
18. . This Agreement shall be interpreted and enforced in accordance with the substantive law of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, without regard to any choice-of-law doctrines.
Governing Law
19. . All notices referred to in this Agreement shall be given in writing and shall be effective: (a) if given by fax, when transmitted to the number below (with an appropriate confirmation received); or (b) if given by registered or certified mail, when received at the address below (with an appropriate receipt received):
Notices
if to the Company:
c/o Comcast Corporation
One Comcast Center
Philadelphia, PA 19103
Attention: General Counsel
Fax: (215) 286-7794; and
if to Employee:
Employee's address and fax number (if any) as most recently indicated in the Company's records.
20. . This Agreement (including Schedules 1, 2 and 3 hereto) constitutes the entire agreement of the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof, and supersedes and replaces in its entirety the Employment Agreement dated as of December 16, 2009 between the parties, provided that any accrued rights and obligations of the parties thereunder as of the date hereof shall be unaffected by the execution of this Agreement. In the event of any conflict between the terms of this Agreement and the terms of any plans or policies of the Company (including the Employee Handbook), the terms of this Agreement shall control.
Entire Agreement
 
21. . If any term or provision of this Agreement is held to be invalid or unenforceable for any reason, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other term or provision hereof and this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect as if such invalid or unenforceable term or provision (to the extent of the invalidity or unenforceability) had not been contained herein.
Invalidity or Unenforceability
22. . No amendment or waiver of this Agreement or any provision hereof shall be binding upon the party against whom enforcement of such amendment or waiver is sought unless it is made in writing and signed by or on behalf of such party. The waiver by either party of a breach of any provision of this Agreement by the other party shall not operate or be construed as a waiver or a continuing waiver by that party of the same or any subsequent breach of any provision of this Agreement by the other party.
Amendments and Waivers
23. . This Agreement shall be binding on and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective heirs, executors, administrators, successors and assigns, except that (other than to effect the provisions of Paragraph 14) it may not be assigned by either party without the other party's written consent.
Binding Effect; No Assignment
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed and delivered this Agreement as of the date first-above written.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Employee in accordance with Section 2872 of the California Labor Code that this Agreement require Employee to assign or offer to assign to the Company any invention that Employee developed entirely on Employee's own time the Company's equipment, supplies, facilities or trade secret information those inventions that
THIS IS TO NOTIFY
does not
without using
except for
either:
 
 
To the extent a provision in this Agreement purports to require Employee to assign an invention otherwise excluded by the preceding paragraph, the provision is against the public policy of the State of California and is unenforceable therein.
This limited exclusion does not apply to any patent or invention covered by a contract between the Company and the United States or any of its agencies requiring full title to such patent or invention to be in the United States.
 


