FILE:LSI/LSI-8K-20020807165934.txt.gz
EVENTS:	
TEXT:
ITEM: 
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure.
     On August 7, 2002, the Principal Executive Officer, Wilfred J. Corrigan, and the Principal Financial Officer, Bryon Look, of LSI Logic Corporation submitted to the SEC a sworn statement pursuant to Securities and Exchange Commission Order No. 4-460.
     A copy of each of these statements is attached hereto as an Exhibit.
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

EXHIBIT 99.1 STATEMENT UNDER OATH OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER REGARDING FACTS AND CIRCUMSTANCES RELATING TO EXCHANGE ACT FILINGS I, Wilfred J. Corrigan, state and attest that: (1) To the best of my knowledge, based upon a review of the covered reports of LSI Logic Corporation, and, except as corrected or supplemented in a subsequent covered report: - no covered report contained an untrue statement of a material fact as of the end of the period covered by such report (or in the case of a report on Form 8-K or definitive proxy materials, as of the date on which it was filed); and - no covered report omitted to state a material fact necessary to make the statements in the covered report, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading as of the end of the period covered by such report (or in the case of a report on Form 8-K or definitive proxy materials, as of the date on which it was filed). (2) I have reviewed the contents of this statement with the Company's audit committee. (3) In this statement under oath, each of the following, if filed on or before the date of this statement, is a "covered report": - LSI Logic Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Commission for the year ended December 31, 2001. - All Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and all Definitive Proxy materials filed with the Commission by LSI Logic Corporation after the filing of the Annual Report on Form 10-K identified above. - Any amendments to any of the foregoing. Signature: /s/ Wilfred J. Corrigan State of California --------------------------- County of Santa Clara Name: Wilfred J. Corrigan Date: August 7, 2002 Subscribed and sworn to before me this 7th day of August 2002. Signature: /s/ Becky A. Abella --------------------------- Becky A. Abella, Notary Public My Commission Expires August 15, 2005

EXHIBIT 99.2 STATEMENT UNDER OATH OF PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER REGARDING FACTS AND CIRCUMSTANCES RELATING TO EXCHANGE ACT FILINGS I, Bryon Look, state and attest that: (1) To the best of my knowledge, based upon a review of the covered reports of LSI Logic Corporation, and, except as corrected or supplemented in a subsequent covered report: - no covered report contained an untrue statement of a material fact as of the end of the period covered by such report (or in the case of a report on Form 8-K or definitive proxy materials, as of the date on which it was filed); and - no covered report omitted to state a material fact necessary to make the statements in the covered report, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading as of the end of the period covered by such report (or in the case of a report on Form 8-K or definitive proxy materials, as of the date on which it was filed). (2) I have reviewed the contents of this statement with the Company's audit committee. (3) In this statement under oath, each of the following, if filed on or before the date of this statement, is a "covered report": - LSI Logic Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Commission for the year ended December 31, 2001. - All Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and all Definitive Proxy materials filed with the Commission by LSI Logic Corporation after the filing of the Annual Report on Form 10-K identified above. - Any amendments to any of the foregoing. Signature: /s/ Bryon Look State of California --------------------------- County of Santa Clara Name: Bryon Look Date: August 7, 2002 Subscribed and sworn to before me this 7th day of August 2002. Signature: /s/ Becky A. Abella -------------------------- Becky A. Abella, Notary Public My Commission Expires August 15, 2005


