FILE:LSI/LSI-8K-20031022161445.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Item 5. Other Items and Regulation FD Disclosure
LSI Logic Corporation ("LSI Logic" or the "Registrant") reported revenues of $450 million in the third quarter of 2003, an 11 percent sequential increase compared to the $407 million reported in the second quarter of 2003, and a decline of 8 percent compared to the $487 million reported in the third quarter of 2002.
Cash and short-term investments totaled $987 million at the end of the 2003-third quarter. The Registrant generated positive operating cash flow for the sixth consecutive quarter and repurchased approximately $172 million in convertible notes, eliminating all current debt.
The 2003-third quarter GAAP (generally accepted accounting principles) net loss was $32 million or 8 cents a diluted share, including a $25 million charge for restructuring. The 2003-second quarter GAAP net loss was $162 million or 43 cents a diluted share. The Registrant reported a GAAP net loss of $28 million or 7 cents a diluted share in the 2002-third quarter.
Last month, the Registrant signed a definitive agreement to sell the company's Tsukuba, Japan manufacturing facility and extend its foundry usage. The transaction is scheduled to close in the fourth quarter. When this action is finalized, the Registrant will have completed the consolidation of its internal manufacturing at the Registrant's Gresham campus, supplemented by strategic foundry engagements.
Table of Contents
Safe Harbor for Forward Looking Statements
This news release and the statements by LSI Logic management include forward-looking statements that may involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Readers are cautioned that these forward-looking statements are only predictions and may differ materially from the actual future events or results. Forward-looking statements include projected sequential revenue growth in the fourth quarter, projections of growth in the storage components, storage systems, consumer, communications and enterprise networking businesses. Additional forward-looking statements include forecasts of sequential revenue growth, operating expenses, projections of profitability, projections of the company's fourth-quarter business outlook, including net other income, earnings, gross margins, tax provisions, capital spending, depreciation, acquisition-related amortization, restructuring expenses, other special items, common share count, the expected close of the sale of the Tsukuba manufacturing facility and the RapidChip platform generating new business in the fourth quarter. The company's actual results in future periods may be materially different from any performance suggested in this news release. Risks and uncertainties to which the company is subject include, but are not necessarily limited to, fluctuations in the timing and volumes of customer demand, the rate of depletion of customer inventory buildup, the company's achievement of revenue objectives and other financial targets, the development of new products, and the timing and the success of new product introductions. Other risks and uncertainties include: the RapidChip platform continuing to generate new business and continuing to find traction with existing customers, the continued availability of appropriate levels of manufacturing capacity, the realization of benefits from the company's strategic relationships, competing technologies, R&D investments, products and other competitive factors and investments and disruptions in general economic activity due to worsening global business conditions or caused by the effects of terrorist activities and armed conflict. The extent to which the company may not realize the cost savings it expects from the reduction in workforce and operating expenses as a result of the sale of the Tsukuba facility may also impact its future performance. The company operates in an industry sector where securities' values are highly volatile and may be influenced by the cyclical nature of the industry, the unpredictability of the economy and other factors beyond the company's control. For additional information, Readers are referred to the documents filed by LSI Logic with the SEC, and specifically the most recent reports on Form 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K. In the context of forward-looking information, reference is made to the discussion of risk factors described in the company's SEC reports filed during the past 12 months.
Table of Contents
months ended September 30, 2003, and 2002, refer to the tables furnished in the news release as Exhibit 99.1.
Results of operations excluding special items for the periods presented are provided for illustrative purposes only and should be read in conjunction with the comparable information presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America and the Company's most recent annual report on Form 10-K for the twelve months ended December 31, 2002.
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits
The following exhibit is furnished pursuant to Item 12:
Exhibit 99.1* LSI Logic Corporation News Release issued October 22, 2003.
*Furnished, not filed
Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On October 22, 2003, the Registrant issued a news release and will hold a conference call regarding its financial results for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2003. A copy of the news release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference herein.
The information filed under Item 5 to this Form 8-K is incorporated by reference into Item 12 of this Form 8-K.
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information
LSI Logic will make forward-looking statements regarding 2003 during the conference call and will make reference to non-GAAP financial information in both the news release and the conference call.
LSI Logic management believes that the results of operations excluding special items presented herein for each of the three and nine months ending September 30, 2003, and 2002, provides useful information to investors regarding results of operations, as it excludes charges, expenses, gains and losses that are not directly related to the ongoing business results and/or stem from purchase business combinations. These business results are used by management for evaluating historical performance in addition to being used for the Company's forecasting and planning for future periods. Restructuring of operations and other items, net, are examples of charges that are not directly related to the Company's ongoing business. Charges for acquired in-process research and development and amortization of non-cash deferred stock compensation and intangibles are examples of items stemming from purchase business combinations. For a complete reconciliation of special items excluded from our results of operations for the three and nine
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
 
 
LSI Logic Corporation (NYSE: LSI) today reported revenues of $450 million in the third quarter of 2003, an 11 percent sequential increase compared to the $407 million reported in the second quarter of 2003, and a decline of 8 percent compared to the $487 million reported in the third quarter of 2002.
Milpitas, California 
Cash and short-term investments totaled $987 million at the end of the 2003-third quarter. The company generated positive operating cash flow for the sixth consecutive quarter and repurchased approximately $172 million in convertible notes, eliminating all current debt.
The 2003-third quarter GAAP* net loss was $32 million or 8 cents a diluted share, including a $25 million charge for restructuring. The 2003-second quarter GAAP net loss was $162 million or 43 cents a diluted share. The company reported a GAAP net loss of $28 million or 7 cents a diluted share in the 2002-third quarter.
Excluding special items**, third quarter net income was $17 million or 4 cents a diluted share compared to a second quarter net loss of $6 million or 2 cents a diluted share. The company reported net income, excluding special items, of $17 million or 4 cents a diluted share in the third quarter of 2002.
"LSI Logic's double-digit top-line growth was paced by our Consumer business, which demonstrated seasonal third-quarter strength," said Wilfred Corrigan, LSI Logic chairman and chief executive officer. "In Communications, our Enterprise Networking business is expected to continue its gradual growth pattern in the fourth quarter, while the WAN market remains under pressure. Our Storage Systems business is expanding and we anticipate strong sequential growth in the fourth quarter. Storage Components recorded key Ultra320 SCSI and RAID design wins in the third quarter and is gathering momentum for the fourth quarter. Combined, our two storage businesses are anticipated to contribute more than $1 billion in revenues this year.
"In the fourth quarter, we are forecasting 0-2% revenue growth and net income of 3-5 cents per share, excluding special items, and a break-even to a modest net loss on a GAAP basis. Our continuing R&D investments, our flexible
 
 
manufacturing strategy and our strong cash balance have all enhanced LSI Logic's competitive position heading into the projected industry upturn in 2004."
"LSI Logic's first RapidChip platform products are scheduled for shipment in the fourth quarter," said Rick Marz, LSI Logic executive vice president of ASIC Technology. "We are confident that our cost sensitive, fast time-to-market RapidChip platform provides us with a significant competitive advantage in the strategic and growing global Platform ASIC market."
Last month, LSI Logic signed a definitive agreement to sell the company's Tsukuba, Japan manufacturing facility and extend its foundry usage. The transaction is scheduled to close in the fourth quarter. When this action is finalized, LSI Logic will have completed the consolidation of its internal manufacturing at the company's Gresham campus, supplemented by strategic foundry engagements.
"During the third quarter, LSI Logic made further strides towards achieving GAAP profitability, generated positive operating cash flow for the sixth straight quarter, reduced operating expenses, eliminated all current debt and maintained nearly $1 billion in cash and short-term investments," said Bryon Look, LSI Logic chief financial officer. "As a result of all of these actions, we have increased LSI Logic's financial strength and strategic positioning in the global marketplace."
Common stock equivalents are excluded from share count in loss periods as a result of their anti-dilutive effect.
Capital spending is projected to be around $25 million in the fourth quarter, and less than $75 million in 2003.
 
 
Fourth quarter depreciation and software amortization are expected to be approximately $37 million.
NOTE: The company's financial guidance will be limited to the comments made on today's public conference call and contained in the Fourth Quarter Business Outlook section of this news release.
LSI Logic will hold a conference call today at 2 p.m. PDT to discuss third quarter 2003 financial results. The number is 1-303-262-2175. Internet users can access the conference call by visiting http://www.lsilogic.com/investors. A replay of the call will be available today at approximately 5 p.m. PDT and will be available for 48 hours. The number is 1-800-405-2236 (International, 1-303-590-3000), passcode 555080#.
LSI Logic Conference Call Information
This news release and the statements by LSI Logic management include forward-looking statements that may involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Readers are cautioned that these forward-looking statements are only predictions and may differ materially from the actual future events or results. Forward-looking statements include projected sequential revenue growth in the fourth quarter, projections of growth in the storage components, storage systems, consumer, communications and enterprise networking businesses. Additional forward looking statements include forecasts of sequential revenue growth, operating expenses, projections of profitability, projections of the company's fourth-quarter business outlook including, net other income, earnings, gross margins, tax provisions, capital spending, depreciation, acquisition-related amortization, restructuring expenses, other special items, common share count, the expected close of the sale of the Tsukuba manufacturing facility and the RapidChip platform generating new business in the fourth quarter. The company's actual results in future periods may be materially different from any performance suggested in this news release. Risks and uncertainties to which the company is subject include, but are not necessarily limited to, fluctuations in the timing and volumes of customer demand, the rate of depletion of customer inventory buildup and the company's achievement of revenue objectives, other financial targets, the development of new products, the timing and the success of new product introductions. Other risks and uncertainties include: the RapidChip platform continuing to generate new business and continuing to find traction with existing customers, the continued availability of appropriate levels of manufacturing capacity, the realization of benefits from the company's strategic relationships, competing technologies, R&D investments, products and other competitive factors and investments and disruptions in general economic activity due to worsening global business conditions or caused by the effects of terrorist activities and armed conflict. The extent to which the company may not realize the cost savings it expects from the reduction in workforce and operating expenses as a result of the sale of the Tsukuba facility may also impact its future performance. The company operates in an industry sector where securities' values are highly volatile and may be influenced by the cyclical nature of the industry, the unpredictability of the economy and other factors beyond the company's control. For additional information, Readers are referred to the documents filed by LSI Logic with the SEC, and specifically the most recent reports on Form 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K. In the context of forward-looking information, reference is made to the discussion of risk factors described in the company's SEC reports filed during the past 12 months.
Safe Harbor for Forward Looking Statements:
LSI Logic Corporation (NYSE: LSI) is a leading designer and manufacturer of communications, consumer and storage semiconductors for applications that access, interconnect and store data, voice and video. In addition, the company supplies storage network solutions for the enterprise. LSI Logic is headquartered at 1621 Barber Lane, Milpitas, CA 95035. http://www.lsilogic.com
About LSI Logic
 
Statements of operations excluding special items are intended to present the Company's operating results, excluding special items described below, for the periods presented.
During the three month period ended September 30, 2003, the special items represented amortization of acquisition related items including intangibles and non-cash deferred stock compensation, restructuring of operations and other items, net, and other special items. The other special items consisted of losses associated with the repurchase of a portion of the Company's Convertible Subordinated Notes and losses on miscellaneous asset sales.
During the nine month period ended September 30, 2003, the special items represented all the items mentioned above in addition to write downs on certain equity securities due to impairment, offset in part by gains on miscellaneous asset sales.
During the three month period ended September 30, 2002, the special items represented acquired in-process research and development, amortization of acquisition related items including intangibles and non-cash deferred stock compensation, restructuring of operations and other items, net, related to the revaluation of assets held for sale in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 144 "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets" adopted by the Company on January 1, 2002, and other special items. The other special items consisted of gains associated with repurchases of a portion of the Company's Convertible Subordinated Notes, gains on miscellaneous asset sales and a write down of certain equity securities.
During the nine month period ended September 30, 2002, the special items represented all the items mentioned above in addition to additional excess inventory and related charges and a $22 million tax benefit as a result of changes in the tax laws.
For the three and nine month periods ended September 30, 2003, the statements excluding special items are prepared using the Company's calculated tax expense of $6,000 and $18,000, respectively when excluding special items. For the three and nine month periods ended September 30, 2002, the statements excluding special items are prepared using the Company's calculated tax expense of $7,938 and $18,188 when excluding special items.
For the three months ended September 30, 2003 and 2002, 8,213 and 1,590 shares, respectively were considered dilutive common stock equivalents and included in the computation of diluted pro forma earnings per share. In computing the diluted pro forma loss per share for the nine month period ended September 30, 2003 and 2002, all common stock equivalents were excluded as a result of their antidilutive effect.
A reconciliation from pro forma net income/(loss) to the reported results is presented on the following page.
The format presented above is not intended to be in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
 
 
 
 
 


