FILE:LSI/LSI-8K-20040727161258.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Item 5. Other Events and Regulation FD Disclosure
     LSI Logic Corporation ("LSI Logic" or the "Company") reported revenues of $448 million in the second quarter of 2004, a 1% sequential decrease compared to the $452 million reported in the first quarter of 2004, and a 10% increase compared to the $407 million reported in the second quarter of 2003.
     Cash and short-term investments totaled $847 million at the end of the second quarter of 2004. The Company generated positive operating cash flow for the ninth consecutive quarter.
     GAAP (generally accepted accounting principles) net income for the second quarter of 2004 was $7 million or 2 cents per diluted share, compared to GAAP net loss for the second quarter of 2003 of $162 million or 43 cents per diluted share and compared to GAAP net income of $9 million or 2 cents per diluted share in the first quarter of 2004.
Safe Harbor for Forward Looking Statements:
     This filing and the news release contain forward-looking statements, which include the following: projected revenues of $435 million to $465 million in the third quarter of 2004; projected GAAP range of break-even to net loss of 3 cents per diluted share in the third quarter of 2004; projected net income, excluding special items, of 3-6 cents per diluted share in the third quarter of 2004; the Company's expectation that the second half of the year will be stronger than the first, driven by continued growth in consumer electronics and an improvement in IT spending by the Company's customer base; the Company's expectation of a steady growth ramp for RapidChip Platform ASICs in the second half of 2004, leading to volume production in 2005; projected capital spending of approximately $25 in the third quarter of 2004 and approximately $100 million in 2004; and expected third quarter depreciation and software amortization of approximately $25 million. These forward-looking statements are based on the opinions and estimates of management at the time the statements are made and are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause LSI Logic's actual results to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: fluctuations in the timing and volumes of customer demand; the rate of depletion of customer inventory buildup and the company's achievement of revenue objectives; ability to meet financial targets; the company's ability to develop new products; the timing and the success of new product introductions; and the continued availability of appropriate levels of manufacturing capacity. For additional information, readers are referred to the documents filed by LSI Logic with the SEC, and specifically the risk factors set forth in the company's most recent reports on Form 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K.
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits
     The following exhibit is furnished pursuant to Item 12:
     Exhibit 99.1* LSI Logic Corporation News Release issued July 27, 2004.
Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On July 27, 2004, the Company issued a press release regarding its financial results for the fiscal quarter ended July 4, 2004. A copy of the news release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference herein.
Table of Contents
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information
     LSI Logic has referenced non-GAAP financial information in the news release. LSI Logic management believes that the results of operations excluding special items presented herein for the three and six month periods ended June 30, 2004 and 2003*, provides useful information to investors regarding results of operations, as it excludes charges, expenses, gains and losses that are not directly related to the ongoing business results and/or stem from purchase business combinations. These business results are used by management for evaluating historical performance in addition to being used for the Company's forecasting and planning for future periods. Restructuring of operations, acquisition related amortization including intangibles and non-cash deferred stock compensation and other special items are examples of charges that are not directly related to the Company's ongoing business and/or stem from purchase business combinations. For a complete reconciliation of special items excluded from our results of operations for the three and six month periods ended June 30, 2004 and 2003*, refer to the tables furnished in the news release attached as Exhibit 99.1.
     Results of operations excluding special items for the period presented are provided for illustrative purposes only and should be read in conjunction with the comparable information presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States and the Company's most recent annual report on Form 10-K for the twelve months ended December 31, 2003.
* The current quarter ended July 4, 2004.  For presentation purposes, the consolidated financial statements refer to the quarter's calendar month end for convenience.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
CC04-87
Revenues of $448 million, 10 percent increase over Q2 2003.
n
GAAP* net income of 2 cents per diluted share, consistent with previous guidance.
n
Net income, excluding special items**, of 7 cents per diluted share, consistent with previous guidance.
n
Gross margin improvement to 46.6 percent.
n
Projected revenue range of $435 million to $465 million.
n
GAAP* range of breakeven to a net loss of 3 cents per diluted share.
n
Net income, excluding special items**, in the range of 3-6 cents per diluted share.
n
*   Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ** Acquisition-related amortization, restructuring and other special items.
 
LSI Logic Corporation (NYSE: LSI) today reported 2004 second quarter revenues of $448 million, an increase of 10 percent compared to the $407 million reported in the second quarter of 2003 and a 1 percent sequential decrease compared to the $452 million reported in the first quarter of 2004.
Milpitas, California 
Cash and short-term investments totaled $847 million at the end of the second quarter of 2004. The company generated positive operating cash flow for the ninth consecutive quarter.
Second quarter 2004 GAAP* net income was $7 million or 2 cents per diluted share compared to a GAAP net loss of $162 million or 43 cents per diluted share in the 2003 second quarter. First quarter 2004 GAAP net income was $9 million or 2 cents per diluted share.
Second quarter 2004 net income, excluding special items**, was $28 million or 7 cents per diluted share compared to a net loss, excluding special items, of $6 million or 2 cents per diluted share in the second quarter of 2003. Excluding special items, first quarter 2004 net income was $25 million or 6 cents per diluted share.
"Late in the second quarter, we saw some slowing of the overall business that is carrying over into the third quarter," said Wilfred Corrigan, LSI Logic chairman and chief executive officer. "However we expect the second half of the year as a whole to be stronger than the first half of the year, driven by continued growth in consumer electronics and an improvement in IT orders from our customer base later in the year."
"LSI Logic began production shipments of RapidChip Platform ASICs in the second quarter, and we expect a steady growth ramp in the second half of this year leading to volume production in 2005," said Joe Zelayeta, LSI Logic executive vice president of ASIC Technology and Methodology. "We are generating repeat orders from existing and new customers based upon the high-performance, low-design cost and quick time-to-revenue advantages of LSI Logic's Platform ASICs."
 
"LSI Logic's year-over-year improvements in revenues, gross margin and profitability continued in the second quarter," said Bryon Look, LSI Logic chief financial officer. "During the past 12 months, we have generated $124 million in positive operating cash flow, eliminated all short-term debt and strengthened our balance sheet."
Capital spending is projected to be around $25 million in the third quarter, and approximately $100 million in 2004.
Third quarter depreciation and software amortization is expected to be approximately $25 million.
*   Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ** Acquisition-related amortization, restructuring and other special items.
NOTE: The company's financial guidance will be limited to the comments made on today's public conference call and contained in the Third Quarter Business Outlook section of this news release.
LSI Logic will hold a conference call today at 1:30 p.m. PDT to discuss second quarter financial results. The number is 1-303-262-2130. Internet users can access the conference call by visiting http://www.lsilogic.com/investors. A replay of the call will be available today at approximately 4:30 p.m. PDT and will be available for 48 hours. The replay access numbers are 1-800-405-2236 within the U.S. and 1-303-590-3000 for all other locations, passcode 575336#.
LSI Logic Conference Call Information
 
This news release contains forward-looking statements, which include the following: projected revenues of $435 million to $465 million in the third quarter of 2004; projected GAAP range of break-even to a net loss of 3 cents per diluted share in the third quarter of 2004; projected net income, excluding special items, in the range of 3-6 cents per diluted share in the third quarter of 2004; the company's expectation that the second half of the year will be stronger than the first, driven by continued growth in consumer electronics and an improvement in IT spending by the company's customer base later in the year; the company's expectation of a steady growth ramp for RapidChip Platform ASICs in the second half of 2004, leading to volume production in 2005; projected capital spending of approximately $25 million in the third quarter of 2004 and approximately $100 million in 2004; and expected third quarter depreciation and software amortization of approximately $25 million. These forward-looking statements are based on the opinions and estimates of management at the time the statements are made and are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause LSI Logic's actual results to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: fluctuations in the timing and volumes of customer demand; the rate of depletion of customer inventory buildup and the company's achievement of revenue objectives; ability to meet financial targets; the company's ability to develop new products; the timing and the success of new product introductions; and the continued availability of appropriate levels of manufacturing capacity. For additional information, readers are referred to the documents filed by LSI Logic with the SEC, and specifically the risk factors set forth in the company's most recent reports on Form 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K.
Safe Harbor for Forward Looking Statements:
LSI Logic Corporation (NYSE: LSI) is a leading designer and manufacturer of communications, consumer and storage semiconductors for applications that access, interconnect and store data, voice and video. In addition, the company supplies storage network solutions for the enterprise. LSI Logic is headquartered at 1621 Barber Lane, Milpitas, CA 95035. http://www.lsilogic.com
About LSI Logic
Editor's Notes:
 
Statements of operations excluding special items are intended to present the Company's operating results, excluding special items described below, for the periods presented.
During the three and six month periods ended June 30, 2004, the special items represented amortization of acquisition related items including intangibles and non-cash deferred stock compensation, restructuring of operations and other items, net, and other special items. The other special items consisted of gains on certain equity securities, offset in part by fees related to the initial public offering and our separation from Engenio.
During the three and six month periods ended June 30, 2003, the special items represented amortization of acquisition related items including intangibles and non-cash deferred stock compensation, restructuring of operations and other items, net, and other special items. The other special items consisted of losses associated with repurchases of a portion of the Company's Convertible Subordinated Notes, write downs of certain equity securities due to impairment, offset in part by gains on miscellaneous asset sales.
For the three and six month periods ended June 30, 2004, the statements excluding special items are prepared using the Company's calculated tax expense of $6,000 and $12,000, respectively when excluding special items. For the three and six month periods ended June 30, 2003, the statements excluding special items are prepared using the Company's calculated tax expense of $6,000 and $12,000, respectively when excluding special items.
For the three and six month periods ended June 30, 2004, 5,064 and 6,531 shares, respectively were considered dilutive common stock equivalents and included in the computation of diluted earnings per share excluding special items. In computing diluted loss per share excluding special items for the three and six month periods ended June 30, 2003, common stock equivalents were excluded from the computation of diluted loss per share as a result of their antidilutive effect.
A reconciliation from net income/(loss) excluding special items to the reported results is presented on the following page.
The format presented above is not intended to be in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
 
 
 
 
 


