FILE:LSI/LSI-8K-20040917145729.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
Table of Contents
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure
On September 13, 2004, the Registrant issued a news release regarding its expected financial results for the fiscal quarter ending October 3, 2004. A copy of the news release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference herein.
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information
LSI Logic has referenced non-GAAP financial information in the news release. LSI Logic management believes that the results of operations excluding special items presented herein for the three months ending October 3, 2004, provide useful information to investors regarding results of operations, as they exclude charges, expenses, gains and losses that are not directly related to the ongoing business results and/or stem from purchase business combinations. These business results are used by management for evaluating historical performance in addition to being used for the Company's forecasting and planning for future periods. Restructuring of operations, acquisition related amortization and other special items are examples of charges that are not directly related to the Company's ongoing business and/or stem from purchase business combinations.
Anticipated results of operations excluding special items for the period presented are provided for illustrative purposes only and should be read in conjunction with the comparable information presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States and the Company's most recent annual report on Form 10-K for the twelve months ended December 31, 2003.
Safe Harbor for Forward Looking Statements
This filing and the news release include preliminary financial estimates and forward-looking statements, which include the following: the company's updated estimates of revenues, earnings per share and gross margin for the third quarter of 2004; the ability of LSI Logic's customers to work down inventory; forecasts of the resumption of revenue growth in the fourth quarter; anticipation of steady growth in design wins for the RapidChip Platform ASIC product leading to higher volume production in 2005. These forward-looking statements are based on the opinions and estimates of management at the time the statements are made and are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause LSI Logic's actual results to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: receipt of additional information impacting the company's third quarter results; further analysis of revenues and expenses for the third quarter; further information impacting the fourth quarter revenues and expenses of LSI Logic; the strength of the global semiconductor industry and the timing and volumes of customer demand. For additional information, readers are referred to the risk factors contained in the documents filed by LSI Logic with the SEC, and specifically the most recent reports on Form 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
The following exhibit is furnished herewith:
Exhibit 99.1*      LSI Logic Corporation News Release issued September 13, 2004.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
CC04-114
 LSI Logic Corporation (NYSE: LSI) today updated its 2004-third quarter projections for revenue, earnings per share and gross margin, prompted by customer reassessment of end-demand for the second half of the year, resulting in a broad-based Q3 inventory correction in the supply chain.
MILPITAS, CA
LSI Logic expects to report revenues in the range of $370 million to $400 million. The company previously forecasted third quarter revenues in the range of $435 million to $465 million.
LSI Logic anticipates a third quarter GAAP* net loss in the range of 14-17 cents per diluted share. The company previously projected third quarter GAAP results in the range of breakeven to a net loss of 3 cents per diluted share.
 
The company expects a third quarter net loss, excluding special items**, in the range of 4-7 cents per diluted share. The company previously forecasted third quarter net income, excluding special items, in the range of 3-6 cents per diluted share.
LSI Logic anticipates that its third quarter gross margin will be approximately 42-44 percent, compared to the previous guidance of 44-46 percent.
"We have seen a broad-based build of inventory in the supply chain starting in the second quarter, which impacted each of our semiconductor business units in the third quarter," said Wilfred J. Corrigan, LSI Logic chairman and chief executive officer. "As the inventory is worked down, we anticipate positive revenue growth in the fourth quarter.
"Long term, we have built technology leadership positions in DVD recorder, high definition video, Fibre Channel, SAS, SATA, RAID controllers and other applications. Design wins and product shipments of our RapidChip Platform ASIC continue to increase, leading to volume production in 2005."
LSI Logic will not hold a conference call today about this news release. The company will report its 2004-third quarter financial results, provide its fourth quarter business outlook and hold its quarterly conference call on Wednesday, October 27, 2004.
 
Notwithstanding this news release, it continues to be the company's policy to not comment on financial analyst estimates or to provide periodic financial guidance updates.
This news release includes preliminary financial estimates and forward-looking statements, which include the following: the company's updated estimates of revenues, earnings per share and gross margin for the third quarter of 2004; the ability of LSI Logic's customers to work down inventory; forecasts of the resumption of revenue growth in the fourth quarter; anticipation of steady growth in design wins for the RapidChip Platform ASIC product leading to higher volume production in 2005. These forward-looking statements are based on the opinions and estimates of management at the time the statements are made and are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause LSI Logic's actual results to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: receipt of additional information impacting the company's third quarter results; further analysis of revenues and expenses for the third quarter; further information impacting the fourth quarter revenues and expenses of LSI Logic; the strength of the global semiconductor industry and the timing and volumes of customer demand. For additional information, readers are referred to the risk factors contained in the documents filed by LSI Logic with the SEC, and specifically the most recent reports on Form 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K.
Safe Harbor for Forward Looking Statements:
LSI Logic Corporation (NYSE: LSI) focuses on the design and production of high-performance semiconductors for Consumer, Communications and Storage applications that access, interconnect and store data, voice and video. LSI Logic engineers incorporate reusable, industry-standard intellectual property building blocks that serve as the heart of leading-edge systems. LSI Logic serves its global OEM, channel and distribution customers with Platform ASICs, standard-cell ASICs, standard products, host bus adapters, RAID controllers and software. In addition, the company supplies storage network solutions for the enterprise. LSI Logic is headquartered at 1621 Barber Lane, Milpitas, CA 95035. http://www.lsilogic.com
About LSI Logic


