FILE:LSI/LSI-8K-20040428161455.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Item 5. Other Events and Regulation FD Disclosure
LSI Logic Corporation ("LSI Logic" or the "Company") reported revenues of $452 million in the first quarter of 2004, a two percent decrease compared to the $463 million reported in the fourth quarter of 2003, and an increase of 21 percent compared to the $373 million reported in the first quarter of 2003.
Cash and short-term investments increased $44 million and totaled $858 million at the end of the first quarter of 2004. The Company generated positive operating cash flow for the eighth consecutive quarter.
The 2004-first quarter GAAP (generally accepted accounting principles) net income was $9 million or 2 cents per diluted share. The 2003-fourth quarter GAAP net income was $8 million or 2 cents per diluted share. The Company reported a GAAP net loss of $122 million or 33 cents per diluted share in the 2003-first quarter.
In February, LSI Logic took another step towards the creation of a separate storage systems Company with the filing by its subsidiary, LSI Logic Storage Systems, Inc., of a Form S-1 Registration Statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC").
Safe Harbor for Forward Looking Statements
This news release and the statements by LSI Logic management include forward-looking statements that may involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Readers are cautioned that these forward-looking statements are only predictions and may differ materially from the actual future events or results. Forward-looking statements include projected revenue range in the second quarter, forecasts of operating expenses, projections of profitability or loss, projections of the Company's second quarter business outlook including, net other income, earnings, gross margins, tax provisions, capital spending, depreciation, acquisition-related amortization, restructuring expenses, other special items, common share count and increased orders. Additional forward-looking statements include projections regarding growth of the Company's three target markets, resumption of long-term growth of telecommunications later in 2004, strength of the semiconductor industry in 2004 and the continued introduction of new silicon platforms and design tools. The Company's actual results in future periods may be materially different from any performance suggested in this news release. Risks and uncertainties to which the Company is subject include, but are not necessarily limited to, fluctuations in the timing and volumes of customer demand, the rate of depletion of customer inventory buildup and the Company's achievement of revenue objectives, ability to meet financial targets, the Company's ability to develop new products and the timing and the success of new product introductions. Other risks and uncertainties that could cause the forward-looking statements contained herein to differ from actual results include: the continued availability of appropriate levels of manufacturing capacity, the realization of benefits from the Company's strategic relationships, success of competing technologies, ability to make new strategic acquisitions, uncertainty of R&D investments, products and other competitive factors and investments and disruptions in general economic activity caused by the effects of terrorist activities and armed conflict. The Company operates in
Table of Contents
an industry sector where securities' values are highly volatile and may be influenced by the cyclical nature of the industry, the unpredictability of the economy and other factors beyond the Company's control. For additional information, readers are referred to the documents filed by LSI Logic with the SEC, and specifically the Company's most recent reports on Form 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K. In the context of forward-looking information, reference is made to the discussion of risk factors described in the Company's SEC reports filed during the past 12 months.
Results of operations excluding special items for the periods presented are provided for illustrative purposes only and should be read in conjunction with the comparable information presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States and the Company's most recent annual report on Form 10-K for the twelve months ended December 31, 2003.
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits
Exhibit 99.1* LSI Logic Corporation News Release issued April 28, 2004.
*Furnished, not filed.
Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On April 28, 2004, the Company is issuing a news release and holding a conference call regarding its financial results for the fiscal quarter ended April 4, 2004. A copy of the news release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference herein.
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information
LSI Logic will make forward-looking statements regarding 2004 during the conference call and will make reference to non-GAAP financial information in both the news release and the conference call.
LSI Logic management believes that the results of operations excluding special items presented herein for each of the three months ending March 31*, 2004, and 2003, provides useful information to investors regarding results of operations, as it excludes charges, expenses, gains and losses that are not directly related to the ongoing business results and/or stem from purchase business combinations. These business results are used by management for evaluating historical performance in addition to being used for the Company's forecasting and planning for future periods. Restructuring of operations and other items, net, are examples of charges that are not directly related to the Company's ongoing business. Charges for acquired in-process research and development and amortization of non-cash deferred stock compensation and intangibles are examples of items stemming from purchase business combinations. For a complete reconciliation of special items excluded from our results of operations for the three months ended March 31*, 2004, and 2003, refer to the tables furnished in the news release as Exhibit 99.1.
Table of Contents
Results of operations excluding special items for the periods presented are provided for illustrative purposes only and should be read in conjunction with the comparable information presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America and the Company's most recent annual report on Form 10-K for the twelve months ended December 31, 2003.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
CC04-49
Revenues of $452 million, consistent with previous guidance.
n
GAAP* net income of 2 cents per diluted share, exceeds previous guidance.
n
Net income, excluding special items**, of 6 cents per diluted share, exceeds previous guidance.
n
Gross margin improvement of 160 basis points to 44.5 percent.
n
Generated positive operating cash flow for eighth consecutive quarter.
n
(Excludes effect of potential second quarter storage systems IPO)
Second Quarter Business Outlook
Projected revenue range of $455 million to $470 million.
n
GAAP net income range of 1-3 cents per diluted share.
n
Net income range, excluding special items**, in the range of 6-8 cents per diluted share.
n
 
LSI Logic Corporation (NYSE: LSI) today reported 2004 first quarter revenues of $452 million, an increase of 21 percent compared to the $373 million reported in the first quarter of 2003 and a 2 percent seasonal decrease compared to the $463 million reported in the fourth quarter of 2003.
Milpitas, California 
Cash and short-term investments increased $44 million and totaled $858 million at the end of the first quarter of 2004. The company generated positive operating cash flow for the eighth consecutive quarter.
The 2004 first quarter GAAP* net income was $9 million or 2 cents per diluted share compared to a GAAP net loss of $122 million or 33 cents per diluted share in the 2003 first quarter.
The 2004 first quarter GAAP net income reflected a sequential improvement over the 2003 fourth quarter GAAP net income of $8 million or 2 cents per diluted share.
First quarter 2004 net income, excluding special items**, was $25 million or 6 cents per diluted share compared to a net loss on the same basis, of $51 million or 14 cents per diluted share in the first quarter of 2003.
Excluding special items**, the 2004 first quarter net income equaled fourth quarter 2003 net income on the same basis, of $25 million or 6 cents per diluted share on seasonally lower revenues.
"LSI Logic's Storage Components business, which includes Storage ASICs, Storage Standard Products and RAID Storage Adapters, recorded a solid performance in the first quarter," said Wilfred Corrigan, LSI Logic chairman and chief executive officer. "The first quarter results for our Storage Systems business reflected normal cyclicality. In Communications, LSI Logic's sales to enterprise networking customers continued to demonstrate improvement, while telecommunications is expected to resume its long-term growth rate later this year. In Consumer, video game revenues declined seasonally as expected. However, our DVD-recordable business continued to increase sequentially as we secure new design-wins for our single chip architecture.
"Market analysts expect that 2004 will be a strong year for the semiconductor sector based upon increased IT spending and consumer electronics serving as the industry's primary growth driver. LSI Logic is focused on three target markets  Consumer, Communications, Storage  and serves customers in these markets with our three enabling technologies  Standard-Cell ASICs, Platform ASICs and Standard Products."
In February, LSI Logic's wholly owned subsidiary, LSI Logic Storage Systems, Inc., filed a Form S-1 Registration Statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Please refer to the company's February 19, 2004 news release for further information about the filing of the registration statement. http://www.lsilogic.com/news/news_archives.html?ArcYear=2004
 
"Platform ASIC is emerging as a major new sector in the semiconductor industry," said Joe Zelayeta, LSI Logic executive vice president of ASIC Technology and Methodology. "The lower design costs, quick time to revenue advantages and compelling benefits over alternative solutions are proving to be a significant draw for both existing LSI Logic customers as well as new customers. LSI Logic's RapidChip Platform ASIC is now well established in this sector. We are shipping production now and have design engagements that span geographies, markets and applications. We continue to capture design wins on the approximately 25 silicon platforms that we have available today and are constantly releasing new platforms to garner greater market share."
"LSI Logic recorded a solid profitable quarter with continued improvement in gross margin and bottom line results that exceeded expectations," said Bryon Look, LSI Logic chief financial officer. "LSI Logic generated positive operating cash flow for the eighth straight quarter and completed the acquisitions of Velio Communications and Crosslayer Networks. We will continue to explore strategic acquisitions that support our vertical market strategy, augment our IP portfolio and expand our product offerings for our worldwide customer base."
Capital spending is projected to be around $25 million in the second quarter, and approximately $100 million in 2004.
Second quarter depreciation and software amortization is expected to be approximately $26 million.
NOTE: The company's financial guidance will be limited to the comments made on today's public conference call and contained in the Second Quarter Business Outlook section of this news release.
 
LSI Logic Conference Call Information
LSI Logic will hold a conference call today at 2 p.m. PDT to discuss first quarter financial results. The number is 1-303-262-2130. Internet users can access the conference call by visiting http://www.lsilogic.com/investors. A replay of the call will be available today at approximately 4 p.m. PDT and will be available for 48 hours. The replay access numbers are 1-800-405-2236 within the U.S. and 1-303-590-3000 for all other locations, passcode 575336#.
This news release and the statements by LSI Logic management include forward-looking statements that may involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Readers are cautioned that these forward-looking statements are only predictions and may differ materially from the actual future events or results. Forward-looking statements include projected revenue range in the second quarter, forecasts of operating expenses, projections of profitability or loss, projections of the company's second quarter business outlook including, net other income, earnings, gross margins, tax provisions, capital spending, depreciation, acquisition-related amortization, restructuring expenses, other special items, common share count and increased orders. Additional forward-looking statements include projections regarding growth of the company's three target markets, resumption of long-term growth of telecommunications later in 2004, strength of the semiconductor industry in 2004 and the continued introduction of new silicon platforms and design tools. The company's actual results in future periods may be materially different from any performance suggested in this news release. Risks and uncertainties to which the company is subject include, but are not necessarily limited to, fluctuations in the timing and volumes of customer demand, the rate of depletion of customer inventory buildup and the company's achievement of revenue objectives, ability to meet financial targets, the company's ability to develop new products and the timing and the success of new product introductions. Other risks and uncertainties that could cause the forward-looking statements contained herein to differ from actual results include: the continued availability of appropriate levels of manufacturing capacity, the realization of benefits from the company's strategic relationships, success of competing technologies, ability to make new strategic acquisitions, uncertainty of R&D investments, products and other competitive factors and investments and disruptions in general economic activity caused by the effects of terrorist activities and armed conflict. The company operates in an industry sector where securities' values are highly volatile and may be influenced by the cyclical nature of the industry, the unpredictability of the economy and other factors beyond the company's control. For additional information, readers are referred to the documents filed by LSI Logic with the SEC, and specifically the company's most recent reports on Form 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K. In the context of forward-looking information, reference is made to the discussion of risk factors described in the company's SEC reports filed during the past 12 months.
Safe Harbor for Forward Looking Statements:
About LSI Logic
LSI Logic Corporation (NYSE: LSI) is a leading designer and manufacturer of communications, consumer and storage semiconductors for applications that access, interconnect and store data, voice and video. In addition, the company supplies storage network solutions for the enterprise. LSI Logic is headquartered at 1621 Barber Lane, Milpitas, CA 95035. http://www.lsilogic.com
 
Editor's Notes:
1.     All LSI Logic news releases (financial, acquisitions, manufacturing, products, technology etc.) are issued exclusively by PR Newswire and are immediately thereafter posted on the company's external website, http://www.lsilogic.com.
2.     The LSI Logic logo design is a registered trademark of LSI Logic Corporation.
3.     All other brand or product names may be trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective companies.
 
Statements of operations excluding special items are intended to present the Company's operating results, excluding special items described below, for the periods presented.
During the three month period ended March 31, 2004, the special items represented amortization of acquisition related items including intangibles and non-cash deferred stock compensation, a net credit in restructuring of operations and other items, net, and other special items. The other special items consisted of gains on certain equity securities.
During the three month period ended March 31, 2003, the special items represented amortization of acquisition related items including intangibles and non-cash deferred stock compensation, restructuring of operations and other items, net, and other special items. The other special items consisted of a write down of certain equity securities due to impairment, offset in part by gains on miscellaneous asset sales.
For the three month periods ended March 31, 2004 and 2003, the statements excluding special items are prepared using the Company's calculated tax expense of $6,000 when excluding special items.
For the three month period ended March 31, 2004, 8,243 shares were considered dilutive common stock equivalents and included in the computation of diluted pro forma earnings per share. In computing diluted loss per share excluding special items for the three month period ended March 31, 2003, all common stock equivalents were excluded as a result of their antidilutive effect.
A reconciliation from pro forma net income/(loss) to the reported results is presented on the following page.
The format presented above is not intended to be in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
 
 
 
 
 


