FILE:LSI/LSI-8K-20040128161322.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Item 5. Other Items and Regulation FD Disclosure
LSI Logic Corporation ("LSI Logic" or the "Registrant") reported revenues of $463 million in the fourth quarter of 2003, a 3 percent sequential increase compared to the $450 million reported in the third quarter of 2003, and a decline of 4 percent compared to the $480 million reported in the fourth quarter of 2002.
Cash and short-term investments totaled $814 million at the end of the 2003-fourth quarter. The Registrant generated positive operating cash flow for the seventh consecutive quarter and repurchased approximately $250 million in convertible notes, eliminating all 2005 debt.
The 2003-fourth quarter GAAP (generally accepted accounting principles) net income was $8 million or 2 cents a diluted share. The 2003-third quarter GAAP net loss was $32 million or 8 cents a diluted share. The Registrant reported a GAAP net loss of $31 million or 8 cents a diluted share in the 2002-fourth quarter.
Last month, the Registrant finalized its sale of the company's Tsukuba, Japan manufacturing facility to Rohm Co. The Registrant has now completed the consolidation of its internal manufacturing at the Registrant's Gresham campus, supplemented by strategic foundry engagements.
The Registrant recorded 2003 revenues of $1.69 billion, a 7 percent decrease from the $1.82 billion in 2002. The GAAP 2003 net loss was $309 million or 82 cents per diluted share compared to the GAAP 2002 net loss of $292 million or 79 cents per diluted share.
This news release and the statements by LSI Logic management include forward-looking statements that may involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Readers are cautioned that these forward-looking statements are only predictions and may differ materially from the actual future events or results. Forward-looking statements include projected revenue range in the first quarter, forecasts of operating expenses, projections of profitability or loss, projections of the company's first-quarter business outlook including, net other income, earnings, gross margins, tax provisions, capital spending, depreciation, acquisition-related amortization, restructuring expenses, other
Safe Harbor for Forward Looking Statements:
Table of Contents
special items, common share count, increased orders and the RapidChip platform generating new business in the first quarter. Additional forward-looking statements include projections of worldwide economic improvement, growth of the semiconductor industry, a period of sustained growth and financial strength, the strengthening of the company's leadership position in the platform ASIC space and new market opportunities with high-volume and mid-volume customers in existing and new market segments. The company's actual results in future periods may be materially different from any performance suggested in this news release. Risks and uncertainties to which the company is subject include, but are not necessarily limited to, fluctuations in the timing and volumes of customer demand, the rate of depletion of customer inventory buildup and the company's achievement of revenue objectives, other financial targets, the company's ability to develop new products, and the timing and the success of new product introductions. Other risks and uncertainties that could cause the forward-looking statements contained herein to differ from actual results include: the continued availability of appropriate levels of manufacturing capacity, the realization of benefits from the company's strategic relationships, competing technologies, R&D investments, products and other competitive factors and investments and disruptions in general economic activity caused by the effects of terrorist activities and armed conflict. The company operates in an industry sector where securities' values are highly volatile and may be influenced by the cyclical nature of the industry, the unpredictability of the economy and other factors beyond the company's control. For additional information, readers are referred to the documents filed by LSI Logic with the SEC, and specifically the company's most recent reports on Form 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K. In the context of forward-looking information, reference is made to the discussion of risk factors described in the company's SEC reports filed during the past 12 months.
Results of operations excluding special items for the periods presented are provided for illustrative purposes only and should be read in conjunction with the comparable information presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America and the Company's most recent annual report on Form 10-K for the twelve months ended December 31, 2002.
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits
Exhibit 99.1* LSI Logic Corporation News Release issued January 28, 2004.
*Furnished, not filed.
Item 12. Disclosure of Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On January 28, 2004, LSI Logic Corporation ("LSI Logic" or the "Company") will issue a news release and hold a conference call regarding its financial results for the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2003. A copy of the news release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference herein.
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information
LSI Logic will make forward-looking statements regarding 2004 during the conference call and will make reference to non-GAAP financial information in both the news release and the conference call.
LSI Logic management believes that the results of operations excluding special items presented herein for each of the three and twelve months ending December 31, 2003, and 2002, provides useful information to investors regarding results of operations, as it excludes charges, expenses, gains and losses that are not directly related to the ongoing business results and/or stem from purchase business combinations. These business results are used by management for evaluating historical performance in addition to being used for the Company's forecasting and planning for future periods. Restructuring of operations and other items, net, are examples of charges that are not directly related to the Company's ongoing business. Charges for acquired in-process research and development and amortization of non-cash deferred stock compensation and intangibles are examples of items stemming from purchase business combinations. For a complete reconciliation of special items excluded from our results of operations for the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2003, and 2002, refer to the tables furnished in the news release as Exhibit 99.1.
Results of operations excluding special items for the periods presented are provided for illustrative purposes only and should be read in conjunction with the comparable information presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America and the Company's most recent annual report on Form 10-K for the twelve months ended December 31, 2002.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
CC04-08
Revenues of $463 million, 3 percent sequential growth, exceeds previous guidance.
n
GAAP* net income of 2 cents per diluted share, beats previous guidance.
n
Net income, excluding special items**, of 6 cents per diluted share, exceeds previous guidance.
n
Gross margin improvement to 43 percent, beats previous guidance.
n
Generated positive operating cash flow for seventh consecutive quarter.
n
Projected revenue range of $445 million to $455 million.
n
GAAP range of break-even to a net loss of 2 cents per share.
n
Net income per share, excluding special items**, in the range of 3-5 cents.
n
 
LSI Logic Corporation (NYSE: LSI) today reported 2003 fourth quarter revenues of $463 million, a 3 percent increase compared to the $450 million reported in the third quarter of 2003, and a decline of 4 percent compared to the $480 million reported in the fourth quarter of 2002.
Milpitas, California 
Cash and short-term investments totaled $814 million at the end of the 2003-fourth quarter. The company generated positive operating cash flow for the seventh consecutive quarter and repurchased approximately $250 million in convertible notes, eliminating all 2005 debt. In the third quarter, LSI Logic extinguished all 2004 debt.
The 2003-fourth quarter GAAP* net income was $8 million or 2 cents per diluted share. The 2003-third quarter GAAP net loss was $32 million or 8 cents per diluted share. The company reported a GAAP net loss of $31 million or 8 cents per diluted share in the 2002-fourth quarter.
Fourth quarter net income, excluding special items**, was $25 million or 6 cents per diluted share compared to a third quarter net income, excluding special items, of $17 million or 4 cents per diluted share. The company reported net income, excluding special items, of $5 million or 1 cent per diluted share in the fourth quarter of 2002.
"Strength in Storage Systems, Storage Components, and Communications more than offset the weakness in the video-game sector in Q4," said Wilfred Corrigan, LSI Logic chairman and chief executive officer. "In the fourth quarter, the sequential revenue growth of our Storage Systems business reflected the continued movement by OEMs toward scalable, modular storage systems. Storage Components demonstrated strength, driven by increased demand for servers, migration to Ultra320 SCSI controllers, and growth of the global SAN market. Our Communications business continued to show signs of improvement as a result of renewed IT spending and growing broadband acceptance. Our Consumer business exhibited traditional fourth quarter seasonality, partially offset by robust design-win and sales activities for our single-chip architectures for high-definition products and DVD-recorders.
 
"The worldwide economy and the global IT industry are both improving, particularly in the U.S. and Asia. The global semiconductor industry is projected by market analysts to grow by 20 percent or more. LSI Logic is confident that it is well positioned to capitalize on this favorable business environment."
Last November, LSI Logic announced its intention to create a separate company based on its wholly owned subsidiary, LSI Logic Storage Systems, Inc. Please refer to the company's November 13, 2003 news release for further information concerning the separation.
During the fourth quarter, LSI Logic finalized its sale of the company's Tsukuba, Japan manufacturing facility to Rohm Co. LSI Logic has now completed the consolidation of its internal manufacturing at the company's Gresham, Oregon campus, supplemented by strategic foundry relationships.
LSI Logic recorded 2003 revenues of $1.69 billion, a 7 percent decrease from the $1.82 billion in 2002. The GAAP 2003 net loss was $309 million or 82 cents per diluted share compared to the GAAP 2002 net loss of $292 million or 79 cents per diluted share. LSI Logic recorded a 2003 net loss, excluding special items, of $16 million or 4 cents per diluted share, compared to a 2002 net loss, excluding special items, of $42 million or 11 cents a diluted share. The company generated $190 million in cash from operations in 2003, a 15 percent increase over the previous year.
"We shipped our first RapidChip platform products in the fourth quarter. We have now recorded Platform ASIC design wins with existing and new customers based in all major semiconductor consuming regions including North America, Europe, Japan and China," said Joe Zelayeta, LSI Logic executive vice president of ASIC Technology and Methodology. "As the global semiconductor market gathers momentum, we anticipate an acceleration of our RapidChip design-win activity, strengthening LSI Logic's leadership position in the growing Platform ASIC space."
"In the fourth quarter, LSI Logic achieved its profitability goal on both a GAAP and excluding special items basis, and generated positive operating
 
cash flow for the seventh straight quarter," said Bryon Look, LSI Logic chief financial officer. "We also used our strong cash position to reduce overall debt by more than $360 million in 2003. We are executing our financial plan and we are looking forward to a period of sustained growth and financial strength."
Common stock equivalents are excluded from share count in loss periods as a result of their anti-dilutive effect.
Capital spending is projected to be around $25 million in the first quarter, and approximately $100 million in 2004.
First quarter depreciation and software amortization are expected to be approximately $32 million.
*   Generally Accepted Accounting Principles
**   Acquisition-related amortization, restructuring and other special items.
NOTE: The company's financial guidance will be limited to the comments made on today's public conference call and contained in the First Quarter Business Outlook section of this news release.
LSI Logic Conference Call Information
LSI Logic will hold a conference call today at 2 p.m. PST to discuss fourth quarter and 2003 financial results. The number is 1-303-262-2050. Internet users can access the conference call by visiting http://www.lsilogic.com/investors. A replay of the call will be available today at approximately 4 p.m. PST and will be available for 48 hours. The number is 1-800-405-2236 (International, 1-303-590-3000), passcode 565933#.
This news release and the statements by LSI Logic management include forward-looking statements that may involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Readers are cautioned that these forward-looking statements are only predictions and may differ materially from the actual future events or results. Forward-looking statements include projected revenue range in the first quarter, forecasts of operating expenses, projections of profitability or loss, projections of the company's first-quarter business outlook including, net other income, earnings, gross margins, tax provisions, capital spending, depreciation, acquisition-related amortization, restructuring expenses, other
Safe Harbor for Forward Looking Statements:
 
special items, common share count, increased orders and the RapidChip platform generating new business in the first quarter. Additional forward-looking statements include projections of worldwide economic improvement, growth of the semiconductor industry, a period of sustained growth and financial strength, the strengthening of the company's leadership position in the platform ASIC space and new market opportunities with high-volume and mid-volume customers in existing and new market segments. The company's actual results in future periods may be materially different from any performance suggested in this news release. Risks and uncertainties to which the company is subject include, but are not necessarily limited to, fluctuations in the timing and volumes of customer demand, the rate of depletion of customer inventory buildup and the company's achievement of revenue objectives, other financial targets, the company's ability to develop new products, and the timing and the success of new product introductions. Other risks and uncertainties that could cause the forward-looking statements contained herein to differ from actual results include: the continued availability of appropriate levels of manufacturing capacity, the realization of benefits from the company's strategic relationships, competing technologies, R&D investments, products and other competitive factors and investments and disruptions in general economic activity caused by the effects of terrorist activities and armed conflict. The company operates in an industry sector where securities' values are highly volatile and may be influenced by the cyclical nature of the industry, the unpredictability of the economy and other factors beyond the company's control. For additional information, readers are referred to the documents filed by LSI Logic with the SEC, and specifically the company's most recent reports on Form 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K. In the context of forward-looking information, reference is made to the discussion of risk factors described in the company's SEC reports filed during the past 12 months.
About LSI Logic
LSI Logic Corporation (NYSE: LSI) is a leading designer and manufacturer of communications, consumer and storage semiconductors for applications that access, interconnect and store data, voice and video. In addition, the company supplies storage network solutions for the enterprise. LSI Logic is headquartered at 1621 Barber Lane, Milpitas, CA 95035. http://www.lsilogic.com
Editor's Notes:
1.     All LSI Logic news releases (financial, acquisitions, manufacturing, products, technology etc.) are issued exclusively by PR Newswire and are immediately thereafter posted on the company's external website, http://www.lsilogic.com.
2.     The LSI Logic logo design is a registered trademark of LSI Logic Corporation.
3.     All other brand or product names may be trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective companies.
 
Statements of operations excluding special items are intended to present the Company's operating results, excluding special items described below, for the periods presented.
During the three month period ended December 31, 2003, the special items represented amortization of acquisition related items including intangibles and non-cash deferred stock compensation, a net credit in restructuring of operations and other items, and other special items.
During the year ended December 31, 2003, the special items represented all the items mentioned above in addition to write downs on certain equity securities due to impairment.
During the three month period ended December 31, 2002, the special items represented acquired in-process research and development, amortization of acquisition related items including intangibles and non-cash deferred stock compensation, a net credit in restructuring of operations and other items, and other special items. The other special items consisted of gains associated with repurchases of a portion of the Company's Convertible Subordinated Notes, gains on miscellaneous asset sales and a write down of certain equity securities due to impairment.
During the year ended December 31, 2002, the special items represented all the items mentioned above in addition to additional excess inventory and related charges and a $22 million tax benefit as a result of changes in the tax laws.
For the three month period and year ended December 31, 2003, the statements excluding special items are prepared using the Company's calculated tax expense of $6,000 and $24,000, respectively when excluding special items. For the three month period and year ended December 31, 2002, the statements excluding special items are prepared using the Company's calculated tax expense of $6,062 and $24,250 when excluding special items.
For the three months ended December 31, 2003 and 2002, 6,885 and 1,281 shares, respectively were considered dilutive common stock equivalents and included in the computation of diluted pro forma earnings per share. In computing the diluted pro forma loss per share for the year ended December 31, 2003 and 2002, all common stock equivalents were excluded as a result of their antidilutive effect.
A reconciliation from pro forma net income/(loss) to the reported results is presented on the following page.
The format presented above is not intended to be in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
 
*     For the three months ended December 31, 2003, 6,885 shares were considered dilutive common stock equivalents and included in the computation of diluted earnings per share. In computing diluted loss per share for the three month period ended December 31, 2002 and for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002, all common stock equivalents were excluded as a result of their antidilutive effect.
**     This line item includes rounding adjustments.
 
*     The amortization of acquisition related items including intangibles and non-cash deferred stock compensation for the three month period ended December 31, 2003 are comprised of the following items:
**     For the three months ended December 31, 2003, 6,885 shares were considered dilutive common stock equivalents and included in the computation of diluted earnings per share. In computing diluted loss per share for the three month period ended December 31, 2002 and for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002, all common stock equivalents were excluded as a result of their antidilutive effect.
 
 
 


