FILE:LSI/LSI-8K-20051026161100.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operation and Financial Condition.
On October 26, 2005, LSI Logic Corporation (referred to here as "LSI Logic" or the "Company") issued a news release regarding its financial results for the third quarter ended October 2, 2005. A copy of the news release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference herein.
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information
LSI Logic has referenced non-GAAP financial information in the news release. LSI Logic management believes that the results of operations excluding special items presented herein for the three- and nine-month periods ended October 22005 and October 3, 2004, and the three-month period ended July 3, 2005 provide useful information to investors regarding results of operations, as they exclude charges, expenses, gains, and losses that are not directly related to the ongoing business results and/or stem from purchase business combinations. These business results are used by management for evaluating historical performance in addition to being used for the Company's forecasting and planning for future periods. Restructuring of operations, acquisition-related amortization including intangibles and non-cash deferred stock compensation and other special items are examples of charges that are not directly related to the Company's ongoing business results and/or stem from purchase business combinations. For a complete reconciliation of special items excluded from our results of operations for the three- and nine-month periods ended October 2, 2005 and October 3, 2004, and the three-month period ended July 3, 2005, refer to the tables furnished in the news release attached as Exhibit 99.1.
,
Results of operations excluding special items for the periods presented are provided for illustrative purposes only and should be read in conjunction with the comparable information presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States and the Company's most recent annual report on Form 10-K for the twelve months ended December 31, 2004.
Item 8.01 Other Events.
The Company reported revenues of $482 million in the third quarter of 2005, compared to revenues of $481 million reported in the second quarter of 2005 and a 27 percent increase compared to the $380 million reported in the third quarter of 2004.
Third quarter net loss of $73 million or 19 cents per diluted share was primarily attributable to the $91 million restructuring charge associated with the planned sale of the company's Gresham, Oregon manufacturing facility. The third quarter 2005 results compare to second quarter 2005 net income of $25 million or six cents per diluted share. Third quarter 2004 net loss was $282 million or 73 cents per diluted share, and included a $206 million non-cash charge for the impairment of the Gresham, Oregon facility.
Cash and short-term investments totaled $845 million at the end of the third quarter of 2005.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits
 
*     Furnished, not filed
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: October 26, 2005
Table of Contents
 
      Furnished, not filed
*

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
*      Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
**     Acquisition-related amortization, restructuring and other special items.
 
LSI Logic Corporation (NYSE: LSI) today reported third quarter 2005 revenues of $482 million compared to the $481 million reported in the second quarter of 2005, and a 27 percent increase over the $380 million reported in the third quarter of 2004.
Milpitas, California 
Cash and short-term investments totaled $845 million at the end of the third quarter of 2005. LSI Logic generated positive operating cash flow for the 14th consecutive quarter.
Third quarter 2005 GAAP* net loss of $73 million or 19 cents per diluted share was mainly attributable to the $91 million restructuring charge associated with the planned sale of the company's Gresham, Oregon manufacturing facility. The company anticipates incurring related restructuring charges of less than $3 million per quarter in the fourth quarter of 2005 and the first two quarters of 2006. LSI Logic reported second quarter 2005 GAAP net income of $25 million or 6 cents per diluted share. Third quarter 2004 GAAP net loss was $282 million or 73 cents per diluted share, which included a $206 million non-cash charge for the Gresham facility impairment.
Third quarter 2005 net income, excluding special items**, was $45 million or 11 cents per diluted share compared to second quarter 2005 net income, excluding special items, of $45 million or 11 cents per diluted share. Excluding special items, third quarter 2004 net loss was $25 million or 7 cents per diluted share.
"Our storage systems subsidiary, Engenio Information Technologies, reported record third quarter revenues and our Consumer Products Group revenues, led by our DoMiNo architecture-based products for DVD-recorder and cable set-top box customers and custom solutions for the digital audio player market, were robust in the third quarter," said Abhi Talwalkar, LSI Logic president and chief executive officer. "After serving as a primary driver in the first two quarters of the year, our storage ASICs and storage standard products businesses softened in the third quarter as customers worked down inventory. We are confident that the insatiable demand for storage, coupled with our market leadership and first-mover advantages, is expected to drive fourth quarter revenue growth for these businesses.
"In the third quarter, LSI Logic announced a broad-based reorganization and the adoption of a fabless manufacturing model. We are on track to exceed the Semiconductor Industry Association's current estimate of six percent for the worldwide semiconductor industry's 2005 growth rate. During the coming quarters, we will intensify our efforts to drive long-term revenue growth, capitalize on our market share and technology leadership positions in strategic markets and identify opportunities to enhance our competitive position in the global marketplace."
"LSI Logic continues to stay focused on streamlining operations and driving profitability," said Bryon Look, LSI Logic chief financial officer. "We have increased our ongoing
 
efforts to identify synergies and drive efficiencies across the company in order to deliver greater value to our shareholders.
"Since we announced our intent to sell our Gresham manufacturing facility, we have had detailed discussions with numerous parties. The process of selling a semiconductor fabrication facility is complex, but we are encouraged by the interest from qualified buyers."
Capital spending is projected to be around $20 million in the fourth quarter, and approximately $60 million in total for 2005.
Fourth quarter depreciation and software amortization is expected to be approximately $15 million.
 
*      Generally Accepted Accounting Principles
**     Acquisition-related amortization, restructuring and other special items .
NOTE: The company's financial guidance will be limited to the comments made on today's public conference call and contained in the Fourth Quarter Business Outlook section of this news release.
LSI Logic Conference Call Information
LSI Logic will hold a conference call today at 2 p.m. PDT to discuss third quarter financial results and the fourth quarter business outlook. The number is 1-303-262-2052. Internet users can access the conference call by visiting . A replay of the call will be available today at approximately 4:30 p.m. PDT and will be available for 48 hours. The replay access numbers are 1-800-405-2236 within the U.S. and 1-303-590-3000 for all other locations, passcode 11034680#.
http://www.lsilogic.com/investors
 
This news release contains forward-looking statements, which include the following: the expected drive for fourth quarter 2005 growth in the storage ASICs and storage standard products businesses, the expectation to outpace the semiconductor industry growth for 2005, the expectation to intensify efforts to drive long-term revenue growth, capitalize on markets share and technology leadership positions and identify opportunities to enhance competitive position in the marketplace, projected revenues for the fourth quarter of 2005, projected GAAP net income for the fourth quarter of 2005, projected net income, excluding special items, for the fourth quarter of 2005, projected capital spending in the fourth quarter of 2005 and for the year, and expected fourth quarter of 2005 depreciation and software amortization. Forward-looking statements also include projections of gross margins, operating expenses, net other income / (expense), tax provisions, earnings per share and diluted share count. These forward-looking statements are based on the opinions and estimates of management at the time the statements are made and are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause LSI Logic's actual results to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: fluctuations in the timing and volumes of customer demand, particularly for storage, the company's inability to achieve revenue objectives, the company's inability to meet financial targets and failure to execute on its financial plan, the company's inability to generate positive operating cash flow, control operating expenses or drive sustained revenue growth, the company's inability to leverage technology marketplace advantages and leadership positions, the inability to identify opportunities to enhance its competitive position and the unavailability of appropriate levels of manufacturing capacity. For additional information, readers are referred to the documents filed by LSI Logic with the SEC, and specifically the risk factors set forth in the company's most recent reports on Form 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K. LSI Logic is not obligated to update these forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this document.
Safe Harbor for Forward-Looking Statements:
About LSI Logic
LSI Logic Corporation (NYSE:LSI) is a leading provider of silicon-to-system solutions that are used at the core of products that create, move and store electronic content. LSI Logic's broad portfolio of capabilities includes customer specific and standard product ICs, host bus and RAID adapters, enterprise storage network solutions and software applications. LSI Logic products enable leading technology companies in the Consumer, Communications and Storage markets to deliver some of the most advanced and well-known electronic systems in the market today. More information is available at www.lsilogic.com.
Editor's Notes:
 
Statements of operations excluding special items are intended to present the Company's operating results, excluding special items described below, for the periods presented.
During the three month period ended September 30, 2005, the special items represented amortization of acquisition related items including intangibles and non-cash deferred stock compensation, and restructuring of operations and other items, net, and other special items. The other special items consisted of write-downs of certain equity securities due to impairment.
During the three month period ended June 30, 2005, the special items represented amortization of acquisition related items including intangibles and non-cash deferred stock compensation, and restructuring of operations and other items, net, and other special items. The other special items consisted of gains on certain equity securities, and gains associated with the repurchase of a portion of the Company's Convertible Subordinated Notes.
During the three month period ended September 30, 2004, the special items represented amortization of acquisition related items including intangibles and non-cash deferred stock compensation, restructuring of operations and other items, net, and other special items. The other special items consisted of write-downs of certain equity securities due to impairment and fees related to our subsidiary Engenio's initial public offering, which was postponed in August of 2004 due to market conditions. These charges were offset in part by gains associated with the repurchase of a portion of the Company's Convertible Subordinated Notes.
During the nine month period ended September 30, 2005, the special items represented amortization of acquisition related items including intangibles and non-cash deferred stock compensation, and restructuring of operations and other items, net, and other special items. The other special items consisted of gains on certain equity securities, gains associated with the repurchase of a portion of the Company's Convertible Subordinated Notes, and write-downs of certain equity securities due to impairment.
During the nine month period ended September 30, 2004, the special items represented all the items mentioned above in addition to gains on certain equity securities.
For the three month periods ended September 30, 2005, June 30, 2005, and September 30, 2004, the statements excluding special items are prepared using the Company's calculated tax expense of $6,250, $6,250 and $6,000, respectively when excluding special items. For the nine month periods ended September 30, 2005 and 2004, the statements excluding special items are prepared using the Company's calculated tax expense of $18,750 and $18,000, respectively when excluding special items.
For the three month periods ended September 30, 2005 and June 30, 2005, 11,647 and 4,339 shares, respectively were considered dilutive common stock equivalents and included in the computation of diluted income per share excluding special items. For the three month period ended September 30, 2004, all common stock equivalents were excluded from the computation of diluted loss per share as a result of their antidilutive effect. For the nine month periods ended September 30, 2005 and 2004, 6,159 and 4,964 shares, respectively were considered dilutive common stock equivalents and included in the computation of diluted income per share excluding special items.
A reconciliation from net income/(loss) excluding special items to the reported results is presented on the following page.
The format presented above is not intended to be in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Revenues for the Semiconductor and Storage Systems segments before and after the new organization announced in August 2005:


