FILE:LSI/LSI-8K-20050407172332.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
1. On April 1, 2005, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of LSI Logic Corporation (referred to herein as "LSI Logic" or the "Company") adopted the 2005 Semiconductor Incentive Plan for the semiconductor segment of the Company ("2005 Semiconductor Plan") and the 2005 Incentive Plan for the Company's majority-owned subsidiary, Engenio Information Technologies, Inc. ("2005 Engenio Plan"), which is also the storage systems segment of the Company.
1.1
Summary Description of 2005 Semiconductor Incentive Plan
The funding of the bonus pool under the 2005 Semiconductor Plan is determined using multiples of operating income and incremental revenue for the semiconductor segment for fiscal year 2005. A specified fixed percentage of operating income and incremental revenue is used to fund the incentive bonus pool. An additional incentive is added if gross margin exceeds the targeted levels. The bonus pool will be a minimum of 75% of targeted funding and a maximum of 200% of targeted funding. However, no bonus pool is funded unless operating income and incremental revenue equal or exceed the specified threshold amounts. In no event will the incentive pools exceed 7.5% of operating income.
1.2
Summary Description of 2005 Engenio Incentive Plan
The funding of the bonus pool under the 2005 Engenio Plan is determined using multiples of operating income and incremental revenue for Engenio for fiscal year 2005. A specified fixed percentage of operating income and incremental revenue is used to fund the incentive pool. The bonus pool will be a minimum of 75% of targeted funding and a maximum of 200% of targeted funding. However, no bonus pool is funded unless operating income and incremental revenue equal or exceed the specified threshold amounts. In no event will the incentive pools exceed 9.3% of operating income.
2. Under a non-discretionary formula in the Company's Amended 1995 Director Option Plan, on April 1, 2005, each of Messrs. Chu, Currie, Keyes, Norby, O'Rourke, Reyes and Sonsini was automatically granted an option to purchase 30,000 shares of the common stock of the Company, at an exercise price of $5.51 per share. The stock options are automatically granted on April 1 of each year to any independent director who on such date has served on the Board of Directors for at least six months, and become exercisable in full six months after the date of grant. If not exercised, these stock options will expire ten years from the date of grant.
The Amended 1995 Director Option Plan is a shareholder-approved plan. The options are subject to the terms and conditions of the Annual Director Option Agreement, a form of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 1.3 and the Notice of Grant of Stock Options and Option Agreement, a form of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 1.4.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: April 7, 2005
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 1.1
On April 1, 2005, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of LSI Logic Corporation (the "Company") adopted the 2005 Semiconductor Incentive Plan (the "2005 Semiconductor Plan") for the semiconductor segment of the Company. The funding of the bonus pool under the 2005 Semiconductor Plan is determined using multiples of operating income and incremental revenue for the semiconductor segment for fiscal year 2005. A specified fixed percentage of operating income and incremental revenue is used to fund the incentive bonus pool. An additional incentive is added if gross margin exceeds the targeted levels. The bonus pool will be a minimum of 75% of targeted funding and a maximum of 200% of targeted funding. However, no bonus pool is funded unless operating income and incremental revenue equal or exceed the specified threshold amounts. In no event will the incentive pools exceed 7.5% of operating income.

 
Exhibit 1.2
On April 1, 2005, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of LSI Logic Corporation (the "Company") adopted the 2005 Engenio Information Technologies, Inc. Incentive Plan (the "2005 Engenio Plan") for the Company's majority-owned subsidiary, Engenio Information Technologies, Inc. ("Engenio"), which is also the storage systems segment of the Company. The funding of the bonus pool under the 2005 Engenio Plan is determined using multiples of operating income and incremental revenue for Engenio for fiscal year 2005. A specified fixed percentage of operating income and incremental revenue is used to fund the incentive pool. The bonus pool will be a minimum of 75% of targeted funding and a maximum of 200% of targeted funding. However, no bonus pool is funded unless operating income and incremental revenue equal or exceed the specified threshold amounts. In no event will the incentive pools exceed 9.3% of operating income.

 
Exhibit 1.3
     LSI Logic Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), hereby grants an option to purchase shares of the Company's Common Stock, (the "Optioned Stock"), at the price determined as provided herein, and in all respects subject to the terms, definitions and provisions of the Company's 1995 Director Option Plan (the "Plan") adopted by the Company and incorporated herein by reference. The terms defined in the Plan shall have the same defined meanings herein.
 

 
Exhibit 1.4
Effective __________, you have been granted a nonstatutory stock option to buy shares of LSI Logic Corporation common stock at an exercise price of ________ per share.
The total option price of the shares granted is $________.
The number of shares indicated are scheduled to become fully vested on the date shown below. However, vesting will occur only if you have not incurred a Termination of Service prior to such date. The latest this option will expire is the Expiration Date shown below; however, if you incur a Termination of Service, this option may expire sooner, as described in the attached LSI Logic Stock Option Agreement (the "Agreement"). Capitalized terms that are not defined in this Notice of Grant or the Agreement have the same meaning as in the LSI Logic referenced stock option plan.
By your signature below, you agree that these options are granted under and governed by the terms and conditions of the Agreement (and the stock option plan referenced therein), which is attached and made a part of this document. You acknowledge that you have received, read and understand this Notice of Grant, the Agreement and the LSI Logic Corporation referenced stock option plan, and that you have had an opportunity to obtain the advice of counsel prior to signing below. You agree to accept as binding, conclusive and final all decisions or interpretations of the Administrator regarding any questions relating to the LSI Logic referenced stock option plan, this Notice of Grant and the Agreement.


