FILE:LSI/LSI-8K-20060726163954.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operation and Financial Condition.
On July 26, 2006, LSI Logic Corporation (referred to here as "LSI Logic" or the "Company") issued a news release regarding its financial results for the second quarter ended July 2, 2006. A copy of the news release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference herein.
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information
LSI Logic has referenced non-GAAP financial information in the news release.
LSI Logic management believes that the presentation of a full non-GAAP income statement for the three-month and six-month periods ended July 2, 2006 and July 3, 2005 and the three-month period ended April 2, 2006, including non-GAAP cost of revenues, non-GAAP gross profit, non-GAAP research and development expenses, non-GAAP selling, general and administrative expenses, non-GAAP income from operations, non-GAAP interest income and other, non-GAAP income before income taxes, non-GAAP provision for income taxes and non-GAAP net income excluding special items and non-GAAP income excluding special items per basic and diluted share (collectively referred to herein as non-GAAP measures) provides important supplemental information to management and investors regarding financial and business trends relating to the Company's financial condition and results of operations. Management believes that the use of these non-GAAP financial measures provides consistency and comparability with our past financial reports, and also facilitates comparisons with other companies in our industry, many of which use similar non-GAAP financial measures to supplement their GAAP information.
Management has historically used these non-GAAP measures when evaluating operating performance because we believe that the inclusion or exclusion of the items described below provides an additional measure of our core operating results and facilitates comparisons of our core operating performance against prior periods and our business model objectives. We have chosen to provide this information to investors to enable them to perform additional analyses of past, present and future operating performance and as a supplemental means to evaluate our ongoing core operations. Externally, we believe that these non-GAAP measures continue to be useful to investors in their assessment of our operating performance and the valuation of our Company.
Internally, these non-GAAP measures are significant measures used by management for purposes of:
Non-GAAP financial measures:
As described above, LSI excludes the following items in one or more of the non-GAAP measures:
Table of Contents
The calculation of non-GAAP net income excluding special items per dilutive share is adjusted in the numerator for all the items discussed above under net income excluding special items. In the denominator, the number of non-GAAP dilutive shares excludes the following item:
Table of Contents
Non-GAAP cost of revenues, non-GAAP research and development, non-GAAP selling, general and administrative expenses, non-GAAP income from operations, non-GAAP interest income and other expense, non-GAAP provision for income taxes, non-GAAP net income excluding special items and non-GAAP net income per basic and dilutive share are not calculated in accordance with GAAP, and should be considered for illustrative purposes as being supplemental to, and not a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. Non-GAAP financial measures have limitations in that they do not reflect all of the costs associated with the operations of the Company's business in accordance with GAAP and such non-GAAP measures may be different from the computation of non-GAAP measures of other companies. As a result, you should not consider these measures in isolation or as a substitute for analysis as reported under GAAP. Some of the limitations in relying on non-GAAP financial measures are discussed below in relation to the items excluded from those non-GAAP measures.
All supplemental non-GAAP financial measures should be read in conjunction with the comparable information presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America and the Company's most recent annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005. For a complete reconciliation of special items excluded from our results of operations for the three-month and six-month periods ended July 2, 2006 and July 3, 2005, and the three-month period ended April 2, 2006, refer to the tables furnished in the news release attached as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 8.01 Other Events.
The Company reported revenues of $490 million in the second quarter of 2006, compared to revenues of $476 million reported in the first quarter of 2006, and a two percent increase compared to the $481 million reported in the second quarter of 2005.
Second quarter net income was $54 million or 13 cents per diluted share. The second quarter 2006 results compare to first quarter 2006 net income of $13 million or three cents per diluted share. Second quarter 2005 net income was $25 million or six cent per diluted share.
Cash and short-term investments totaled $1.2 billion at the end of the second quarter of 2006.
Table of Contents
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
 
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: July 26, 2006
Table of Contents
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
cc06-50
 
LSI Logic Corporation (NYSE: LSI) today reported second quarter 2006 revenues of $490 million, a 3% increase sequentially compared to the $476 million reported in the first quarter of 2006, and up 2% year-over-year compared to the $481 million reported in the second quarter of 2005.
MILPITAS, Calif. 
Second quarter 2006 GAAP* net income was $54 million or 13 cents per diluted share, compared to first quarter 2006 GAAP net income of $13 million or 3 cents per diluted share. Second quarter 2006 GAAP results compare to second quarter 2005 GAAP net income of $25 million or 6 cents per diluted share. Second quarter GAAP net income included $13 million of stock-based compensation expense and a net gain of $10 million from special items, acquisition-related amortization, restructuring and their related tax effect.
Second quarter 2006 non-GAAP** net income was $57 million or 14 cents per diluted share, an increase of 43% compared to first quarter 2006 non-GAAP net income of $40 million or 10 cents per diluted share. Second quarter non-GAAP 2005 net income was $45 million or 11 cents per diluted share.
Cash and short-term investments grew 16% sequentially to $1.2 billion, from $1.03 billion in the first quarter of 2006 and up 54% from the year-ago period.
"All segments of our business grew sequentially during the quarter. Demand for our Engenio 4 Gb/s Fibre Channel systems strengthened, driving our storage systems revenues to near record levels and 17% higher than the year-ago quarter," said Abhi Talwalkar, LSI Logic president and chief executive officer. "Our communications revenues grew significantly year-over-year, as demand for existing long-lifecycle products increased and several in-process designs ramped to production. We anticipate accelerating demand for our storage products in the second half of 2006 as broad market transitions to 4Gb/s Fibre Channel interfaces and SAS-enabled servers are now well underway."
"In the second quarter, GAAP net income grew significantly, driven in part by successful completion of the sale of our Gresham, Oregon manufacturing facility and our ZSP digital signal processor unit," said Bryon Look, LSI Logic chief financial officer. "Our balance sheet also strengthened, with a $169 million increase in cash and short-term investments during the period."
 
Capital spending is projected to be around $10 million in the third quarter and approximately $45 million in total for 2006.
Third quarter depreciation and software amortization is expected to be approximately $13 million.
NOTE: The Company's financial guidance will be limited to the comments made on today's public conference call and contained in the Third Quarter 2006 Business Outlook section of this news release.
 
LSI Logic will hold a conference call today at 2 pm PDT to discuss second quarter financial results and the third quarter 2006 business outlook. The number is 1-303-262-2194. Internet users can access the conference call by visiting . A replay of the call will be available today at approximately 5 pm PDT and will be available for 48 hours. The replay access numbers are 1-800-405-2236 within the U.S. and 1-303-590-3000 for all other locations, passcode 11065974#.
LSI Logic Conference Call Information
http://www.lsi.com/investors
This news release contains forward-looking statements, which include the following: the anticipation of accelerating demand for storage products and technology transitions in the company's storage markets in the second half of 2006, projected revenues for the third quarter of 2006, projected GAAP net income for the third quarter of 2006, projected non-GAAP net income for the third quarter of 2006, projected capital spending in the third quarter of 2006 and for the year and expected third quarter of 2006 depreciation and software amortization. Forward-looking statements also include projections of gross margins, operating expenses, net other income, tax provisions, net income per share and diluted share count. These forward-looking statements are based on the opinions and estimates of management at the time the statements are made and are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause LSI Logic's actual results to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: fluctuations in the timing and volumes of customer demand; the company's inability to achieve revenue objectives; the company's inability to meet financial targets and failure to execute on its financial plan; the company's inability to generate positive operating cash flow or control operating expenses; the company's inability to benefit from increasing demand and technology transitions in its storage markets; and the unavailability of appropriate levels of manufacturing capacity. For additional information, readers are referred to the documents filed by LSI Logic with the SEC, and specifically the risk factors set forth in the company's most recent reports on Form 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K. LSI Logic is not obligated to update these forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this document.
Safe Harbor for Forward Looking Statements:
LSI Logic Corporation is a leading provider of silicon-to-system solutions that are used at the core of products that create, store and consume digital information. LSI offers a broad portfolio of capabilities including custom and standard product ICs, host bus and RAID adapters, storage area network solutions and software applications. LSI products enable leading technology companies in the Storage and Consumer markets to deliver some of the most advanced and well-known electronic systems in the market today. More information is available at .
About LSI Logic
www.lsi.com
Editor's Notes:
 
 
Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP net income:
Reconciliation of shares used in the calculation of GAAP to Non-GAAP diluted net income per share:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


