FILE:LSI/LSI-8K-20060710163440.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
On July 7, 2006, Mr. T.Z. Chu resigned from the Board of Directors (the "Board") of LSI Logic Corporation (referred to here as "LSI Logic" or the "Company"). Mr. Chu was a member of the audit committee and the nominating and corporate governance committee of the Board at the time of his resignation. There are no disagreements between the Company and Mr. Chu that caused or contributed to Mr. Chu's resignation from the Board.
On July 7, 2006, the Board of LSI Logic increased the number of directors constituting the Board from seven to eight and elected Mr. Charles A. Haggerty, president and chief executive officer of LeConte Associates, and Mr. John H.F. Miner, former president of Intel Capital and a former corporate vice president of Intel Corporation, to the Board. Messrs. Haggerty and Miner are independent directors as determined by the Board pursuant to the Company's Corporate Governance Guidelines and the corporate governance standards of the New York Stock Exchange. It has not yet been determined on which Board committees Messrs. Haggerty and Miner will serve.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: July 10, 2006
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
cc06-45
 LSI Logic Corporation (NYSE: LSI) today announced that it has elected Charles A. Haggerty and John H. F. Miner to its Board of Directors. Haggerty is the former chairman, president and chief executive officer of Western Digital Corporation. Miner is the former president of Intel Capital and corporate vice president of Intel Corporation.
MILPITAS, Calif., July 10, 2006
LSI also announced that it has received the resignation of board member T. Z. Chu, who has retired from service, effective July 7, 2006. Chu was first elected in 1992 and most recently served as a member of the Audit Committee and the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee.
"The addition of these new board members further strengthens the deep knowledge and broad experience available to guide us as we pursue significant growth opportunities in the worldwide markets for information storage and consumer electronics technologies," said Abhi Talwalkar, LSI Logic president and chief executive officer. "Chuck and John are both recognized business and technology leaders of the highest caliber and we are fortunate to have access to their counsel."
Noting Chu's long tenure as a director, Talwalkar said, "We are grateful to T. Z. for his loyal service to the board and his contribution will be greatly missed. We wish him well in his future endeavors."
Haggerty is currently the president and chief executive officer of LeConte Associates, a consulting and investment firm. He serves on the boards of Beckman Coulter, Inc., Deluxe Corporation, Imation Corporation and Pentair, Inc. From 1993 to 2000, Haggerty was chairman, president and chief executive officer of Western Digital Corporation, a maker of hard drives for digital information storage. Previously he was with IBM Corporation, where he served in various general management roles including marketing, product development and operations capacities during a 28-year career. Haggerty also has held board positions with LSI Logic subsidiary Engenio Information Technologies, Inc., Marquette Banks, Navistar International Corporation, and Vixel Corporation. He holds a bachelor's degree from the University of St. Thomas, St. Paul, Minn. and is Trustee Emeritus.
 
Until 2005, Miner was the president of Intel Capital and corporate vice president of Intel Corporation. He retired from Intel in 2005, concluding 22 years of service in various sales, engineering, marketing, and general management roles. From 1993 through 2001, Miner served in a general management capacity overseeing major product divisions including the Enterprise Server and Communications Products Groups. Additionally, he was named a corporate officer in 1996. In 2002, Miner became general manager, Intel Capital and was named president, Intel Capital in 2004. He holds a bachelor's degree in electrical engineering from Tulane University and an MBA from the University of Oregon, Eugene.
LSI Logic Corporation (NYSE: LSI) is a leading provider of silicon-to-systems solutions that are used at the core of products that create, store and consume digital information. LSI offers a broad portfolio of capabilities including custom and standard product ICs, host bus and RAID adapters, storage area network solutions and software applications. LSI products enable leading technology companies in the Storage and Consumer markets to deliver some of the most advanced and well-known electronic systems in the market today. More information is available at .
About LSI Logic
www.lsi.com
Editor's Notes:


