FILE:LSI/LSI-8K-20060517171527.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
     On May 15, 2006, LSI Logic Corporation ("LSI" or the "Company") consummated the sale of certain assets associated with LSI's semiconductor wafer fabrication facilities in Gresham, Oregon to Semiconductor Components Industries, LLC ("SCI"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of ON Semiconductor Corporation ("ON"). In connection with the sale, LSI entered into a wafer supply and test service agreement (the "Agreement') with SCI pursuant to which SCI will manufacture and provide semiconductor wafer products to LSI and provide certain sort test, processing engineering, quality assurance and other similar and related services that LSI may from time to time request SCI to perform. Subject to the terms and conditions of the Agreement, and provided that SCI fulfills all material obligations set forth in the Agreement, LSI is obligated to purchase, and SCI is obligated to provide, $198,800,000 of wafer products and related services (such as wafer testing and sorting services) from SCI during the first two years under the Agreement. Commencing the third year under the Agreement, pricing for the products and services the Company orders (which are not subject to any minimum purchase requirements or supply guarantees) will be renegotiated. The term of the Agreement is six years (the "Initial Term"), unless terminated by either party for breach or for a change of control. After the Initial Term (unless terminated earlier as set forth above), the Agreement will renew automatically for successive periods of two years, unless either party provides notice of non-renewal to the other party at least six months prior to the date of the expiration of the then-current term. The Agreement further provides that LSI will indemnify SCI and ON for certain intellectual property infringement claims and SCI will indemnify LSI for certain product liability and intellectual property infringement claims.
     This description of the Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to its complete text, which form has been filed as Exhibit 2.1 to the Company's quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended April 2, 2006 filed on May 12, 2006, and which amended and executed form will be filed as an exhibit to the Company's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended July 2, 2006. Portions of Exhibit 2.1 have been omitted pursuant to a request for confidential treatment.
Item 8.01 Other Events.
     The Company's news release announcing the completion of the sale of certain assets associated with LSI's semiconductor wafer fabrication facility in Gresham, Oregon to SCI is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: May 17, 2006
Table of Contents
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
CC06-24
 LSI Logic Corporation (NYSE: LSI) today announced it has completed the sale of its Gresham, Oregon semiconductor manufacturing facility to Semiconductor Components Industries, LLC, the primary operating subsidiary of ON Semiconductor Corporation (Nasdaq: ONNN), for $105 million, under terms of a definitive agreement executed on April 5, 2006.
MILPITAS, Calif., May 15, 2006
The facility purchased by the ON Semiconductor subsidiary consists of a campus measuring approximately 83 acres, multiple buildings with approximately 500,000 square feet of floor space, including approximately 98,000 square feet of cleanroom space, and a 200 millimeter-capable toolset and equipment that can produce 18,000 8-inch wafers per month.
Related to the transaction, the ON Semiconductor subsidiary has entered into additional agreements with LSI, including a multi-year wafer supply and test agreement, intellectual property license agreement, transition services agreement and a facilities use agreement. The ON Semiconductor subsidiary has also hired substantially all of the LSI manufacturing employees based at the Gresham site, with the remaining non-manufacturing workforce continuing their employment with LSI.
In September, 2005, LSI adopted a fabless manufacturing strategy intended to better serve its global customer base, reduce production costs and adopt leading-edge process technologies. The closing of this transaction completes the company's transition to a fully fabless model while providing uninterrupted service to customers.
LSI has received approximately $90 million in proceeds to date, with the balance due within 90 days of closing according to the agreement.
 
LSI Logic Corporation (NYSE: LSI) is a leading provider of silicon-to-system solutions that are used at the core of products that create, store and consume digital information. LSI offers a broad portfolio of capabilities including custom and standard product ICs, host bus and RAID adapters, storage area network solutions and software applications. LSI products enable leading technology companies in the Storage and Consumer markets to deliver some of the most advanced and well-known electronic systems in the market today. More information is available at .
About LSI Logic
www.lsi.com
Editor's Notes:


