FILE:LSI/LSI-8K-20061025163255.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operation and Financial Condition.
On October 25, 2006, LSI Logic Corporation (referred to here as "LSI Logic" or the "Company") issued a news release regarding its financial results for the third quarter ended October 1, 2006. A copy of the news release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference herein.
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information
LSI Logic has referenced non-GAAP financial information in the news release.
LSI Logic management believes that the presentation of non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per basic and diluted share provides important supplemental information to management and investors regarding financial and business trends relating to the Company's financial condition and results of operations. Management believes that the use of these non-GAAP financial measures provides consistency and comparability with our past financial reports.
Management has historically used these non-GAAP measures when evaluating operating performance because we believe that the inclusion or exclusion of the items described below provides an additional measure of our core operating results and facilitates comparisons of our core operating performance against prior periods and our business model objectives. We have chosen to provide this information to investors to enable them to perform additional analyses of past, present and future operating performance and as a supplemental means to evaluate our ongoing core operations. Externally, we believe that these non-GAAP measures continue to be useful to investors in their assessment of our operating performance and the valuation of our Company.
Internally, these non-GAAP measures are significant measures used by management for purposes of:
Non-GAAP financial measures:
Non-GAAP net income:
Non-GAAP net income is important to the Company for the reasons noted above and excludes the following items:
Table of Contents
Non-GAAP net income per basic and dilutive share:
The calculation of non-GAAP net income excluding special items per dilutive share is adjusted in the numerator for all the items discussed above under net income excluding special items. In the denominator, the number of non-GAAP dilutive shares excludes the following item:
Some of the limitations in relying on non-GAAP financial measures are discussed below in relation to the items excluded from those non-GAAP measures.
Table of Contents
All supplemental non-GAAP financial measures should be read in conjunction with the comparable information presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America and the Company's most recent annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005. For a complete reconciliation of special items excluded from our results of operations for the three-month and nine-month periods ended October 1, 2006 and October 2, 2005, and the three-month period ended July 2, 2006, refer to the tables furnished in the news release attached as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 8.01 Other Events.
The Company reported revenues of $493 million in the third quarter of 2006, compared to revenues of $490 million reported in the second quarter of 2006, and a two percent increase compared to the $482 million reported in the third quarter of 2005.
Third quarter net income was $44 million or 11 cents per diluted share. The third quarter 2006 results compare to second quarter 2006 net income of $54 million or 13 cents per diluted share. Third quarter 2005 net loss was $73 million or 19 cents per diluted share.
Cash and short-term investments totaled $1.3 billion at the end of the third quarter of 2006.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: October 25, 2006
Table of Contents
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Revenues of $493 million
n
GAAP* net income of 11 cents per diluted share
n
Non-GAAP** net income of 16 cents per diluted share
n
Cash and short-term investments of $1.3 billion
n
Projected revenues of $500 million to $525 million
n
GAAP* net income range of 10  13 cents per diluted share
n
Non-GAAP** net income in the range of 15  18 cents per diluted share
n
 
 
LSI Logic Corporation (NYSE: LSI) today reported third quarter 2006 revenues of $493 million, a 2% increase year-over-year compared to the $482 million reported in the third quarter of 2005, and up 1% sequentially compared to the $490 million reported in the second quarter of 2006.
MILPITAS, Calif., October 25, 2006 
Third quarter 2006 GAAP* net income was $44 million or 11 cents per diluted share, compared to third quarter 2005 GAAP net loss of $73 million or 19 cents loss per diluted share. Third quarter 2006 GAAP results compare to second quarter 2006 GAAP net income of $54 million or 13 cents per diluted share. Third quarter GAAP net income included $11 million of stock-based compensation expense and a net charge of $10 million from special items, acquisition-related amortization, restructuring and their related tax effect.
Third quarter 2006 non-GAAP** net income was $65 million or 16 cents per diluted share, an increase of 43% compared to third quarter 2005 non-GAAP net income of $45 million or 11 cents per diluted share. Second quarter non-GAAP 2006 net income was $57 million or 14 cents per diluted share.
Cash and short-term investments grew 6% sequentially to $1.3 billion, from $1.2 billion in the second quarter and up 50% from the year-ago period.
"Revenues increased modestly during the quarter, with strong growth in storage semiconductors partially offset by expected lower demand for our portable media player products," said Abhi Talwalkar, LSI Logic president and chief executive officer. "Total storage revenues were 17% higher than the year-ago period, fueled in part by increasing demand for SAS-enabled storage solutions. We further strengthened investments in our storage business, entering into a definitive agreement to acquire StoreAge Networking Technologies, a privately held maker of storage management applications software."
"Higher gross margins and improved operating performance contributed to solid third quarter results, with net income significantly exceeding guidance," said Bryon Look, LSI Logic chief financial officer. "SG&A expenditures as compared to second quarter 2006 declined on both a percentage and an absolute basis. Our balance sheet also strengthened, with a $68 million increase in cash and short-term investments."
 
Capital spending is projected to be around $8 million in the fourth quarter and approximately $45 million in total for 2006.
Fourth quarter depreciation and software amortization is expected to be approximately $13 million.
 
NOTE: The Company's financial guidance will be limited to the comments made on today's public conference call and contained in the Fourth Quarter 2006 Business Outlook section of this news release.
 
LSI Logic Conference Call Information
LSI Logic will hold a conference call today at 2 pm PDT to discuss third quarter financial results and the fourth quarter 2006 business outlook. The number is 1-303-262-2191. Internet users can access the conference call at . A replay of the call will be available today at approximately 5 pm PDT and will be available for 48 hours. The replay access numbers are 1-800-405-2236 within the U.S. and 1-303-590-3000 for all other locations, passcode 11073169#.
http://www.lsi.com/investors
This news release contains forward-looking statements, which include the following: projected revenues for the fourth quarter of 2006, projected GAAP net income for the fourth quarter of 2006, projected non-GAAP net income for the fourth quarter of 2006, projected capital spending in the fourth quarter of 2006 and for the year and expected fourth quarter of 2006 depreciation and software amortization. Forward-looking statements also include projections of gross margins, operating expenses, net other income, tax provisions, net income per share and diluted share count. These forward-looking statements are based on the opinions and estimates of management at the time the statements are made and are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause LSI Logic's actual results to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: fluctuations in the timing and volumes of customer demand; the company's inability to achieve revenue objectives; the company's inability to meet financial targets and failure to execute on its financial plan; the company's inability to generate positive operating cash flow or control operating expenses; and the unavailability of appropriate levels of manufacturing capacity. For additional information, readers are referred to the documents filed by LSI Logic with the SEC, and specifically the risk factors set forth in the company's most recent reports on Form 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K. LSI Logic is not obligated to update these forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this document.
Safe Harbor for Forward Looking Statements:
About LSI Logic
LSI Logic Corporation is a leading provider of silicon-to-systems solutions that are used at the core of products that create, store and consume digital information. LSI offers a broad portfolio of capabilities including custom and standard product ICs, host bus and RAID adapters, storage area network solutions and software applications. LSI products enable leading technology companies in the Storage and Consumer markets to deliver some of the most advanced and well-known electronic systems in the market today. More information is available at .
www.lsi.com
Editor's Notes:
 
 
A reconciliation between net income on a GAAP basis and non-GAAP net income including items a)-i) is provided in the following table:
 
 
 
 
 
 


