FILE:LSI/LSI-8K-20070329172426.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 8.01. Other Events.
     On March 29, 2007, LSI Logic Corporation ("LSI") issued a press release announcing the results of the stockholder vote related to the proposed merger of Atlas Acquisition Corp., a wholly owned subsidiary of LSI, with and into Agere Systems Inc. ("Agere") contemplated by the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of December 3, 2006, by and among LSI, Atlas Acquisition Corp. and Agere. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND WHERE TO FIND IT
This communication may be deemed to be solicitation material in respect of the proposed transaction between Agere and LSI. In connection with the proposed transaction, LSI has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") a Registration Statement on Form S-4 (the "Registration Statement"), which includes a definitive proxy statement/prospectus, dated February 5, 2007 (the "Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus"), and related materials to register the shares of LSI common stock to be issued in the merger. THE REGISTRATION STATEMENT AND THE JOINT PROXY STATEMENT/PROSPECTUS CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT LSI, AGERE, THE TRANSACTION AND RELATED MATTERS. INVESTORS AND SECURITY HOLDERS ARE URGED TO READ THE REGISTRATION STATEMENT AND THE JOINT PROXY STATEMENT/PROSPECTUS CAREFULLY. Investors and security holders may obtain free copies of the Registration Statement, the Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus and other documents filed with the SEC by LSI and Agere through the website maintained by the SEC at http://www.sec.gov. In addition, free copies of the Registration Statement, the Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus and other documents may be obtained on the Agere website at http://www.agere.com and on the LSI website at http://www.lsi.com. The Registration Statement, the Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus and other relevant documents may also be obtained free of charge from Agere by directing such request to Investor Relations, Agere Systems Inc., 1110 American Parkway N.E., Allentown Pennsylvania 18109 and from LSI by directing such request to Investor Relations, LSI Logic Corporation, 1621 Barber Lane, Milpitas, California 95035. The contents of the websites referenced above are not deemed to be incorporated by reference into the Registration Statement or the Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus. Agere, LSI and their respective officers, directors and employees may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies from their respective stockholders with respect to the proposed transaction. Information regarding the interests of these officers, directors and employees in the proposed transaction will be included in the Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
 LSI Logic Corporation (NYSE: LSI) announced that it has obtained the required LSI shareholder approval of the previously announced merger with Agere Systems (NYSE: AGR) at a special meeting held today.
MILPITAS, Calif., March 29, 2007
The merger transaction is expected to close on Monday, April 2, 2007 subject to the satisfaction of closing conditions.
On December 4, 2006, LSI and Agere announced a definitive merger agreement under which the companies will be combined in an all-stock transaction. Agere shareholders will receive 2.16 shares of LSI common stock for each share of Agere common stock.
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This document contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the "safe harbor" provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are based on management's current expectations and beliefs and are subject to a number of factors and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements contained in this document include statements regarding the timing of closing of the proposed transaction with Agere. These statements are not guarantees of future performance, involve certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict, and are based upon assumptions as to future events that may not prove accurate. Therefore, actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed herein. For example, if LSI and Agere fail to satisfy all of the conditions to closing, the transaction will not be consummated. The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements: failure of the parties to satisfy the conditions to closing of the Merger; and other economic, business, competitive, and/or regulatory factors affecting the businesses of LSI and Agere generally, including those set forth in the filings of LSI and Agere with the Securities and Exchange Commission, especially in the "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" sections of their respective annual reports on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, their current reports on Form 8-K and other SEC filings. LSI is under no obligation to (and expressly disclaims any such obligation to) update or alter its forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
 
About LSI Logic
LSI Logic Corporation (NYSE: LSI) is a leading provider of silicon-to-system solutions that are used at the core of products that create, store and consume digital information. LSI offers a broad portfolio of capabilities including custom and standard product ICs, host bus and RAID adapters, storage area network solutions and software applications. LSI products enable leading technology companies in the Storage and Consumer markets to deliver some of the most advanced and well-known electronic systems in the market today. More information is available at .
www.lsi.com
Editor's Notes:


