FILE:LSI/LSI-8K-20070327162143.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
Table of Contents
Summary Description of 2007 Incentive Plan
On March 21, 2007, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of LSI Logic adopted the 2007 Incentive Plan for the Company ("2007 Incentive Plan").
The bonus pool under the 2007 Incentive Plan is not funded until the Company meets a predetermined operating income threshold, in both absolute dollars and as a percentage of revenue. Thereafter, the bonus pool increases as operating income, in both absolute dollars and as a percentage of revenue, increases. The maximum bonus pool will not exceed $30 million. The Company's named executive officers, other than the CEO, as well as other employees of the Company, are eligible to participate in the 2007 Incentive Plan. The target bonus for named executive officers, other than the CEO, is between 60% and 70% of the named executive officer's base compensation (for Bryon Look, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer  70%; for Umesh Padval, Executive Vice President, Consumer Products Group  70%; for D. Jeffrey Richardson, Executive Vice President, Custom Solutions Group  70%; and Flavio Santoni, Executive Vice President, Worldwide Storage Sales & Marketing  60%). Actual bonus payments to named executive officers may be greater than or less than the stated target amount dependant on whether actual performance meets or exceeds the specified goals.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: March 27, 2007
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 10.58
     On March 21, 2007, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of LSI Logic Corporation (the "Company") adopted the 2007 Incentive Plan (the "2007 Incentive Plan") for the Company. The bonus pool under the 2007 Incentive Plan is not funded until the Company meets a predetermined operating income threshold, in both absolute dollars and as a percentage of revenue. Thereafter, the bonus pool increases as operating income, in both absolute dollars and as a percentage of revenue, increases. The maximum bonus pool will not exceed $30 million. The Company's named executive officers, other than the CEO, as well as other employees of the Company, are eligible to participate in the 2007 Incentive Plan. The target bonus for named executive officers, other than the CEO, is between 60% and 70% of the named executive officer's base compensation. Actual bonus payments to named executive officers maybe greater than or less than the stated target amount.


