FILE:LSI/LSI-8K-20070731094046.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On July 31, 2007, LSI Corporation will present the slides attached hereto as Exhibits 99.1 through 99.7 at its Analyst Day meetings with investors and security analysts.
The presentations contain non-GAAP financial information. Management believes that the presentation of non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP gross margin as a percent of revenue and non-GAAP operating expenses, and non-GAAP net income per share provides important supplemental information to management and investors about financial and business trends relating to the Company's financial condition and results of operations. Management believes that the use of these non-GAAP financial measures provides consistency and comparability with our past financial reports.
Management has historically used these non-GAAP measures when evaluating operating performance because we believe that the inclusion or exclusion of the items described below provides an additional measure of our core operating results and facilitates comparisons of our core operating performance against prior periods and our business model objectives. We have chosen to provide this information to investors to enable them to perform additional analyses of past, present and future operating performance and as a supplemental means to evaluate our ongoing core operations. Externally, we believe that these non-GAAP measures continue to be useful to investors in their assessment of our operating performance and their valuation of the company.
Internally, these non-GAAP measures are significant measures used by management for purposes of:
Non-GAAP financial measures:
Non-GAAP net income:
Non-GAAP net income is important to the Company for the reasons noted above and excludes the following items:
Table of Contents
Some of the limitations of relying on non-GAAP financial measures include:
All supplemental non-GAAP financial measures should be read in conjunction with the comparable information presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: July 31, 2007

 
Exhibit 99.1

 
Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.4
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.5
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.6
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.7
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


