FILE:LSI/LSI-8K-20070425161706.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operation and Financial Condition.
On April 25, 2007, LSI Corporation issued a news release regarding its financial results for the quarter ended April 1, 2007. A copy of the news release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference herein.
The news release contains non-GAAP financial information. Management believes that the presentation of non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per basic and diluted share provides important supplemental information to management and investors about financial and business trends relating to the Company's financial condition and results of operations. Management believes that the use of these non-GAAP financial measures provides consistency and comparability with our past financial reports.
Management has historically used these non-GAAP measures when evaluating operating performance because we believe that the inclusion or exclusion of the items described below provides an additional measure of our core operating results and facilitates comparisons of our core operating performance against prior periods and our business model objectives. We have chosen to provide this information to investors to enable them to perform additional analyses of past, present and future operating performance and as a supplemental means to evaluate our ongoing core operations. Externally, we believe that these non-GAAP measures continue to be useful to investors in their assessment of our operating performance and their valuation of the company.
Internally, these non-GAAP measures are significant measures used by management for purposes of:
Non-GAAP financial measures:
Non-GAAP net income:
Non-GAAP net income is important to the Company for the reasons noted above and excludes the following items:
Table of Contents
Non-GAAP net income per basic and diluted share:
The numerator used in the calculation of non-GAAP net income per diluted share is non-GAAP net income computed as described above. In the denominator, the number of non-GAAP diluted shares excludes the following item:
Some of the limitations of relying on non-GAAP financial measures include:
Table of Contents
All supplemental non-GAAP financial measures should be read in conjunction with the comparable information presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Capital spending is projected to be around $21 million in the second quarter and approximately $95 million in total for 2007.
Second quarter depreciation and software amortization is expected to be approximately $40 million.
NOTE: The Company's financial guidance will be limited to the comments made on today's public conference call and contained in the Second Quarter 2007 Business Outlook section of this news release.
LSI will hold a conference call today at 2 pm PDT to discuss first quarter financial results and the second quarter 2007 business outlook. The number is 1-303-275-2170. Internet users can access the conference call at . A replay of the call will be available today at approximately 5 pm PDT and will be available for 48 hours. The replay access numbers are 1-800-405-2236 within the U.S. and 1-303-590-3000 for all other locations, passcode 11087195#.
LSI Conference Call Information
http://www.lsi.com/investors
This news release contains forward-looking statements that are based on the current opinions and estimates of management. These statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause LSI's actual results to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: the challenges and costs of integrating and restructuring our operations and achieving anticipated synergies following our recent acquisition of Agere Systems; fluctuations in the timing and volumes of customer demand; our reliance on major customers and suppliers; our ability to compete successfully in competitive markets; our ability to keep up with rapid technological change; the unavailability of appropriate levels of manufacturing capacity; and general industry and market conditions. For additional information, see the documents filed by LSI with the SEC, and specifically the risk factors set forth in the company's most recent reports on Form 10-K, 10-Q, and 8-K. LSI disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Forward Looking Statements:
 
LSI Corporation (NYSE: LSI) is a leading provider of innovative silicon, systems and software technologies that enable products which seamlessly bring people, information and digital content together. The company offers a broad portfolio of capabilities and services including custom and standard product ICs, adapters, systems and software that are trusted by the world's best known brands to power leading solutions in the Storage, Networking and Consumer markets. More information is available at www.lsi.com.
About LSI
Editor's Notes:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


