FILE:LSI/LSI-8K-20071024165322.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operation and Financial Condition.
On October 24, 2007, LSI Corporation issued a news release regarding its financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2007. A copy of the news release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference herein.
The news release contains non-GAAP financial information. Management believes that the presentation of non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP taxes and non-GAAP net income per basic and diluted share provides important supplemental information to management and investors about financial and business trends relating to the Company's financial condition and results of operations. Management believes that the use of these non-GAAP financial measures provides consistency and comparability with our past financial reports.
Management has historically used these non-GAAP measures when evaluating operating performance because we believe that the inclusion or exclusion of the items described below provides an additional measure of our core operating results and facilitates comparisons of our core operating performance against prior periods and our business model objectives. We have chosen to provide this information to investors to enable them to perform additional analyses of past, present and future operating performance and as a supplemental means to evaluate our ongoing core operations. Externally, we believe that these non-GAAP measures continue to be useful to investors in their assessment of our operating performance and their valuation of the company.
Internally, these non-GAAP measures are significant measures used by management for purposes of:
Non-GAAP financial measures:
     Non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP operating expenses and non-GAAP taxes are important to the Company for the reasons noted above and exclude the following items:
Table of Contents
Non-GAAP net income per basic and diluted share:
The numerator used in the calculation of non-GAAP net income per basic and diluted share is non-GAAP net income computed as described above. In the denominator, the Company uses the GAAP basic and dilutive shares.
Some of the limitations of relying on non-GAAP financial measures include:
All supplemental non-GAAP financial measures should be read in conjunction with the comparable information presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America.
Table of Contents
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: October 24, 2007
Table of Contents
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
Third quarter 2007 revenues of $727 million
 Third quarter 2007 GAAP* net loss of 20 cents per diluted share
 Third quarter 2007 non-GAAP** net income of 6 cents per diluted share
 Cash and short-term investments of $1.1 billion
 Projected revenues of $700 million to $730 million [1]
 GAAP* net income in the range of minus 9 to plus 3 cents per diluted share
 Non-GAAP** net income in the range of 5 to 9 cents per diluted share
 
 
LSI Corporation (NYSE: LSI) today reported third quarter 2007 revenues of $727 million, compared to $493 million in the third quarter of 2006 and $670 million in the second quarter of 2007.
MILPITAS, Calif., October 24, 2007 
Third quarter 2007 GAAP* net loss was $141 million or 20 cents per diluted share, compared to third quarter 2006 GAAP net income of $44 million or 11 cents per diluted share. Third quarter 2007 GAAP results compare to second quarter 2007 GAAP net loss of $378 million or 50 cents per diluted share. Third quarter 2007 GAAP net loss included a net charge of $184.7 million from special items, including $101.2 million of restructuring costs relating primarily to the sale of our mobility business, $70.6M in the amortization of acquisition-related items and $21.8 million of stock-based compensation expense.
Third quarter 2007 non-GAAP** net income was $44 million or 6 cents per diluted share, compared to third quarter 2006 non-GAAP net income of $65 million or 16 cents per diluted share. Second quarter 2007 non-GAAP net loss was $14 million or 2 cents per diluted share.
Cash and short-term investments totaled approximately $1.1 billion at quarter end. LSI also announced today that to date it has purchased approximately 67.3 million shares of its common stock for approximately $549 million under two repurchase authorizations totaling $1 billion.
"Our solid quarterly results were driven by strong end customer demand in our storage and networking businesses and by achieving substantial cost reductions during our second full quarter of combined operations with Agere," said Abhi Talwalkar, LSI president and chief executive officer. "Since the beginning of the third quarter, we have made significant progress on completing the first phase of our three-phase business acceleration plan, including completing the sale of our consumer products business to Magnum Semiconductor, our mobility products business to Infineon Technologies and our Thai final assembly and test operations to STATS ChipPAC.
"As a more focused company, we are now experiencing a significantly higher level of engagement with our customers and substantial increases in design win opportunities," added Talwalkar. "We are also continuing to execute our strategy to invest for long-term revenue growth in our core areas of storage and networking, acquiring Tarari, Inc., a recognized leader in deep packet inspection technology that enables advanced security and network control for service provider and enterprise networks. Through these initial actions and our strong focus, we are poised to achieve our long-term growth and profitability objectives."
 
Bryon Look, LSI chief financial officer, said, "We experienced healthy demand in both our semiconductor and storage systems segments, with double-digit sequential revenue growth in storage and networking semiconductors. Our continuing focus on driving organizational efficiencies and maintaining tight controls contributed to significantly lower operating expenses and improved margins."
Capital spending is projected to be around $20 million in the fourth quarter and approximately $60 million in total for 2007.
Fourth quarter depreciation and software amortization is expected to be approximately $20 million.
LSI Conference Call Information
LSI will hold a conference call today at 2 pm PDT to discuss third quarter financial results and the fourth quarter 2007 business outlook. Internet users can access the conference call at Subsequent to the conference call, a replay will be available at the same web address or may be accessed by calling 1-866-410-5843 within the U.S. and 1-203-369-0645 for all other locations.
http://www.lsi.com/webcast.
 This news release contains forward-looking statements that are based on the current opinions and estimates of management. These statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause LSI's actual results to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: the challenges and costs of integrating and restructuring our operations and achieving anticipated synergies following our recent acquisition of Agere Systems; our ability to successfully and timely transition our assembly and test operations to third parties; fluctuations in the timing and volumes of customer demand; our reliance on major customers and suppliers; our ability to compete successfully in competitive markets; our ability to keep up with rapid technological change; the unavailability of appropriate levels of manufacturing capacity; and general industry and market conditions. For additional information, see the documents filed by LSI with the SEC, and specifically the risk factors set forth in the company's most recent reports on Form 10-K and 10-Q.
Forward Looking Statements:
 
LSI disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
About LSI
LSI Corporation (NYSE: LSI) is a leading provider of innovative silicon, systems and software technologies that enable products which seamlessly bring people, information and digital content together. The company offers a broad portfolio of capabilities and services including custom and standard product ICs, adapters, systems and software that are trusted by the world's best known brands to power leading solutions in the Storage and Networking markets. More information is available at www.lsi.com.
Editor's Notes:
 
Exhibit 99.1
A reconciliation between net (loss)/income on a GAAP basis to a non-GAAP net (loss)/income is included below.
Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP net (loss)/income:
 
Reconciliation of shares used in the calculation of GAAP to
Non-GAAP diluted net (loss)/income per share:
 
 
 
 
 


