FILE:LSI/LSI-8K-20080222164058.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
On
February 22, 2008
, we entered into indemnification agreements with each of our executive officers.  These agreements provide for the circumstances under which we will indemnify our executive officers and pay their expenses if they become involved in litigation as a result of their service with the company.  The agreements also provide a number of circumstances under which we will not indemnify our executive officers or pay their expenses pursuant to the agreements.  The benefits provided under these agreements are in addition to those provided by our bylaws.  We also entered into similar agreements with the members of our Board of Directors, replacing any existing agreements to which the Directors may have been a party.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: February 22, 2008

 
 
 
i
This Indemnification Agreement (Agreement) is made as of _________________, by and between LSI Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the Company), and __________ (Indemnitee).
, the Company and Indemnitee recognize the increasing difficulty in obtaining directors and officers liability insurance, the significant increases in the cost of such insurance and the general reductions in the coverage of such insurance;
WHEREAS
, the Company and Indemnitee further recognize the substantial increase in corporate litigation in general, subjecting officers and directors to expensive litigation risks at the same time as the availability and coverage of liability insurance has been severely limited;
WHEREAS
, Indemnitee does not regard the current protection available as adequate under the present circumstances, and Indemnitee and other officers and directors of the Company may not be willing to continue to serve as officers and directors without additional protection; and
WHEREAS
, the Company desires to attract and retain the services of highly qualified individuals, such as Indemnitee, to serve as officers and directors of the Company and to indemnify its officers and directors so as to provide them with the maximum protection permitted by law.
WHEREAS
, the Company and Indemnitee hereby agree as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE
 
1.            INDEMNIFICATION
 
 
 
 
The Company shall indemnify Indemnitee if Indemnitee is, or is threatened to be made, a party to or a participant in any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (other than an action by or in the right of the Company) by reason of the fact that Indemnitee is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of the Company, or any subsidiary of the Company, or by reason of the fact that Indemnitee is or was serving at the request of the Company as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, against expenses (including attorneys fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement (if such settlement is approved in advance by the Company, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld) actually and reasonably incurred by Indemnitee in connection with such action, suit or proceeding if Indemnitee acted in good faith and in a manner Indemnitee reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Company, and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, had no reasonable cause to believe Indemnitees conduct was unlawful.  The termination of any action, suit or proceeding by judgment, order, settlement, conviction, or upon a plea of or its equivalent, shall not, of itself, create a presumption that Indemnitee did not act in good faith and in a manner which Indemnitee reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Company, and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, had reasonable cause to believe that Indemnitees conduct was unlawful.
nolo contendere
 
1
 
 
The Company shall indemnify Indemnitee if Indemnitee is, or is threatened to be made, a party to or a participant in any threatened, pending or completed action or suit by or in the right of the Company or any subsidiary of the Company to procure a judgment in its favor, against expenses (including attorneys fees) to the extent actually and reasonably incurred by Indemnitee in connection with such action or suit if Indemnitee acted in good faith and in a manner Indemnitee reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Company, except that no indemnification shall be made in respect of any claim, issue or matter as to which Indemnitee shall have been adjudged to be liable to the Company unless and only to the extent that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware or the court in which such action or suit was brought shall determine upon application that, despite the adjudication of liability but in view of all the circumstances of the case, Indemnitee is fairly and reasonably entitled to indemnity for such expenses which the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware or such other court shall deem proper.
 
 
To the extent that Indemnitee has been successful on the merits or otherwise in defense of any action, suit or proceeding referred to in Subsections (a) and (b) of this Section 1 or the defense of any claim, issue or matter therein, Indemnitee shall be indemnified against expenses (including attorneys fees) actually and reasonably incurred by Indemnitee in connection therewith.
 
2.            AGREEMENT TO SERVE
 
In consideration of the protection afforded by this Agreement, if Indemnitee is a director of the Company he agrees to serve at least for the balance of the current term as a director and not to resign voluntarily during such period without the written consent of a majority of the Board of Directors.  If Indemnitee is an officer of the Company not serving under an employment contract, he agrees to serve in such capacity at least for the balance of the current fiscal year of the Company and not to resign voluntarily during such period without the written consent of a majority of the Board of Directors.  Following the applicable period set forth above Indemnitee agrees to continue to serve in such capacity at the will of the Company (or under separate agreement, if such agreement exists) so long as he is duly appointed or elected and qualified in accordance with the applicable provisions of the by-laws of the Company or any subsidiary of the Company or until such time as he tenders his resignation in writing.  Nothing contained in this Agreement is intended to create in Indemnitee any right to continued employment.
 
2
3.            EXPENSES; INDEMNIFICATION PROCEDURE
 
 
The Company shall advance all expenses incurred by Indemnitee in connection with the investigation, defense, settlement or appeal of any civil or criminal action, suit or proceeding referenced in Section 1(a) or (b) hereof (but not amounts actually paid in settlement of any such action, suit or proceeding).  Indemnitee hereby undertakes to repay such amounts advanced only if, and to the extent that, it shall ultimately be determined that Indemnitee is not entitled to be indemnified by the Company as authorized hereby.  The advances to be made hereunder shall be paid by the Company to Indemnitee within twenty (20) days following delivery of a written request therefor by Indemnitee to the Company.  Advances shall be unsecured and interest free and made without regard to Indemnitees ability to repay such advances.
 
 
Indemnitee shall  give the Company notice in writing as soon as practicable of any claim made against Indemnitee for which indemnification will or could be sought under this Agreement.  Notice to the Company shall be directed to the Chief Executive Officer of the Company at the address shown on the signature page of this Agreement (or such other address as the Company shall designate in writing to Indemnitee).  Notice shall be deemed received three business days after the date postmarked if sent by domestic certified or registered mail, properly addressed; otherwise notice shall be deemed received when such notice shall actually be received by the Company.  The failure or delay by Indemnitee to notify the Company will not relieve the Company of any liability which it may have to Indemnitee hereunder or otherwise, except to the extent that such failure or delay materially prejudices the Company.  In addition, Indemnitee shall give the Company such information and cooperation as it may reasonably require and as shall be within Indemnitees power.
 
 
If, at the time of the receipt of a notice of a claim pursuant to Section 3(b) hereof, the Company has director and officer liability insurance in effect, the Company shall give prompt notice of the commencement of such proceeding to the insurers in accordance with the procedures set forth in the respective policies.  The Company shall thereafter take all necessary or desirable action to cause such insurers to pay, on behalf of the Indemnitee, all amounts payable as a result of such proceeding in accordance with the terms of such policies.
 
3
 
 
In the event the Company shall be obligated under Section 3(a) hereof to pay the expenses of any proceeding against Indemnitee, the Company, if appropriate, shall be entitled to assume the defense of such proceeding, with counsel approved by Indemnitee, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld, upon the delivery to Indemnitee of written notice of its election so to do.  After delivery of such notice, approval of such counsel by Indemnitee and the retention of such counsel by the Company, the Company will not be liable to Indemnitee under this Agreement for any fees of counsel subsequently incurred by Indemnitee with respect to the same proceeding, provided that (i) Indemnitee shall have the right to employ his counsel in any such proceeding at Indemnitees expense; and (ii) if (A) the employment of counsel by Indemnitee has been previously authorized by the Company, (B) Indemnitee shall have reasonably concluded that there may be a conflict of interest between the Company and Indemnitee in the conduct of any such defense, or (C) the Company shall not, in fact, have employed counsel to assume the defense of such proceeding, then the fees and expenses of Indemnitees counsel shall be at the expense of the Company.
 
 
In making a determination with respect to Indemnitees entitlement to indemnification hereunder, the Indemnitee shall be presumed, to the fullest extent permitted by law, to have acted in good faith and in a manner Indemnitee reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Company and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, to have had no reasonable cause to believe Indemnitees conduct was unlawful.  The Company shall, to the fullest extent permitted by law, have the burden of proof to overcome this presumption in connection with any determination, or any action or proceeding to determine, whether Indemnitee is entitled to be indemnified hereunder.
 
4.            ADDITIONAL INDEMNIFICATION RIGHTS: NONEXCLUSIVITY
 
 
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, the Company hereby agrees to indemnify the Indemnitee to the fullest extent permitted by law, notwithstanding that such indemnification is not specifically authorized by the other provisions of this Agreement, the Companys Certificate of Incorporation, the Companys By-laws or by statute.  In the event of any change, after the date of this Agreement, in any applicable law, statute, or rule which expands the right of a Delaware corporation to indemnify a member of its board of directors or an officer, such changes shall be, , within the purview of Indemnitees rights and Companys obligations, under this Agreement.  In the event of any change in any applicable law, statute or rule which narrows the right of a Delaware corporation to indemnify a member of its board of directors or an officer, such changes, to the extent not otherwise required by such law, statute or rule to be applied to this Agreement shall have no effect on this Agreement or the parties rights and obligations hereunder.
ipso facto
 
4
 
 
The indemnification provided by this Agreement shall not be deemed exclusive of any rights to which Indemnitee may be entitled under the Companys Certificate of Incorporation, its By-laws, any agreement, any vote of stockholders or disinterested Directors, the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, or otherwise, both as to action in Indemnitees official capacity and as to action in another capacity while holding such office.  The indemnification provided under this Agreement shall continue as to Indemnitee even though he or she may have ceased to serve in an indemnified capacity at the time of any action, suit or other covered proceeding.
 
5.            MUTUAL ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
 
Both the Company and Indemnitee acknowledge that in certain instances, Federal law or applicable public policy may prohibit the Company from indemnifying its directors and officers under this Agreement or otherwise.  Indemnitee understands and acknowledges that the Company has undertaken or may be required in the future to undertake with the Securities and Exchange Commission to submit the question of indemnification to a court in certain circumstances for a determination of the Companys right under public policy to indemnify Indemnitee.
 
6.            OFFICER AND DIRECTOR LIABILITY INSURANCE
 
The Company shall, from time to time, make the good faith determination whether or not it is practicable for the Company to obtain and maintain a policy or policies of insurance with reputable insurance companies providing the officers and directors of the Company with coverage for losses from wrongful acts, or to ensure the Companys performance of its indemnification obligations under this Agreement.  Among other considerations, the Company will weigh the costs of obtaining such insurance coverage against the protection afforded by such coverage.  In all policies of director and officer liability insurance, Indemnitee shall be named as an insured in such a manner as to provide Indemnitee the same rights and benefits as are accorded to the most favorably insured of the Companys directors, if Indemnitee is a director; or of the Companys officers, if Indemnitee is not a director of the Company but is an officer, or of the Companys key employees, if Indemnitee is not an officer or director but is a key employee.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company shall have no obligation to obtain or maintain such insurance if the Company determines in good faith that such insurance is not reasonably available, if the premium costs for such insurance are disproportionate to the amount of coverage provided, if the coverage provided by such insurance is limited by exclusion so as to provide an insufficient benefit, or if Indemnitee is covered by similar insurance maintained by a subsidiary or parent of the Company.
 
5
 
7.            SEVERABILITY
 
Nothing in this Agreement is intended to require or shall be construed as requiring the Company to do or fail to do any act in violation of applicable law.  The Companys inability, pursuant to court order, to perform its obligations under this Agreement shall not constitute a breach of this Agreement.  The provisions of this Agreement shall be severable as provided in this Section 7.  If this Agreement or any portion hereof shall be invalidated on any ground by any court of competent jurisdiction, then the Company shall nevertheless indemnify Indemnitee to the full extent permitted by any applicable portion of this Agreement that shall not have been invalidated, and the balance of this Agreement not so invalidated shall be enforceable in accordance with its terms.
 
8.            EXCEPTIONS
 
Any other provision herein to the contrary notwithstanding, the Company shall not be obligated pursuant to the terms of this Agreement:
 
 
To indemnify or advance expenses to Indemnitee with respect to proceedings or claims initiated or brought voluntarily by Indemnitee and not by way of defense, except with respect to proceedings brought to establish or enforce a right to indemnification under this Agreement or any other statute or law or otherwise as required under Section 145 of the Delaware General Corporation law, but such indemnification or advancement of expenses may be provided by the Company in specific cases if the Board of Directors has approved the initiation or bringing of such suit; or
 
 
To indemnify Indemnitee for any expenses incurred by the Indemnitee with respect to any proceeding instituted by Indemnitee to enforce or interpret this Agreement, if a court of competent jurisdiction determines that each of the material assertions made by the Indemnitee in such proceeding was not made in good faith or was frivolous; or
 
 
To indemnify Indemnitee for expenses or liabilities of any type whatsoever (including, but not limited to, judgments, fines, ERISA excise taxes or penalties, and amounts paid in settlement) which have been paid directly to Indemnitee by an insurance carrier under a policy of officers and directors liability insurance maintained by the Company; or
 
6
 
 
To indemnify Indemnitee for any reimbursement of the Company by Indemnitee of (i) any bonus or other incentive-based or equity-based compensation, or any profits realized by Indemnitee from the sale of the Companys securities, under Section 304 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or (ii) profits arising from the purchase, sale, or other acquisition or transfer of the Companys securities in violation of Section 306 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002; or
 
 
To indemnify Indemnitee for expenses and the payment of profits arising from the purchase and sale by Indemnitee of securities in violation of Section 16(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or any similar successor statute.
 
9.            CONSTRUCTION OF CERTAIN PHRASES
 
 
For purposes of this Agreement, references to the Company shall include, in addition to the resulting corporation, any constituent corporation (including any constituent of a constituent) absorbed in a consolidation or merger which, if its separate existence had continued, would have had power and authority to indemnify its directors, officers, and employees or agents, so that if Indemnitee is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of such constituent corporation, or is or was serving at the request of such constituent corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, Indemnitee shall stand in the same position under the provisions of this Agreement with respect to the resulting or surviving corporation as Indemnitee would have with respect to such constituent corporation if its separate existence had continued.
 
 
For purposes of this Agreement, references to other enterprises shall include employee benefit plans; references to fines shall include any excise taxes assessed on Indemnitee with respect to any employer benefit plan; and references to serving at the request of the Company shall include any service as a director, officer, employee or agent of the Company which imposes duties on, or involves services by, such director, officer, employee or agent with respect to an employee benefit plan, its participants, or beneficiaries; and if Indemnitee acted in good faith and in a manner Indemnitee reasonably believed to be in the interest of the participants and beneficiaries of an employee benefit plan, Indemnitee shall be deemed to have acted in a manner not opposed to the best interests of the Company as referred to in this Agreement.
 
7
 
10.            COUNTERPARTS
 
This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which shall constitute an original.
 
11.            SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS
 
This Agreement shall be binding upon the Company and its successors and assigns, and shall inure to the benefit of Indemnitee and Indemnitees estate, heirs, legal representatives and assigns.
 
12.            ATTORNEYS FEES
 
(a) In the event that any action is instituted by Indemnitee under this Agreement to enforce or interpret any of the terms hereof, Indemnitee shall be indemnified against all court costs and expenses, including reasonable attorneys fees, incurred by Indemnitee with respect to such action, unless as a part of such action, the court of competent jurisdiction determines that each of the material assertions made by Indemnitee as a basis for such action were not made in good faith or were frivolous.  (b) In the event of an action instituted by or in the name of the Company under this Agreement, or to enforce or interpret any of the terms of this Agreement, Indemnitee shall be indemnified against all court costs and expenses, including attorneys fees, incurred by Indemnitee in defense of such action (including with respect to Indemnitees counterclaims and cross-claims made in such action), unless as a part of such action the court determines that each of Indemnitees material defenses to such action were made in bad faith or were frivolous.  In addition, Indemnitee shall be entitled to advancement of the amounts in sections (a) and (b) above, in accordance with the provisions of Section 3(a) of this Agreement.
 
13.            NOTICE
 
All notices, requests, demands and other communications under this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed duly given (i) if delivered by hand and receipted for by the party addressee, on the date of such receipt, or (ii) if mailed by domestic certified or registered mail with postage prepaid, on the third business day after the date postmarked.  Addresses for notice to either party are as shown on the signature page of this Agreement, or a subsequently modified by written notice.
 
14.            CONSENT TO JURISDICTION
 
The Company and Indemnitee each hereby irrevocably consents to the jurisdiction of the courts of the State of Delaware for all purposes in connection with any action or proceeding which arises out of or relates to this Agreement and agree that any action instituted under this Agreement shall be brought only in the state courts of the State of Delaware.
 
8
 
15.            CHOICE OF LAW
 
This Agreement shall be governed by and its provisions construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware, as applied to contracts between Delaware residents entered into and to be performed entirely within Delaware.
 
16.            ENTIRE AGREEMENT; MODIFICATION AND WAIVER
 
This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the parties hereto with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersedes all prior agreements and understandings, oral, written or implied, provided, however, that this Agreement is a supplement to and in furtherance of the Companys certificate of incorporation, bylaws and applicable law.  No supplement, modification or amendment to this Agreement shall be binding unless executed in writing by the parties thereto.  No waiver of any of the provisions of this Agreement shall constitute or be deemed a waiver of any other provision of this Agreement nor shall any waiver constitute a continuing waiver.
 
, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement as of the date first above written.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 
AGREED TO AND ACCEPTED:
INDEMNITEE:
 
_____________
Address for notice:
________________
________________
9


