FILE:LSI/LSI-8K-20080304162237.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On February 27, 2008, we finalized a bonus program for our executive officers for 2008.  Under the program, we must achieve specified levels of revenue and non-GAAP operating income for 2008 in order for our officers to be eligible to receive a bonus for 2008.  Once the specified levels of revenue and non-GAAP operating income are achieved, a "bonus pool" will be created for our executive officers equal to specified percentages of our 2008 non-GAAP operating income.  These percentages vary based on our actual revenue and non-GAAP operating income.
Target bonuses are expressed as percentages of individuals' base salary and, for our named executive officers are:
The bonus for any executive officer would be the officer's share of the pool, based on all participating officers' target bonuses, and can be adjusted up or down based on the level of achievement of additional corporate and business group financial and operating goals.  
 
 
 
2
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: March 4, 2008
 
3
 
Exhibit 10.1
 
Under our 2008 bonus program for executive officers, we must achieve specified levels of revenue and non-GAAP operating income for 2008 in order for our executive officers to be eligible to receive a bonus for 2008.  Once the specified levels of revenue and non-GAAP operating are achieved, a "bonus pool" will be created for our executive officers equal to specified percentages of our 2008 non-GAAP operating income.  These percentages vary based on our actual revenue and non-GAAP operating income.
income
Target bonuses are expressed as percentages of individuals' base salary and, for our named executive officers are:
The bonus for any executive officer would be the officer's share of the pool, based on all participating officers' target bonuses, and can be adjusted up or down based on the level of achievement of additional corporate and business group financial and operating goals.


