FILE:LSI/LSI-8K-20080123163413.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Material Impairments	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Material Impairments
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operation and Financial Condition.
On January 23, 2008, LSI Corporation issued a news release regarding its financial results for the quarter ended December 31, 2007. A copy of the news release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference herein.
The news release contains non-GAAP financial information. Management believes that the presentation of non-GAAP net income (loss), non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP taxes, and non-GAAP net income (loss) per basic and diluted share provides important supplemental information to management and investors about financial and business trends relating to the Company's financial condition and results of operations. Management believes that the use of these non-GAAP financial measures provides consistency and comparability with our past financial reports.
Management has historically used these non-GAAP measures when evaluating operating performance because we believe that the inclusion or exclusion of the items described below provides an additional measure of our core operating results and facilitates comparisons of our core operating performance against prior periods and our business model objectives. We have chosen to provide this information to investors to enable them to perform additional analyses of past, present and future operating performance and as a supplemental means to evaluate our ongoing core operations. Externally, we believe that these non-GAAP measures continue to be useful to investors in their assessment of our operating performance and their valuation of the company. Internally, these non-GAAP measures are significant measures used by management for purposes of:
The news release also presents information about our revenues for the third and fourth quarters of 2007, excluding revenues from the Mobility business that we sold in late October 2007. We believe that the presentation of revenues computed on this basis may be useful to investors as it enables them to compare the revenue performance of the businesses that we currently operate.
How we calculate our non-GAAP financial measures
Non-GAAP net income (loss), non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP taxes and non-GAAP net income (loss) per basic and diluted share are important to the Company for the reasons noted above and exclude the following items:
 
We use non-GAAP net income computed as described above as the numerator in the calculation of non-GAAP net income per basic and diluted share. We calculate the basic and diluted share amounts used in the denominator in accordance with GAAP rules, using non-GAAP net income rather than GAAP net income.
Limitations of relying on non-GAAP financial measures
Some of the limitations of relying on non-GAAP financial measures include:
 
All supplemental non-GAAP financial measures should be read in conjunction with the comparable information presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America.
 
Item 2.06 Material Impairments.
We monitor the recovery of goodwill recorded in connection with acquisitions, by reporting unit, annually or sooner if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.  Our two reporting units are Semiconductor and Storage Systems.  We tested goodwill for impairment as of December 31, 2007.
On January 22, 2008, we concluded that the current carrying value of goodwill for our Semiconductor reporting unit was impaired as a result of declines in the market price of our common stock. We expect to record an impairment charge in a range of $1.7 billion to $2.2 billion by the time our annual report on form 10-K is due to be filed. We will not be required to make any current or future cash expenditures as a result of this impairment. This impairment charge will be reflected in our financial statements as of and for the fiscal quarter and year ended December 31, 2007.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: January 23, 2008
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
cc08-06
LSI Corporation (NYSE: LSI) today reported results for its fourth quarter and full year ended December 31, 2007.
MILPITAS, Calif., January 23, 2008 
 
 
Fourth quarter 2007 revenues were $741 million, a 41% increase year-over-year compared to $524 million reported in the fourth quarter of 2006, and up 2% sequentially compared to $727 million reported in the third quarter of 2007 [2]. Adjusting for the sale of the mobility business, fourth quarter revenues increased 12.2% sequentially compared to the third quarter of 2007.
Fourth quarter 2007 GAAP* net loss was $2.0 billion or $2.88 per share, compared to fourth quarter 2006 GAAP net income of $59 million or 14 cents per diluted share. Fourth quarter 2007 GAAP results compare to third quarter 2007 GAAP net loss of $141 million or 20 cents per share. Fourth quarter 2007 GAAP net loss included a net charge of $2.1 billion from special items, including an estimated $2.0 billion non-cash charge for impairment of goodwill, $38.6 million in the amortization of acquisition-related items, $29 million of restructuring costs, $21.5 million of stock-based compensation expense and $6.0 million of acquired in-process R&D.
Fourth quarter 2007 non-GAAP** net income was $94 million or 13 cents per diluted share, compared to fourth quarter 2006 non-GAAP net income of $75 million or 18 cents per diluted share. Third quarter 2007 non-GAAP net income was $44 million or 6 cents per diluted share.
Cash and short-term investments totaled approximately $1.4 billion at quarter end. LSI also announced today that to date it has purchased approximately 102.6 million shares of its common stock for approximately $771 million under two repurchase authorizations totaling $1 billion.
"Our strong fourth quarter results were driven by higher than expected seasonal demand for our storage products, with revenues and non-GAAP earnings significantly exceeding our guidance," said Abhi Talwalkar, LSI president and chief executive officer. "In our core focus areas of storage and networking, revenues increased more than 12% sequentially, reflecting greater than 25% growth in storage systems and double-digit growth in storage semiconductors.
"With many new design wins across our storage and networking areas now firmly in hand, I am confident that we are well positioned to grow as these designs ramp to production in the future," added Talwalkar.
LSI recorded full year 2007 revenues of $2.60 billion, a 31% increase compared to $1.98 billion in 2006. The company reported 2007 GAAP net loss of $2.49 billion or
 
$3.88 per share. Full-year 2007 GAAP net loss included a net charge of $2.66 billion from special items, including an estimated $2.0 billion non-cash charge for impairment of goodwill, $192 million in the amortization of acquisition-related items, $189 million of acquired in-process R&D, $148 million of restructuring costs, $77 million of stock-based compensation expense, and $48 million from the purchase accounting effect on inventory. Full-year 2007 GAAP results compare to full year 2006 GAAP net profit of $170 million or 42 cents per diluted share.
Non-GAAP net income for 2007 was $168 million or 26 cents per diluted share compared to 2006 non-GAAP net income of $236 million or 58 cents per diluted share.
Bryon Look, LSI chief financial officer, said, "In the fourth quarter we made significant progress on revenue growth, gross margin expansion, operating expense reduction and cash generation. Despite uncertain economic conditions, our business remains healthy and our forward looking guidance for the first quarter is within our expected range of seasonality."
Capital spending is projected to be around $14 million in the first quarter and approximately $50 million in total for 2008.
First quarter depreciation and software amortization is expected to be approximately $20 million.
LSI Conference Call Information
LSI will hold a conference call today at 2 pm PDT to discuss fourth quarter financial results and the first quarter 2008 business outlook. Internet users can access the conference call at . Subsequent to the conference call, a replay will be available at the same web address.
http://www.lsi.com/webcast
This news release contains forward-looking statements that are based on the current opinions and estimates of management. These statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-
Forward Looking Statements:
 
looking statements. Factors that could cause LSI's actual results to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: finalization of the amount of our 2007 goodwill impairment charge; the challenges and costs of integrating and restructuring our operations and achieving anticipated synergies following our recent acquisition of Agere Systems; our ability to successfully and timely transition our assembly and test operations to third parties; fluctuations in the timing and volumes of customer demand; our reliance on major customers and suppliers; our ability to compete successfully in competitive markets; our ability to keep up with rapid technological change; the unavailability of appropriate levels of manufacturing capacity; and general industry and market conditions.
For additional information, see the documents filed by LSI with the SEC, and specifically the risk factors set forth in the company's most recent reports on Form 10-K and 10-Q. LSI disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
About LSI
LSI Corporation (NYSE: LSI) is a leading provider of innovative silicon, systems and software technologies that enable products which seamlessly bring people, information and digital content together. The company offers a broad portfolio of capabilities and services including custom and standard product ICs, adapters, systems and software that are trusted by the world's best known brands to power leading solutions in the Storage and Networking markets. More information is available at www.lsi.com.
Editor's Notes:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


