FILE:LSI/LSI-8K-20080423161353.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operation and Financial Condition.
On April 23, 2008, LSI Corporation issued a news release regarding its financial results for the quarter ended March 30, 2008. A copy of the news release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference herein.
The news release contains non-GAAP financial information. Management believes that the presentation of non-GAAP net income (loss), non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP taxes, and non-GAAP net income (loss) per basic and diluted share provides important supplemental information to management and investors about financial and business trends relating to the company's financial condition and results of operations. Management believes that the use of these non-GAAP financial measures provides consistency and comparability with our past financial reports.
Management has historically used these non-GAAP measures when evaluating operating performance because we believe that the inclusion or exclusion of the items described below provides an additional measure of our core operating results and facilitates comparisons of our core operating performance against prior periods and our business model objectives. We have chosen to provide this information to investors to enable them to perform additional analyses of past, present and future operating performance and as a supplemental means to evaluate our ongoing core operations. Externally, we believe that these non-GAAP measures continue to be useful to investors in their assessment of our operating performance and their valuation of the company.
Internally, these non-GAAP measures are significant measures used by management for purposes of:
The news release also presents information about our revenues for the fourth quarter of 2007, excluding revenues from the Mobility business that we sold in late October 2007. We believe that the presentation of revenues computed on this basis may be useful to investors as it enables them to compare the revenue performance of the businesses that we currently operate.
How we calculate our non-GAAP financial measures
Non-GAAP net income (loss), non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP taxes and non-GAAP net income (loss) per basic and diluted share are important to the company for the reasons noted above and exclude the following items:
Table of Contents
We use non-GAAP net income computed as described above as the numerator in the calculation of non-GAAP net income per basic and diluted share. We calculate the basic and diluted share amounts used in the denominator in accordance with GAAP rules, using non-GAAP net income rather than GAAP net income.
Limitations of relying on non-GAAP financial measures
Some of the limitations of relying on non-GAAP financial measures include:
Table of Contents
All supplemental non-GAAP financial measures should be read in conjunction with the comparable information presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America.
Table of Contents
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: April 23, 2008
Table of Contents
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
cc08-29
LSI Corporation (NYSE: LSI) today reported results for its first quarter ended March 30, 2008.
MILPITAS, Calif., April 23, 2008 
 
 
First quarter 2008 revenues were $661 million, a 42% increase year-over-year compared to $465 million reported in the first quarter of 2007, and down 11% sequentially compared to $741 million reported in the fourth quarter of 2007 [1]. Adjusting for the sale of the mobility business, first quarter revenues declined 7% sequentially compared to the fourth quarter of 2007. The first quarter revenue decline was less than expected on better than expected sales of semiconductors for storage applications.
First quarter 2008 GAAP* net loss was $14 million or 2 cents per share, compared to first quarter 2007 GAAP net income of $30 million or 7 cents per diluted share. First quarter 2008 GAAP results compare to fourth quarter 2007 GAAP net loss of $2 billion or $2.87 per share, which included a $2 billion non-cash charge for impairment of goodwill. First quarter 2008 GAAP net loss included a net charge of $78 million from special items, including $55.7 million of amortization of acquisition-related items, $4.6 million of restructuring costs, and $17.8 million of stock-based compensation expense.
First quarter 2008 non-GAAP** net income was $64 million or 10 cents per diluted share, compared to first quarter 2007 non-GAAP net income of $44 million or 11 cents per diluted share. Fourth quarter 2007 non-GAAP net income was $94 million or 13 cents per diluted share.
Cash and short-term investments totaled approximately $1.2 billion at quarter end. LSI also announced today that it has completed the purchase of approximately 147 million shares of its common stock for approximately $1 billion under two repurchase authorizations.
"Our first quarter results mark the third consecutive quarter of revenues that have exceeded expectations and reflect continuing strength in our core business," said Abhi Talwalkar, LSI president and chief executive officer. "Stronger than expected sales of our SAS and SAN silicon partially offset the effects of normal seasonality while the longer-term benefits of our strategic steps and sharp focus on storage and networking continued to grow."
"During the quarter we also won significant new silicon designs in the hard disk drive and server spaces and announced an innovative new family of single-chip, low-cost content inspection processors for security and networking applications which is receiving strong interest," added Talwalkar.
Bryon Look, LSI chief financial officer, said, "In the first quarter we continued to generate strong operating cash flows and effectively managed our expenses, delivering a solid financial performance. Our balance sheet remains strong and despite continuing macro-economic uncertainty we remain confident in the health of our business."
     [1] The Company merged with Agere Systems on April 2, 2007.
 
Capital spending is projected to be around $15 million in the second quarter and approximately $60 million in total for 2008.
Second quarter depreciation and software amortization is expected to be approximately $25 million.
LSI Conference Call Information
LSI will hold a conference call today at 2 p.m. PDT to discuss first quarter financial results and the second quarter 2008 business outlook. Internet users can access the conference call at . Subsequent to the conference call, a replay will be available at the same web address.
http://www.lsi.com/webcast
This news release contains forward-looking statements that are based on the current opinions and estimates of management. These statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause LSI's actual results to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: timely completion of our planned acquisition of the hard disk drive semiconductor business of Infineon Technologies AG; our reliance on major customers and suppliers; our ability to keep up with rapid technological change; our ability to compete successfully in competitive markets; our ability to achieve anticipated synergies following our acquisition of Agere Systems; fluctuations in the timing and volumes of customer demand; the unavailability of appropriate levels of manufacturing capacity; our ability to successfully and timely transition our assembly and test operations to third parties; and general industry and market conditions. For additional information, see the documents filed by LSI with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and specifically the risk factors set forth in the company's most recent report on Form 10-K. LSI disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Forward Looking Statements:
About LSI
LSI Corporation (NYSE: LSI) is a leading provider of innovative silicon, systems and software technologies that enable products which seamlessly bring people, information and digital content together. The company offers a broad portfolio of capabilities and services including custom and standard product ICs, adapters, systems and software that are trusted by the world's best known
 
brands to power leading solutions in the Storage and Networking markets. More information is available at www.lsi.com.
Editor's Notes:
 
 
 
A reconciliation of net (loss)/income on a GAAP basis to a non-GAAP net income is included below.
 
 
 
 
 
 


