FILE:LSI/LSI-8K-20081222161743.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On December 18, 2008, LSI issued a news release in which it updated its revenue guidance for the quarter ending December 31, 2008.  A copy of the news release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: December 19, 2008
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
NEWS RELEASE
cc08-82
LSI Corporation (NYSE: LSI) today announced that it has revised its business outlook for the fourth quarter ending December 31, 2008. LSI now projects revenues of $570 to $610 million. The previous business outlook, which was announced on October 22, 2008, projected revenues in the range of $670 million to $710 million.
MILPITAS, Calif., December 18, 2008 
The revised outlook reflects anticipated sales levels that are lower than previously expected due to the weakening global macroeconomic environment. LSI has already begun taking steps to reduce operating expenses as a result of continuing demand uncertainty and expects to maintain tight expense controls for the foreseeable future.
While our balance sheet remains strong, we are taking appropriate measures to adjust to current business conditions as well as an anticipated revenue decline in the first quarter of 2009 that we expect to be greater than typical seasonal patterns, said Abhi Talwalkar, LSI president and chief executive officer. Our goal is to continue to drive positive operating cash flows going forward.
LSI expects to release its fourth quarter and full-year 2008 results on January 28, 2009.
This news release contains forward-looking statements that are based on the current opinions and estimates of management. These statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause LSIs actual results to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: our reliance on major customers and suppliers; our ability to keep up with rapid technological change; our ability to compete successfully in competitive markets; our ability to achieve anticipated synergies following our acquisition of Agere Systems; fluctuations in the timing and volumes of customer demand; the unavailability of appropriate levels of manufacturing capacity; our ability to successfully and timely transition our assembly and test operations to third parties; and general industry and market conditions. For additional information, see the documents filed by LSI with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and specifically the risk factors set forth in the companys most recent reports on Form 10-K and 10-Q. LSI disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Forward Looking Statements:
 
 
 
 
About LSI
LSI Corporation (NYSE: LSI) is a leading provider of innovative silicon, systems and software technologies that enable products which seamlessly bring people, information and digital content together. The company offers a broad portfolio of capabilities and services including custom and standard product ICs, adapters, systems and software that are trusted by the worlds best known brands to power leading solutions in the Storage and Networking markets. More information is available at www.lsi.com.
 
 
 
 
 
Editor's Notes:
 
 
 


