FILE:LSI/LSI-8K-20091116160652.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On November 13, 2009, we amended our certificate of incorporation to change our registered agent and the location of our registered office in the State of Delaware.
(d)  Exhibits.
Exhibit No.
Description
3.1           Certificate of Change of Registered Agent and Registered Office
3.2           Certificate of Incorporation, as amended
 
-2-
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: November 16, 2009
 
-3-
 

Exhibit 3.1
LSI Corporation, a corporation organized and existing under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the Corporation), in accordance with the provisions of Section 103 thereof, DOES HEREBY CERTIFY:
1.           The name of the Corporation is LSI Corporation.
2.           The name under which the Corporation was originally incorporated was LSI Logic Corporation.  The date of filing of this Corporations original Certificate of Incorporation with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware was December 5, 1986.
3.           That at a meeting of the Board of Directors of the Corporation held on November 10, 2009, the following resolution was unanimously adopted:
, that effective upon the filing of an appropriate Certificate (the Certificate), with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware, the Corporations registered office in the State of Delaware shall be located at 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington, Delaware 19808, County of New Castle, and the name of its registered agent at such address shall be Corporation Service Company (CSC).
RESOLVED
, said Corporation has caused this certificate to be signed by an authorized officer the 11th day of November 2009.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
                                                                                                                                     0;By
/s/ Jean F. Rankin                                             
                                                                                                             0;                                                                                              Jean F. Rankin, Executive Vice President,
                                                                                                                                                           ;                                                 
General Counsel & Secretary
 
 
 

Exhibit 3.2
1.           The name of the corporation is LSI Corporation (the Corporation).
2           The Corporations registered office in the State of Delaware shall be located at 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington, Delaware  19808, County of New Castle, and the name of its registered agent at such address shall be Corporation Service Company ("CSC").
3.           The nature of the business or purposes to be conducted or promoted by the Corporation is to engage in any lawful act or activity for which corporations may be organized under the General Corporation Law of Delaware.
4.           (a)  This corporation is authorized to issue two classes of shares, designated Common Stock and Preferred Stock.  The total number of shares which this corporation shall have authority to issue is One Billion Three Hundred and Two Million (1,302,000,000), of which One Billion Three Hundred Million (1,300,000,000) shall be Common Stock with a par value of $.01 per share and Two Million (2,000,000) shall be Preferred Stock with a par value of $.01 per share.
(b)  The Shares of Preferred Stock may be issued from time to time in one or more series.  The Board of Directors is authorized, subject to limitations prescribed by law and the provisions of this Article 4, to provide for the issuance of the Shares of Preferred Stock in series, and by filing a certificate pursuant to the applicable law of the State of Delaware, to establish from time to time the number of shares to be included in each such series, and to fix the designation, powers, preferences and rights of the shares of each such series and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof.
The authority of the Board with respect to each series shall include, but not be limited to, determination of the following:
(i)  The number of shares constituting that series and the distinctive designation of that series;
(ii)  The dividend rate on the shares of that series, whether dividends shall be cumulative, and, if so, from which date or dates, and the relative rights of priority, if any, of payment of dividends on shares of that series;
(iii)  Whether that series shall have voting rights, in addition to the voting rights provided by law, and, if so, the terms of such voting rights;
(iv)  Whether that series shall have conversion privileges, and, if so, the terms and conditions of such conversion, including provision for adjustment of the conversion rate in such events as the Board of Directors shall determine;
(v)  Whether or not the shares of that series shall be redeemable, and, if so, the terms and conditions of such redemption, including the date or dates upon or after which they shall be redeemable, and the amount per share payable in case of redemption, which amount may vary under different conditions and at different redemption dates;
(vi)  Whether that series shall have a sinking fund for the redemption or purchase of shares of that series, and, if so, the terms and amount of such sinking fund;
(vii)  The rights of the shares of that series in the event of voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the corporation, and the relative rights of priority, if any, of payment of shares of that series; and
(viii)  Any other relative or participating rights, preferences and limitations of that series.
(c)  Pursuant to the authority conferred upon the Board of Directors of the Corporation by this Paragraph F, Section 4, the Board of Directors created a series of 500,000 shares of Preferred Stock designated as Series A Participating Preferred Stock (the Series A Preferred Stock) by filing a Certificate of Designation of the Corporation with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on December 8, 1998, and the designations, powers, preferences and relative and other special rights and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions of the Series A Preferred Stock are set forth in Appendix A hereto and are incorporated herein by reference.
5.           The Corporation is to have perpetual existence.
6.           In furtherance and not in limitation of the powers conferred by statute, the Board of Directors is expressly authorized to make, alter, amend or repeal the By-Laws of the Corporation.
7.           The number of directors which will constitute the whole Board of Directors of the Corporation shall be as specified in the By-Laws of the Corporation.
8.           At all elections of directors of the Corporation, each holder of stock or of any class or classes or of a series or series thereof shall be entitled to as many votes as shall equal the number of votes which (except for this provision as to cumulative voting) he would be entitled to cast for the election of directors with respect to his shares of stock multiplied by the number of directors to be elected, and he may cast all of such votes for a single candidate or may distribute them among the number of directors to be elected, or for any two or more of them as he may see fit.
-2-
9.           Meetings of stockholders may be held within or without the State of Delaware, as the By-Laws may provide.  The books of the Corporation may be kept (subject to any provision contained in the statutes) outside the State of Delaware at such place or places as may be designated from time to time by the Board of Directors or in the By-Laws of the Corporation.
10.           To the fullest extent permitted by the Delaware General Corporation Law, a director of the Corporation shall not be personally liable to the Corporation or its stockholders for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty as a director.  Neither any amendment nor repeal of this Article 10, nor the adoption of any provision of this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation inconsistent with this Article 10, shall eliminate or reduce the effect of this Article 10 with respect to any matter occurring, or any cause of action, suit or claim that, but for this Article 10, would accrue or arise, prior to such amendment, repeal or adoption of an inconsistent provision.
11.           Elections for directors need not be by ballot unless a stockholder demands selection by ballot at the meeting and before the voting begins or unless the By-Laws so require.
12.           The Corporation reserves the right to amend, alter, change or repeal any provision contained in this Certificate of Incorporation, in the manner now or hereafter prescribed by statute, and all rights conferred upon stockholders herein are granted subject to this reservation.
 
-3-
 
SECTION 1.
 
.  The shares of such series shall be designated as ""  The Series A Participating Preferred Stock shall have a par value of $0.01 per share, and the number of shares constituting such series shall be 500,000.
Designation and Amount
Series A Participating Preferred Stock.
SECTION 2.
 
.  In the event the Corporation shall at any time after the issuance of any share or shares of Series A Participating Preferred Stock (i) declare any dividend on Common Stock of the Corporation payable in shares of Common Stock, (ii) subdivide the outstanding Common Stock or (iii) combine the outstanding Common Stock into a smaller number of shares, then in each such case the Corporation shall simultaneously effect a proportional adjustment to the number of outstanding shares of Series A Participating Preferred Stock.
Proportional Adjustment
SECTION 3.
 
.
Dividends and Distributions
(a)
 
Subject to the prior and superior right of the holders of any shares of any series of Preferred Stock ranking prior and superior to the shares of Series A Participating Preferred Stock with respect to dividends, the holders of shares of Series A Participating Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors out of funds legally available for the purpose, quarterly dividends payable in cash on the last day of January, April, July and October in each year (each such date being referred to herein as a ""), commencing on the first Quarterly Dividend Payment Date after the first issuance of a share or fraction of a share of Series A Participating Preferred Stock, in an amount per share (rounded to the nearest cent) equal to 1,000 times the aggregate per share amount of all cash dividends, and 1,000 times the aggregate per share amount (payable in kind) of all non-cash dividends or other distributions other than a dividend payable in shares of Common Stock or a subdivision of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise), declared on the Common Stock since the immediately preceding Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, or, with respect to the first Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, since the first issuance of any share or fraction of a share of Series A Participating Preferred Stock.
Quarterly Dividend Payment Date
(b)
 
The Corporation shall declare a dividend or distribution on the Series A Participating Preferred Stock as provided in paragraph (a) above immediately after it declares a dividend or distribution on the Common Stock (other than a dividend payable in shares of Common Stock).
(c)
 
Dividends shall begin to accrue on outstanding shares of Series A Participating Preferred Stock from the Quarterly Dividend Payment Date next preceding the date of issue of such shares of Series A Participating Preferred Stock, unless the date of issue of such shares is prior to the record date for the first Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, in which case dividends on such shares shall begin to accrue from the date of issue of such shares, or unless the date of issue is a Quarterly Dividend Payment Date or is a date after the record date for the determination of holders of shares of Series A Participating Preferred Stock entitled to receive a quarterly dividend and before such Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, in either of which events such dividends shall begin to accrue from such Quarterly Dividend Payment Date.  Accrued but unpaid dividends shall not bear interest.  Dividends paid on the shares of Series A Participating Preferred Stock in an amount less than the total amount of such dividends at the time accrued and payable on such shares shall be allocated pro rata on a share-by-share basis among all such shares at the time outstanding.  The Board of Directors may fix a record date for the determination of holders of shares of Series A Participating Preferred Stock entitled to receive payment of a dividend or distribution declared thereon, which record date shall be no more than 30 days prior to the date fixed for the payment thereof.
SECTION 4.
 
.  The holders of shares of Series A Participating Preferred Stock shall have the following voting rights:
Voting Rights
(a)
 
Each share of Series A Participating Preferred Stock shall entitle the holder thereof to 1,000 votes on all matters submitted to a vote of the stockholders of the Corporation.
(b)
 
Except as otherwise provided herein or by law, the holders of shares of Series A Participating Preferred Stock and the holders of shares of Common Stock shall vote together as one class on all matters submitted to a vote of stockholders of the Corporation.
(c)
 
Except as required by law, holders of Series A Participating Preferred Stock shall have no special voting rights and their consent shall not be required (except to the extent they are entitled to vote with holders of Common Stock as set forth herein) for taking any corporate action.
SECTION 5.
 
.
Certain Restrictions
(a)
 
The Corporation shall not declare any dividend on, make any distribution on, or redeem or purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration any shares of Common Stock after the first issuance of a share or fraction of a share of Series A Participating Preferred Stock unless concurrently therewith it shall declare a dividend on the Series A Participating Preferred Stock as required by Section 3 hereof.
(b)
 
Whenever quarterly dividends or other dividends or distributions payable on the Series A Participating Preferred Stock as provided in Section 3 are in arrears, thereafter and until all accrued and unpaid dividends and distributions, whether or not declared, on shares of Series A Participating Preferred Stock outstanding shall have been paid in full, the Corporation shall not
(i)
 
declare or pay dividends on, make any other distributions on, or redeem or purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration any shares of stock ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) to the Series A Participating Preferred Stock;
-4-
(ii)
 
declare or pay dividends on, make any other distributions on any shares of stock ranking on a parity (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) with Series A Participating Preferred Stock, except dividends paid ratably on the Series A Participating Preferred Stock and all such parity stock on which dividends are payable or in arrears in proportion to the total amounts to which the holders of all such shares are then entitled;
(iii)
 
redeem or purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration shares of any stock ranking on a parity (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) with the Series A Participating Preferred Stock, provided that the Corporation may at any time redeem, purchase or otherwise acquire shares of any such parity stock in exchange for shares of any stock of the Corporation ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up) to the Series A Participating Preferred Stock;
(iv)
 
purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration any shares of Series A Participating Preferred Stock, or any shares of stock ranking on a parity with the Series A Participating Preferred Stock, except in accordance with a purchase offer made in writing or by publication (as determined by the Board of Directors) to all holders of such shares upon such terms as the Board of Directors, after consideration of the respective annual dividend rates and other relative rights and preferences of the respective series and classes, shall determine in good faith will result in fair and equitable treatment among the respective series or classes.
(c)
 
The Corporation shall not permit any subsidiary of the Corporation to purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration any shares of stock of the Corporation unless the Corporation could, under paragraph (a) of this Section 5, purchase or otherwise acquire such shares at such time and in such manner.
SECTION 6.
 
.  Any shares of Series A Participating Preferred Stock purchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation in any manner whatsoever shall be retired and canceled promptly after the acquisition thereof.  All such shares shall upon their cancellation become authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock and may be reissued as part of a new series of Preferred Stock to be created by resolution or resolutions of the Board of Directors, subject to the conditions and restrictions on issuance set forth herein and, in the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as then amended.
Reacquired Shares
SECTION 7.
 
.  Upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, the holders of shares of Series A Participating Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive an aggregate amount per share equal to 1,000 times the aggregate amount to be distributed per share to holders of shares of Common Stock plus an amount equal to any accrued and unpaid dividends on such shares of Series A Participating Preferred Stock.
Liquidation Dissolution or Winding Up
-5-
SECTION 8.
 
.  In case the Corporation shall enter into any consolidation, merger, combination or other transaction in which the shares of Common Stock are exchanged for or changed into other stock or securities, cash and/or any other property, then in any such case the shares of Series A Participating Preferred Stock shall at the same time be similarly exchanged or changed in an amount per share equal to 1,000 times the aggregate amount of stock, securities, cash and/or any other property (payable in kind), as the case may be, into which or for which each share of Common Stock is changed or exchanged.
Consolidation Merger, etc
SECTION 9.
 
.  The shares of Series A Participating Preferred Stock shall not be redeemable.
No Redemption
SECTION 10.
 
.  The Series A Participating Preferred Stock shall rank junior to all other series of the Corporation's Preferred Stock as to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets, unless the terms of any such series shall provide otherwise.
Ranking
SECTION 11.
 
.  The Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation shall not be further amended in any manner which would materially alter or change the powers, preference or special rights of the Series A Participating Preferred Stock so as to affect them adversely without the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of Series A Participating Preferred Stock, voting separately as a class.
Amendment
SECTION 12.
 
.  Series A Participating Preferred Stock may be issued in fractions of a share which shall entitle the holder, in proportion to such holder's fractional shares, to exercise voting rights, receive dividends, participate in distributions and to have the benefit of all other rights of holders of Series A Participating Preferred Stock.
Fractional Shares
 
 
-6-
 


