FILE:LSI/LSI-8K-20090128162616.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Material Impairments	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Material Impairments
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operation and Financial Condition.
On January 28, 2009, LSI Corporation issued a news release regarding its financial results for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2008. A copy of the news release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference herein.
The news release contains non-GAAP financial information. Management believes that the presentation of non-GAAP net income (loss), non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP taxes, and non-GAAP net income (loss) per basic and diluted share provides important supplemental information to management and investors about financial and business trends relating to the company's results of operations. Management believes that the use of these non-GAAP financial measures also provides consistency and comparability with our past financial reports.
Management has historically used these non-GAAP measures when evaluating operating performance because we believe that the inclusion or exclusion of the items described below provides an additional measure of our core operating results and facilitates comparisons of our core operating performance against prior periods and our business model objectives. We have chosen to provide this information to investors to enable them to perform additional analyses of past, present and future operating performance and as a supplemental means to evaluate our ongoing core operations. Externally, we believe that these non-GAAP measures continue to be useful to investors in their assessment of our operating performance and their valuation of the company.
Internally, these non-GAAP measures are significant measures used by management for purposes of:
How we calculate our non-GAAP financial measures
Non-GAAP net income (loss), non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP taxes and non-GAAP net income (loss) per basic and diluted share are important to the company for the reasons noted above and exclude the following items:
Table of Contents
We use non-GAAP net income computed as described above as the numerator in the calculation of non-GAAP net income per basic and diluted share. We calculate the basic and diluted share amounts used in the denominator in accordance with GAAP rules, using non-GAAP net income rather than GAAP net income.
Limitations of relying on non-GAAP financial measures
Some of the limitations of relying on non-GAAP financial measures include:
Table of Contents
All supplemental non-GAAP financial measures should be read in conjunction with the comparable information presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America.
Table of Contents
Item 2.06 Material Impairments.
We monitor the recovery of goodwill and intangibles recorded in connection with acquisitions, by reporting unit, annually or sooner if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. Our two reporting units are Semiconductor and Storage Systems. On January 16, 2009 in connection with the preparation of our annual financial statements, we determined that the current carrying value of goodwill and intangibles for our Semiconductor reporting unit was no longer recoverable as a result of declines in the market price of our common stock. We recorded an impairment charge of $541.6 million. We will not be required to make any current or future cash expenditures as a result of this impairment.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: January 28, 2009
Table of Contents
 

Exhibit 99.1
cc09-07
LSI Corporation (NYSE: LSI) today reported results for its fourth quarter and full year ended December 31, 2008.
MILPITAS, Calif., January 28, 2009 
 
 
Fourth quarter 2008 revenues were $610 million, an 18% decrease year-over-year compared to $741 million reported in the fourth quarter of 2007, and down 15% sequentially compared to $714 million reported in the third quarter of 2008.
Fourth quarter 2008 GAAP* net loss was $606 million or 94 cents per share, compared to fourth quarter 2007 GAAP net loss of $2.0 billion or $2.87 per share. Fourth quarter 2008 GAAP results compare to third quarter 2008 GAAP net income of $11 million or 2 cents per diluted share. Fourth quarter 2008 GAAP net loss included a net charge of $648 million from special items, including a $542 million non-cash charge for impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets, $61.1 million of amortization of acquisition-related items, $18 million of stock-based compensation expense, $16.8 million in net restructuring and other items, and $10.8 million in write-down of investments.
Fourth quarter 2008 non-GAAP** net income was $41 million or 6 cents per diluted share, compared to fourth quarter 2007 non-GAAP net income of $94 million or 13 cents per diluted share. Third quarter 2008 non-GAAP net income was $94 million or 14 cents per diluted share.
Cash and short-term investments totaled approximately $1.1 billion at quarter end.
"Fourth quarter revenues were within our revised guidance range, with weakening demand for our semiconductor products partially offset by seasonally higher sales of storage systems," said Abhi Talwalkar, LSI president and chief executive officer. "While we continue to execute well, we have taken aggressive steps to lower our operating expenses in light of the current business climate.
"Going forward, we intend to play offense by seeking to extend our competitive lead in key areas, increasing our design win momentum, and managing our cash well to position ourselves as a stronger player when economic conditions improve."
LSI recorded full-year 2008 revenues of $2.68 billion, a 3% increase compared to $2.60 billion in 2007. The company reported 2008 GAAP net loss of $622 million or 96 cents per share. Full-year 2008 GAAP net loss included a net charge of $905 million from special items, including a $542 million non-cash charge for impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets, $236 million in the amortization of acquisition-related items, $44 million of restructuring costs, and $72 million of stock-based compensation expense. Full-year 2008 GAAP results compare to full-year 2007 GAAP net loss of $2.49 billion or $3.87 per share.
Non-GAAP net income for 2008 was $283 million or 44 cents per diluted share compared to 2007 non-GAAP net income of $168 million or 26 cents per diluted share.
 
Bryon Look, LSI CFO and chief administrative officer, said, "Despite challenging conditions in the fourth quarter, we delivered a 68% improvement in non-GAAP net income in 2008 compared to 2007 and generated strong positive operating cash flows. We ended the year with more than $1.1 billion in cash, and repurchased approximately $119 million of debt during the quarter."
Capital spending is projected to be around $13 million in the first quarter and approximately $50 million in total for 2009.
Depreciation and software amortization is projected to be around $20 million in the first quarter and approximately $85 million in total for 2009.
LSI Conference Call Information
LSI will hold a conference call today at 2 p.m. PST to discuss fourth quarter financial results and the first quarter 2009 business outlook. Internet users can access the conference call at . Subsequent to the conference call, a replay will be available at the same web address.
http://www.lsi.com/webcast
This news release contains forward-looking statements that are based on the current opinions and estimates of management. These statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause LSI's actual results to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: our reliance on major customers and suppliers; our ability to keep up with rapid technological change; our ability to compete successfully in competitive markets; our ability to achieve anticipated synergies following our acquisition of Agere Systems; fluctuations in the timing and volumes of customer demand; the unavailability of appropriate levels of manufacturing capacity; and general industry and market conditions. For additional information, see the documents filed by LSI with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and specifically the risk factors set forth in the company's most recent reports on Form 10-K and 10-Q. LSI disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Forward Looking Statements:
 
About LSI
LSI Corporation (NYSE: LSI) is a leading provider of innovative silicon, systems and software technologies that enable products which seamlessly bring people, information and digital content together. The company offers a broad portfolio of capabilities and services including custom and standard product ICs, adapters, systems and software that are trusted by the world's best known brands to power leading solutions in the Storage and Networking markets. More information is available at www.lsi.com.
Editor's Notes:
 
 
A reconciliation of net (loss)/income on the GAAP basis to non-GAAP net income is included below.
 
 
 
 
 


