FILE:LSI/LSI-8K-20100127161426.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operation and Financial Condition.
On January 27, 2010, LSI Corporation issued a news release regarding its financial results for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2009. A copy of the news release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference herein.
The news release contains non-GAAP financial information. Management believes that the presentation of non-GAAP net income (loss), non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP taxes, and non-GAAP net income (loss) per basic and diluted share provides important supplemental information to management and investors about financial and business trends relating to the company's results of operations. Management believes that the use of these non-GAAP financial measures also provides consistency and comparability with our past financial reports.
Management has historically used these non-GAAP measures when evaluating operating performance because we believe that the inclusion or exclusion of the items described below provides an additional measure of our core operating results and facilitates comparisons of our core operating performance against prior periods and our business model objectives. We have chosen to provide this information to investors to enable them to perform additional analyses of past, present and future operating performance and as a supplemental means to evaluate our ongoing core operations. Externally, we believe that these non-GAAP measures continue to be useful to investors in their assessment of our operating performance and their valuation of the company.
Internally, these non-GAAP measures are significant measures used by management for purposes of:
How we calculate our non-GAAP financial measures
Non-GAAP net income (loss), non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP taxes and non-GAAP net income (loss) per basic and diluted share are important to the company for the reasons noted above and exclude the following items:
Table of Contents
We use non-GAAP net income computed as described above as the numerator in the calculation of non-GAAP net income per basic and diluted share. We calculate the basic and diluted share amounts used in the denominator in accordance with GAAP rules, using non-GAAP net income rather than GAAP net income.
Limitations of relying on non-GAAP financial measures
Some of the limitations of relying on non-GAAP financial measures include:
Table of Contents
All supplemental non-GAAP financial measures should be read in conjunction with the comparable information presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America.
Table of Contents
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: January 27, 2010
Table of Contents
 

Exhibit 99.1
cc10-09
LSI Corporation (NYSE: LSI) today reported results for its fourth quarter and full year ended December 31, 2009.
MILPITAS, Calif., January 27, 2010 
 
 
Fourth quarter 2009 revenues were $638 million, a 5% increase year-over-year compared to $610 million reported in the fourth quarter of 2008, and up 10% sequentially compared to $578 million reported in the third quarter of 2009.
Fourth quarter 2009 GAAP* net income was $65 million or 10 cents per diluted share, compared to fourth quarter 2008 GAAP net loss of $606 million or 94 cents per share. Fourth quarter GAAP results included a $31 million tax benefit, or 5 cents per diluted share, primarily related to the settlement of a multi-year foreign tax audit. Fourth quarter 2009 GAAP results compare to third quarter 2009 GAAP net income of $52 million or 8 cents per diluted share. Fourth quarter 2009 GAAP net income included a net charge of $59 million from special items, consisting primarily of $43 million of amortization of acquisition-related items, $14 million of stock-based compensation expense, and $2 million in net restructuring and other items.
Fourth quarter 2009 non-GAAP** net income was $124 million or 18 cents per diluted share, compared to fourth quarter 2008 non-GAAP net income of $41 million or 6 cents per diluted share. Third quarter 2009 non-GAAP net income was $119 million or 18 cents per diluted share.
Cash and short-term investments totaled approximately $962 million at quarter end.
"With increasing signs in the fourth quarter that an early-stage recovery of enterprise IT spending is now underway, LSI achieved double-digit sequential revenue growth, with revenues coming in at the high end of our guidance range," said Abhi Talwalkar, LSI president and chief executive officer. "With more than 80% of our revenues tied to enterprise technology spending, we are well positioned to benefit as this recovery gains strength going forward."
LSI recorded full-year 2009 revenues of $2.22 billion, a 17% decrease compared to $2.68 billion in 2008. The company reported 2009 GAAP net loss of $48 million or 7 cents per share. Full-year 2009 GAAP results compare to full-year 2008 GAAP net loss of $622 million or 96 cents per share. Full-year 2009 GAAP results included an $83 million tax benefit, or 13 cents per share, primarily related to the settlement of multi-year foreign tax audits. Full-year 2009 GAAP net loss included a net charge of $280 million from special items, consisting primarily of $172 million in the amortization of acquisition-related items, $64 million of stock-based compensation expense, and $38 million of restructuring costs.
Non-GAAP net income for 2009 was $232 million or 35 cents per diluted share compared to 2008 non-GAAP net income of $283 million or 44 cents per diluted share.
Bryon Look, LSI CFO and chief administrative officer, said, "We demonstrated strong fourth quarter performance, with significant improvements in revenues, gross margin, operating income and cash flows. Our storage systems business achieved record quarterly revenues, growing 24% sequentially and contributing
 
to a second-half consisting of two consecutive quarters of double-digit revenue growth. We ended the year with nearly $1 billion in cash and short-term investments while our net cash position increased to $612 million."
Capital spending is projected to be around $15 million in the first quarter and approximately $55 million in total for 2010.
Depreciation and software amortization is projected to be around $25 million in the first quarter and approximately $100 million in total for 2010.
LSI Conference Call Information
LSI will hold a conference call today at 2 p.m. PST to discuss fourth quarter financial results and the first quarter 2010 business outlook. Internet users can access the conference call at . Subsequent to the conference call, a replay will be available at the same web address.
http://www.lsi.com/webcast
This news release contains forward-looking statements that are based on the current opinions and estimates of management. These statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause LSI's actual results to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: our reliance on major customers and suppliers; our ability to keep up with rapid technological change; our ability to compete successfully in competitive markets; fluctuations in the timing and volumes of customer demand; the unavailability of appropriate levels of manufacturing capacity; and general industry and market conditions. For additional information, see the documents filed by LSI with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and specifically the risk factors set forth in the company's most recent reports on Form 10-K and 10-Q. LSI disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Forward-Looking Statements:
About LSI
LSI Corporation (NYSE: LSI) is a leading provider of innovative silicon, systems and software technologies that enable products which seamlessly bring people, information and digital content together. The company offers a broad portfolio of capabilities and services including custom and
 
standard product ICs, adapters, systems and software that are trusted by the world's best known brands to power leading solutions in the Storage and Networking markets. More information is available at www.lsi.com.
Editor's Notes:
 
 
A reconciliation of net income/(loss) on the GAAP basis to non-GAAP net income is included below.
 
 
 
 
 


