FILE:LSI/LSI-8K-20100317121216.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
    Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
    Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On March 17, 2010, LSI Corporation issued a news release updating its guidance for the first quarter of fiscal year 2010 and announcing the adoption of a stock repurchase program by its board of directors pursuant to which up to $250 million of LSI's common stock may be repurchased. A copy of the news release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference herein.
The news release contains non-GAAP financial information. Management believes that the presentation of non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP operating expenses, and non-GAAP net income (loss) per basic and diluted share provides important supplemental information to management and investors about financial and business trends relating to the company's results of operations. Management believes that the use of these non-GAAP financial measures also provides consistency and comparability with our past financial reports.
Management has historically used these non-GAAP measures when evaluating operating performance because we believe that the inclusion or exclusion of the items described below provides an additional measure of our core operating results and facilitates comparisons of our core operating performance against prior periods and our business model objectives. We have chosen to provide this information to investors to enable them to perform additional analyses of past, present and future operating performance and as a supplemental means to evaluate our ongoing core operations. Externally, we believe that these non-GAAP measures continue to be useful to investors in their assessment of our operating performance and their valuation of the company.
Internally, these non-GAAP measures are significant measures used by management for purposes of:
How we calculate our non-GAAP financial measures
Non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP operating expenses, and non-GAAP net income (loss) per basic and diluted share are important to the company for the reasons noted above and exclude the following items:
Table of Contents
We use non-GAAP net income computed as GAAP net income excluding the impact of the items described above as the numerator in the calculation of non-GAAP net income per basic and diluted share. We calculate the basic and diluted share amounts used in the denominator in accordance with GAAP rules, using non-GAAP net income rather than GAAP net income.
Limitations of relying on non-GAAP financial measures
Some of the limitations of relying on non-GAAP financial measures include:
Table of Contents
All supplemental non-GAAP financial measures should be read in conjunction with the comparable information presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America.
Table of Contents
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: March 17, 2010
Table of Contents
 

Exhibit 99.1
LSI Corporation (NYSE: LSI) today updated its business outlook for the first quarter ending April 4, 2010 and has announced the authorization of a new share repurchase program.
MILPITAS, Calif., March 17, 2010 
 
The company anticipates GAAP gross margin of approximately 42% and GAAP operating expenses of approximately $255 million, both at the high end of the prior guidance range. On a non-GAAP basis, the company anticipates gross margin of approximately 47% and operating expenses of approximately $228 million, both at the high end of the prior guidance range.
"Our revised guidance reflects greater-than-anticipated strength in the recovery of enterprise IT spending during the first quarter," said Abhi Talwalkar, LSI president and chief executive officer. "As the majority of our revenues are tied to enterprise purchases of servers, data storage and networking infrastructure, we experienced strength across all product areas that exceeded our previous guidance."
LSI also announced today that its board of directors has authorized a stock repurchase program of up to $250 million. Under terms of the authorization, shares may be repurchased from time to time in the open market or through
 
privately-negotiated transactions. The company will determine the timing and amount of any repurchases based on its evaluation of market conditions, business considerations and other factors. The repurchases are expected to be funded from available cash and short-term investments.
LSI Analyst Day Information
LSI will be hosting an Analyst Day for investors and securities analysts, today, Wednesday, March 17, in New York City.
Investors and others may access an audio webcast of the presentations beginning at 8:30 a.m. EDT by visiting the LSI website at . Afterwards, a replay of the webcast will be available on the LSI website at .
http://www.lsi.com/webcast
www.lsi.com/webcast
This news release contains forward-looking statements that are based on the current opinions and estimates of management. These statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause LSI's actual results to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: our reliance on major customers and suppliers; our ability to keep up with rapid technological change; our ability to compete successfully in competitive markets; fluctuations in the timing and volumes of customer demand; the unavailability of appropriate levels of manufacturing capacity; and general industry and market conditions. For additional information, see the documents filed by LSI with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and specifically the risk factors set forth in the company's most recent reports on Form 10-K and 10-Q. LSI disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Forward-Looking Statements:
About LSI
LSI Corporation (NYSE: LSI) is a leading provider of innovative silicon, systems and software technologies that enable products which seamlessly bring people, information and digital content together. The company offers a broad portfolio of capabilities and services including custom and standard product ICs, adapters, systems and software that are trusted by the world's best known brands to power leading solutions in the Storage and Networking markets. More information is available at www.lsi.com.
Editor's Notes:
 


