FILE:LSI/LSI-8K-20100217160715.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Effective February 10, 2010, Andrew Micallef is no longer serving as Executive Vice President, Worldwide Manufacturing Operations of LSI.  His duties will be assumed by Hayden Thomas, who previously was in charge of manufacturing for LSI's storage systems business.
                      
Exhibit No.
Description
10.1                       2003 Equity Incentive Plan Form of Notice of Grant of Restricted Stock Units (Revenue and
   
non-GAAP operating income
performance tests)
 
-2-
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: February 17, 2010
 
-3-
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
 
On the grant date shown above, LSI Corporation granted you the number of restricted stock units shown above under the LSI Corporation 2003 Equity Incentive Plan.  If and when it vests, each restricted stock unit entitles you to receive one share of LSI common stock.  We typically will withhold some of the shares you would receive when the restricted stock units vest to satisfy applicable tax or similar withholding obligations.
 
All or a portion of your Award may vest on April 1, 2013 if you have not incurred a Termination of Service prior to that date. Annex A describes how we will determine the portion of your Award, if any, that will vest on that date.
 
By your signature below, you agree that this award is governed by this Notice of Grant, the attached Restricted Stock Unit Agreement and the LSI Corporation 2003 Equity Incentive Plan. You acknowledge that you have received, read and understand this Notice of Grant, the attached agreement and the plan. You agree to accept as binding all decisions or interpretations of the Board of Directors of LSI or its delegate regarding any questions relating to the plan, this Notice of Grant or the attached agreement.
 
 
 
 
 
Annex A
 
In order for your award to vest on the date set forth in the notice of grant, each of the following conditions must be satisfied:
 
 
 
 
If these conditions are satisfied, then the full number of Restricted Stock Units shown in the notice of grant shall vest; , , that the Compensation Committee may, in its sole and absolute discretion, on or before the vesting date set forth in the notice of grant, reduce the number of Restricted Stock Units that so vest. The Compensation Committee currently intends to reduce the number of Restricted Stock Units that vest using the following methodology:
provided
however
 
 
 
 
The determination of the Compensation Committee will be final and binding. Any Restricted Stock Units that do not vest will be cancelled. When calculating the performance tests and the number of Restricted Stock Units that vest, we will use the following concepts:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Capitalized terms in this have the following meanings:
Annex A
 
Adjusted Operating Income means a companys operating income, determined in accordance with US GAAP, excluding the impact of stock-based compensation, amortization of intangibles and restructuring charges.
 
Adjusted Operating Income Growth means the percentage change in a companys Adjusted Operating Income from 2009 to 2012 (i.e., (2012 Adjusted Operating Income  2009 Adjusted Operating Income) / 2009 Adjusted Operating Income).
 
Peers means those companiesidentified as the peer group on page 22 of LSIs proxy statement for its 2009 annual meeting of stockholders. If a Peer is acquired or discontinues business operations or does not file financial statements with the SEC prior to the Vesting Date for any relevant period, then that company will not be considered a Peer and will be excluded from the calculations for all periods.
 
 
Target Award means one half (50%) of the number of Restricted Stock Units indicated in the Notice of Grant.
 
Revenue means revenue determined in accordance with US GAAP.
 
Revenue Growth means the percentage change in a companys Revenue from 2009 to 2012 (i.e., (2012 Revenue  2009 Revenue) / 2009 Revenue).
 
 
 
 


