FILE:LSI/LSI-8K-20100728161923.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
Table of Contents
On July 28, 2010, LSI Corporation issued a news release regarding its financial results for the quarter ended July 4, 2010. A copy of the news release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference herein.
The news release contains non-GAAP financial information. Management believes that the presentation of non-GAAP net income (loss), non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP taxes, and non-GAAP net income (loss) per basic and diluted share provides important supplemental information to management and investors about financial and business trends relating to the company's results of operations. Management believes that the use of these non-GAAP financial measures also provides consistency and comparability with our past financial reports.
Management has historically used these non-GAAP measures when evaluating operating performance because we believe that the inclusion or exclusion of the items described below provides an additional measure of our core operating results and facilitates comparisons of our core operating performance against prior periods and our business model objectives. We have chosen to provide this information to investors to enable them to perform additional analyses of past, present and future operating performance and as a supplemental means to evaluate our ongoing core operations. Externally, we believe that these non-GAAP measures continue to be useful to investors in their assessment of our operating performance and their valuation of the company.
Internally, these non-GAAP measures are significant measures used by management for purposes of:
How we calculate our non-GAAP financial measures
Non-GAAP net income (loss), non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP taxes and non-GAAP net income (loss) per basic and diluted share are important to the company for the reasons noted above and exclude the following items:
Table of Contents
We use non-GAAP net income computed as described above as the numerator in the calculation of non-GAAP net income per basic and diluted share. We calculate the basic and diluted share amounts used in the denominator in accordance with GAAP rules, using non-GAAP net income rather than GAAP net income.
Limitations of relying on non-GAAP financial measures
Some of the limitations of relying on non-GAAP financial measures include:
Table of Contents
All supplemental non-GAAP financial measures should be read in conjunction with the comparable information presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America.
Table of Contents
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: July 28, 2010
Table of Contents
 

Exhibit 99.1
cc10-54
LSI Corporation (NYSE: LSI) today reported results for its second quarter ended July 4, 2010.
MILPITAS, Calif., July 28, 2010 
    Second quarter 2010 revenues of $639 million
    Second quarter 2010 GAAP* net income of 1 cent per diluted share
    Second quarter 2010 non-GAAP** net income of 11 cents per diluted share
    Second quarter operating cash flows of $68 million
    Projected revenues of $625 million to $655 million
    GAAP* net (loss)/income in the range of ($0.03) to $0.06 cents per share
    Non-GAAP** net income in the range of $0.08 to $0.14 cents per share
 
 
Second quarter 2010 revenues were $639 million, a 23% increase year-over-year compared to $521 million reported in the second quarter of 2009, and compares to $637 million reported in the first quarter of 2010.
Second quarter 2010 GAAP* net income was $7 million or 1 cent per diluted share, compared to second quarter 2009 GAAP net loss of $61 million or 9 cents per share. Second quarter 2010 GAAP results compare to first quarter 2010 GAAP net income of $23 million or 3 cents per diluted share. First quarter GAAP results included a net tax benefit of $19 million. Second quarter 2010 GAAP net income included a net charge of $64 million from special items, consisting primarily of $40 million of amortization of acquisition-related items, $18 million of stock-based compensation expense, and $5 million of net restructuring and other items.
Second quarter 2010 non-GAAP** net income was $71 million or 11 cents per diluted share, compared to second quarter 2009 non-GAAP net income of $7 million or 1 cent per diluted share. First quarter 2010 non-GAAP net income was $92 million or 14 cents per diluted share. First quarter non-GAAP results also included the aforementioned net tax benefit of $19 million.
Cash and short-term investments totaled approximately $670 million at quarter end. During the quarter, LSI repaid $350 million of outstanding convertible notes, becoming debt free. The company also completed second-quarter purchases of approximately 10 million shares of its common stock for approximately $55 million under its $250 million share repurchase program.
"Despite some isolated customer inventory adjustments late in the quarter that modestly affected our sequential revenue growth, tight operating expense control and higher gross margins enabled us to deliver a solid bottom-line performance," said Abhi Talwalkar, LSI president and chief executive officer. "While improving end market demand for enterprise IT products continues to bode well for us, our outlook for the third quarter is one of tempered optimism as macro-economic conditions appear to be somewhat fluid at the present time."
Bryon Look, LSI CFO and chief administrative officer, said, "We delivered sound financial results in the second quarter. First-half operating cash flows nearly tripled from the year-ago period while net cash improved by 28% on the same basis. We also repaid all our remaining debt and continued to purchase shares of the company's common stock through our previously announced share repurchase program."
 
Capital spending is projected to be around $15 million in the third quarter and approximately $55 million in total for 2010.
Depreciation and software amortization is projected to be around $26 million in the third quarter and approximately $104 million in total for 2010.
LSI Conference Call Information
LSI will hold a conference call today at 2 p.m. PDT to discuss second quarter financial results and the third quarter 2010 business outlook. Internet users can access the conference call at . Subsequent to the conference call, a replay will be available at the same web address.
http://www.lsi.com/webcast
This news release contains forward-looking statements that are based on the current opinions and estimates of management. These statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause LSI's actual results to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: our reliance on major customers and suppliers; our ability to keep up with rapid technological change; our ability to compete successfully in competitive markets; fluctuations in the timing and volumes of customer demand; the unavailability of appropriate levels of manufacturing capacity; and general industry and market conditions. For additional information, see the documents filed by LSI with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and specifically the risk factors set forth in the company's most recent reports on Form 10-K and 10-Q. LSI disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Forward-Looking Statements:
About LSI
LSI Corporation (NYSE: LSI) is a leading provider of innovative silicon, systems and software technologies that enable products which seamlessly bring people, information and digital content together. The company offers a broad portfolio of capabilities and services including custom and standard product ICs, adapters, systems and software that are trusted by the world's best known brands to power leading solutions in the Storage and Networking markets. More information is available at www.lsi.com.
 
Editor's Notes:
 
 
A reconciliation of net income/(loss) on the GAAP basis to non-GAAP net income/(loss) is included below.
 
 
 
 
 


