FILE:LSI/LSI-8K-20111026162955.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operation and Financial Condition.
On October 26, 2011, LSI Corporation issued a news release regarding its financial results for the quarter ended October 2, 2011. A copy of the news release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference herein.
The news release contains non-GAAP financial information. Management believes that the presentation of non-GAAP net income (loss), non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP taxes, and non-GAAP net income (loss) per basic and diluted share provides important supplemental information to management and investors about financial and business trends relating to the company's results of operations. Management believes that the use of these non-GAAP financial measures also provides consistency and comparability with our past financial reports.
Management has historically used these non-GAAP measures when evaluating operating performance because we believe that the inclusion or exclusion of the items described below provides an additional measure of our core operating results and facilitates comparisons of our core operating performance against prior periods and our business model objectives. We have chosen to provide this information to investors to enable them to perform additional analyses of past, present and future operating performance and as a supplemental means to evaluate our ongoing core operations. Externally, we believe that these non-GAAP measures continue to be useful to investors in their assessment of our operating performance and their valuation of the company.
Internally, these non-GAAP measures are significant measures used by management for purposes of:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
How we calculate our non-GAAP financial measures
Non-GAAP net income (loss), non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP taxes and non-GAAP net income (loss) per basic and diluted share are important to the company for the reasons noted above and exclude the following items:
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
We use non-GAAP net income computed as described above as the numerator in the calculation of non-GAAP net income per basic and diluted share. We calculate the basic and diluted share amounts used in the denominator in accordance with GAAP rules, using non-GAAP net income rather than GAAP net income.
Limitations of relying on non-GAAP financial measures
Some of the limitations of relying on non-GAAP financial measures include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
All supplemental non-GAAP financial measures should be read in conjunction with the comparable information presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America.
 
Table of Contents
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
 
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: October 26, 2011
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
cc11-51/C1126
LSI Corporation (NYSE: LSI) today reported results for its third quarter ended October 2, 2011.
MILPITAS, Calif., October 26, 2011 
On May 6, 2011, LSI completed the sale of its external storage systems business to NetApp. The financial results of the external storage systems business have been classified as discontinued operations in LSI's financial statements. Our ongoing business is referred to as "continuing operations."
Third Quarter 2011 News Release Summary
 
 
 
 
Fourth Quarter 2011 Business Outlook
Note: The business outlook reflects supply chain impacts and uncertainties due to recent flooding in Thailand.
 
 
 
"Despite macro uncertainties, LSI delivered a strong quarter and is positioned to outgrow the markets we serve in both the near and longer term, based on our share gains and new product cycles across our businesses," said Abhi Talwalkar, LSI president and CEO. "Further extending LSI's growth opportunities, the acquisition of SandForce, announced earlier today, will move us into a leadership position in the rapidly growing market for flash-based solutions."
Third quarter 2011 revenues from continuing operations were $547 million, in line with guidance, compared to $453 million generated from continuing operations in the third quarter of 2010, and compared to $501 million generated from continuing operations in the second quarter of 2011.
Third quarter 2011 GAAP* income from continuing operations was $32 million or 5 cents per diluted share, compared to third quarter 2010 GAAP income from continuing operations of $13 million or 2 cents per diluted share. Second quarter 2011 GAAP income from continuing operations was $28 million or 5 cents per diluted share. Third quarter 2011 GAAP income from continuing operations included a net charge of $51 million from special items, consisting primarily of approximately $29 million of amortization of acquisition-related items, $12 million of stock-based compensation expense and $11 million of net restructuring and other items.
Third quarter 2011 GAAP net income was $29 million or 5 cents per diluted share, compared to third quarter 2010 GAAP net income of $23 million or 4 cents per diluted share. Second quarter 2011 GAAP net income was $294 million or 48 cents per diluted share. Second quarter 2011 GAAP net income included a gain of $260 million or 43 cents per diluted share related to the sale of the external storage systems business.
Third quarter 2011 non-GAAP** income from continuing operations was $83 million or 14 cents per diluted share, compared to third quarter 2010 non-GAAP income from continuing operations of $63 million or 10 cents per diluted share. Second quarter 2011 non-GAAP income from continuing operations was $60 million or 10 cents per diluted share.
Third quarter 2011 non-GAAP net income was $83 million or 14 cents per diluted share, compared to third quarter 2010 non-GAAP net income of $79 million or 13 cents per diluted share. Second quarter 2011 non-GAAP net income was $79 million or 13 cents per diluted share.
Cash and short-term investments totaled approximately $879 million at quarter end. The company completed third-quarter purchases of approximately 11 million shares of its common stock for approximately $75 million. On a year-to-date basis, the company has purchased approximately 68 million shares of its common stock for approximately $472 million under its $750 million share repurchase program.
Bryon Look, LSI CFO and chief administrative officer, said, "Execution this quarter remained strong with revenues growing 9 percent sequentially. Year over year, our revenues increased 21 percent and non-GAAP operating income was up 38 percent. Looking forward, we have included the expected business impacts associated with Thailand supply chain disruptions in our Q4 guidance."
LSI 4Q2011 Business Outlook for Continuing Operations
 
Capital spending is projected to be around $12 million in the fourth quarter and approximately $44 million in total for 2011.
Depreciation and software amortization is projected to be around $16 million in the fourth quarter and approximately $72 million in total for 2011.
LSI Conference Call Information
LSI will hold a conference call today at 2 p.m. PDT to discuss third quarter financial results and the fourth quarter 2011 business outlook. Internet users can access the conference call at . Subsequent to the conference call, a replay will be available at the same web address.
http://www.lsi.com/webcast
This news release contains forward-looking statements that are based on the current opinions and estimates of management. These statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause LSI's actual results to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: our ability to obtain all necessary regulatory approvals for the acquisition, the successful consummation of the acquisition; our ability to successfully
Forward-Looking Statements:
integrate and manage the SandForce business and retain its key employees; our ability to achieve anticipated synergies and to develop integrated new products following our acquisition of SandForce; our ability to eliminate costs related to the external storage systems business that we sold to NetApp; our ability to repurchase our common stock at prices we believe to be advantageous; the impact of the recent flooding in Thailand; our reliance on major customers and suppliers; our ability to keep up with rapid technological change; our ability to compete successfully in competitive markets; fluctuations in the timing and volumes of customer demand; the unavailability of appropriate levels of manufacturing capacity; and general industry and macro-economic conditions. For additional information, see the documents filed by LSI with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and specifically the risk factors set forth in the company's most recent reports on Form 10-K and 10-Q. LSI disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
About LSI
LSI Corporation (NYSE: LSI) designs semiconductors and software that accelerate storage and networking in datacenters and mobile networks. Our technology is the intelligence critical to enhanced application performance. The company applies its technology in solutions created in collaboration with our partners. More information is available at www.lsi.com.
Editor's Notes:
 
 
 
 
 
A reconciliation of certain GAAP measures to non-GAAP measures is included below.
 
 
 


