FILE:LSI/LSI-8K-20110210162532.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On February 7, 2011, the Board of Directors elected Charles C. Pope to the Board.  Mr. Pope is a former Chief Financial Officer of Seagate Technology LLC. 
Upon his election to the Board, Mr. Pope received an option to purchase 37,263 shares of our common stock under our 2003 Equity Incentive Plan.  The option has a seven-year term, becomes exercisable in full in six months and has an exercise price per share of $6.44.  Mr. Pope also received 9,937 restricted stock units which vest in full in one year.  He also entered into an indemnification agreement with the company, in the form of the agreements we have with our other directors.  The agreement provides for circumstances under which we will indemnify Mr. Pope and pay his expenses if he becomes involved in litigation as a result of his service with the company.  The agreement also provides a number of circumstances under which we will not indemnify him or pay his expenses pursuant to the agreement.  The benefits provided under the agreement are in addition to those provided by our bylaws.
On February 7, 2011, Matthew J. ORourke advised us that he would not stand for re-election as a director of the company at our 2011 annual meeting of stockholders.  He does not have any disagreements with the company.
 
-2-
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: February 10, 2011
 
-3-
 


