FILE:LSI/LSI-8K-20110309160535.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On March 9, 2011, we entered into an agreement with NetApp, Inc. pursuant to which we agreed to sell our external storage systems business to NetApp for $480 million in cash.  Our external storage systems business develops and sells Engenio external storage systems products and technology.
The transaction is expected to close in approximately 60 days from March 9, 2011, subject to the satisfaction of customary closing conditions and regulatory approvals, including those required by the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act.
 
Item 2.02                      Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On March 9, 2011, we issued a news release announcing the sale of our external storage systems business. The release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and includes historical revenue information for the business we are selling.
In future financial statements, we will treat our external storage systems business as a discontinued operation.
Item 8.01                      Other Events.
On March 9, 2011, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $750 million of our common stock. We expect to fund the repurchases under this authorization from the proceeds of the sale of our external storage systems business, available cash and short-term investments.
Item 9.01                      Exhibits.
                      
Exhibit No.
Description
99.1                       News release issued March 9, 2011
   
 
-2-
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: March 9, 2011
 
-3-
 
 
 
-4-
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
LSI Corporation (NYSE: LSI) today announced that it has signed a definitive agreement to sell its external storage systems business to NetApp, Inc. (NASDAQ: NTAP) for $480 million in cash. The company also announced today that its board of directors has authorized a new stock repurchase program of up to $750 million.
MILPITAS, Calif., March 9, 2011 
The company is emerging from a multi-year investment cycle which has significantly increased the opportunities and potential of its core semiconductor business. The strategic decision to divest the external storage systems business was based on the companys expectation that long-term shareholder value can be maximized by becoming a pure-play semiconductor company.
Were excited by the opportunities we have been pursuing in our semiconductor business and are well positioned at the forefront of a strong pipeline of design win ramps that we expect to drive top line growth, said Abhi Talwalkar, LSI president and chief executive officer. Going forward as a pure-play storage and networking semiconductor company, we believe we can accelerate the achievement of our current business model, establish a richer business model target, and deliver greater long-term shareholder value.
Under terms of the agreement, NetApp will purchase substantially all the assets of the LSI external storage systems business, which develops and delivers Engenio external storage systems products and technology to a wide range of partners that provide storage solutions to end customers. The business being purchased generated revenues of $705 million in 2010.
The LSI RAID adapter business, which develops LSI MegaRAID and 3ware storage controllers and software for direct-attached storage environments, will remain with LSI.
Upon closing, most LSI external storage systems employees are expected to join NetApp, a global provider of storage and data management solutions.
NetApp will build upon the success of the Engenio storage platform and OEM business model to expand our total addressable market and extend our market reach, said Tom Georgens, NetApp president and CEO. Were excited about the talented team that will join NetApp and the valuable OEM partner relationships were committed to supporting and making successful.
Talwalkar added, As the market requirements for external storage systems continue to trend toward more comprehensive solutions and offerings, greater investment levels are required to enable additional growth opportunities. We believe that NetApp is well positioned to provide the needed technologies and scale to grow the external storage systems business and better serve our customers going forward.
About the Transaction
As a result of the sale, LSI expects to eliminate $35 million to $40 million per quarter of operating expenses upon closing of the transaction.
LSI expects the combined effect of the transaction, its associated expense reduction, the new stock repurchase program and anticipated strong revenue growth in its semiconductor business going forward to be slightly dilutive to 2011 earnings per share (EPS) and neutral to accretive to 2012 EPS.
The company does not expect to incur any material tax obligations in connection with the transaction and expects to provide additional financial information after closing the transaction.
The transaction is expected to close in approximately 60 days, subject to the satisfaction of customary closing conditions and regulatory approvals including those required by the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act.
LSI Stock Repurchase Program
Stock repurchases under the newly authorized program are expected to be funded from the proceeds of the sale of the external storage systems business, available cash and short-term investments.
Our business is tracking consistent with the guidance we provided in January, and were confident that the steps we are taking today will position us to achieve our business model operating margin target by the end of 2011, said Bryon Look, LSI CFO and chief administrative officer. This new repurchase program underscores our belief in the future earnings power of LSI as a pure-play semiconductor company.
LSI Conference Call Information
LSI will hold a conference call today at 5 p.m. EST to discuss the transaction. Internet users can access the conference call at . Subsequent to the conference call, a replay will be available at the same web address.
http://www.lsi.com/webcast
This news release contains forward-looking statements that are based on the current opinions and estimates of management. These statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause LSIs actual results to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: a delay in the closing of the sale of our external storage systems business to NetApp; our ability to eliminate costs related to our external storage systems business; our ability to repurchase our common stock at prices we believe to be advantageous; our reliance on major customers and suppliers; our abili ty to keep up with rapid technological change; our ability to compete successfully in competitive markets; fluctuations in the timing and volumes of customer demand; the unavailability of appropriate levels of manufacturing capacity; and general industry and market conditions. For additional information, see the documents filed by LSI with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and specifically the risk factors set forth in the companys most recent reports on Form 10-K and 10-Q. LSI disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Forward-Looking Statements:
About LSI
LSI Corporation (NYSE: LSI) is a leading provider of innovative silicon, systems and software technologies that enable products which seamlessly bring people, information and digital content together. The company offers a broad portfolio of capabilities and services including custom and standard product ICs, adapters, systems and software that are trusted by the worlds best known brands to power leading solutions in the Storage and Networking markets. More information is available at .
www.lsi.com
About NetApp
NetApp creates innovative storage and data management solutions that accelerate business breakthroughs and deliver outstanding cost efficiency. Discover NetApps passion for helping companies around the world go further, faster at .
www.NetApp.com
Editor's Notes:
All other brand or product names may be trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective companies.


