FILE:LSI/LSI-8K-20110126160945.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operation and Financial Condition.
On January 26, 2011, LSI Corporation issued a news release regarding its financial results for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2010. A copy of the news release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference herein.
The news release contains non-GAAP financial information. Management believes that the presentation of non-GAAP net income (loss), non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP taxes, and non-GAAP net income (loss) per basic and diluted share provides important supplemental information to management and investors about financial and business trends relating to the company's results of operations. Management believes that the use of these non-GAAP financial measures also provides consistency and comparability with our past financial reports.
Management has historically used these non-GAAP measures when evaluating operating performance because we believe that the inclusion or exclusion of the items described below provides an additional measure of our core operating results and facilitates comparisons of our core operating performance against prior periods and our business model objectives. We have chosen to provide this information to investors to enable them to perform additional analyses of past, present and future operating performance and as a supplemental means to evaluate our ongoing core operations. Externally, we believe that these non-GAAP measures continue to be useful to investors in their assessment of our operating performance and their valuation of the company.
Internally, these non-GAAP measures are significant measures used by management for purposes of:
How we calculate our non-GAAP financial measures
Non-GAAP net income (loss), non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP taxes and non-GAAP net income (loss) per basic and diluted share are important to the company for the reasons noted above and exclude the following items:
Table of Contents
We use non-GAAP net income computed as described above as the numerator in the calculation of non-GAAP net income per basic and diluted share. We calculate the basic and diluted share amounts used in the denominator in accordance with GAAP rules, using non-GAAP net income rather than GAAP net income.
Limitations of relying on non-GAAP financial measures
Some of the limitations of relying on non-GAAP financial measures include:
Table of Contents
All supplemental non-GAAP financial measures should be read in conjunction with the comparable information presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America.
Table of Contents
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: January 26, 2011
Table of Contents
 

Exhibit 99.1
cc11-04
LSI Corporation (NYSE: LSI) today reported results for its fourth quarter and full year ended December 31, 2010.
MILPITAS, Calif., January 26, 2011 
 
 
Fourth quarter 2010 revenues were $664 million, a 4% increase year over year compared to $638 million reported in the fourth quarter of 2009, and compare to $629 million reported in the third quarter of 2010.
Fourth quarter 2010 GAAP* net loss was $13 million or 2 cents per share, compared to fourth quarter 2009 GAAP net income of $65 million or 10 cents per diluted share. Fourth quarter 2010 GAAP results compare to third quarter 2010 GAAP net income of $23 million or 4 cents per diluted share. Fourth quarter 2010 GAAP net income included a net charge of $103 million from special items, consisting primarily of $48 million of net restructuring and other items, $40 million of amortization of acquisition-related items, and $15 million of stock-based compensation expense.
Fourth quarter 2010 non-GAAP** net income was $90 million or 14 cents per diluted share, compared to fourth quarter 2009 non-GAAP net income of $124 million or 18 cents per diluted share. Third quarter 2010 non-GAAP net income was $79 million or 13 cents per diluted share.
Cash and short-term investments totaled approximately $677 million at quarter end. The company completed fourth-quarter purchases of approximately 6 million shares of its common stock for approximately $32 million. In 2010, the company purchased approximately 51 million shares of its common stock for approximately $250 million, completing its repurchase program announced in March, 2010.
"We delivered solid quarterly revenue growth with revenues near the high end of our guidance range, reflecting seasonal strength in our storage systems and storage semiconductor businesses," said Abhi Talwalkar, LSI president and chief executive officer. "For the full year, our revenues grew substantially, driven by increased enterprise spending for IT infrastructure products that rely on our technology. As economic conditions continue to improve in 2011, we expect to benefit from higher enterprise spending levels and new product ramps with our tier one customers."
LSI recorded full-year 2010 revenues of $2.57 billion, a 16% increase compared to $2.22 billion in 2009. The company reported 2010 GAAP net income of $40 million or 6 cents per diluted share. Full-year 2010 GAAP results compare to full-year 2009 GAAP net loss of $48 million or 7 cents per share. Full-year 2010 GAAP net income included a net charge of $293 million from special items, consisting primarily of $161 million in the amortization of acquisition-related items, $66 million of stock-based compensation expense, $59 million of restructuring costs, and $7 million of net loss on the sale and write-down of investments.
Non-GAAP net income for 2010 was $333 million or 52 cents per diluted share, compared to 2009 non-GAAP net income of $232 million or 35 cents per diluted share.
 
Bryon Look, LSI CFO and chief administrative officer, said, "We delivered another quarter of solid operating performance, with operating cash flows growing 36% sequentially to $112 million. For the full year, our operating cash flows were $367 million, up 80% year over year. Our balance sheet further strengthened as we ended the year with $677 million of net cash while remaining debt free. On a full-year basis, our profitability also improved significantly as we continued to focus on making progress toward our business model targets."
Capital spending is projected to be around $15 million in the first quarter and approximately $60 million in total for 2011.
Depreciation and software amortization is projected to be around $26 million in the first quarter and approximately $105 million in total for 2011.
LSI Conference Call Information
LSI will hold a conference call today at 2 p.m. PST to discuss fourth quarter financial results and the first quarter 2011 business outlook. Internet users can access the conference call at . Subsequent to the conference call, a replay will be available at the same web address.
http://www.lsi.com/webcast
This news release contains forward-looking statements that are based on the current opinions and estimates of management. These statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause LSI's actual results to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: our reliance on major customers and suppliers; our ability to keep up with rapid technological change; our ability to compete successfully in competitive markets; fluctuations in the timing and volumes of customer demand; the unavailability of appropriate levels of manufacturing capacity; and general industry and market conditions. For additional information, see the documents filed by LSI with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and specifically the risk factors set forth in the company's most recent reports on Form 10-K and 10-Q. LSI disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Forward-Looking Statements:
 
About LSI
LSI Corporation (NYSE: LSI) is a leading provider of innovative silicon, systems and software technologies that enable products which seamlessly bring people, information and digital content together. The company offers a broad portfolio of capabilities and services including custom and standard product ICs, adapters, systems and software that are trusted by the world's best known brands to power leading solutions in the Storage and Networking markets. More information is available at www.lsi.com.
Editor's Notes:
 
 
A reconciliation of net (loss)/income on the GAAP basis to non-GAAP net income is included below.
 
 
 
 
 


