FILE:LSI/LSI-8K-20110727162034.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operation and Financial Condition.
On July 27, 2011, LSI Corporation issued a news release regarding its financial results for the quarter ended July 3, 2011. A copy of the news release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference herein.
The news release contains non-GAAP financial information. Management believes that the presentation of non-GAAP net income (loss), non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP taxes, and non-GAAP net income (loss) per basic and diluted share provides important supplemental information to management and investors about financial and business trends relating to the company's results of operations. Management believes that the use of these non-GAAP financial measures also provides consistency and comparability with our past financial reports.
Management has historically used these non-GAAP measures when evaluating operating performance because we believe that the inclusion or exclusion of the items described below provides an additional measure of our core operating results and facilitates comparisons of our core operating performance against prior periods and our business model objectives. We have chosen to provide this information to investors to enable them to perform additional analyses of past, present and future operating performance and as a supplemental means to evaluate our ongoing core operations. Externally, we believe that these non-GAAP measures continue to be useful to investors in their assessment of our operating performance and their valuation of the company.
Internally, these non-GAAP measures are significant measures used by management for purposes of:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
How we calculate our non-GAAP financial measures
Non-GAAP net income (loss), non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP taxes and non-GAAP net income (loss) per basic and diluted share are important to the company for the reasons noted above and exclude the following items:
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
We use non-GAAP net income computed as described above as the numerator in the calculation of non-GAAP net income per basic and diluted share. We calculate the basic and diluted share amounts used in the denominator in accordance with GAAP rules, using non-GAAP net income rather than GAAP net income.
Limitations of relying on non-GAAP financial measures
Some of the limitations of relying on non-GAAP financial measures include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
All supplemental non-GAAP financial measures should be read in conjunction with the comparable information presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America.
Table of Contents
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: July 27, 2011
Table of Contents
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
cc11-39/C1119
LSI Corporation (NYSE: LSI) today reported results for its second quarter ended July 3, 2011.
MILPITAS, Calif., July 27, 2011 
On May 6, 2011, LSI completed the sale of its external storage systems business to NetApp. The financial results of the external systems business have been classified as discontinued operations in LSI's financial statements. Our ongoing business is referred to as "continuing operations."
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"Our strong execution in the second quarter and guidance for the third quarter, which represents 10 percent sequential revenue growth at the mid-point, reflect share gains and program ramps at key customers across multiple businesses," said Abhi Talwalkar, LSI president and CEO. "LSI is now entering an exciting new phase in our evolution. With our transformation complete, we are well positioned to drive above-market growth, generate greater profitability and increase shareholder value."
Second quarter 2011 revenues from continuing operations were $501 million, above the high end of guidance, compared to $473 million generated from continuing operations in the second quarter of 2010, and compared to $473 million generated from continuing operations in the first quarter of 2011.
Second quarter 2011 GAAP* income from continuing operations was $28 million or 5 cents per diluted share, compared to second quarter 2010 GAAP income from continuing operations of $3 million or break-even per diluted share. Second quarter 2011 GAAP results compare to first quarter 2011 GAAP income from continuing operations of $19 million or 3 cents per diluted share. Second quarter 2011 GAAP income from continuing operations included a net charge of $31 million from special items, consisting primarily of $29 million of amortization of acquisition-related items and $14 million of stock-based compensation expense, offset by an $11 million credit for net restructuring and other items.
Second quarter 2011 GAAP net income was $294 million or 48 cents per diluted share, compared to second quarter 2010 GAAP net income of $7 million or 1 cent per diluted share. Second quarter 2011 GAAP net income includes a gain of $260 million or 43 cents per diluted share related to the sale of the external storage systems business to NetApp. Second quarter 2011 GAAP net income compares to first quarter 2011 GAAP net income of $10 million or 2 cents per diluted share.
Second quarter 2011 non-GAAP** income from continuing operations was $60 million or 10 cents per diluted share, compared to second quarter 2010 non-GAAP income from continuing operations of $61 million or 9 cents per diluted share. First quarter 2011 non-GAAP income from continuing operations was $65 million or 10 cents per diluted share.
Second quarter 2011 non-GAAP net income was $79 million or 13 cents per diluted share, compared to second quarter 2010 non-GAAP net income of $71 million or 11 cents per diluted share. First quarter 2011 non-GAAP net income was $82 million or 13 cents per diluted share.
Cash and short-term investments totaled approximately $907 million at quarter end. The company completed second-quarter purchases of approximately 42 million shares of its common stock for approximately $300 million. On a year-to-date basis, the company has purchased approximately 56 million shares of its common stock for approximately $397 million under its $750 million share repurchase program.
Bryon Look, LSI CFO and chief administrative officer, said, "In addition to exceeding the high end of our revenue guidance in the second quarter, we were active in buying back stock and have repurchased 56 million shares year to date. We remain committed to driving earnings growth and getting to our target business model. Our guidance implies strong operating margin expansion in the third quarter, demonstrating the earnings leverage we have created."
 
Capital spending is projected to be around $20 million in the third quarter and approximately $55 million in total for 2011.
Depreciation and software amortization is projected to be around $16 million in the third quarter and approximately $75 million in total for 2011.
LSI Conference Call Information
LSI will hold a conference call today at 2 p.m. PDT to discuss second quarter financial results and the third quarter 2011 business outlook. Internet users can access the conference call at . Subsequent to the conference call, a replay will be available at the same web address.
http://www.lsi.com/webcast
This news release contains forward-looking statements that are based on the current opinions and estimates of management. These statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those
Forward-Looking Statements:
anticipated in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause LSI's actual results to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: our ability to eliminate costs related to the external storage systems business that we sold to NetApp; our ability to repurchase our common stock at prices we believe to be advantageous; the impact of the recent earthquake, tsunami and nuclear power plant events in Japan; our reliance on major customers and suppliers; our ability to keep up with rapid technological change; our ability to compete successfully in competitive markets; fluctuations in the timing and volumes of customer demand; the unavailability of appropriate levels of manufacturing capacity; and general industry and macro-economic conditions. For additional information, see the documents filed by LSI with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and specifically the risk factors set forth in the company's most recent reports on Form 10-K and 10-Q. LSI disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
About LSI
LSI Corporation (NYSE: LSI) is a leading provider of innovative silicon, systems and software technologies that enable products which seamlessly bring people, information and digital content together. The company offers a broad portfolio of capabilities and services including custom and standard product ICs, adapters, systems and software that are trusted by the world's best known brands to power leading solutions in the Storage and Networking markets. More information is available at www.lsi.com.
Editor's Notes:
 
 
 
A reconciliation of certain GAAP measures to non-GAAP measures is included below.
 
 
 


