FILE:LSI/LSI-8K-20120118172417.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 9.01.  Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
-2-
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: January 18, 2012
 
-3-
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
1.
 
.
Establishment, Purpose and Term of Plan
 
1.1
 
.  The SandForce, Inc. 2007 Stock Plan (the ) is hereby established effective as of April 10, 2007.
Establishment
Plan
 
1.2
 
  The purpose of the Plan is to advance the interests of the Participating Company Group and its stockholders by providing an incentive to attract, retain and reward persons performing services for the Participating Company Group and by motivating such persons to contribute to the growth and profitability of the Participating Company Group.  The Company intends that Awards granted pursuant to the Plan be exempt from or comply with Section 409A of the Code (including any amendments or replacements of such section), and the Plan shall be so construed.
Purpose
.
 
1.3
 
  The Plan shall continue in effect until its termination by the Board; provided, however, that, all Awards shall be granted, if at all, within ten (10) years from the earlier of the date the Plan is adopted by the Board or the date the Plan is duly approved by the stockholders of the Company.
Term of Plan.
 
2.
 
.
Definitions and Construction
 
2.1
 
Whenever used herein, the following terms shall have their respective meanings set forth below:
Definitions.
 
(a)
 
 means Section 25102(o) of the California Corporations Code and related Sections of the California Code of Regulations.
Applicable California Law
 
(b)
 
means an Option or Stock Purchase Right granted under the Plan.
Award
 
(c)
 
means a written or electronic agreement between the Company and a Participant setting forth the terms, conditions and restrictions of the Award granted to the Participant.
Award Agreement
 
(d)
 
means the Board of Directors of the Company.  If one or more Committees have been appointed by the Board to administer the Plan, also means such Committee(s).
Board
Board
 
(e)
 
means, unless such term or an equivalent term is otherwise defined with respect to an Award by the Participants Award Agreement or written contract of employment or service, any of the following: (i) the Participants theft, dishonesty, willful misconduct, breach of fiduciary duty for personal profit, or falsification of any Participating Company documents or records; (ii) the Participants material failure to abide by a Participating Companys code of conduct or other policies (including, without limitation, policies relating to confidentiality and reasonable workplace conduct); (iii) the Participants unauthorized use, misappropriation, destruction or diversion of any tangible or intangible asset or corporate opportunity of a Participating Company (including, without limitation, the Participants improper use or disclosure of a Participating Companys confidential or proprietary information); (iv) any intentional act by the Participant which has a material detrimental effect on a Participating Companys reputation or business; (v) the Participants repeated failure or inability to perform any reasonable assigned duties after written notice from a Participating Company of, and a reasonable opportunity to cure, such failure or inability; (vi) any material breach by the Participant of any employment or service agreement between the Participant and a Participating Company, which breach is not cured pursuant to the terms of such agreement; or (vii) the Participants conviction (including any plea of guilty or nolo contendere) of any criminal act involving fraud, dishonesty, misappropriation or moral turpitude, or which impairs the Participants ability to perform his or her duties with a Participating Company.
Cause
 
 
 
 
 
(f)
 
means, unless such term or an equivalent term is otherwise defined with respect to an Award by the Participants Award Agreement or written contract of employment or service, the occurrence of any of the following:
Change in Control
 
(i)
 
an Ownership Change Event or a series of related Ownership Change Events (collectively, a ) in which the stockholders of the Company immediately before the Transaction do not retain immediately after the Transaction, in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of shares of the Companys voting stock immediately before the Transaction, direct or indirect beneficial ownership of more than fifty percent (50%) of the total combined voting power of the outstanding voting securities of the Company or, in the case of an Ownership Change Event described in Section 2.1(v)iii), the entity to which the assets of the Company were transferred (the ), as the case may be; or
Transaction
(
Transferee
 
(ii)
 
the liquidation or dissolution of the Company.
 
For purposes of the preceding sentence, indirect beneficial ownership shall include, without limitation, an interest resulting from ownership of the voting securities of one or more corporations or other business entities which own the Company or the Transferee, as the case may be, either directly or through one or more subsidiary corporations or other business entities.  The Board shall have the right to determine whether multiple sales or exchanges of the voting securities of the Company or multiple Ownership Change Events are related, and its determination shall be final, binding and conclusive.
 
(g)
 
means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and any applicable regulations and administrative guidelines promulgated thereunder.
Code
 
(h)
 
means the compensation committee or other committee of the Board duly appointed to administer the Plan and having such powers as shall be specified by the Board.  Unless the powers of the Committee have been specifically limited, the Committee shall have all of the powers of the Board granted herein, including, without limitation, the power to amend or terminate the Plan at any time, subject to the terms of the Plan and any applicable limitations imposed by law.
Committee
 
 
-2-
 
 
(i)
 
means SandForce, Inc., a Delaware corporation, or any successor corporation thereto.
Company
 
(j)
 
means a person engaged to provide consulting or advisory services (other than as an Employee or a Director) to a Participating Company, provided that the identity of such person, the nature of such services or the entity to which such services are provided would not preclude the Company from offering or selling securities to such person pursuant to the Plan in reliance on either the exemption from registration provided by Rule 701 under the Securities Act or, if the Company is required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, registration on a Form S-8 Registration Statement under the Securities Act.
Consultant
 
(k)
 
means a member of the Board or of the board of directors of any other Participating Company.
Director
 
(l)
 
means the inability of the Participant, in the opinion of a qualified physician acceptable to the Company, to perform the major duties of the Participants position with the Participating Company Group because of the sickness or injury of the Participant.
Disability
 
(m)
 
means any person treated as an employee (including an Officer or a Director who is also treated as an employee) in the records of a Participating Company and, with respect to any Incentive Stock Option granted to such person, who is an employee for purposes of Section 422 of the Code; provided, however, that neither service as a Director nor payment of a directors fee shall be sufficient to constitute employment for purposes of the Plan.  The Company shall determine in good faith and in the exercise of its discretion whether an individual has become or has ceased to be an Employee and the effective date of such individuals employment or termination of employment, as the case may be.  For purposes of an individuals rights, if any, under the terms of the Plan as of the time of the Companys determination of whether or not the individual is an Employee, all such determinations by the Company shall be final, binding and conclusive as to such rights, if any, notwithstanding that the Company or any court of law or governmental agency subsequently makes a contrary determination as to such individuals status as an Employee.
Employee
 
(n)
 
means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
 
(o)
 
means, as of any date, the value of a share of Stock or other property as determined by the Board, in its discretion, or by the Company, in its discretion, if such determination is expressly allocated to the Company herein, subject to the following:
Fair Market Value
 
(i)
 
If, on such date, the Stock is listed on a national or regional securities exchange or market system, the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock shall be the closing price of a share of Stock (or the mean of the closing bid and asked prices of a share of Stock if the Stock is so quoted instead) as quoted on the national or regional securities exchange or market system constituting the primary market for the Stock, as reported in or such other source as the Company deems reliable.  If the relevant date does not fall on a day on which the Stock has traded on such securities exchange or market system, the date on which the Fair Market Value shall be established shall be the last day on which the Stock was so traded prior to the relevant date, or such other appropriate day as shall be determined by the Board, in its discretion.
The Wall Street Journal
 
 
-3-
 
 
(ii)
 
If, on such date, the Stock is not listed on a national or regional securities exchange or market system, the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock shall be as determined by the Board in good faith without regard to any restriction other than a restriction which, by its terms, will never lapse, and subject to the applicable requirements, if any, of Section 409A of the Code and Section 260.140.50 of Title 10 of the California Code of Regulations.
 
(p)
 
means an Option intended to be (as set forth in the Award Agreement) and which qualifies as an incentive stock option within the meaning of Section 422(b) of the Code.
Incentive Stock Option
 
(q)
 
means an Officer, a Director of the Company or other person whose transactions in Stock are subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act.
Insider
 
(r)
 
means a procedure by which the Participant will be issued a number of whole shares of Stock upon the exercise of an Option determined in accordance with the following formula:
Net-Exercise
 
N = X(A-B)/A, where
N = the number of shares of Stock to be issued to the Participant upon exercise of the Option;
X = the total number of shares with respect to which the Participant has elected to exercise the Option;
A = the Fair Market Value of one (1) share of Stock determined on the exercise date; and
B = the exercise price per share (as defined in the Participants Award Agreement)
(s)
 
means an Option not intended to be (as set forth in the Award Agreement) or which does not qualify as an Incentive Stock Option.
Nonstatutory Stock Option
 
(t)
 
means any person designated by the Board as an officer of the Company.
Officer
 
(u)
 
means a right granted under Section 6 to purchase Stock pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Plan.  An Option may be either an Incentive Stock Option or a Nonstatutory Stock Option.
Option
 
 
-4-
 
 
(v)
 
means the occurrence of any of the following with respect to the Company:  (i) the direct or indirect sale or exchange in a single or series of related transactions by the stockholders of the Company of more than fifty percent (50%) of the voting stock of the Company; (ii) a merger or consolidation in which the Company is a party; or (iii) the sale, exchange, or transfer of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company.
Ownership Change Event
 
(w)
 
means any present or future parent corporation of the Company, as defined in Section 424(e) of the Code.
Parent Corporation
 
(x)
 
means any eligible person who has been granted one or more Awards.
Participant
 
 
(y)
 
means the Company or any Parent Corporation or Subsidiary Corporation.
Participating Company
 
(z)
 
means, at any point in time, all entities collectively which are then Participating Companies.
Participating Company Group
 
(aa)
 
means Rule 16b-3 under the Exchange Act, as amended from time to time, or any successor rule or regulation.
Rule 16b-3
 
(bb)
 
means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Securities Act
 
(cc)
 
means a Participants employment or service with the Participating Company Group, whether in the capacity of an Employee, a Director or a Consultant.  A Participants Service shall not be deemed to have terminated merely because of a change in the capacity in which the Participant renders Service to the Participating Company Group or a change in the Participating Company for which the Participant renders such Service, provided that there is no interruption or termination of the Participants Service.  Furthermore, a Participants Service shall not be deemed to have terminated if the Participant takes any military leave, sick leave, or other bona fide leave of absence approved by the Company.  However, if any such leave taken by a Participant exceeds ninety (90) days, then on the ninety-first (91st) day following the commencement of such leave the Participants Service shall be deemed to have terminated, unless the Participants right to return to Service is guaranteed by statute or contract.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, unless otherwise designated by the Company or required by law, an unpaid leave of absence shall not be treated as Service for purposes of determining vesting under the Participants Award Agreement.  Except as otherwise provided by the Board, in its discretion, the Participants Service shall be deemed to have terminated either upon an actual termination of Service or upon the corporation for which the Participant performs Service ceasing to be a Participating Company.  Subject to the foregoing, the Company, in its discretion, shall determine whether the Participants Service has terminated and the effective date of and reason for such termination.
Service
 
(dd)
 
means the common stock of the Company, as adjusted from time to time in accordance with Section 4.2.
Stock
 
 
-5-
 
 
(ee)
 
means a right granted under Section 7 to purchase Stock pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Plan.
Stock Purchase Right
 
(ff)
 
means any present or future subsidiary corporation of the Company, as defined in Section 424(f) of the Code.
Subsidiary Corporation
 
(gg)
 
means a person who, at the time an Award is granted to such person, owns stock possessing more than ten percent (10%) of the total combined voting power (as defined in Section 194.5 of the California Corporations Code) of all classes of stock of a Participating Company within the meaning of Section 422(b)(6) of the Code.
Ten Percent Stockholder
 
2.2
 
  Captions and titles contained herein are for convenience only and shall not affect the meaning or interpretation of any provision of the Plan.  Except when otherwise indicated by the context, the singular shall include the plural and the plural shall include the singular.  Use of the term or is not intended to be exclusive, unless the context clearly requires otherwise.
Construction.
 
3.
 
.
Administration
 
3.1
 
  The Plan shall be administered by the Board.  All questions of interpretation of the Plan or of any Award shall be determined by the Board, and such determinations shall be final and binding upon all persons having an interest in the Plan or such Award.
Administration by the Board.
 
3.2
 
  Any Officer shall have the authority to act on behalf of the Company with respect to any matter, right, obligation, determination or election which is the responsibility of or which is allocated to the Company herein, provided the Officer has apparent authority with respect to such matter, right, obligation, determination or election.
Authority of Officers.
 
3.3
 
  In addition to any other powers set forth in the Plan and subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Board shall have the full and final power and authority, in its discretion:
Powers of the Board
.
 
(a)
 
to determine the persons to whom, and the time or times at which, Awards shall be granted and the number of shares of Stock to be subject to each Award;
 
(b)
 
to designate Options as Incentive Stock Options or Nonstatutory Stock Options;
 
(c)
 
to determine the Fair Market Value of shares of Stock or other property;
 
(d)
 
to determine the terms, conditions and restrictions applicable to each Award (which need not be identical) and any shares acquired upon the exercise thereof, including, without limitation, (i) the exercise price of the Award, (ii) the method of payment for shares purchased upon the exercise of the Award, (iii) the method for satisfaction of any tax withholding obligation arising in connection with the Award or such shares, including by the withholding or delivery of shares of stock, (iv) the timing, terms and conditions of the exercisability of the Award or the vesting of any shares acquired upon the exercise thereof, (v) the time of the expiration of the Award, (vi) the effect of the Participants termination of Service on any of the foregoing, and (vii) all other terms, conditions and restrictions applicable to the Award or such shares not inconsistent with the terms of the Plan;
 
 
-6-
 
 
(e)
 
to approve one or more forms of Award Agreement;
 
(f)
 
to amend, modify, extend, cancel or renew any Award or to waive any restrictions or conditions applicable to any Award or any shares acquired upon the exercise thereof;
 
(g)
 
to accelerate, continue, extend or defer the exercisability of any Award or the vesting of any shares acquired upon the exercise thereof, including with respect to the period following a Participants termination of Service;
 
(h)
 
to prescribe, amend or rescind rules, guidelines and policies relating to the Plan, or to adopt supplements to, or alternative versions of, the Plan, including, without limitation, as the Board deems necessary or desirable to comply with the laws of, or to accommodate the tax policy or custom of, foreign jurisdictions whose citizens may be granted Awards; and
 
(i)
 
to correct any defect, supply any omission or reconcile any inconsistency in the Plan or any Award Agreement and to make all other determinations and take such other actions with respect to the Plan or any Award as the Board may deem advisable to the extent not inconsistent with the provisions of the Plan or applicable law.
 
3.4
 
  With respect to participation by Insiders in the Plan, at any time that any class of equity security of the Company is registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act, the Plan shall be administered in compliance with the requirements, if any, of Rule 16b-3.
Administration with Respect to Insiders.
 
3.5
 
  In addition to such other rights of indemnification as they may have as members of the Board or officers or employees of the Participating Company Group, members of the Board and any officers or employees of the Participating Company Group to whom authority to act for the Board or the Company is delegated shall be indemnified by the Company against all reasonable expenses, including attorneys fees, actually and necessarily incurred in connection with the defense of any action, suit or proceeding, or in connection with any appeal therein, to which they or any of them may be a party by reason of any action taken or failure to act under or in connection with the Plan, or any right granted hereunder, and against all amounts paid by them in settlement thereof (provided such settlement is approved by independent legal counsel selected by the Company) or paid by them in satisfaction of a judgment in any such action, suit or proceeding, except in relation to matters as to which it shall be adjudged in such action, suit or proceeding that such person is liable for gross negligence, bad faith or intentional misconduct in duties; provided, however, that within sixty (60) days after the institution of such action, suit or proceeding, such person shall offer to the Company, in writing, the opportunity at its own expense to handle and defend the same.
Indemnification.
 
 
-7-
 
 
4.
 
.
Shares Subject to Plan
 
4.1
 
  Subject to adjustment as provided in Section 4.2, the maximum aggregate number of shares of Stock that may be issued under the Plan shall be Two Million Five Hundred Forty-Five Thousand Four Hundred Fifty (2,545,450) which shall consist of authorized but unissued or reacquired shares of Stock or any combination thereof.  If an outstanding Award for any reason expires or is terminated or canceled or if shares of Stock are acquired upon the exercise of an Award subject to a Company repurchase option and are repurchased by the Company at the Participants exercise or purchase price, the shares of Stock allocable to the unexercised portion of such Award or such repurchased shares of Stock shall again be available for issuance under the Plan.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, at any such time as the offer and sale of securities pursuant to the Plan is subject to compliance with Section 260.140.45 of Title 10 of the California Code of Regulations (), the total number of shares of Stock issuable upon the exercise of all outstanding Awards (together with options outstanding under any other stock plan of the Company) and the total number of shares provided for under any stock bonus or similar plan of the Company shall not exceed thirty percent (30%) (or such other higher percentage limitation as may be approved by the stockholders of the Company pursuant to Section 260.140.45) of the then outstanding shares of the Company as calculated in accordance with the conditions and exclusions of Section 260.140.45.
Maximum Number of Shares Issuable.
Section 260.140.45
 
4.2
 
  Subject to any required action by the stockholders of the Company, in the event of any change in the Stock effected without receipt of consideration by the Company, whether through merger, consolidation, reorganization, reincorporation, recapitalization, reclassification, stock dividend, stock split, reverse stock split, split-up, split-off, spin-off, combination of shares, exchange of shares, or similar change in the capital structure of the Company, or in the event of payment of a dividend or distribution to the stockholders of the Company in a form other than Stock (excepting normal cash dividends) that has a material effect on the Fair Market Value of shares of Stock, appropriate and proportionate adjustments shall be made in the number and kind of shares subject to the Plan and to any outstanding Awards, in the ISO Share Limit set forth in Section 5.3(a), and in the exercise or purchase price per share of any outstanding Awards in order to prevent dilution or enlargement of Participants rights under the Plan.  For purposes of the foregoing, conversion of any convertible securities of the Company shall not be treated as effected without receipt of consideration by the Company.  If a majority of the shares which are of the same class as the shares that are subject to outstanding Awards are exchanged for, converted into, or otherwise become (whether or not pursuant to an Ownership Change Event) shares of another corporation (the ), the Board may unilaterally amend the outstanding Awards to provide that such Awards are for New Shares.  In the event of any such amendment, the number of shares subject to, and the exercise or purchase price per share of, the outstanding Awards shall be adjusted in a fair and equitable manner as determined by the Board, in its discretion.  Any fractional share resulting from an adjustment pursuant to this Section 4.2 shall be rounded down to the nearest whole number, and the exercise price per share shall be rounded up to the nearest whole cent.  In no event may the exercise price of any Award be decreased to an amount less than the par value, if any, of the stock subject to the Award.  Such adjustments shall be determined by the Board, and its determination shall be final, binding and conclusive.
Adjustments for Changes in Capital Structure
.
New Shares
 
 
-8-
 
 
5.
 
.
Eligibility and Option Limitations
 
5.1
 
  Awards may be granted only to Employees, Consultants and Directors.
Persons Eligible for Awards
.
 
5.2
 
  Awards are granted solely at the discretion of the Board.  Eligible persons may be granted more than one Award.  However, eligibility in accordance with this Section shall not entitle any person to be granted an Award, or, having been granted an Award, to be granted an additional Award.
Participation in Plan.
 
5.3
 
Incentive Stock Option Limitations.
 
(a)
 
  Subject to Section 4.1 and adjustment as provided in Section 4.2, the maximum aggregate number of shares of Stock that may be issued under the Plan pursuant to the exercise of Incentive Stock Options shall not exceed Two Million Five Hundred Forty-Five Thousand Four Hundred Fifty (2,545,450) shares (the).  The maximum aggregate number of shares of Stock that may be issued under the Plan pursuant to all Awards other than Incentive Stock Options shall be the number of shares determined in accordance with Section 4.1, subject to adjustment as provided in Section 4.2.
Maximum Number of Shares Issuable Pursuant to Incentive Stock Options.
ISO Share Limit
 
(b)
 
  An Incentive Stock Option may be granted only to a person who, on the effective date of grant, is an Employee.  Any person who is not an Employee on the effective date of the grant of an Option to such person may be granted only a Nonstatutory Stock Option.  An Incentive Stock Option granted to a prospective Employee upon the condition that such person become an Employee shall be deemed granted effective on the date such person commences Service as an Employee, with an exercise price determined as of such date in accordance with Section 6.1.
Persons Eligible.
 
(c)
 
  To the extent that options designated as Incentive Stock Options (granted under all stock plans of the Participating Company Group, including the Plan) become exercisable by a Participant for the first time during any calendar year for stock having a Fair Market Value greater than One Hundred Thousand Dollars ($100,000), the portions of such options which exceed such amount shall be treated as Nonstatutory Stock Options.  For purposes of this Section 5.3, options designated as Incentive Stock Options shall be taken into account in the order in which they were granted, and the Fair Market Value of stock shall be determined as of the time the option with respect to such stock is granted.  If the Code is amended to provide for a different limitation from that set forth in this Section, such different limitation shall be deemed incorporated herein effective as of the date and with respect to such Options as required or permitted by such amendment to the Code.  If an Option is treated as an Incentive Stock Option in part and as a Nonstatutory Stock Option in part by reason of the limitation set forth in this Section, the Participant may designate which portion of such Option the Participant is exercising.  In the absence of such designation, the Participant shall be deemed to have exercised the Incentive Stock Option portion of the Option first.  Separate certificates representing each such portion shall be issued upon the exercise of the Option.
Fair Market Value Limitation
.
 
 
-9-
 
 
6.
 
.
Terms and Conditions of Options
 
Options shall be evidenced by Award Agreements specifying the number of shares of Stock covered thereby, in such form as the Board shall from time to time establish.  Award Agreements may incorporate all or any of the terms of the Plan by reference and shall comply with and be subject to the following terms and conditions:
 
6.1
 
  The exercise price for each Option shall be established in the discretion of the Board; provided, however, that (a) the exercise price per share for an Option shall be not less than the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on the effective date of grant of the Option and (b) no Incentive Stock Option (or, if required by Applicable California Law, no Option) granted to a Ten Percent Stockholder shall have an exercise price per share less than one hundred ten percent (110%) of the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on the effective date of grant of the Option.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, an Option (whether an Incentive Stock Option or a Nonstatutory Stock Option) may be granted with an exercise price lower than the minimum exercise price set forth above if such Option is granted pursuant to an assumption or substitution for another option in a manner qualifying under the provisions of Section 424(a) of the Code.
Exercise Price
.
 
6.2
 
  Options shall be exercisable at such time or times, or upon such event or events, and subject to such terms, conditions, performance criteria and restrictions as shall be determined by the Board and set forth in the Award Agreement evidencing such Option; provided, however, that (a) no Option shall be exercisable after the expiration of ten (10) years after the effective date of grant of such Option, (b) no Incentive Stock Option granted to a Ten Percent Stockholder shall be exercisable after the expiration of five (5) years after the effective date of grant of such Option, and (c) with the exception of an Option granted to an Officer, a Director or a Consultant, if required by Applicable California Law, no Option shall become exercisable at a rate less than twenty percent (20%) per year over a period of five (5) years from the effective date of grant of such Option, subject to the Participants continued Service.  Subject to the foregoing, unless otherwise specified by the Board in the grant of an Option, any Option granted hereunder shall terminate ten (10) years after the effective date of grant of the Option, unless earlier terminated in accordance with its provisions.
Exercisability and Term of Options
.
 
6.3
 
.
Payment of Exercise Price
 
(a)
 
  Except as otherwise provided below, payment of the exercise price for the number of shares of Stock being purchased pursuant to any Option shall be made (i) in cash or by check or cash equivalent, (ii) by tender to the Company, or attestation to the ownership, of shares of Stock owned by the Participant having a Fair Market Value not less than the exercise price, (iii) by delivery of a properly executed notice together with irrevocable instructions to a broker providing for the assignment to the Company of the proceeds of a sale or loan with respect to some or all of the shares being acquired upon the exercise of the Option (including, without limitation, through an exercise complying with the provisions of Regulation T as promulgated from time to time by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System) (a ), (iv) by delivery of a properly executed notice electing a Net-Exercise, (v) by such other consideration as may be approved by the Board from time to time to the extent permitted by applicable law, or (vi) by any combination thereof.  The Board may at any time or from time to time, by approval of or by amendment to the standard forms of Award Agreement described in Section 8, or by other means, grant Options which do not permit all of the foregoing forms of consideration to be used in payment of the exercise price or which otherwise restrict one or more forms of consideration.
Forms of Consideration Authorized.
Cashless Exercise
 
 
-10-
 
 
(b)
 
.
Limitations on Forms of Consideration
 
(i)
 
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, an Option may not be exercised by tender to the Company, or attestation to the ownership, of shares of Stock to the extent such tender or attestation would constitute a violation of the provisions of any law, regulation or agreement restricting the redemption of the Companys stock.  Unless otherwise provided by the Board, an Option may not be exercised by tender to the Company, or attestation to the ownership, of shares of Stock unless such shares either have been owned by the Participant for more than six (6) months or such other period, if any, required by the Company (and were not used for another Option exercise by attestation during such period) or were not acquired, directly or indirectly, from the Company.
Tender of Stock.
 
(ii)
 
  The Company reserves, at any and all times, the right, in the Companys sole and absolute discretion, to establish, decline to approve or terminate any program or procedures for the exercise of Options by means of a Cashless Exercise.
Cashless Exercise.
 
6.4
 
.
Effect of Termination of Service
 
(a)
 
  Subject to earlier termination of the Option as otherwise provided by this Plan and unless a longer exercise period is provided by the Board in the grant of an Option and set forth in the Award Agreement, an Option shall terminate immediately upon the Participants termination of Service to the extent that it is then unvested and shall be exercisable after the Participants termination of Service to the extent it is then vested only during the applicable time period determined in accordance with this Section and thereafter shall terminate:
Option Exercisability
.
 
(i)
 
  If the Participants Service terminates because of the Disability of the Participant, the Option, to the extent unexercised and exercisable on the date on which the Participants Service terminated, may be exercised by the Participant (or the Participants guardian or legal representative) at any time prior to the expiration of twelve (12) months after the date on which the Participants Service terminated, but in any event no later than the date of expiration of the Options term as set forth in the Award Agreement evidencing such Option (the ).
Disability.
Option Expiration Date
 
(ii)
 
  If the Participants Service terminates because of the death of the Participant, the Option, to the extent unexercised and exercisable on the date on which the Participants Service terminated, may be exercised by the Participants legal representative or other person who acquired the right to exercise the Option by reason of the Participants death at any time prior to the expiration of twelve (12) months after the date on which the Participants Service terminated, but in any event no later than the Option Expiration Date.  The Participants Service shall be deemed to have terminated on account of death if the Participant dies within three (3) months (or such longer period of time as determined by the Board, in its discretion) after the Participants termination of Service.
Death.
 
 
-11-
 
 
(iii)
 
  Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary, if the Participants Service is terminated for Cause, the Option shall terminate and cease to be exercisable immediately upon such termination of Service.
Termination for Cause.
 
(iv)
 
  If the Participants Service terminates for any reason, except Disability, death or for Cause, the Option, to the extent unexercised and exercisable by the Participant on the date on which the Participants Service terminated, may be exercised by the Participant at any time prior to the expiration of three (3) months after the date on which the Participants Service terminated, but in any event no later than the Option Expiration Date.
Other Termination of Service.
 
(b)
 
  Notwithstanding the foregoing other than termination for Cause, if the exercise of an Option within the applicable time periods set forth in Section 6.4(a) is prevented by the provisions of Section 11 below, the Option shall remain exercisable until thirty (30) days after the date such exercise first would no longer be prevented by such provisions, but in any event no later than the Option Expiration Date.
Extension if Exercise Prevented by Law
.
 
6.5
 
  During the lifetime of the Participant, an Option shall be exercisable only by the Participant or the Participants guardian or legal representative.  No Option shall be assignable or transferable by the Participant, except by will or by the laws of descent and distribution.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, to the extent permitted by the Board, in its discretion, and set forth in the Award Agreement evidencing such Option, a Nonstatutory Stock Option shall be assignable or transferable subject to the applicable limitations, if any, described in Rule 701 under the Securities Act, and the General Instructions to Form S-8 Registration Statement under the Securities Act.
Transferability of Options.
 
7.
 
.
Terms and Conditions of Stock Purchase Rights
 
Stock Purchase Rights shall be evidenced by Award Agreements, specifying the number of shares of Stock covered thereby, in such form as the Board shall from time to time establish.  Award Agreements may incorporate all or any of the terms of the Plan by reference and shall comply with and be subject to the following terms and conditions:
 
7.1
 
  The purchase price under each Stock Purchase Right shall be established by the Board; provided, however, that, to the extent required by Applicable California Law, (a) the purchase price per share shall be at least eighty-five percent (85%) of the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock either on the effective date of grant of the Stock Purchase Right or on the date on which the purchase is consummated and (b) the purchase price per share under a Stock Purchase Right granted to a Ten Percent Stockholder shall be at least one hundred percent (100%) of the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock either on the effective date of grant of the Stock Purchase Right or on the date on which the purchase is consummated.
Purchase Price
.
 
 
-12-
 
 
7.2
 
  A Stock Purchase Right shall be exercisable within a period established by the Board, which shall in no event exceed thirty (30) days from the effective date of the grant of the Stock Purchase Right.
Purchase Period
.
 
7.3
 
Except as otherwise provided below, payment of the purchase price for the number of shares of Stock being purchased pursuant to any Stock Purchase Right shall be made (a) in cash or by check or cash equivalent, (b) in the form of the Participants past service rendered to a Participating Company or for its benefit having a value not less than the aggregate purchase price of the shares being acquired, (c) by such other consideration as may be approved by the Board from time to time to the extent permitted by applicable law, or (d) by any combination thereof.  The Board may at any time or from time to time, by adoption of or by amendment to the standard form of Award Agreement described in Section 8, or by other means, grant Stock Purchase Rights which do not permit all of the foregoing forms of consideration to be used in payment of the purchase price or which otherwise restrict one or more forms of consideration.
Payment of Purchase Price.  
 
7.4
 
  Shares issued pursuant to any Stock Purchase Right may or may not be made subject to vesting conditioned upon the satisfaction of such Service requirements, conditions, restrictions or performance criteria (the ) as shall be established by the Board and set forth in the Award Agreement evidencing such Award.  During any period in which shares acquired pursuant to a Stock Purchase Right remain subject to Vesting Conditions, such shares may not be sold, exchanged, transferred, pledged, assigned or otherwise disposed of other than pursuant to an Ownership Change Event or as provided in Section 7.5.  Upon request by the Company, each Participant shall execute any agreement evidencing such transfer restrictions prior to the receipt of shares of Stock hereunder and shall promptly present to the Company any and all certificates representing shares of Stock acquired hereunder for the placement on such certificates of appropriate legends evidencing any such transfer restrictions.
Vesting and Restrictions on Transfer.
Vesting Conditions
 
7.5
 
  Unless otherwise provided by the Board in the grant of a Stock Purchase Right and set forth in the Award Agreement, if a Participants Service terminates for any reason, whether voluntary or involuntary (including the Participants death or disability), then the Company shall have the option to repurchase for the purchase price paid by the Participant any shares acquired by the Participant pursuant to a Stock Purchase Right which remain subject to Vesting Conditions as of the date of the Participants termination of Service; provided, however, that with the exception of shares acquired pursuant to a Stock Purchase Right by an Officer, a Director or a Consultant, the Companys repurchase option must lapse, to the extent required by Applicable California Law, at the rate of at least twenty percent (20%) of the shares per year over the period of five (5) years from the effective date of grant of the Stock Purchase Right (without regard to the date on which the Stock Purchase Right was exercised) and the repurchase option must be exercised, if at all, for cash or cancellation of purchase money indebtedness for the shares within ninety (90) days following the Participants termination of Service.  The Company shall have the right to assign at any time any repurchase right it may have, whether or not such right is then exercisable, to one or more persons as may be selected by the Company.
Effect of Termination of Service.
 
 
-13-
 
 
7.6
 
.  Rights to acquire shares of Stock pursuant to a Stock Purchase Right may not be assigned or transferred in any manner except by will or the laws of descent and distribution, and, during the lifetime of the Participant, shall be exercisable only by the Participant.
Nontransferability of Stock Purchase Rights
 
8.
 
.
Standard Forms of Award Agreements
 
8.1
 
  Each Award shall comply with and be subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the appropriate form of Award Agreement approved by the Board and as amended from time to time.  No Award or purported Award shall be a valid and binding obligation of the Company unless evidenced by a fully executed Award Agreement.  Any Award Agreement may consist of an appropriate form of Notice of Grant and a form of Agreement incorporated therein by reference, or such other form or forms, including electronic media, as the Board may approve from time to time.
Award Agreements
.
 
8.2
 
  The Board shall have the authority from time to time to vary the terms of any standard form of Award Agreement either in connection with the grant or amendment of an individual Award or in connection with the authorization of a new standard form or forms; provided, however, that the terms and conditions of any such new, revised or amended standard form or forms of Award Agreement are not inconsistent with the terms of the Plan.
Authority to Vary Terms
.
 
9.
 
.
Change in Control
 
9.1
 
Effect of Change in Control on Awards
.
 
(a)
 
.  The Board may, in its sole discretion, provide in any Award Agreement or, in the event of a Change in Control, may take such actions as it deems appropriate to provide for the acceleration of the exercisability and vesting in connection with such Change in Control of any or all outstanding Awards and shares acquired upon the exercise thereof upon such conditions, including termination of the Participants Service prior to, upon, or following such Change in Control, and to such extent as the Board shall determine.
Accelerated Vesting
 
(b)
 
.  In the event of a Change in Control, the surviving, continuing, successor, or purchasing entity or parent thereof, as the case may be (the ), may, without the consent of any Participant, assume or continue the Companys rights and obligations under each or any Award or portion thereof outstanding immediately prior to the Change in Control or substitute for each or any such outstanding Award or portion thereof a substantially equivalent award for the Acquirors stock.  For purposes of this Section, if so determined by the Board in its discretion, an Award shall be deemed assumed if, following the Change in Control, the Award confers the right to receive, subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan and the applicable Award Agreement, for each share of Stock subject to the Award immediately prior to the Change in Control, the consideration (whether stock, cash, other securities or property or a combination thereof) to which a holder of a share of Stock on the effective date of the Change in Control was entitled; provided, however, that if such consideration is not solely common stock of the Acquiror, the Board may, with the consent of the Acquiror, provide for the consideration to be received upon the exercise of the Award, for each share of Stock subject to the Award, to consist solely of common stock of the Acquiror equal in Fair Market Value to the per share consideration received by holders of Stock pursuant to the Change in Control.  If any portion of such consideration may be received by holders of Stock pursuant to the Change in Control on a contingent or delayed basis, the Board may, in its sole discretion, determine such Fair Market Value per share as of the time of the Change in Control on the basis of the Boards good faith estimate of the present value of the probable future payment of such consideration.  Any Award or portion thereof which is neither assumed or continued by the Acquiror in connection with the Change in Control nor exercised as of the time of consummation of the Change in Control shall terminate and cease to be outstanding effective as of the time of consummation of the Change in Control.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, shares acquired upon exercise of an Award prior to the Change in Control and any consideration received pursuant to the Change in Control with respect to such shares shall continue to be subject to all applicable provisions of the Award Agreement evidencing such Award except as otherwise provided in such Award Agreement.
Assumption or Substitution of Awards
Acquiror
 
 
-14-
 
 
(c)
 
  The Board may, in its sole discretion and without the consent of any Participant, determine that, upon the occurrence of a Change in Control, each or any Award or portion thereof outstanding immediately prior to the Change in Control shall be canceled in exchange for a payment with respect to each vested share (and each unvested share, if so determined by the Board) of Stock subject to such canceled Award in (i) cash, (ii) stock of the Company or of a corporation or other business entity a party to the Change in Control, or (iii) other property which, in any such case, shall be in an amount having a Fair Market Value equal to the Fair Market Value of the consideration to be paid per share of Stock in the Change in Control over the exercise price per share under such Award (the ).  If any portion of such consideration may be received by holders of Stock pursuant to the Change in Control on a contingent or delayed basis, the Board may, in its sole discretion, determine such Fair Market Value per share as of the time of the Change in Control on the basis of the Boards good faith estimate of the present value of the probable future payment of such consideration.  In the event such determination is made by the Board, the Spread (reduced by applicable withholding taxes, if any) shall be paid to Participants in respect of their canceled Awards as soon as practicable following the date of the Change in Control and in respect of the unvested portion of their canceled Awards in accordance with the vesting schedule applicable to such Awards as in effect prior to the Change in Control.
Cash-Out of Awards.
Spread
 
9.2
 
Federal Excise Tax Under Section 4999 of the Code.
 
(a)
 
  In the event that any acceleration of vesting pursuant to an Award and any other payment or benefit received or to be received by a Participant would subject the Participant to any excise tax pursuant to Section 4999 of the Code due to the characterization of such acceleration of vesting, payment or benefit as an excess parachute payment under Section 280G of the Code, the Participant may elect, in his or her sole discretion, to reduce the amount of any acceleration of vesting called for under the Award in order to avoid such characterization.
Excess Parachute Payment.
 
(b)
 
  To aid the Participant in making any election called for under Section 9.2(a), no later than the date of the occurrence of any event that might reasonably be anticipated to result in an excess parachute payment to the Participant as described in Section 9.2(a), the Company shall request a determination in writing by independent public accountants selected by the Company (the ).  As soon as practicable thereafter, the Accountants shall determine and report to the Company and the Participant the amount of such acceleration of vesting, payments and benefits which would produce the greatest after-tax benefit to the Participant.  For the purposes of such determination, the Accountants may rely on reasonable, good faith interpretations concerning the application of Sections 280G and 4999 of the Code.  The Company and the Participant shall furnish to the Accountants such information and documents as the Accountants may reasonably request in order to make their required determination.  The Company shall bear all fees and expenses the Accountants may reasonably charge in connection with their services contemplated by this Section 9.2(b).
Determination by Independent Accountants.
Accountants
 
 
-15-
 
 
10.
 
.
Tax Withholding
 
10.1
 
  The Company shall have the right to deduct from any and all payments made under the Plan, or to require the Participant, through payroll withholding, cash payment or otherwise, including by means of a Cashless Exercise of an Option, to make adequate provision for, the federal, state, local and foreign taxes (including any social insurance tax), if any, required by law to be withheld by the Participating Company Group with respect to an Award or the shares acquired pursuant thereto.  The Company shall have no obligation to deliver shares of Stock or to release shares of Stock from an escrow established pursuant to an Award Agreement until the Participating Company Groups tax withholding obligations have been satisfied by the Participant.
Tax Withholding in General.
 
10.2
 
  The Company shall have the right, but not the obligation, to deduct from the shares of Stock issuable to a Participant upon the exercise of an Award, or to accept from the Participant the tender of, a number of whole shares of Stock having a Fair Market Value, as determined by the Company, equal to all or any part of the tax withholding obligations of the Participating Company Group.  The Fair Market Value of any shares of Stock withheld or tendered to satisfy any such tax withholding obligations shall not exceed the amount determined by the applicable minimum statutory withholding rates.
Withholding in Shares.
 
11.
 
.
Compliance with Securities Law
 
The grant of Awards and the issuance of shares of Stock upon exercise of Awards shall be subject to compliance with all applicable requirements of federal, state and foreign law with respect to such securities.  Awards may not be exercised if the issuance of shares of Stock upon exercise would constitute a violation of any applicable federal, state or foreign securities laws or other law or regulations or the requirements of any stock exchange or market system upon which the Stock may then be listed.  In addition, no Award may be exercised unless (a) a registration statement under the Securities Act shall at the time of exercise of the Award be in effect with respect to the shares issuable upon exercise of the Award or (b) in the opinion of legal counsel to the Company, the shares issuable upon exercise of the Award may be issued in accordance with the terms of an applicable exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act.  The inability of the Company to obtain from any regulatory body having jurisdiction the authority, if any, deemed by the Companys legal counsel to be necessary to the lawful issuance and sale of any shares hereunder shall relieve the Company of any liability in respect of the failure to issue or sell such shares as to which such requisite authority shall not have been obtained.  As a condition to the exercise of any Award, the Company may require the Participant to satisfy any qualifications that may be necessary or appropriate, to evidence compliance with any applicable law or regulation and to make any representation or warranty with respect thereto as may be requested by the Company.
 
 
-16-
 
 
12.
 
.
Amendment or Termination of Plan
 
The Board may amend, suspend or terminate the Plan at any time.  However, subject to changes in applicable law, regulations or rules that would permit otherwise, without the approval of the Companys stockholders, there shall be (a) no increase in the maximum aggregate number of shares of Stock that may be issued under the Plan (except by operation of the provisions of Section 4.2), (b) no change in the class of persons eligible to receive Incentive Stock Options, and (c) no other amendment of the Plan that would require approval of the Companys stockholders under any applicable law, regulation or rule, including the rules of any stock exchange or market system upon which the Stock may then be listed.  No amendment, suspension or termination of the Plan shall affect any then outstanding Award unless expressly provided by the Board.  Except as provided by the next sentence, no amendment, suspension or termination of the Plan may adversely affect any then outstanding Award without the consent of the Participant.  Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan or any Award Agreement to the contrary, the Board may, in its sole and absolute discretion and without the consent of any Participant, amend the Plan or any Award Agreement, to take effect retroactively or otherwise, as it deems necessary or advisable for the purpose of conforming the Plan or such Award Agreement to any present or future law, regulation or rule applicable to the Plan, including, but not limited to, Section 409A of the Code.
 
13.
 
.
Miscellaneous Provisions
 
13.1
 
  Shares issued under the Plan may be subject to a right of first refusal, one or more repurchase options, or other conditions and restrictions as determined by the Board in its discretion at the time the Award is granted.  The Company shall have the right to assign at any time any repurchase right it may have, whether or not such right is then exercisable, to one or more persons as may be selected by the Company.  Upon request by the Company, each Participant shall execute any agreement evidencing such transfer restrictions prior to the receipt of shares of Stock hereunder and shall promptly present to the Company any and all certificates representing shares of Stock acquired hereunder for the placement on such certificates of appropriate legends evidencing any such transfer restrictions.
Repurchase Rights
.
 
13.2
 
.t least annually, copies of the Companys balance sheet and income statement for the just completed fiscal year shall be made available to each Participant and purchaser of shares of Stock upon the exercise of an Award.  The Company shall not be required to provide such information to key employees whose duties in connection with the Company assure them access to equivalent information.  Furthermore, the Company shall deliver to each Participant such disclosures as are required in accordance with Rule 701 under the Securities Act.
Provision of Information
  A
 
 
-17-
 
 
13.3
 
  No person, even though eligible pursuant to Section 5, shall have a right to be selected as a Participant, or, having been so selected, to be selected again as a Participant.  Nothing in the Plan or any Award granted under the Plan shall confer on any Participant a right to remain an Employee, Consultant or Director or interfere with or limit in any way any right of a Participating Company to terminate the Participants Service at any time.  To the extent that an Employee of a Participating Company other than the Company receives an Award under the Plan, that Award shall in no event be understood or interpreted to mean that the Company is the Employees employer or that the Employee has an employment relationship with the Company.
Rights as Employee, Consultant or Director.
 
13.4
 
  A Participant shall have no rights as a stockholder with respect to any shares covered by an Award until the date of the issuance of such shares (as evidenced by the appropriate entry on the books of the Company or of a duly authorized transfer agent of the Company).  No adjustment shall be made for dividends, distributions or other rights for which the record date is prior to the date such shares are issued, except as provided in Section 4.2 or another provision of the Plan.
Rights as a Stockholder.
 
13.5
 
  The Company shall not be required to issue fractional shares upon the exercise or settlement of any Award.
Fractional Shares.
 
13.6
 
.  Neither Awards made under this Plan nor shares of Stock or cash paid pursuant to such Awards shall be included as compensation for purposes of computing the benefits payable to any Participant under any Participating Companys retirement plans (both qualified and non-qualified) or welfare benefit plans unless such other plan expressly provides that such compensation shall be taken into account in computing such benefits.
Retirement and Welfare Plans
 
13.7
 
.  If any one or more of the provisions (or any part thereof) of this Plan shall be held invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, such provision shall be modified so as to make it valid, legal and enforceable, and the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions (or any part thereof) of the Plan shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
Severability
 
13.8
 
Nothing in this Plan shall be construed to: (a) limit, impair, or otherwise affect the Companys or another Participating Companys right or power to make adjustments, reclassifications, reorganizations, or changes of its capital or business structure, or to merge or consolidate, or dissolve, liquidate, sell, or transfer all or any part of its business or assets; or (b) limit the right or power of the Company or another Participating Company to take any action which such entity deems to be necessary or appropriate.
No Constraint on Corporate Action.  
 
13.9
 
  Except to the extent governed by applicable federal law, the validity, interpretation, construction and performance of the Plan and each Award Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California, without regard to its conflict of law rules.
Choice of Law.
 
13.10
 
.  The Plan or any increase in the maximum aggregate number of shares of Stock issuable thereunder as provided in Section 4.1 (the ) shall be approved by a majority of the outstanding securities of the Company entitled to vote within twelve (12) months before or after the date of adoption thereof by the Board.  Awards granted prior to security holder approval of the Plan or in excess of the Authorized Shares previously approved by the security holders shall become exercisable no earlier than the date of security holder approval of the Plan or such increase in the Authorized Shares, as the case may be.
Stockholder Approval
Authorized Shares
 
 
 
-18-
 

EXHIBIT 99.2
 
 
 
Pursuant to Section 12 of the SandForce, Inc. 2007 Stock Plan (the ), the Board of Directors (the ) of SandForce, Inc. has retained the authority to amend the Plan.  Effective October ___, 2011, the Board adopts this Amendment No. ____ to permit the grant of Restricted Stock Units under the plan.
Plan
Board
 
1.           Section 2.1(b) of the Plan and is deleted in its entirety and amended to read as follows:
 
(b)            means any Option, Restricted Stock Units Award or Stock Purchase Right granted under the Plan.
Award
 
2.           A New Section 7A shall be added to the Plan immediately following the existing Section 7 of the Plan as follows:
 
7A.           
Terms and Conditions of
 
Restricted Stock Unit Awards
 
Restricted Stock Unit Awards shall be evidenced by Award Agreements specifying the number of Restricted Stock Units subject to the Award, in such form as the Board shall from time to time establish.  Award Agreements evidencing Restricted Stock Units may incorporate all or any of the terms of the Plan by reference and shall comply with and be subject to the following terms and conditions:
 
7A.1           .  In addition to the definitions set forth in Section 2, the following terms shall have their respective meanings set forth below:
Additional Definitions
 
(a)            means the right of a Participant, granted at the discretion of the Board, to receive a credit for the account of such Participant in an amount equal to the cash dividends paid on one share of Stock represented by an Award held by a Participant.
Dividing Equivalent Right
 
(b)            means a Right granted pursuant to this Section 7A to receive on a future date or event a share of Stock or cash in lieu thereof, as determined by the Board.
Restricted Stock Unit
 
7A.2             Restricted Stock Unit Awards may be granted upon such conditions as the Board shall determine, including, without limitation, upon the attainment of one or more performance goals established by the Board.
Grant of Restricted Stock Unit Awards.
 
7A.3             No monetary payment (other than applicable tax withholding, if any) shall be required as a condition of receiving a Restricted Stock Unit Award, the consideration for which shall be services actually rendered to a Participating Company or for its benefit.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if required by applicable state corporate law, the Participant shall furnish consideration in the form of cash or past services rendered to a
Purchase Price.
Participating Company or for its benefit having a value not less than the par value of the shares of Stock issued upon settlement of the Restricted Stock Unit Award.
 
 
 
 
7A.4             Restricted Stock Unit Awards may (but need not) be made subject to vesting conditions based upon the satisfaction of such Service requirements, conditions, restrictions or performance criteria as shall be approved by the Board and set forth in the Award Agreement evidencing such Award.
Vesting
 
7A.5             Participants shall have no voting rights with respect to shares of Stock represented by Restricted Stock Units until the date of the issuance of such shares (as evidenced by the appropriate entry on the books of the Company or of a duly authorized transfer agent of the Company).  However, the Board, in its discretion, may provide in the Award Agreement evidencing any Restricted Stock Unit Award that the Participant shall be entitled to Dividend Equivalent Rights with respect to the payment of cash dividends on Stock during the period beginning on the date such Award is granted and ending, with respect to each share subject to the Award, on the earlier of the date the Award is settled or the date on which it is terminated.  Such Dividend Equivalent Rights, if any, shall be paid by crediting the Participant with additional whole Restricted Stock Units as of the date of payment of such cash dividends on Stock.  The number of additional Restricted Stock Units (rounded down to the nearest whole number) to be so credited shall be determined by dividing (a) the amount of cash dividends paid on such date with respect to the number of shares of Stock represented by the Restricted Stock Units previously credited to the Participant by (b) the Fair Market Value per share of Stock on such date.  Such additional Restricted Stock Units shall be subject to the same terms and conditions and shall be settled in the same manner and at the same time as the Restricted Stock Units originally subject to the Restricted Stock Unit Award.  In the event of a dividend or distribution paid in shares of Stock or other property or any other adjustment made upon a change in the capital structure of the Company as described in Section 4.2, appropriate adjustments shall be made in the Participants Restricted Stock Unit Award so that it represents the right to receive upon settlement any and all new, substituted or additional securities or other property (other than regular, periodic cash dividends) to which the Participant would be entitled by reason of the shares of Stock issuable upon settlement of the Award, and all such new, substituted or additional securities or other property shall be immediately subject to the same vesting conditions as are applicable to the Award.
Voting Rights, Dividend Equivalent Rights and Distributions
 
7A.6             Unless otherwise provided by the Board and set forth in the Award Agreement evidencing a Restricted Stock Unit Award, if a Participants Service terminates for any reason, whether voluntary or involuntary (including the Participants death or disability), then the Participant shall forfeit to the Company any Restricted Stock Units pursuant to the Award which remain subject to vesting conditions as of the date of the Participants termination of Service.
Effect of Termination of Service.
 
-2-
 
 
7A.7             The Company shall issue to a Participant on the date on which Restricted Stock Units subject to the Participants Restricted Stock Unit Award vest or on such other date determined by the Board, in its discretion, and set forth in the Award Agreement one (1) share of Stock (and/or any other new, substituted or additional securities or other property pursuant to an adjustment described in
Settlement of Restricted Stock Unit Awards.
Section 7A.5) for each Restricted Stock Unit then becoming vested or otherwise to be settled on such date, subject to the withholding of applicable taxes, if any.  If permitted by the Board, the Participant may elect, consistent with the requirements of Section 409A, to defer receipt of all or any portion of the shares of Stock or other property otherwise issuable to the Participant pursuant to this Section, and such deferred issuance date(s) and amount(s) elected by the Participant shall be set forth in the Award Agreement.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Board, in its discretion, may provide for settlement of any Restricted Stock Unit Award by payment to the Participant in cash of an amount equal to the Fair Market Value on the payment date of the shares of Stock or other property otherwise issuable to the Participant pursuant to this Section.
 
7A.8           The right to receive shares pursuant to a Restricted Stock Unit Award shall not be subject in any manner to anticipation, alienation, sale, exchange, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance, or garnishment by creditors of the Participant or the Participants beneficiary, except transfer by will or by the laws of descent and distribution.  All rights with respect to a Restricted Stock Unit Award granted to a Participant hereunder shall be exercisable during his or her lifetime only by such Participant or the Participants guardian or legal representative.
Nontransferability of Restricted Stock Unit Awards.
 
 
 
-3-
 

EXHIBIT 99.3
 
THE SECURITIES WHICH ARE THE SUBJECT OF THIS AGREEMENT HAVE NOT BEEN QUALIFIED WITH THE COMMISSIONER OF CORPORATIONS OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA AND THE ISSUANCE OF SUCH SECURITIES OR THE PAYMENT OR RECEIPT OF ANY PART OF THE CONSIDERATION THEREFOR PRIOR TO SUCH QUALIFICATION IS UNLAWFUL, UNLESS THE SALE OF SECURITIES IS EXEMPT FROM QUALIFICATION BY SECTION 25100, 25102, OR 25105 OF THE CALIFORNIA CORPORATIONS CODE.  THE RIGHTS OF ALL PARTIES TO THIS AGREEMENT ARE EXPRESSLY CONDITIONED UPON SUCH QUALIFICATION BEING OBTAINED, UNLESS THE SALE IS SO EXEMPT.
 
THE SECURITIES WHICH ARE THE SUBJECT OF THIS AGREEMENT HAVE BEEN ACQUIRED FOR INVESTMENT AND NOT WITH A VIEW TO, OR IN CONNECTION WITH, THE SALE OR DISTRIBUTION THEREOF.  NO SUCH SALE OR DISPOSITION MAY BE EFFECTED WITHOUT AN EFFECTIVE REGISTRATION STATEMENT RELATED THERETO OR AN OPINION OF COUNSEL SATISFACTORY TO THE COMPANY THAT SUCH REGISTRATION IS NOT REQUIRED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933.
 
 
THIS RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS AGREEMENT (the ) is made and entered into as of October 14, 2011 (the ), by and between SandForce, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ), and Farbod Michael Raam (the ).
Agreement
Grant Date
Company
Grantee
 
1.
 
.
Definitions and Construction
 
1.1
 
. Capitalized terms used herein shall have the following meanings.
Definitions
 
(a)
 
 means the Board of Directors of the Company.  If one or more committees of the Board of Directors have been appointed by the Board to administer this Agreement,  also means such committee(s).
Board
Board
 
(b)
 
 means the occurrence of any of the following:
Cause
 
(i)
 
gross negligence or misconduct in the performance of Grantees duties to the Company where such gross negligence or misconduct has resulted or is likely to result in substantial damage to the Company;
 
(ii)
 
failure or inability of Grantee to perform any assigned duties after written notice from the Company to Grantee of, and a reasonable opportunity to cure, such failure or inability;
 
(iii)
 
commission by Grantee of any act of fraud with respect to the Company or any of its affiliates causing material harm to the business, assets or reputation of the Company or any of its affiliates;
 
 
 
 
 
(iv)
 
conviction (including any plea of guilty or no contest) of a felony or a crime involving moral turpitude by Grantee; or
 
(v)
 
Grantees unauthorized use or disclosure of the confidential information or trade secrets of the Company or any of its affiliates which use causes or is likely to cause material harm to the Company or any of its affiliates.
 
(c)
 
 shall mean:
Change in Control
 
(i)
 
a merger or consolidation or the sale or exchange by the stockholders of the Company of all or substantially all of the capital stock of the Company, where the stockholders of the Company immediately before such transaction do not obtain or retain, directly or indirectly, a majority of the beneficial interest in the voting stock or other voting equity of the surviving or acquiring corporation or other surviving or acquiring entity, in substantially the same proportion as before such transaction, or
 
(ii)
 
the sale or exchange of all or substantially all of the Companys assets (other than a sale or transfer to a Participating Company) where the stockholders of the Company immediately before such sale or exchange do not obtain or retain, directly or indirectly, at least a majority of the beneficial interest in the voting stock or other voting equity of the corporation or other entity acquiring the Companys assets, in substantially the same proportion as before such transaction.
 
(d)
 
 means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and any applicable regulations and administrative guidelines promulgated thereunder.
Code
 
(e)
 
 means the milestone based on achievement of customer and marketing goals agreed to between the Grantee and the Company in writing with respect to the Companys performance which must generally be achieved in order for certain Units to become Vested Units pursuant to Section 3.4.
Customer and Marketing Milestone
 
(f)
 
 mean additional Restricted Stock Units credited pursuant to Section 2.3.
Dividend Equivalent Units
 
(g)
 
 means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
 
(h)
 
 means as of any date, the value of a share of Stock or other property as determined by the Board, in its discretion, or by the Company, in its discretion, if such determination is expressly allocated to the Company herein, subject to the following:
Fair Market Value
 
(i)
 
If, on such date, the Stock is listed or quoted on a national or regional securities exchange or quotation system, the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock shall be the closing price of a share of Stock as quoted on the national or regional securities exchange or quotation system constituting the primary market for the Stock, as reported in or such other source as the Company deems reliable.  If the relevant date does not fall on a day on which the Stock has traded on such securities exchange or quotation system, the date on which the Fair Market Value shall be established shall be the last day on which the Stock was so traded or quoted prior to the relevant date, or such other appropriate day as shall be determined by the Board, in its discretion.
The Wall Street Journal
 
 
-2-
 
 
(ii)
 
If, on such date, the Stock is not listed or quoted on a national or regional securities exchange or quotation system, the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock shall be as determined by the Board in good faith without regard to any restriction other than a restriction which, by its terms, will never lapse.
 
(i)
 
 means the financial milestone agreed to between the Grantee and the Company in writing with respect to the Companys financial performance which must be generally achieved in order for certain Units to become Vested Units pursuant to Section 3.2.
Financial Milestone
 
(j)
 
 means the Grantees termination of his Service no later than ninety (90) days following, the initial occurrence of any of the following conditions, provided the Grantee has provided written notice of the occurrence of the existence of the condition giving rise to Good Reason to the Company (or its successor) and the Company (or its successor) has had a period of at least thirty (30) days to cure the cause of the Good Reason.  The following conditions shall constitute cause for a termination on account of Good Reason:
Good Reason
 
(i)
 
any change in Grantees job duties, responsibilities and requirements that is materially adverse to Grantee relative to that which was in effect immediately prior to the change, provided that a change in Grantees job duties, responsibilities and requirements following a Change in Control shall not constitute Good Reason so long as Grantee retains substantially the same duties, responsibilities and requirements of a division, subsidiary or business unit that constitutes substantially the business of the Company following the Change in Control;
 
(ii)
 
any material reduction of Grantees base salary from that which was in effect immediately prior to the reduction (other than (A) in connection with a general decrease in the salary of all similarly situated employees and (B) in connection with a Change of Control to the extent necessary to make Grantees salary commensurate with those other employees of the Company or its successor entity or parent entity who are similarly situated with Grantee following such Change of Control); or
 
(iii)
 
the relocation of Grantees place of employment by more than fifty (50) miles from the current location.
 
(k)
 
 means (i) the closing of a Change in Control of the Company; or (ii) one hundred eighty (180) days after the closing pursuant to the sale of securities by the Company in an underwritten initial public offering.
Liquidity Event
 
(l)
 
 means the Company and any subsidiary or parent of the Company (as such terms are defined in Section 424 of the Code).
Participating Company
 
(m)
 
 means all entities which collectively are Participating Companies.
Participating Company Group
 
 
-3-
 
 
(n)
 
 means the milestone based on achievement of product and technology goals agreed to between the Grantee and the Company in writing with respect to the Companys performance which must generally be achieved in order to certain Units to become Vested Unites pursuant to Section 3.3.
Product and Technology Milestone
 
(o)
 
 means that the Grantees Service is terminated by the Participating Company Group without Cause, or the Grantee terminates his Service due to Good Reason.
Qualifying Termination
 
(p)
 
 means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Securities Act
 
(q)
 
 means the Grantees employment or service with any Participating Company as an employee, director, or consultant.  The Grantees Service shall not be deemed to have terminated merely because of a change in the capacity in which the Grantee renders such Service or a change in the Participating Company for which the Grantee renders such Service, provided that there is no interruption or termination of the Grantees Service.  Furthermore, the Grantees Service shall not be deemed to have been interrupted or terminated if the Grantee takes any military leave, sick leave, or other bona fide leave of absence approved by the Company.
Service
 
(r)
 
 means, with respect to any Unit, the date on which one (1) share of Stock is to be issued in settlement of such Unit determined in accordance with Section 5.1.
Settlement Date
 
(s)
 
 means the common stock of the Company, subject to adjustment as provided by Section 7.
Stock
 
(t)
 
 means Three Hundred Twenty Thousand (320,000) Units, subject to adjustment as provided by Section 7.
Total Number of Units
 
(u)
 
 means the written policy of the Company pertaining to the purchase, sale, transfer or other disposition of the Companys equity securities by directors, officers, employees or other service providers who may possess material, nonpublic information regarding the Company or its securities.
Trading Compliance Policy
 
(v)
 
 means a right to receive on the applicable Settlement Date and in accordance with this Agreement one (1) share of Stock, including the Units originally granted pursuant to this Agreement and the Dividend Equivalent Units credited pursuant to Section 2.3, as both shall be adjusted from time to time pursuant to Section 7.
Unit
 
(w)
 
 means a Unit that has vested and ceased to be subject to the Company Reacquisition Right in accordance with Section 3.
Vested Unit
 
1.2
 
.  Captions and titles contained herein are for convenience only and shall not affect the meaning or interpretation of any provision of this Agreement.  Except when otherwise indicated by the context, the singular shall include the plural and the plural shall include the singular.  Use of the term or is not intended to be exclusive, unless the context clearly requires otherwise.
Construction
 
 
-4-
 
 
2.
 
.
The Award
 
2.1
 
.  On the Grant Date, the Grantee shall acquire, subject to the provisions of this Agreement, the Total Number of Units, subject to adjustment as provided in Section 7.  Each Unit represents a right to receive on the applicable Settlement Date and in accordance with this Agreement one (1) share of Stock.
Grant of Units
 
2.2
 
.  The Grantee is not required to make any monetary payment (other than applicable tax withholding, if any) as a condition to receiving the Units or shares of Stock issued upon settlement of the Units, the consideration for which shall be future services to be rendered to a Participating Company or for its benefit.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if required by applicable law, the Grantee shall furnish consideration in the form of cash or past services rendered to a Participating Company or for its benefit having a value not less than the par value of the shares of Stock issued upon settlement of the Units.
No Monetary Payment Required
 
2.3
 
.  On the date that the Company pays a cash dividend or other cash distribution to holders of Stock generally, the Grantee shall be credited with a number of additional whole Dividend Equivalent Units determined by dividing (a) the product of (i) the dollar amount of the cash dividend or distribution paid per share of Stock on such date and (ii) the total number of Units previously credited to the Participant pursuant to this Agreement which have not been settled or forfeited pursuant to the Company Reacquisition Right (as defined below) as of such date, by (b) the Fair Market Value per share of Stock on such date.  Any resulting fractional Dividend Equivalent Unit shall be rounded down to the nearest whole number.  Such additional Dividend Equivalent Units shall be subject to the same terms and conditions and shall be settled or forfeited in the same manner and at the same time as the Units originally subject to this Agreement with respect to which they have been credited.
Dividend Equivalent Units
 
3.
 
.
Vesting of Units
 
3.1
 
.  One Hundred Thousand (100,000) of the Units shall be subject to this Section 3.1.  These Units shall become Vested Units only if a Liquidity Event occurs prior to October 1, 2018.  The Units subject to this Section 3.1 shall become Vested Units as follows:
Time-Based Vesting
 
(a)
 
Upon the occurrence of a Liquidity Event prior to October 1, 2018, the number of Vested Units shall equal one-forty-eighth (1/48) of the Units subject to this Section 3.1 for each full month of Service from June 3, 2011.  If the Grantees Service has terminated prior to the occurrence of such a Liquidity Event, then all remaining unvested Units subject to this Section 3.1 shall be forfeited.
 
(b)
 
If a Liquidity Event occurs prior to October 1, 2018 and the Units subject to this Section 3.1 are not fully vested in accordance with Section 3.1(a), then the Units subject to this Section 3.1 will continue to vest on a monthly basis based on the rate set forth in Section 3.1(a) provided the Grantee remains in Service.  Thereafter, upon the Grantees termination of Service, except as provided in Section 3.5, all unvested Units subject to this Section 3.1 shall be forfeited.
 
 
-5-
 
 
(c)
 
If a Liquidity Event does not occur prior to October 1, 2018, all Units subject to this Section 3.1 shall be forfeited.
 
3.2
 
.  Fifty Thousand (50,000) of the Units shall be subject to this Section 3.2.  These Units shall become Vested Units only if a Liquidity Event occurs prior to October 1, 2018 and the Financial Milestone is satisfied prior to October 1, 2018.  The Units subject to this Section 3.2 shall become Vested Units as follows:
Financial Milestone-Based Vesting
 
(a)
 
Upon the occurrence of a Liquidity Event and the satisfaction of the Financial Milestone prior to October 1, 2018, the number of vested Units shall equal one-forty-eighth (1/48) of the Units subject to this Section 3.2 for each full month of Service from the date the Financial Milestone is satisfied.  If the Grantees Service has terminated prior to the occurrence of a Liquidity Event and the satisfaction of the Financial Milestone, then, except as set forth in Section 3.5, all unvested Units subject to this Section 3.2 shall be forfeited.
 
(b)
 
If both the Financial Milestone is satisfied and a Liquidity Event occurs prior to October 1, 2018, and the Units subject to this Section 3.2 are not fully vested in accordance with Section 3.2(a), then the Units subject to this Section 3.2 will continue to vest on a monthly basis based on the rate set forth in Section 3.2(a) following satisfaction of the Financial Milestone provided the Grantee remains in Service.  Thereafter, upon the Grantees termination of Service, except as provided in Section 3.5, all unvested Units subject to this Section 3.2 shall be forfeited.
 
(c)
 
Except as provided in Section 3.5, if either the Financial Milestone is not satisfied, or a Liquidity Event does not occur, prior to October 1, 2018 all Units subject to this Section 3.2 shall be forfeited.
 
3.3
 
.  Eighty-Five Thousand (85,000) of the Units shall be subject to this Section 3.3.  These Units shall become Vested Units only if a Liquidity Event occurs prior to October 1, 2018 and the Product and Technology Milestone is satisfied prior to October 18, 2018.  The Units subject to this Section 3.3 shall become Vested Units as follows:
Product and Technology Milestone-Based Vesting
 
(a)
 
Upon the occurrence of a Liquidity Event and the satisfaction of the Product and Technology Milestone prior to October 1, 2018, the number of Vested Units shall equal one-forty-eighth (1/48) of the Units subject to this Section 3.3 for each full month of Service from the date the Product and Technology Milestone is satisfied.  If the Grantees Service has terminated prior to the occurrence of a Liquidity Event and the satisfaction of the Product and Technology Milestone, then, except as set forth in Section 3.5, all unvested Units subject to this Section 3.3 shall be forfeited.
 
 
-6-
 
 
(b)
 
If both the Product and Technology Milestone is satisfied and a Liquidity Event occurs prior to October 1, 2018, and the Units subject to this Section 3.3 are not fully vested in accordance with Section 3.3(a), then the Units subject to this Section 3.3 will continue to vest on a monthly basis based on the rate set forth in Section 3.3(a) following satisfaction of the Product and Technology Milestone provided the Grantee remains in Service.  Thereafter, upon the Grantees termination of Service, except as provided in Section 3.5, all unvested Units subject to this Section 3.3 shall be forfeited.
 
(c)
 
Except as provided in Section 3.5, if either the Product and Technology Milestone is not satisfied, or a Liquidity Event does not occur, prior to October 1, 2018 all Units subject to this Section 3.3 shall be forfeited.
 
3.4
 
.  Eighty-Five Thousand (85,000) of the Units shall be subject to this Section 3.4.  These Units shall become Vested Units only if a Liquidity Event occurs prior to October 1, 2018 and the Customer and Marketing Milestone is satisfied prior to October 1, 2018.  The Units subject to this Section 3.4 shall become Vested Units as follows:
Customer and Marketing Milestone-Based Vesting
 
(a)
 
Upon the occurrence of a Liquidity Event and the satisfaction of the Customer and Marketing Milestone prior to October 1, 2018, the number of Vested Units shall equal one-forty-eighth (1/48) of the Units subject to this Section 3.4 for each full month of Service from the date the Product and Technology Milestone is satisfied.  If the Grantees Service has terminated prior to the occurrence of a Liquidity Event and the satisfaction of the Customer and Marketing Milestone, then, except as set forth in Section 3.5, all unvested Units subject to this Section 3.4 shall be forfeited.
 
(b)
 
If both the Customer and Marketing Milestone is satisfied and a Liquidity Event occurs prior to October 1, 2018, and the Units subject to this Section 3.3 are not fully vested in accordance with Section 3.4(a), then the Units subject to this Section 3.3 will continue to vest on a monthly basis based on the rate set forth in Section 3.3(a) following satisfaction of the Product and Technology Milestone provided the Grantee remains in Service.  Thereafter, upon the Grantees termination of Service, except as provided in Section 3.5, all unvested Units subject to this Section 3.4 shall be forfeited.
 
(c)
 
Except as provided in Section 3.5, if either the Customer and Marketing Milestone is not satisfied, or a Liquidity Event does not occur, prior to October 1, 2018 all Units subject to this Section 3.4 shall be forfeited.
 
3.5
 
.  Notwithstanding anything in Sections 3.1 through 3.4 to the contrary, if a Change in Control occurs on or before October 1, 2018, and a Qualifying Termination occurs within twelve (12) months of the consummation of the Change in Control, all Units which are unvested shall accelerate and become Vested Units effective upon the Qualifying Termination.
Accelerated Vesting Resulting From A Qualifying Termination
 
3.6
 
.  If, in connection with a Change in Control, the vesting of any Units, together with any other payment or benefit received or to be received by the Grantee (collectively, the ), would subject the Grantee to any excise tax pursuant to Section 4999 of the Code () due to the characterization of such vesting, payment or benefit as an excess parachute payment under Section 280G of the Code, then, notwithstanding the provisions of this Agreement to the contrary, then the Payments to be received by Grantee shall not exceed the amount which produces the greatest after-tax benefit to the Grantee.  For purposes of the foregoing, the greatest after-tax benefit shall be determined and reported in writing by the professional firm engaged by the Company for general tax purposes as of the day prior to the date of the event that might reasonably be anticipated to result in Payments that would otherwise be subject to the Excise Tax.  If the tax firm so engaged by the Company is serving as accountant or auditor for the acquiring company, the Company will appoint a nationally recognized tax firm to make the determinations required by this Section.  The Company will bear all expenses with respect to the determinations by such firm required to be made by this Section.  The Company and the Grantee shall furnish such tax firm such information and documents as the tax firm may reasonably request in order to make its required determination.  The tax firm will provide its calculations, together with detailed supporting documentation, to the Company and the Grantee as soon as practicable following its engagement.  Any good faith determinations of the tax firm made hereunder will be final, binding and conclusive upon the Company and the Grantee.
Excess Parachute Payments
Payments
Excise Tax
 
 
-7-
 
 
4.
 
.
Company Reacquisition Right
 
4.1
 
.  Except as provided by Section 3.5, in the event that the Grantees Service terminates for any reason or no reason, with or without cause, the Grantee shall forfeit and the Company shall automatically reacquire all Units which are not, as of the time of such termination, Vested Units (), and the Grantee shall not be entitled to any payment therefor (the ).
Grant of Company Reacquisition Right
Unvested Units
Company Reacquisition Right
 
4.2
 
.  Upon the occurrence of a dividend or distribution to the stockholders of the Company paid in shares of Stock or other property, or any other adjustment upon a change in the capital structure of the Company as described in Section 7, any and all new, substituted or additional securities or other property to which the Grantee may become entitled upon the vesting of Unvested Units shall be immediately subject to the Company Reacquisition Right and included in the terms Units and Unvested Units for all purposes of the Company Reacquisition Right with the same force and effect as the Unvested Units immediately prior to the dividend, distribution or adjustment, as the case may be.  For purposes of determining the number of Vested Units following a dividend, distribution or adjustment, credited Service shall include all Service with any member of the Participating Company Group at the time the Service is rendered, whether or not such corporation is a Participating Company both before and after any such event.
Dividends, Distributions and Adjustments
 
5.
 
.
Settlement of the Units
 
5.1
 
.  Subject to the provisions of Section 5.3 below, the Company shall issue to the Grantee on the applicable Settlement Date with respect to each Vested Unit to be settled on such date one (1) share of Stock.  Shares of Stock issued in settlement of Units shall not be subject to any restriction on transfer other than any such restriction as may be required pursuant to Sections 5.3 and 12, or the Companys Trading Compliance Policy.  The Settlement Date shall occur within thirty (30) days of the date on which any Unit become a Vested Unit, provided, however, that if a sale by the Grantee of the shares of Stock issuable in settlement of Vested Units on any such date would be prohibited by the Companys Trading Compliance Policy or by Rule 10b-5 under the Exchange Act or would subject the Grantee to suit under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act, then the Settlement Date with respect to such Vested Units shall be the first succeeding business day on which a sale of such shares by the Grantee would not be prohibited by either the Trading Compliance Policy or Rule 10b-5 and would not be subject to suit under Section 16(b), but in no event shall the Settlement Date with respect to such Vested Units be later than December 31 of the calendar year.
Issuance of Shares of Stock
 
 
-8-
 
 
5.2
 
.  The Grantee hereby authorizes the Company, in its sole discretion, to deposit any or all shares acquired by the Grantee pursuant to the settlement of the Units with the Companys transfer agent, including any successor transfer agent, to be held in book entry form, or to deposit such shares for the benefit of the Grantee with any broker with which the Grantee has an account relationship of which the Company has notice.  Except as provided by the foregoing, a certificate for the shares acquired by the Grantee shall be registered in the name of the Grantee, or, if applicable, in the names of the heirs of the Grantee.
Beneficial Ownership of Shares; Certificate Registration
 
5.3
 
.  The grant of the Units and issuance of shares of Stock upon settlement of the Units shall be subject to compliance with all applicable requirements of federal, state or foreign law with respect to such securities.  No shares of Stock may be issued hereunder if the issuance of such shares would constitute a violation of any applicable federal, state or foreign securities laws or other law or regulations or the requirements of any stock exchange or market system upon which the Stock may then be listed.  The inability of the Company to obtain from any regulatory body having jurisdiction the authority, if any, deemed by the Companys legal counsel to be necessary to the lawful issuance of any shares subject to this Agreement shall relieve the Company of any liability in respect of the failure to issue such shares as to which such requisite authority shall not have been obtained.  As a condition to the settlement of the Units, the Company may require the Grantee to satisfy any qualifications that may be necessary or appropriate, to evidence compliance with any applicable law or regulation and to make any representation or warranty with respect thereto as may be requested by the Company.
Restrictions on Grant of the Units and Issuance of Shares
 
5.4
 
.  The Company shall not be required to issue fractional shares upon the settlement of the Units.
Fractional Shares
 
6.
 
.
Tax Withholding
 
6.1
 
.  At the time this Agreement is executed, or at any time thereafter as requested by a Participating Company, the Grantee hereby authorizes withholding from payroll and any other amounts payable to the Grantee, and otherwise agrees to make adequate provision for, any sums required to satisfy the federal, state, local and foreign tax (including any social insurance) withholding obligations of the Participating Company, if any, which arise in connection with the grant of Units, the vesting of Units or the issuance of shares of Stock in settlement thereof.  The Company shall have no obligation to deliver shares of Stock until the tax withholding obligations of the Participating Company have been satisfied by the Grantee.
In General
 
6.2
 
.  Subject to compliance with applicable law and the Companys Trading Compliance Policy, if permitted by the Company, the Grantee may satisfy the Participating Companys tax withholding obligations in accordance with procedures established by the Company providing for delivery by the Grantee to the Company or a broker approved by the Company of properly executed instructions, in a form approved by the Company, providing for the assignment to the Company of the proceeds of a sale with respect to some or all of the shares being acquired upon settlement of Units.
Assignment of Sale Proceeds
 
 
-9-
 
 
6.3
 
.  The Company shall have the right, but not the obligation, to require the Grantee to satisfy all or any portion of a Participating Companys tax withholding obligations by deducting from the shares of Stock otherwise deliverable to the Grantee in settlement of the Units a number of whole shares having a fair market value, as determined by the Company as of the date on which the tax withholding obligations arise, not in excess of the amount of such tax withholding obligations determined by the applicable minimum statutory withholding rates.
Withholding in Shares
 
7.
 
.
Adjustments for Changes in Capital Structure
 
Subject to any required action by the stockholders of the Company and the requirements of Section 409A of the Code to the extent applicable, in the event of any change in the Stock effected without receipt of consideration by the Company, whether through merger, consolidation, reorganization, reincorporation, recapitalization, reclassification, stock dividend, stock split, reverse stock split, split-up, split-off, spin-off, combination of shares, exchange of shares, or similar change in the capital structure of the Company, or in the event of payment of a dividend or distribution to the stockholders of the Company in a form other than Stock (other than regular, periodic cash dividends paid on Stock pursuant to the Companys dividend policy) that has a material effect on the Fair Market Value of shares of Stock, appropriate and proportionate adjustments shall be made in the number of Units subject to this Agreement and/or the number and kind of shares or other property to be issued in settlement of the Units, in order to prevent dilution or enlargement of the Grantees rights under this Agreement.  For purposes of the foregoing, conversion of any convertible securities of the Company shall not be treated as effected without receipt of consideration by the Company.  Any and all new, substituted or additional securities or other property (other than regular, periodic cash dividends paid on Stock pursuant to the Companys dividend policy) to which the Grantee is entitled by reason of ownership of Units acquired pursuant to this Agreement will be immediately subject to the provisions of this Agreement on the same basis as all Units originally acquired hereunder.  Any fractional Unit or share resulting from an adjustment pursuant to this Section shall be rounded down to the nearest whole number.  Such adjustments shall be determined by the Board, and its determination shall be final, binding and conclusive.
 
8.
 
.
Effect of a Change in Control
 
In the event of a Change in Control, the surviving, continuing, successor, or purchasing entity or parent thereof, as the case may be (the ), may assume or continue the Companys rights and obligations under this Agreement that are outstanding immediately prior to the Change in Control or substitute for each outstanding Unit a substantially equivalent right with respect to the Acquirors stock.  For purposes of this Section, a Unit shall be deemed assumed if, following the Change in Control, the Unit confers the right to receive, subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the consideration (whether stock, cash, other securities or property or a combination thereof) to which a holder of a share of Stock on the effective date of the Change in Control was entitled (and if holders were offered a choice of consideration, the type of consideration chosen by the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of Stock).  If any portion of such consideration may be received by holders of Stock pursuant to the Change in Control on a contingent or delayed basis, the Board may, in its sole discretion, determine such Fair Market Value per share as of the time of the Change in Control on the basis of the Boards good faith estimate of the present value of the probable future payment of such consideration.  All Unvested Units which are neither assumed, continued or substituted for by the Acquiror in connection with the Change in Control shall accelerate and become Vested Units immediately prior to, but contingent upon the consummation of the Change in Control.
Acquiror
 
 
-10-
 
 
9.
 
.
Rights as a Stockholder or Employee
 
The Grantee shall have no rights as a stockholder with respect to any shares which may be issued in settlement of the Units until the date of the issuance of such shares (as evidenced by the appropriate entry on the books of the Company or of a duly authorized transfer agent of the Company).  No adjustment shall be made for dividends, distributions or other rights for which the record date is prior to the date the shares are issued, except as provided in Section 7.  The Grantee understands and acknowledges that, except as otherwise provided in a separate, written employment agreement between a Participating Company and the Grantee, the Grantees employment is at will and is for no specified term.  Nothing in this Agreement shall confer upon the Grantee any right to continue in the Service of a Participating Company or interfere in any way with any right of a Participating Company to terminate the Grantees Service at any time.
 
10.
 
.
Legends
 
The Company may at any time place legends referencing any applicable federal, state or foreign securities law restrictions on all certificates representing shares of stock issued pursuant to this Agreement.  The Grantee shall, at the request of the Company, promptly present to the Company any and all certificates representing shares acquired pursuant to this Agreement in the possession of the Grantee in order to carry out the provisions of this Section.  Unless otherwise specified by the Company, legends placed on such certificates may include, but shall not be limited to, the following:
 
THE SECURITIES EVIDENCED BY THIS CERTIFICATE HAVE NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED, AND MAY NOT BE SOLD, TRANSFERRED, ASSIGNED OR HYPOTHECATED UNLESS THERE IS AN EFFECTIVE REGISTRATION STATEMENT UNDER SUCH ACT COVERING SUCH SECURITIES, THE SALE IS MADE IN ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 144 OR RULE 701 UNDER THE ACT, OR THE COMPANY RECEIVES AN OPINION OF COUNSEL REASONABLY SATISFACTORY TO THE COMPANY, STATING THAT SUCH SALE, TRANSFER, ASSIGNMENT OR HYPOTHECATION IS EXEMPT FROM THE REGISTRATION AND PROSPECTUS DELIVERY REQUIREMENTS OF SUCH ACT.
 
 
-11-
 
11.
 
.
Compliance with Section 409A
 
It is intended that any election, payment or benefit which is made or provided pursuant to or in connection with this Agreement be exempt from Section 409A of the Code under the short-term deferral exception.  Accordingly, this Agreement shall be interpreted, construed and administered this intent.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any payment or benefit which is made or provided hereunder is treated as the deferral of compensation within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code (), then this Agreement shall be interpreted, construed, and administered such that it complies in all respects with the applicable requirements of Section 409A of the Code (including applicable regulations or other administrative guidance thereunder, as determined by the Board in good faith) to avoid the unfavorable tax consequences provided therein from non-compliance.  In connection the foregoing, the following provisions shall apply:
Section 409A Deferred Compensation
 
11.1
 
.  Notwithstanding anything set forth herein to the contrary, no amount payable pursuant to this Agreement on account of the Grantees termination of Service which constitutes Section 409A Deferred Compensation shall be paid unless and until the Grantee has incurred a separation from service within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code.  Furthermore, to the extent that the Grantee is a specified employee within the meaning of the Section 409A as of the date of the Grantees separation from service, no amount that constitutes a deferral of compensation which is payable on account of the Grantees separation from service shall be paid to the Grantee before the date (the ) which is first day of the seventh month after the date of the Grantees separation from service or, if earlier, the date of the Grantees death following such separation from service.  All such amounts that would, but for this Section, become payable prior to the Delayed Payment Date will be accumulated and paid on the Delayed Payment Date.
Separation from Service; Required Delay in Payment to Specified Grantee
Delayed Payment Date
 
11.2
 
.  Neither the Grantee nor the Company shall take any action to accelerate or delay the payment of any benefits under this Agreement in any manner which would not be in compliance with Section 409A of the Code.
Other Changes in Time of Payment
 
11.3
 
.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement to the contrary, the Company is authorized to amend this Agreement, to void or amend any election made by the Grantee under this Agreement and/or to delay the payment of any monies and/or provision of any benefits in such manner as may be determined by the Company, in its discretion, to be necessary or appropriate to comply with, or be exempt from, Section 409A of the Code without prior notice to or consent of the Grantee.  The Grantee hereby releases and holds harmless the Company, its directors, officers and stockholders from any and all claims that may arise from or relate to any tax liability, penalties, interest, costs, fees or other liability incurred by the Grantee in connection with this Agreement, including as a result of the application of Section 409A of the Code.
Amendments to Comply with or be Exempt From Section 409A; Indemnification
 
11.4
 
.  The Company has not obtained a tax ruling or other confirmation from the Internal Revenue Service with regard to the application of Section 409A to this Agreement, and the Company does not represent or warrant that this Agreement will avoid adverse tax consequences to the Grantee, including as a result of the application of Section 409A of the Code.  The Grantee hereby acknowledges that he or she has been advised to seek the advice of his or her own independent tax advisor prior to entering into this Agreement and is not relying upon any representations of the Company or any of its agents as to the effect of or the advisability of entering into this Agreement.
Advice of Independent Tax Advisor
 
 
-12-
 
 
12.
 
.
Lock-Up Agreement
 
The Grantee hereby agrees that in the event of any underwritten public offering of stock, including an initial public offering of stock, made by the Company pursuant to an effective registration statement filed under the Securities Act, the Grantee shall not offer, sell, contract to sell, pledge, hypothecate, grant any option to purchase or make any short sale of, or otherwise dispose of any shares of stock of the Company or any rights to acquire stock of the Company for such period of time from and after the effective date of such registration statement as may be established by the underwriter for such public offering; provided, however, that such period of time shall not exceed one hundred eighty (180) days from the effective date of the registration statement to be filed in connection with such public offering; provided, further, however, that such one hundred eighty (180) day period may be extended for an additional period, not to exceed twenty (20) days, upon the request of the Company or the underwriter to accommodate regulatory restrictions on (i) the publication or other distribution of research reports and (ii) analyst recommendations and opinions, including but not limited to, the restrictions contained in NASD Rule 2711(f)(4) or NYSE Rule 472(f)(4), or any successor provisions or amendments thereto).  The foregoing limitation shall not apply to shares registered in the public offering under the Securities Act.  The Grantee hereby agrees to enter into any agreement reasonably required by the underwriters to implement the foregoing within a reasonable timeframe if so requested by the Company.
 
13.
 
.
Restrictions on Transfer of Shares
 
No shares acquired pursuant to this Agreement may be sold, exchanged, transferred (including, without limitation, any transfer to a nominee or agent of the Grantee), assigned, pledged, hypothecated or otherwise disposed of, including by operation of law in any manner which violates any of the provisions of this Agreement, and any such attempted disposition shall be void.  The Company shall not be required (a) to transfer on its books any shares which will have been transferred in violation of any of the provisions set forth in this Agreement or (b) to treat as owner of such shares or to accord the right to vote as such owner or to pay dividends to any transferee to whom such shares will have been so transferred.
 
14.
 
.
Administration
 
All questions of interpretation concerning this Agreement or any other form of agreement or other document employed by the Company in the administration of this Agreement shall be determined by the Board.  All such determinations by the Board shall be final, binding and conclusive upon all persons having an interest in this Agreement, unless fraudulent or made in bad faith.  Any and all actions, decisions and determinations taken or made by the Board in the exercise of its discretion pursuant to this Agreement or other agreement thereunder (other than determining questions of interpretation pursuant to the preceding sentence) shall be final, binding and conclusive upon all persons having an interest in this Agreement.  Any officer of the Company shall have the authority to act on behalf of the Company with respect to any matter, right, obligation, or election which is the responsibility of or which is allocated to the Company herein, provided the officer has apparent authority with respect to such matter, right, obligation, or election.
 
 
-13-
 
 
15.
 
.
Representations and Warranties of Grantee
 
In connection with the acquisition of securities pursuant to this Agreement, the Grantee hereby agrees, represents and warrants as follows:
 
15.1
 
.  The Grantee is acquiring shares of Stock pursuant to this Agreement solely for the Grantees own account for investment and not with a view to or for sale in connection with any distribution of the shares or any portion thereof and not with any present intention of selling, offering to sell or otherwise disposing of or distributing the shares or any portion thereof in any transaction other than a transaction exempt from registration under the Securities Act.  The Grantee further represents that the entire legal and beneficial interest of the shares is being acquired, and will be held, for the account of the Grantee only and neither in whole nor in part for any other person.
Investment Intent
 
15.2
 
.  The Grantee was not presented with or solicited by any form of general solicitation or general advertising, including, but not limited to, any advertisement, article, notice, or other communication published in any newspaper, magazine, or similar media, or broadcast over television, radio or similar communications media, or presented at any seminar or meeting whose attendees have been invited by any general solicitation or general advertising.
Absence of Solicitation
 
15.3
 
.  The Grantee has either (a) a preexisting personal or business relationship with the Company or any of its officers, directors, or controlling persons, consisting of personal or business contacts of a nature and duration to enable the Grantee to be aware of the character, business acumen and general business and financial circumstances of the person with whom such relationship exists, or (b) such knowledge and experience in financial and business matters (or has relied on the financial and business knowledge and experience of the Grantees professional advisor who is unaffiliated with and who is not, directly or indirectly, compensated by the Company or any affiliate or selling agent of the Company) as to make the Grantee capable of evaluating the merits and risks of the investment in shares acquired pursuant to this Agreement and to protect the Grantees own interests in the transaction, or (c) both such relationship and such knowledge and experience.
Capacity to Protect Interests
 
15.4
 
.  The Grantee understands and acknowledges that:
Restricted Securities
 
(a)
 
The issuance to Grantee of shares pursuant to this Agreement has not been registered under the Securities Act of 1933, and the shares must be held indefinitely unless a transfer of the shares is subsequently registered under the Securities Act or an exemption from such registration is available, and that the Company is under no obligation to register the shares;
 
 
-14-
 
 
(b)
 
The Company will make a notation in its records of the aforementioned restrictions on transfer and legends.
 
15.5
 
.  The Grantee understands that the shares acquired pursuant to this Agreement are restricted securities within the meaning of Rule 144 promulgated under the Securities Act; that the exemption from registration under Rule 144 will not be available in any event for at least one year from the date of acquisition of the shares, and even then will not be available unless (a) a public trading market then exists for the shares, (b) adequate information concerning the Company is then available to the public, and (c) other terms and conditions of Rule 144 are complied with; and that any sale of the shares may be made only in limited amounts in accordance with such terms and conditions.  The Grantee further understands that the resale provisions of Rule 701 promulgated under the Securities Act, if available, will not apply until 90 days after the Company becomes subject to the reporting obligation under the Exchange Act.  There can be no assurance that the requirements of Rule 144 or Rule 701 will be met, or that the shares will ever be saleable.
Disposition Under Rules 144 and 701
 
15.6
 
.  The Grantee understands that the shares acquired pursuant to this Agreement have not been qualified under the Corporate Securities Law of 1968, as amended, of the State of California by reason of a specific exemption therefrom, which exemption depends upon, among other things, the bona fide nature of the Grantees representations as expressed herein.  The Grantee understands that the Company is relying on the Grantees representations and warrants that the Company is entitled to rely on such representations and that such reliance is reasonable.
Reliance by Company
 
16.
 
.
Miscellaneous Provisions
 
16.1
 
.  The Board may terminate or amend this Agreement at any time; provided, however, no such termination or amendment may adversely affect the Grantees rights under this Agreement without the consent of the Grantee unless such termination or amendment is necessary to comply with applicable law or government regulation, including, but not limited to, Section 409A of the Code.  No amendment or addition to this Agreement shall be effective unless in writing.
Termination or Amendment
 
16.2
 
.  Prior to the issuance of shares of Stock on the applicable Settlement Date, neither this Agreement nor any Units subject to this Agreement shall be subject in any manner to anticipation, alienation, sale, exchange, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance, or garnishment by creditors of the Grantee or the Grantees beneficiary, except transfer by will or by the laws of descent and distribution.  All rights with respect to this Agreement shall be exercisable during the Grantees lifetime only by the Grantee or the Grantees guardian or legal representative.
Nontransferability of Units
 
16.3
 
.  The parties hereto agree to execute such further instruments and to take such further action as may reasonably be necessary to carry out the intent of this Agreement.
Further Instruments
 
16.4
 
.  This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of the successors and assigns of the Company and, subject to the restrictions on transfer set forth herein, be binding upon the Grantee and the Grantees heirs, executors, administrators, successors and assigns.
Binding Effect
 
 
-15-
 
 
16.5
 
.  Any document relating to this Agreement or any notice required or permitted hereunder shall be given in writing and shall be deemed effectively given (except to the extent that this Agreement provides for effectiveness only upon actual receipt of such notice) upon personal delivery, electronic delivery at the e-mail address, if any, provided for the Grantee by a Participating Company, or upon deposit in the U.S. Post Office or foreign postal service, by registered or certified mail, or with a nationally recognized overnight courier service, with postage and fees prepaid, addressed to the other party at the address of such party set forth below or at such other address as such party may designate in writing from time to time to the other party.
Delivery of Documents and Notices
 
(a)
 
.  This Agreement and any reports of the Company provided generally to the Companys stockholders may be delivered to the Grantee electronically.  Such means of electronic delivery may include but do not necessarily include the delivery of a link to a Company intranet or the Internet site of a third party involved in administering this Agreement, the delivery of the document via e-mail or such other means of electronic delivery specified by the Company.
Description of Electronic Delivery
 
(b)
 
.  The Grantee acknowledges that the Grantee has read Section 16.5(a) of this Agreement and consents to the electronic delivery of the documents described in such Section.  The Grantee acknowledges that he or she may receive from the Company a paper copy of any documents delivered electronically at no cost to the Grantee by contacting the Company by telephone or in writing.  The Grantee further acknowledges that the Grantee will be provided with a paper copy of any documents if the attempted electronic delivery of such documents fails.  The Grantee may revoke his or her consent to the electronic delivery of documents described in Section 16.5(a) change the electronic mail address to which such documents are to be delivered (if Grantee has provided an electronic mail address) at any time by notifying the Company of such revoked consent or revised e-mail address by telephone, postal service or electronic mail.  Finally, the Grantee understands that he or she is not required to consent to electronic delivery of documents described in Section 16.5(a).
Consent to Electronic Delivery
 
16.6
 
.  This Agreement shall constitute the entire understanding and agreement of the Grantee and the Company with respect to the subject matter contained herein and shall supersede any prior agreements, understandings, restrictions, representations, or warranties between the Grantee and the Company with respect to such subject matter.  To the extent contemplated herein, the provisions of this Agreement shall survive any settlement of the Units and shall remain in full force and effect.
Integrated Agreement
 
16.7
 
.  This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California as such laws are applied to agreements between California residents entered into and to be performed entirely within the State of California.
Applicable Law
 
 
-16-
 
 
16.8
 
.  This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
 
 
-17-
 
[Signature Page to Restricted Stock Units Agreement]
 
 
 
 
The Grantee represents that the Grantee has read and is familiar with the terms and provisions of this Agreement and hereby accepts the Shares subject to all of the terms and provisions hereof.  The Grantee hereby agrees to accept as binding, conclusive and final all decisions or interpretations of the Board of Directors of the Company upon any questions arising under this Agreement.
 
 
 
 
 
-18-
 

EXHIBIT 99.4
 
 
THIS AMENDMENT OF THE RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS AGREEMENT is made by and between SandForce, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the Company) and Farbod Michael Raam (the Executive).
 
 
WHEREAS, the Company and Executive entered into that certain Restricted Stock Units Agreement as of October 14, 2011 (the RSU Agreement); and
 
WHEREAS, the Company and Executive have agreed to the milestones, as set forth in the attached schedule conditioned on the closing of the transactions contemplated by the Agreement and Plan of Merger by and among LSI Corporation, Autobahn Acquisition Corporation, and Shareholder Representative Services, LLC and the Company, dated October [], 2011 (the Proposed Acquisition);
 
WHEREAS, the Proposed Acquisition, if consummated, would be a Change in Control and Liquidity Event pursuant to the terms of the RSU Agreement; and
 
WHEREAS, the Company and Executive wish to amend that certain RSU Agreement to provide for acceleration of vesting pursuant to the terms and conditions set forth below (the Amendment), effective as of the date of Closing of the Proposed Acquisition.
 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants and conditions contained herein, the Company and the Executive agree as follows:
 
1.           Change in Control.  Section 1.1(c), Change in Control, shall be amended to add the following subsection (iii):
 
(iii)           Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, Change in Control shall include the closing of the transactions contemplated by the Agreement and Plan of Merger by and among LSI Corporation, Autobahn Acquisition Corporation, Shareholder Representative Services, LLC and SandForce, Inc., dated October [], 2011.
 
2.           .  Section 1.1(e), Customer and Marketing Milestone, shall be amended and restated in its entirety to read as follows:
Customer and Marketing Milestone
 
(e)            means the milestone based on achievement of customer and marketing goals agreed to between the Grantee and the Company in writing as set forth in the attached schedule with respect to the performance of the Company (or a division thereof).
Customer and Marketing Milestone
 
 
 
 
 
3.           .  Section 1.1(i), Financial Milestone, shall be amended and restated in its entirety to read as follows:
Financial Milestone
 
(i)            means the financial milestone agreed to between the Grantee and the Company in writing as set forth in the attached schedule with respect to the performance of the Company (or a division thereof).
Financial Milestone
 
4.           .  Section 1.1(n), Product and Technology Milestone, shall be amended and restated to read as follows:
Product and Technology Milestone
 
(n)            means the milestone based on achievement of product and technology goals agreed to between the Grantee and the Company in writing as set forth in the attached schedule with respect to the performance of the Company (or a division thereof).
Product and Technology Milestone
 
5.           .  A new Section 1.1(p), Revenue Milestone, shall be added to read as follows, and the remaining paragraphs of Section 1.1 shall be renumbered accordingly:
Revenue Milestone
 
(p)            means the revenue milestone agreed to between the Grantee and the Company in writing as set forth in the attached schedule with respect to the performance of the Company (or a division thereof).
Revenue Milestone
 
6.           .  Section 3.1, Time-Based Vesting, shall be renamed Revenue Milestone-Based Vesting and amended and restated to read as follows:
Revenue Milestone-Based Vesting
 
3.1           .  One Hundred Thousand (100,000) of the Units shall be subject to this Section 3.1.  The Units subject to this Section 3.1 shall become Vested Units as follows:
Revenue Milestone-Based Vesting
 
(a)           The number of Vested Units shall equal one forty-eighth (1/48) of the Units subject to this Section 3.1 for each full month of Service between June 3, 2011 and the date of the Change in Control.
 
(b)           For any remaining Units subject to this Section 3.1 that are not fully vested in accordance with Section 3.1(a) as of the date of the Change in Control, then the number of Vested Units shall equal one half (1/2) of the Units subject to this Section 3.1 for each full year of Service from the date of the Change in Control, provided that if the Revenue Milestone is achieved, then all Units subject to this Section 3.1 that are unvested shall become Vested Units effective as of the one-year anniversary of the date of the Change in Control .  Upon the Grantees termination of Service, all unvested Units subject to this Section 3.1 shall be forfeited, except (i) if the Grantee incurs a Qualifying Termination between the one-year anniversary of the date of the Change in Control and the date on which the Company verifies that the Revenue Milestone has been achieved, then all Units that are unvested shall become Vested Units effective upon the one-year anniversary of the date of the Change in Control, or (ii) as provided in Section 3.5.
 
 
-2-
 
7.           .  Section 3.2, Financial Milestone-Based Vesting, shall be amended and restated to read as follows:
Financial Milestone-Based Vesting
 
3.2           .  Fifty Thousand (50,000) of the Units shall be subject to this Section 3.2.  The Units subject to this Section 3.2 shall become Vested Units as follows:
Financial Milestone-Based Vesting
 
(a)           The number of Vested Units shall equal one half (1/2) of the Units subject to this Section 3.2 for each full year of Service from the date of the Change in Control.
 
(b)           If the Financial Milestone is achieved, then all Units subject to this Section 3.2 that are unvested shall become Vested Units effective as of the one-year anniversary of the date of the Change in Control.  Upon the Grantees termination of Service, all unvested Units subject to this Section 3.2 shall be forfeited, except (i) if the Grantee incurs a Qualifying Termination between the one-year anniversary of the date of the Change in Control and the date on which the Company verifies that the Revenue Milestone has been achieved, then all Units that are unvested shall become Vested Units effective upon the one-year anniversary of the date of the Change in Control, or (ii) as provided in Section 3.5.
 
8.           .  Section 3.3, Product and Technology Milestone-Based Vesting, shall be amended and restated to read as follows:
Product and Technology Milestone-Based Vesting
 
3.3           Eighty-Five Thousand (85,000) of the Units shall be subject to this Section 3.3.  The Units subject to this Section 3.3 shall become Vested Units as follows:
Product and Technology Milestone-Based Vesting.  
 
(a)           The number of Vested Units shall equal one half (1/2) of the Units subject to this Section 3.3 for each full year of Service from the date of the Change in Control.
 
(b)           If the Product and Technology-Based Milestone is achieved, then all Units subject to this Section 3.3 that are unvested shall become Vested Units effective as of the one-year anniversary of the date of Change in Control.  Upon the Grantees termination of Service, all unvested Units subject to this Section 3.3 shall be forfeited, except as provided in Section 3.5.
 
9.           .  Section 3.4, Customer and Marketing Milestone-Based Vesting, shall be amended and restated to read as follows:
Customer and Marketing Milestone-Based Vesting
 
3.4           Eighty-Five Thousand (85,000) of the Units shall be subject to this Section 3.4.  The Units subject to this Section 3.4 shall become Vested Units as follows:
Customer and Marketing Milestone-Based Vesting.  
 
 
-3-
 
 
(a)           The number of Vested Units shall equal one half (1/2) of the Units subject to this Section 3.4 for each full year of Service from the date of the Change in Control.
 
(b)           If the Financial Milestone is achieved, then all Units subject to this Section 3.4 that are unvested shall become Vested Units effective as of the one-year anniversary of the date of Change in Control.  Upon the Grantees termination of Service, all unvested Units subject to this Section 3.4 shall be forfeited, except (i) if the Grantee incurs a Qualifying Termination between the one-year anniversary of the date of Change in Control and the date on which the Company verifies that the Revenue Milestone has been achieved, then all Units that are unvested shall become Vested Units effective upon the one-year anniversary of the date of Change in Control, or (ii) as provided in Section 3.5.
 
10.           .  Section 5.1, Issuance of Shares of Stock, shall be amended and restated to read as follows:
Issuance of Shares of Stock
 
5.1           Subject to the provisions of Section 5.3 below, the Company shall issue to the Grantee on the applicable Settlement Date with respect to each Vested Unit to be settled on such date one (1) share of Stock.  Shares of Stock issued in settlement of Units shall not be subject to any restriction on transfer other than any such restriction as may be required pursuant to Section 5.3 and 12, or the Companys trading compliance policy.  The Settlement Date shall occur within thirty (30) days after the date on which any Unit becomes a Vested Unit, provided that if a Unit becomes a Vested Unit because of the attainment of a Revenue Milestone, Financial Milestone or Customer and Marketing Milestone, the Settlement Date shall occur within thirty (30) days after the later of (i) the date on which any Unit becomes a Vested Unit or (ii) the date on which the achievement of the applicable milestone is verified by the Company, but in all events no later than March 15 of the year following the year in which the Unit vests.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if a sale by the Grantee of the shares of Stock issuable in settlement of Vested Units on any such date would be prohibited by the Companys trading compliance policy or by Rule 10b-5 under the Exchange Act or would subject the Grantee to suit under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act, then the Settlement Date with respect to such Vested Units shall be the first succeeding business day on which a sale of such shares by the Grantee would not be prohibited by either the trading compliance policy or Rule 10b-5 and would not be subject to suit under Section 16(b), but in no event shall the Settlement Date with respect to such Vested Units be later than the later of (a) December 31 of the calendar year in which such Units become Vested Units or (b) if a Unit becomes a Vested Unit because of the attainment of a Revenue Milestone, Financial Milestone or Customer and Marketing Milestone, March 15, 2013.
Issuance of Shares of Stock.  
 
11.           Company.  Effective as of the closing of the Proposed Acquisition, all references to the Company in the RSU Agreement shall be deemed to refer to LSI Corporation.
 
 
-4-
 
 
12.           .  Except as set forth herein, all other terms and conditions of the RSU Agreement shall remain in full force and effect.
Continuation of Other Terms
 
 
 
-5-
 
 
 
 
The following milestones have been agreed to by the Grantee and the Company:
 
 means the achievement of three of the following, [**] in 2012: [**].
Customer and Marketing Milestone
 
 means the achievement of $[**] or more in [**] of the [**] in the 2012 calendar year.
Financial Milestone
 
 means the achievement of [**].
Product and Technology Milestone
 
 means the achievement of $[**] or more in revenue in the [**] in the 2012 calendar year, based on audited financial statements.
Revenue Milestone
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
[**]  Certain information in this Agreement has been omitted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Confidential treatment has been requested with respect to the omitted portions.
 
 
-6-
 


