FILE:LSI/LSI-8K-20120314075548.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01.  Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
On March 14, 2012, LSI Corporation issued a news release updating its guidance for the first quarter of fiscal year 2012.  A copy of the news release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference herein.
The news release contains non-GAAP financial information. Management believes that the presentation of non-GAAP net income (loss), non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP taxes, and non-GAAP net income (loss) per basic and diluted share provides important supplemental information to management and investors about financial and business trends relating to the companys results of operations. Management believes that the use of these non-GAAP financial measures also provides consistency and comparability with our past financial reports.
Management has historically used these non-GAAP measures when evaluating operating performance because we believe that the inclusion or exclusion of the items described below provides an additional measure of our core operating results and facilitates comparisons of our core operating performance against prior periods and our business model objectives. We have chosen to provide this information to investors to enable them to perform additional analyses of past, present and future operating performance and as a supplemental means to evaluate our ongoing core operations. Externally, we believe that these non-GAAP measures continue to be useful to investors in their assessment of our operating performance and their valuation of the company.
Internally, these non-GAAP measures are significant measures used by management for purposes of:
How we calculate our non-GAAP financial measures
Non-GAAP net income (loss), non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP taxes and non-GAAP net income (loss) per basic and diluted share are important to the company for the reasons noted above and exclude the following items:
 
-2-
 
Non-GAAP income tax expense/benefit also is adjusted for the additional amount of tax expense or benefit that the company would accrue if it used non-GAAP results instead of GAAP results in the calculation of its tax liability. For the quarter ended April 1, 2012, we expect non-GAAP tax expense to exclude a one-time benefit related to the release of valuation allowance resulting from the net deferred tax liabilities created from the acquisition of SandForce.
 
We use non-GAAP net income computed as described above as the numerator in the calculation of non-GAAP net income per basic and diluted share. We calculate the basic and diluted share amounts used in the denominator in accordance with GAAP rules, using non-GAAP net income rather than GAAP net income.
Limitations of relying on non-GAAP financial measures
Some of the limitations of relying on non-GAAP financial measures include:
 
-3-
 
All supplemental non-GAAP financial measures should be read in conjunction with the comparable information presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America.
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
___________________________
*           Furnished, not filed.
 
-4-
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: March 14, 2012
 
-5-
 

 
NEWS RELEASE
LSI Corporation (NYSE: LSI) today updated its business outlook for the first quarter ending April 1, 2012, reflecting a stronger than expected hard disk drive market recovery and ramp of flash-based products. LSI executives will provide additional details in an analyst meeting today, March 14, in New York City.
MILPITAS, Calif., March 14, 2012 
 
 
Updated First Quarter 2012 Business Outlook
 
Income from continuing operations per share:
1,4,5
 
GAAP                                                      In the range of $0.06 to $0.10 per share
2
 
Non-GAAP                                             In the range of $0.12 to $0.16 per share
3
 
 
We are benefiting from better than expected strength in the hard disk drive market in the quarter as our team has done a great job working with our customers to meet this additional demand, said Abhi Talwalkar, LSI president and CEO. This revised guidance reflects strength in our hard disk drive business as well as upside in our projections for our flash-based products.
 
 
On May 6, 2011, LSI completed the sale of its external storage systems business. The financial results of the external storage systems business have been classified as discontinued operations in LSIs financial statements. Our ongoing business is referred to as continuing operations.
1
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
2
Excludes goodwill and other intangible asset impairment, stock-based compensation, amortization of acquisition-related intangibles, purchase accounting effect on inventory, restructuring of operations and other items, net, and gain/loss on sale/write-down of investments. It also excludes the income tax effect associated with the above-mentioned items and the tax benefit discussed in note 5. It also excludes, in the case of non-GAAP net income, gain from the sale of the external storage systems business.
3
 
 
 
Revised net income ranges reflect the change in share count from approximately 575 million shares to 590 million shares. The change in share count is driven by the increase in our stock price, which increases the dilutive effect of stock options and restricted stock unit awards included in the diluted share count calculation.
4
The company has not yet finalized the allocation of the purchase consideration to assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the recently completed acquisition of SandForce. However, the company expects that in accounting for the SandForce purchase, it will recognize a one-time tax benefit of approximately $41.7 million in the first quarter of 2012 for GAAP purposes only. This tax benefit is due to the release of a valuation allowance resulting from the net deferred tax liabilities created from the acquisition, and will be excluded from our non-GAAP results.
5
Updated First Quarter 2012 Business Outlook Detail
The change in share count is driven by the increase in our stock price, which increases the dilutive effect of stock options and restricted stock unit awards included in the diluted share count calculation.
*
 
LSI Analyst Day Event Information
 
LSI executives will provide additional insight into the companys strategy and key drivers of financial performance at the LSI 2012 Analyst Day Event in New York City, starting at 8:30 a.m. (EDT).
 
Today we will highlight the growth drivers for the company and demonstrate how our multi-year investment strategy has positioned LSI to benefit from the tremendous global growth in data as well as from inflection points like cloud computing, mega datacenters, mobile networks and flash, continued Talwalkar.
 
-2-
 
 
At LSIs event for investors and securities analysts, executive presentations and topics will include:
 
Abhi Talwalkar, President and CEO:
The new LSI, including company strategy and vision and key market trends.
Jeff Richardson, Chief Operating Officer:
Product and market overview with a focus on networking, SAS and hard disk drives.
Greg Huff, Chief Strategy Officer:
LSIs growth opportunity with flash-based products.
Bryon Look, Chief Financial Officer:
Long-term financial goals and strategies as well as updated business model targets.
Investors and others may access a live video webcast of the presentations beginning at 8:30 a.m. EDT by visiting the LSI website at http://www.lsi.com/webcast. Afterwards, a replay of the webcast will be available on the LSI website at www.lsi.com/webcast.
 
This news release contains forward-looking statements that are based on the current opinions and estimates of management. These statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause LSIs actual results to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: our ability to successfully integrate and manage the SandForce business and retain its key employees; our ability to achieve anticipated synergies and to develop integrated new products following our acquisition of SandForce; our ability to eliminate costs related to the external storage systems business that we sold in 2011; our ability to repurchase our common stock at prices we believe to be advantageous; the impact of the recent flooding in Thailand; our reliance on major customers and suppliers; our ability to keep up with rapid technological change; our ability to compete successfully in competitive markets; fluctuations in the timing and volumes of customer demand; the unavailability of appropriate levels of manufacturing capacity; and general industry and macro-economic conditions. For additional information, see the documents filed by LSI with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and specifically the risk factors set forth in the companys most recent report on Form 10-K. LSI disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Forward-Looking Statements:
About LSI
LSI Corporation (NYSE: LSI) designs semiconductors and software that accelerate storage and networking in datacenters and mobile networks. Our technology is the intelligence critical to enhanced application performance, and is applied in solutions created in collaboration with our partners. More information is available at .
www.lsi.com
LSI and the LSI & Design logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of LSI Corporation.
 
-3-
 
For more information, contact:
Investor Relations Contact:                                                                                    Media Relations Contact:
Sujal Shah                                                                                                                   Greg Thomas
610-712-5471                                                                                                               408-433-4236
                                                                          
sujal.shah@lsi.com
greg.thomas@lsi.com
 
-4-
 


