FILE:LSI/LSI-8K-20120425161029.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operation and Financial Condition.
On April 25, 2012, LSI Corporation issued a news release regarding its financial results for the quarter ended April 1, 2012. A copy of the news release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference herein.
The news release contains non-GAAP financial information. Management believes that the presentation of non-GAAP net income (loss), non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP taxes, and non-GAAP net income (loss) per basic and diluted share provides important supplemental information to management and investors about financial and business trends relating to the company's results of operations. Management believes that the use of these non-GAAP financial measures also provides consistency and comparability with our past financial reports.
Management has historically used these non-GAAP measures when evaluating operating performance because we believe that the inclusion or exclusion of the items described below provides an additional measure of our core operating results and facilitates comparisons of our core operating performance against prior periods and our business model objectives. We have chosen to provide this information to investors to enable them to perform additional analyses of past, present and future operating performance and as a supplemental means to evaluate our ongoing core operations. Externally, we believe that these non-GAAP measures continue to be useful to investors in their assessment of our operating performance and their valuation of the company.
Internally, these non-GAAP measures are significant measures used by management for purposes of:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
How we calculate our non-GAAP financial measures
Non-GAAP net income (loss), non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP taxes and non-GAAP net income (loss) per basic and diluted share are important to the company for the reasons noted above and exclude the following items:
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
We use non-GAAP net income computed as described above as the numerator in the calculation of non-GAAP net income per basic and diluted share. We calculate the basic and diluted share amounts used in the denominator in accordance with GAAP rules, using non-GAAP net income rather than GAAP net income.
Limitations of relying on non-GAAP financial measures
Some of the limitations of relying on non-GAAP financial measures include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
All supplemental non-GAAP financial measures should be read in conjunction with the comparable information presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America.
Table of Contents
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
LSI CORPORATION
 
Date: April 25, 2012
Table of Contents
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
NEWS RELEASE
cc12-23/C1212
LSI Corporation (NYSE: LSI) today reported results for its first quarter ended April 1, 2012.
MILPITAS, Calif., April 25, 2012 
First Quarter 2012 Highlights
 
 
 
 
Second Quarter 2012 Business Outlook
 
 
 
 
"Our performance in the first quarter demonstrates the positive results of our multi-year growth strategy and our ability to outgrow the storage and networking markets we serve. The significant revenue growth was driven by better-than-expected growth in our HDD business, strength in our new SandForce flash business and contribution from various new product cycles," said Abhi Talwalkar, LSI president and CEO. "Going forward, LSI is firmly established as a central player in some of the most critical growth trends in computing, including cloud, Big Data, mobile networking and flash, with products that are bringing exciting new levels of speed and productivity to our customers."
First quarter 2012 revenues from continuing operations were $622 million, above the high end of updated guidance, compared to $473 million generated from continuing operations in the first quarter of 2011, and compared to $523 million generated from continuing operations in the fourth quarter of 2011.
First quarter 2012 GAAP** income from continuing operations was $75 million or 13 cents per diluted share, compared to first quarter 2011 GAAP income from continuing operations of $19 million or 3 cents per diluted share. Fourth quarter 2011 GAAP income from continuing operations was $11 million or 2 cents per diluted share. First quarter 2012 GAAP income from continuing operations included a net charge of $42 million from special items, consisting primarily of approximately $31 million of stock-based compensation expense, $30 million of amortization of acquisition-related items, $15 million of net restructuring and other items, $14 million of purchase accounting effect on inventory, a $43 million favorable income tax effect and a $6 million gain on remeasurement of a pre-acquisition equity interest to fair value.
First quarter 2012 non-GAAP*** income from continuing operations was $117 million or 20 cents per diluted share, compared to first quarter 2011 non-GAAP income from continuing operations of $65 million or 10 cents per diluted share. Fourth quarter 2011 non-GAAP income from continuing operations was $73 million or 13 cents per diluted share.
Cash and short-term investments totaled approximately $623 million at quarter end. The company completed first-quarter purchases of approximately 4.6 million shares of its common stock for approximately $38 million, and on a cumulative basis, LSI has repurchased a total of 77 million shares and utilized approximately $537 million of the company's current $750 million share repurchase program.
"In the first quarter, LSI delivered double-digit revenue growth and demonstrated significant progress towards our business model and non-GAAP operating margin target," said Bryon Look, LSI CFO and chief administrative officer. "Year over year, our revenues grew 32% and non-GAAP income from operations increased 80%."
LSI 2Q2012 Business Outlook for Continuing Operations
 
Capital spending is projected to be around $20 million in the second quarter and approximately $125 million in total for 2012.
Depreciation and software amortization is projected to be around $16 million in the second quarter and approximately $65 million in total for 2012.
LSI Conference Call Information
LSI will hold a conference call today at 2 p.m. PDT to discuss first quarter 2012 financial results and the second quarter 2012 business outlook. Internet users can access the conference call at Subsequent to the conference call, a replay will be available at the same web address.
http://www.lsi.com/webcast.
This news release contains forward-looking statements that are based on the current opinions and estimates of management. These statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause LSI's actual results to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: our ability to successfully integrate and manage the SandForce business and retain its key employees; our ability to achieve anticipated synergies and to develop integrated new products following our acquisition of SandForce; our ability to eliminate costs related to the external storage systems business that we sold in 2011; our ability to repurchase our common stock at prices we believe to be advantageous; the impact of the 2011 floods in Thailand; our reliance on major customers and suppliers; our ability to keep up with rapid technological change; our ability to compete successfully in competitive markets; fluctuations in the timing and volumes of customer demand; the unavailability of appropriate levels of manufacturing capacity; and general industry and macro-economic conditions. For additional information, see the documents filed by LSI with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and specifically the risk factors set forth in the company's most recent reports on Form 10-K and 10-Q. LSI disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Forward-Looking Statements:
About LSI
LSI Corporation (NYSE: LSI) designs semiconductors and software that accelerate storage and networking in datacenters and mobile networks. Our technology is the intelligence critical to enhanced application performance, and is applied in solutions created in collaboration with our partners. More information is available at .
www.lsi.com
LSI and the LSI & Design logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of LSI Corporation. All other brand or product names may be trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective companies.
 
 
 
Reconciliations of certain GAAP measures to non-GAAP measures are included below.
 
 


