FILE:VRSN/VRSN-8K-20020930170428.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5:    Other Events.
 
Adoption of Stockholder Rights Plan.
 
On September 24, 2002, the Board of Directors (the "Board") of VeriSign, Inc. (the "Company") declared a dividend of one stock purchase right (a "Right") for each outstanding share of common stock, par value $0.001 per share (the "Common Shares"), of the Company. The dividend is payable to stockholders of record on October 4, 2002 (the "Record Date"). In addition, one Right shall be issued with each Common Share that becomes outstanding (i) between the Record Date and the earliest of the Distribution Date, the Redemption Date and the Final Expiration Date (as such terms are defined in the Rights Agreement) or (ii) following the Distribution Date and prior to the Redemption Date or Final Expiration Date, pursuant to the exercise of stock options or under any employee plan or arrangement or upon the exercise, conversion or exchange of other securities of the Company, which options or securities were outstanding prior to the Distribution Date. The Rights will become exercisable only upon the occurrence of certain events specified in the Rights Agreement (the "Rights Agreement") between the Company and Mellon Investor Services LLC, as Rights Agent, including the acquisition of 15% of the Company's outstanding common stock by a person or group. Each Right entitles the registered holder, other than an "acquiring person", under specified circumstances, to purchase from the Company one one-hundredth of a share of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, par value $0.001 per share (the "Preferred Shares"), of the Company, at a price of $55.00 per one one-hundredth of a Preferred Share, subject to adjustment. In addition, each Right entitles the registered holder, other than an "acquiring person", under specified circumstances, to purchase from the Company that number of shares of the Company's Common Stock having a market value of two times the exercise price of the Right. The description and terms of the Rights are set forth in the Rights Agreement. A summary of the Rights and the Rights Agreement is included as Exhibit B to the Rights Agreement, which is included as Exhibit 4.01 hereto.
 
A copy of the press release announcing the Rights Plan is attached as an exhibit under Item 7(c) of this report.
 
Item 7:    Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c)  Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: September 30, 2002
 
 
* Filed herewith.

 
Exhibit 99.01
 
 
For Immediate Release
 
MOUNTAIN VIEW, California (September 30, 2002)VeriSign, Inc. (NASDAQ: VRSN) today announced that its Board of Directors has adopted a stockholder rights plan designed to protect the long-term value of the Company for its stockholders during any future unsolicited acquisition attempt. The Rights plan is designed to deter certain types of unfair takeover tactics and to prevent an acquiror from gaining control of VeriSign without offering a fair price to all of VeriSign's stockholders. Adoption of the plan was not made in response to any specific attempt to acquire VeriSign or its shares, and VeriSign is not aware of any current efforts to do so.
 
Under the plan, VeriSign's Board of Directors declared a dividend of one stock purchase right for each share of VeriSign's common stock outstanding on October 4, 2002. The rights will become exercisable only upon the occurrence of certain events specified in the plan, including the acquisition of 15% of VeriSign's outstanding common stock by a person or group. Each right entitles the holder, other than an "acquiring person," to acquire shares of VeriSign's common stock at a 50% discount to the then prevailing market price. VeriSign's Board of Directors may redeem outstanding rights at any time prior to a person becoming an "acquiring person," at a price of $0.001 per right. Prior to such time, the terms of the rights may be amended by VeriSign's Board of Directors without the approval of the holders of the rights.
 
Details of the plan are outlined more fully in a letter that will be mailed to VeriSign's stockholders as of the record date as well as VeriSign's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
About VeriSign, Inc.
 
VeriSign, Inc. is the leading provider of digital trust services that enable everyone, everywhere to engage in commerce and communications with confidence. VeriSign's digital trust services create a trusted environment through four core offeringsWeb presence services, security services, payment services, and telecommunications servicespowered by a global infrastructure that manages more than five billion network connections and transactions a day. Additional news and information about the company is available at http://www.verisign.com.
 
NOTE:  VeriSign is a registered trademark of VeriSign, Inc. Other names may be trademarks of their respective owners.
 
CONTACT:  media relations, Brian O'Shaughnessy, (650) 426-5270, or boshaughnessy@verisign.com, or investor relations, Steven Gatoff, (650) 426-4560, or gatoff@verisign.com, both of VeriSign, Inc.


