FILE:VRSN/VRSN-8K-20030424161939.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7:    Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c)  Exhibits
 
 
Item 9:    Regulation FD Disclosure (Information Provided Under Item 12  Results of Operations and Financial Condition).
 
On April 24, 2003, VeriSign, Inc. ("VeriSign" or the "Company") announced its financial results for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2003 and certain other information. A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
The information required by Form 8-K, Item 12Results of Operations and Financial Condition, is being provided under Item 9 pursuant to SEC Release No. 33-8216. The information in this Form 8-K and the Exhibit attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Act of 1934, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information
 
To supplement our consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ("GAAP"), VeriSign uses non-GAAP measures of operating results, net income and earnings per share that do not include the following financial measures that are normally included in GAAP: amortization and write-down of goodwill and intangible assets related to acquisitions, the net gain or loss on the sale of investments or the write-down of investments, restructuring and other charges and stock-based compensation charges related to acquisitions.
 
We believe non-GAAP measures enhance an investor's overall understanding of our current financial performance and our prospects for the future by excluding expenses and other items that in management's view are not indicative of our core operating results. VeriSign's management reviews these non-GAAP measures when assessing the performance of its ongoing operations and for planning and forecasting in future periods. In addition, since we have historically reported non-GAAP results to the investment community, we believe the inclusion of non-GAAP numbers provides consistency in our financial reporting. The non-GAAP measures included in our press release have been reconciled to the comparable GAAP measure as required under SEC rules regarding the use of non-GAAP financial measures. We urge investors to carefully review the GAAP financial information included as part of our Annual Report on Form 10-K, our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and our quarterly earnings releases.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Exhibit Index
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
VeriSign, Inc. (Nasdaq: VRSN), the leading provider of digital trust services, today reported its results for the first quarter ended March 31, 2003.
MOUNTAIN VIEW, CA  April 24, 2003 
 
VeriSign reported revenue of $270 million for the first quarter of 2003. On a pro forma basis, operating income for the first quarter was $45 million and pro forma net income was $43 million or $0.18 per fully diluted share. Pro forma results exclude the following items, which are included under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP"): amortization and write-down of goodwill and other intangible assets, the gain on investments, as well as the write-down of certain investments, restructuring and other charges and non-cash stock-based compensation charges related to acquisitions. VeriSign's first quarter results were not fully taxed. On a fully taxed basis, applying a 30% tax rate (consistent with financial analyst projections) to pro forma pre-tax income of $48 million, pro forma earnings per share for the first quarter was $0.14 per fully diluted share.
 
"We are pleased with our execution in the first quarter, particularly given the continued challenges in both the IT and telecommunications markets," said Stratton Sclavos, Chairman and CEO of VeriSign. "We remain focused on delivering critical infrastructure services that enable our customers to engage in communications and commerce with confidence."
 
On a GAAP basis, VeriSign reported a net loss of $53 million for the first quarter. The GAAP loss for the first quarter is primarily attributable to a charge of $55 million for the amortization and write-down of goodwill and other intangible assets, $21 million in charges related to the company's corporate restructuring announced in April 2002 and a $17 million net charge for the write-down of certain investments.
 
"As we have highlighted in the last few quarters, our focus has been on improving the efficiencies of our operations and controlling costs," said Dana Evan, Chief Financial Officer of VeriSign. "This disciplined approach resulted in a further strengthening of our balance sheet, ending the quarter with more than $475 million in cash and short-term investments, and helping to generate cash flow from operations in excess of $100 million."
 
Notable business developments included the adoption of VeriSign's managed authentication and security services by the State of Kansas, the announcement of VeriSign's Trust Gateway, an integrated solution for securing web services, and the introduction of the VeriSign Partner Program to deliver more managed security solutions to enterprise customers. Additionally, VeriSign Telecommunication Services extended its Calling Name ("CNAM") service in the first quarter to enable wireless carriers to deliver calling names to mobile handsets and expanded its lawful intercept service, NetDiscovery, to wireless packet data.
 
 
Additional Financial Information
 
Internet Services Group
 
Telecommunication Services Group
 
Network Solutions
 
 
Today's Conference Call
VeriSign will be hosting a teleconference call today at 2:00 pm (PDT) to review the first quarter 2003 results. The call will be accessible by direct dial at (800) 946-0712. A listen-only live webcast of the quarterly earnings call will also be available on the company's website at and at . A replay of the teleconference will be available by calling (888) 203-1112 (passcode: 394069) beginning at 6:00 pm (PDT) today and will run through May 1st.
www.verisign.com
www.streetevents.com
 
About VeriSign
VeriSign, Inc. (NASDAQ: VRSN) is the leading provider of digital trust services that enable everyone, everywhere to engage in commerce and communications with confidence. VeriSign's digital trust services create a trusted environment through our core offerings  telecommunications services, security services, and registry services  powered by a global infrastructure that manages billions of network connections and transactions a day. Additional news and information about the company is available at .
http://www.verisign.com
 
 
Statements in this announcement other than historical data and information, including but not limited to, statements regarding new business relationships and new service offerings, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause VeriSign's actual results to differ materially from those stated or implied by such forward-looking statements. The potential risks and uncertainties include, among others, VeriSign's limited operating history under its current business structure; the uncertainty of future revenue and profitability and potential fluctuations in quarterly operating results; the ability of VeriSign to successfully develop and market new services and customer acceptance of any new services; the risk that VeriSign's announced strategic relationships may not result in additional products, services, customers and revenues; increased competition and pricing pressures; and risks related to potential security breaches. More information about potential factors that could affect the company's business and financial results is included in VeriSign's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002 and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. VeriSign undertakes no obligation to update any of the forward-looking statements after the date of this press release.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes:
 
 
 
 
 


