FILE:VRSN/VRSN-8K-20031023163332.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7:    Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c) Exhibits
 
 
Item 9:    Regulation FD Disclosure (Information Provided Under Item 12  Results of Operations and Financial Condition).
 
On October 23, 2003, VeriSign, Inc. ("VeriSign" or the "Company") announced its financial results for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2003 and certain other information. A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
The information required by Form 8-K, Item 12Results of Operations and Financial Condition, is being provided under Item 9 pursuant to SEC Release No. 33-8216. The information in this Form 8-K and the Exhibit attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information
 
To supplement our consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ("GAAP"), VeriSign provides non-GAAP measures of operating results, net income and earnings per share that do not include the following financial measures that are normally included in GAAP: amortization and write-down of goodwill and other intangible assets, the gain and write-down of certain investments, restructuring and other charges and non-cash stock-based compensation charges related to acquisitions.
 
We believe that this non-GAAP, pro forma information enhances an investor's overall understanding of our financial performance and our prospects for the future by excluding expenses and other items that in management's view are not indicative of our core operating results. VeriSign's management reviews this information when assessing the performance of its ongoing operations and for planning and forecasting in future periods. In addition, since we have historically reported non-GAAP pro forma information to the investment community, we believe the inclusion of this information provides consistency in our financial reporting. The non-GAAP pro forma information included in our press release has been reconciled to the comparable GAAP measure as required under SEC rules regarding the use of non-GAAP financial measures. We urge investors to carefully review the GAAP financial information included as part of our Annual Report on Form 10-K, our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and our quarterly earnings releases.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Exhibit Index
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
VeriSign, Inc. (Nasdaq: VRSN), the leading provider of critical infrastructure services for the Internet and telecommunications networks, today reported its results for the third quarter ended September 30, 2003.
MOUNTAIN VIEW, CA  October 23, 2003 
 
VeriSign reported revenue of $268 million for the third quarter of 2003. On a pro forma basis, net income was $48 million or $0.20 per fully diluted share. Pro forma results exclude the following items, which are included under generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"): amortization and write-down of goodwill and other intangible assets, the gain and write-down of certain investments, restructuring and other charges and non-cash stock-based compensation charges related to acquisitions. VeriSign's third quarter results were not fully taxed. On a fully-taxed basis, applying a 30% effective tax rate to pro forma pre-tax income of $51 million, pro forma earnings per share for the third quarter was $0.15 per fully-diluted share.
 
On a GAAP basis, VeriSign reported a net loss of $31 million for the third quarter. The GAAP loss for the third quarter is primarily attributable to a charge of $78 million for the amortization and write-down of goodwill and other intangible assets. A table reconciling the pro forma to GAAP numbers reported above is appended to this release.
 
"We were pleased to see a third consecutive quarter of solid execution against our business and financial goals," said Stratton Sclavos, Chairman and CEO of VeriSign. "As we complete our recently announced sale of the Network Solutions unit, we believe VeriSign will be positioned for long term growth as the leading provider of critical infrastructure services offering managed communications, security and directory services for enterprises and carriers around the world."
 
"A slight improvement in certain lines of business coupled with our continued focus on operational rigor allowed us to modestly exceed our expectations for revenue and EPS during the quarter," said Dana Evan, Chief Financial Officer of VeriSign. "In addition, we were able to further strengthen our balance sheet as we generated healthy operating and free cash flows of $94 million and $87 million, respectively."
 
In addition to the in-quarter highlights listed below, VeriSign has also recently announced several new business development initiatives including a definitive agreement to sell the Network Solutions business unit to Pivotal Private Equity, the launch of the new Intelligence and Control Services for network, application and transaction security and the acquisition of UNC-Embratel, expanding its telecommunications services presence in Latin America.
Additional Financial Information
 
 
Internet Services Group
 
 
Telecommunication Services Group
 
 
Network Solutions
 
Today's Conference Call
VeriSign will be hosting a teleconference call today at 2:00 pm (PT) to review the third quarter 2003 results. The call will be accessible by direct dial at (800) 210-9006. A listen-only live webcast of the quarterly earnings call will also be available on the company's website at under the Investor Relations tab and at . A replay of the teleconference will be available by calling (888) 203-1112 (passcode: 325209) beginning at 6:00 pm (PT) today and will run through October 31st. This press release and financial information discussed on today's quarterly earnings call are available on the company's website at www.verisign.com under the Investor Relations tab.
www.verisign.com
www.streetevents.com
 
About VeriSign
VeriSign, Inc. (Nasdaq: VRSN), delivers critical infrastructure services that make the Internet and telecommunications networks more intelligent, reliable and secure. Every day VeriSign helps thousands of businesses and millions of consumers connect, communicate, and transact with confidence. Additional news and information about the company is available at www.verisign.com.
 
 
Statements in this announcement other than historical data and information, including but not limited to new business relationships and new service offerings, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause VeriSign's actual results to differ materially from those stated or implied by such forward-looking statements. The potential risks and uncertainties include, among others, the uncertainty of future revenue and profitability and potential fluctuations in quarterly operating results due to such factors as increasing competition and pricing pressure from competing services offered at prices below our prices, market acceptance of our existing services, the inability of VeriSign to successfully develop and market new services or the failure of new services to gain customer acceptance, reduced demand for our services as a result of continued softness in information technology and telecommunications spending by our customers, and the risk that VeriSign's disposition of its Network Solutions business may result in reduced revenues. More information about potential factors that could affect the company's business and financial results is included in VeriSign's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002 and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. VeriSign undertakes no obligation to update any of the forward-looking statements after the date of this press release.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Management believes that this pro forma financial data supplements our GAAP financial statements by providing investors with additional information which allows them to have a more clear picture of the company's core recurring operations. The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with GAAP. We believe that the pro forma information enhances the investors' overall understanding of our financial performance and the comparability of the company's operating results from period to period.
 
 
 
 
Management believes that this pro forma financial data supplements our GAAP financial statements by providing investors with additional information which allows them to have a more clear picture of the company's core recurring operations. The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with GAAP. We believe that the pro forma information enhances the investors' overall understanding of our financial performance and the comparability of the company's operating results from period to period.
 
 


