FILE:VRSN/VRSN-8K-20040422164021.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7: Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Item 12  Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On April 22, 2004, VeriSign, Inc. ("VeriSign" or the "Company") announced its financial results for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2004 and certain other information. A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
The information in this Form 8-K and the Exhibit attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information
 
To supplement our consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ("GAAP"), VeriSign provides non-GAAP measures of operating results, net income and earnings per share that do not include the following financial measures that are normally included in GAAP: amortization and write-down of goodwill and other intangible assets, the net gain or loss on the sale of investments or the write-down of investments, restructuring and other charges and non-cash stock-based compensation charges related to acquisitions.
 
Management believes that this non-GAAP financial data supplements our GAAP financial statements by providing investors with additional information which allows them to have a clearer picture of the company's core recurring operations. The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with GAAP. We believe that the non-GAAP information enhances the investors' overall understanding of our financial performance and the comparability of the company's operating results from period to period. The non-GAAP pro forma information included in our press release has been reconciled to the comparable GAAP measure as required under SEC rules regarding the use of non-GAAP financial measures. We urge investors to carefully review the GAAP financial information included as part of our Annual Report on Form 10-K, our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and our quarterly earnings releases.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Exhibit Index
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
VeriSign, Inc. (Nasdaq: VRSN), the leading provider of intelligent infrastructure services for the Internet and telecommunications networks, today reported its results for the first quarter ended March 31, 2004.
MOUNTAIN VIEW, CA  April 22, 2004 
 
VeriSign reported revenue of $229 million for the first quarter of 2004. On a GAAP basis, VeriSign reported net income of $9 million for the first quarter and earnings per share of $0.04 per fully-diluted share. The GAAP results included $15 million in restructuring and other charges, which were primarily related to asset impairments.
 
"Our results for the first quarter indicate a solid start to the year as we benefited from an increase in Internet and e-commerce activity on a global basis and customer specific interest in managed security and communications services," said Stratton Sclavos, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of VeriSign. "We currently expect this momentum to continue into the second quarter as the recovery in IT and telecom spending takes hold and as we further strengthen our competitive position with our intelligent infrastructure services."
 
On a non-GAAP, after tax basis, using a 30% effective tax rate on non-GAAP pre-tax income of $50 million, non-GAAP earnings per share for the first quarter was $0.14 per fully-diluted share. These non-GAAP results exclude the following items, which are included under GAAP: amortization of other intangible assets, restructuring and other charges, the gain on and write-down of certain investments, and non-cash stock-based compensation charges related to acquisitions. A table reconciling the non-GAAP to GAAP numbers reported above is appended to this release.
 
"We are pleased with our first quarter results and the healthy sequential growth in bookings," said Dana Evan, Chief Financial Officer of VeriSign. "We believe that Q1 set a positive baseline from which we can grow our lines of business and financial results throughout the year."
 
Notable business developments within VeriSign's Internet Services Group (ISG) during the first quarter included the introduction of the Open Authentication (OATH) reference architecture and VeriSign's Strong Authentication solutions to accelerate the adoption of authentication technology across all users, devices and networks. In addition, ISG further strengthened its Managed Security Services (MSS) business with the closing of the Guardent acquisition and the signing of several new customers and channel partners, including Hyatt International, Sun Microsystems and US Bancorp.
 
During the quarter, VeriSign Communications Services (VCS) unveiled a broad-based strategy to help carriers of all sizes more quickly deliver the integrated, next-generation services that wireless, cable and wireline subscribers are demanding. In association with this announcement, VCS announced a strategic relationship with BearingPoint to deliver a next-generation billing and payments platform for the communications services industry, as well as a comprehensive set of new offerings that expand the ability of VeriSign to provide services such as Short Message Services (SMS), Multimedia Messaging
Services (MMS) and General Packet Radio Services (GPRS) in overseas markets. VCS also announced that it had acquired the assets of Unimobile, a provider of mobile messaging solutions for carriers and enterprises. VeriSign will combine these assets with its own services to offer a broad new set of SMS, MMS and secure content delivery capabilities.
 
Additional Financial Information
 
 
 
 
 
 
Internet Services Group
 
 
 
 
 
 
Communications Services Group
 
 
 
 
Today's Conference Call
 
VeriSign will be hosting a teleconference call today at 2:00 pm (PT) to review the first quarter results. The call will be accessible by direct dial at (800) 210-9006. A listen-only live webcast of the earnings call will also be available on the company's website at under the Investor Relations tab and at . A replay of the teleconference will be available by calling (888) 203-1112 (passcode: 141865) beginning at 6:00 pm (PT) today and will run through April 29
www.verisign.com
www.streetevents.com
th
. This press release and the financial information discussed on today's earnings call are available on the company's website at www.verisign.com under the Investor Relations tab.
 
About VeriSign
 
VeriSign, Inc. (Nasdaq: VRSN) delivers critical infrastructure services that make the Internet and telecommunications networks more intelligent, reliable and secure. Every day VeriSign helps thousands of businesses and millions of consumers connect, communicate, and transact with confidence. Additional news and information about the company is available at www.verisign.com.
 
 
Statements in this announcement other than historical data and information constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause VeriSign's actual results to differ materially from those stated or implied by such forward-looking statements. The potential risks and uncertainties include, among others, the uncertainty of future revenue and profitability and potential fluctuations in quarterly operating results due to such factors as increasing competition and pricing pressure from competing services offered at prices below our prices and market acceptance of our existing services, the inability of VeriSign to successfully develop and market new services and the uncertainty of whether new services as provided by VeriSign will achieve market acceptance or result in any revenues, reduced demand for our services as a result of continued softness in information technology and telecommunications spending by our customers, and the loss of revenues due to VeriSign's disposition of its Network Solutions domain name registrar business. More information about potential factors that could affect the company's business and financial results is included in VeriSign's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003 and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. VeriSign undertakes no obligation to update any of the forward-looking statements after the date of this press release.
 
 
*
Common Stock Equivalents were anti-dilutive.
 
VeriSign provides quarterly and annual financial statements that are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Along with this information, we typically disclose and discuss certain non-GAAP financial information in our quarterly earnings releases, on investor conference calls and during investor conferences and related events. This non-GAAP financial information does not include the following types of financial measures that are included in GAAP: amortization and write-down of goodwill and intangible assets related to acquisitions, the net loss on the sale of investments or the impairment of investments, restructuring and other charges, and stock-based compensation charges related to acquisitions.
 
Management believes that this non-GAAP financial data supplements our GAAP financial statements by providing investors with additional information which allows them to have a clearer picture of the company's core recurring operations. The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with GAAP. We believe that the non-GAAP information enhances the investors' overall understanding of our financial performance and the comparability of the company's operating results from period to period. Above, we have provided a reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial information that we provide each quarter with the comparable financial information reported in accordance with GAAP for the given period.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes:
 
Management believes that this non-GAAP financial data supplements our GAAP financial statements by providing investors with additional information which allows them to have a more clear picture of the company's core recurring operations. The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with GAAP. We believe that the non-GAAP information enhances the investors' overall understanding of our financial performance and the comparability of the company's operating results from period to period.
 
 


