FILE:VRSN/VRSN-8K-20041020162858.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On October 20, 2004, VeriSign, Inc. ("VeriSign" or the "Company") announced its financial results for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2004 and certain other information. A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
The information in this Form 8-K and the Exhibit attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information
 
VeriSign provides quarterly and annual financial statements that are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Along with this information, we typically disclose and discuss certain non-GAAP financial information in our quarterly earnings releases, on investor conference calls and during investor conferences and related events. This non-GAAP financial information does not include the following types of financial measures that are included in GAAP: amortization and write-down of goodwill and intangible assets related to acquisitions, the net gain or loss on the sale of investments or the impairment of investments, restructuring and other charges, and stock-based compensation charges related to acquisitions. Management believes that this non-GAAP financial data supplements our GAAP financial by providing investors with additional information which allows them to have a clearer picture of the company's core recurring operations. The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with GAAP. We believe that the non-GAAP information enhances the investors' overall understanding of our financial performance and the comparability of the company's operating results from period to period. In the press release attached hereto to as Exhibit 99.1, we have provided a reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial information that we provide each quarter with the comparable financial information reported in accordance with GAAP for the given period.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
99.1       Text of press release of VeriSign, Inc. issued on October 20, 2004.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Exhibit Index
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
VeriSign, Inc. (Nasdaq: VRSN), the leading provider of intelligent infrastructure services for the Internet and telecommunications networks, today reported its results for the third quarter ended September 30, 2004.
MOUNTAIN VIEW, CA  October 20, 2004 
 
VeriSign reported revenue of $325 million for the third quarter of 2004. On a GAAP basis, VeriSign reported net income of $40 million for the third quarter and earnings per share of $0.16 per fully-diluted share.
 
On a non-GAAP, after tax basis, using a 30% effective tax rate on non-GAAP pre-tax income of $69 million, earnings per share for the third quarter was $0.19 per fully-diluted share. These non-GAAP results exclude the following items, which are included under GAAP: amortization and write-down of goodwill and intangible assets related to acquisitions, the net gain or loss on the sale of investments or the impairment of investments, restructuring and other charges, and stock-based compensation charges related to acquisitions. A table reconciling the non-GAAP to GAAP numbers reported above is appended to this release.
 
"Continued sequential growth in our core Internet and Telecommunications divisions combined with significant overachievement in our new mobile content business had a positive impact on our third quarter performance," said Stratton Sclavos, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of VeriSign. "We believe our year long focus on growing our Intelligent Infrastructure services through market share gains, new product introductions and deeper international penetration is delivering results and setting the foundation for continued growth in Q4 and beyond."
 
"We experienced extraordinary revenue growth of over 27% sequentially in our third quarter leading to record operating income of $64 million and strong operating cash flow of $84 million," said Dana Evan, Chief Financial Officer of VeriSign. "The benefits of our business model, based on recurring revenues from subscription and transaction services, are leading to increased financial leverage and operating results."
 
During the third quarter, the VeriSign Security Services (VSS) business unit launched a new offering in the strong authentication market. consists of a comprehensive software and services platform coupled with a new generation of multi-purpose authentication tokens that the company believes will deliver more flexibility, better integration and lower cost of ownership than competing products.
VeriSign Unified Authentication
 
Also, the VeriSign Naming and Directory Services (VNDS) business unit introduced the
VeriSign EPC Starter Service
SM,
which enables trading partners in a supply chain to begin using the EPCglobal Network to conduct pilot projects using RFID-driven event information. The VNDS unit also introduced an application developer program that creates a test environment for companies looking to integrate the EPCglobal Network into their RFID-enabled supply chain management solutions.
In addition to the continued European expansion of its Jamba! business in the third quarter, the VeriSign Communications Services (VCS) unit also announced the IP Connect family of services. IP Connect services are targeted at traditional telecommunications carriers, cable operators, next generation service providers and enterprises wanting to leverage VeriSign's directory and connectivity services to provide for efficient and interoperable routing of voice calls over an IP network.
 
Additional Financial Information
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Internet Services Group
 
 
 
 
 
Communications Services Group
 
 
 
Today's Conference Call
 
VeriSign will be hosting a teleconference call today at 2:00 pm (PT) to review the third quarter results. The call will be accessible by direct dial at (888) 569-5033. A listen-only live webcast of the earnings call will also be available on the company's website at under the Investor Relations tab and at . A replay of the teleconference will be available by calling (888) 203-1112 (passcode: 842883) beginning at 5:00 pm (PT) today and will run through October 27
www.verisign.com
www.streetevents.com
th
. This press release and the financial information discussed on today's conference call are available on the company's website at www.verisign.com under the Investor Relations tab.
 
About VeriSign
 
VeriSign, Inc. (Nasdaq: VRSN) delivers intelligent infrastructure services that make the Internet and telecommunications networks more reliable and secure. Every day VeriSign helps thousands of businesses and millions of consumers conduct commerce and communications with confidence. Additional news and information about the company is available at www.verisign.com.
 
 
Statements in this announcement other than historical data and information constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause VeriSign's actual results to differ materially from those stated or implied by such forward-looking statements. The potential risks and uncertainties include, among others, the uncertainty of future revenue and profitability and potential fluctuations in quarterly operating results due to such factors as increasing competition and pricing pressure from competing services offered at prices below our prices and market acceptance of our existing services, the inability of VeriSign to successfully develop and market new services and the uncertainty of whether new services as provided by VeriSign will achieve market acceptance or result in any revenues and the risk that the VeriSign and Jamba! businesses as well as other businesses will not be integrated successfully and unanticipated costs of such integration. More information about potential factors that could affect the company's business and financial results is included in VeriSign's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003 and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. VeriSign undertakes no obligation to update any of the forward-looking statements after the date of this press release.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For the quarter ended September 30, 2004 and 2003, the diluted net income per share on a non-GAAP basis equaled $0.19 and $0.15, respectively, using a 30% effective tax rate. This rate is commonly utilized by independent financial analysts who cover our stock in calculating our earnings per share on a non-GAAP basis.
 
VeriSign provides quarterly and annual financial statements that are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Along with this information, we typically disclose and discuss certain non-GAAP financial information in our quarterly earnings releases, on investor conference calls and during investor conferences and related events. This non-GAAP financial information does not include the following types of financial measures that are included in GAAP: amortization and write-down of goodwill and intangible assets related to acquisitions, the net gain or loss on the sale of investments or the impairment of investments, restructuring and other charges, and stock-based compensation charges related to acquisitions.
 
Management believes that this non-GAAP financial data supplements our GAAP financial by providing investors with additional information which allows them to have a clearer picture of the company's core recurring operations. The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with GAAP. We believe that the non-GAAP information enhances the investors' overall understanding of our financial performance and the comparability of the company's operating results from period to period. Above, we have provided a reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial information that we provide each quarter with the comparable financial information reported in accordance with GAAP for the given period.
 
 
 
For the nine months ended September 30, 2004 and 2003, the diluted net income per share on a non-GAAP basis equaled $0.48 and $0.42, respectively, using a 30% effective tax rate. This rate is commonly utilized by independent financial analysts who cover our stock in calculating our earnings per share on a non-GAAP basis.
 
VeriSign provides quarterly and annual financial statements that are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Along with this information, we typically disclose and discuss certain non-GAAP financial information in our quarterly earnings releases, on investor conference calls and during investor conferences and related events. This non-GAAP financial information does not include the following types of financial measures that are included in GAAP: amortization and write-down of goodwill and intangible assets related to acquisitions, the net gain or loss on the sale of investments or the impairment of investments, restructuring and other charges, and stock-based compensation charges related to acquisitions.
 
Management believes that this non-GAAP financial data supplements our GAAP financial by providing investors with additional information which allows them to have a clearer picture of the company's core recurring operations. The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with GAAP. We believe that the non-GAAP information enhances the investors' overall understanding of our financial performance and the comparability of the company's operating results from period to period. Above, we have provided a reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial information that we provide each quarter with the comparable financial information reported in accordance with GAAP for the given period.
 
 


