FILE:VRSN/VRSN-8K-20040129162459.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On January 29, 2004, VeriSign, Inc. ("VeriSign" or the "Company") announced its financial results for the fourth quarter and fiscal year ended December 31, 2003 and certain other information. A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
The information in this Form 8-K and the Exhibit attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information
 
To supplement our consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ("GAAP"), VeriSign provides non-GAAP measures of operating results, net income and earnings per share that do not include the following financial measures that are normally included in GAAP: amortization and write-down of goodwill and other intangible assets, the net gain or loss on the sale of investments or the write-down of investments, restructuring and other charges, non-cash stock-based compensation charges related to acquisitions, and the gain from the sale of the Network Solutions business.
 
We believe that this non-GAAP, pro forma information enhances an investor's overall understanding of our financial performance and our prospects for the future by excluding expenses and other items that in management's view are not indicative of our core operating results. VeriSign's management reviews this information when assessing the performance of its ongoing operations and for planning and forecasting in future periods. In addition, since we have historically reported non-GAAP pro forma information to the investment community, we believe the inclusion of this information provides consistency in our financial reporting. The non-GAAP pro forma information included in our press release has been reconciled to the comparable GAAP measure as required under SEC rules regarding the use of non-GAAP financial measures. We urge investors to carefully review the GAAP financial information included as part of our Annual Report on Form 10-K, our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and our quarterly earnings releases.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Exhibit Index
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
VeriSign, Inc. (Nasdaq: VRSN), the leading provider of critical infrastructure services for the Internet and telecommunications networks, today reported its results for the fourth quarter and fiscal year ended December 31, 2003.
MOUNTAIN VIEW, CA  January 29, 2004 
 
Q4 2003 Financial Results
 
VeriSign reported revenue of $252 million for the fourth quarter of 2003. The results for the fourth quarter reflect the sale of the Network Solutions business, which closed on November 25, 2003, and therefore include only 56 days of Network Solutions' fourth quarter activity.
 
On a pro forma basis, VeriSign reported net income of $44 million or $0.18 per fully diluted share for the fourth quarter. These pro forma results exclude the following items, which are included under generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"): amortization of other intangible assets, restructuring and other charges, non-cash stock-based compensation charges related to acquisitions and the gain from the sale of the Network Solutions business. VeriSign's fourth quarter results were not fully taxed. On an after-tax basis, using a 30% effective tax rate on pro forma pre-tax income of $58 million, pro forma earnings per share for the fourth quarter was $0.17 per fully-diluted share. A table reconciling the pro forma to GAAP numbers reported above is appended to this release.
 
On a GAAP basis, VeriSign reported a net loss of $22 million for the fourth quarter. The GAAP loss for the fourth quarter was primarily attributable to a restructuring charge of $43 million, the majority of which was related to the sale of the Network Solutions business. The restructuring charge consisted of employee severance, facilities abandonment, contract terminations and asset dispositions.
 
"Our continued focus on becoming the critical infrastructure provider for the Internet and Telecommunications networks produced a solid finish to 2003," said Stratton Sclavos, Chairman and CEO of VeriSign. "We are pleased that we were able to meet our operating and financial goals for the fourth quarter as we further solidified our position as a leader in managed security, directory and communication services."
 
Fiscal 2003 Financial Results
 
For the year ended December 31, 2003, VeriSign reported revenue of $1.1 billion. On a pro forma basis, net income was $181 million or $0.75 per fully diluted share. The pro forma year-end results exclude the following items, which are included under GAAP: amortization and write-down of goodwill and other intangible assets, the gain on and write-down of certain investments, restructuring and other charges, non-cash stock-based compensation charges related to acquisitions and the gain from the sale of the Network Solutions business. VeriSign's fiscal 2003 results were not fully taxed. On an after-tax basis, using a 30% effective tax rate on pro forma pre-tax income of $204 million, pro forma earnings per share for the full year 2003 was $0.59 per fully diluted share. A table reconciling the pro forma to GAAP numbers reported above is appended to this release.
On a GAAP basis, the net loss for the year was $250 million. The GAAP loss for the year 2003 is primarily attributable to a charge of $336 million for the amortization and write-down of goodwill and other intangible assets.
 
"Our fourth quarter results helped cap off a year in which we consistently demonstrated the benefits of our strong business model and operational rigor, as evidenced by our 2003 operating cash flow of $358 million, a 49% increase over 2002," said Dana Evan, Chief Financial Officer of VeriSign. "Throughout the year, we increased operating margins, improved productivity and efficiency and drove dramatic improvement in our balance sheet."
 
Notable business developments during the fourth quarter included a definitive agreement to acquire Guardent, which will bring together two of the leading providers of Managed Security Services (MSS), the sale of VeriSign's Network Solutions domain name registrar business to Pivotal Private Equity, and the successful initial public offering (IPO) of VeriSign's Japanese Subsidiary, VeriSign Japan K.K. Also during the quarter, VeriSign's Payments business purchased the electronic payment assets of CelNX to be used in the telecommunications market.
 
In addition to the in-quarter highlights listed above, VeriSign also recently announced that it has been selected by EPCglobal, a not-for-profit standards organization, to operate the Object Naming Service (ONS) as the root directory for the EPCglobal Network. The company does not expect this contract to materially impact its 2004 financial results.
 
Additional Financial Information
 
 
 
 
 
 
Internet Services Group
 
 
 
 
Telecommunication Services Group
 
 
 
 
Network Solutions
 
 
Today's Conference Call
 
VeriSign will be hosting a teleconference call today at 2:00 pm (PT) to review the fourth quarter and fiscal 2003 results. The call will be accessible by direct dial at (800) 562-8369. A listen-only live webcast of the earnings call will also be available on the company's website at under the Investor Relations tab and at . A replay of the teleconference will be available by calling (888) 203-1112 (passcode: 713222) beginning at 6:00 pm (PT) today and will run through February 5
www.verisign.com
www.streetevents.com
th
. This press release and the financial information discussed on today's earnings call are available on the company's website at www.verisign.com under the Investor Relations tab.
 
About VeriSign
 
VeriSign, Inc. (Nasdaq: VRSN), delivers critical infrastructure services that make the Internet and telecommunications networks more intelligent, reliable and secure. Every day VeriSign helps thousands of businesses and millions of consumers connect, communicate, and transact with confidence. Additional news and information about the company is available at www.verisign.com.
 
 
Statements in this announcement other than historical data and information, including but not limited to new business relationships and new service offerings, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause VeriSign's actual results to differ materially from those stated or implied by such forward-looking statements. The potential risks and uncertainties include, among others, the uncertainty of future revenue and
profitability and potential fluctuations in quarterly operating results due to such factors as increasing competition and pricing pressure from competing services offered at prices below our prices, market acceptance of our existing services; the uncertainty of whether the EPCglobal contract will result in any revenues or whether the EPCglobal network will achieve market acceptance; the inability of VeriSign to successfully develop and market new services or the failure of new services to gain customer acceptance; reduced demand for our services as a result of continued softness in information technology and telecommunications spending by our customers; and the risk that VeriSign's disposition of its Network Solutions business may result in reduced revenues. More information about potential factors that could affect the company's business and financial results is included in VeriSign's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002 and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. VeriSign undertakes no obligation to update any of the forward-looking statements after the date of this press release.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes:
 
Management believes that this pro forma financial data supplements our GAAP financial statements by providing investors with additional information which allows them to have a more clear picture of the company's core recurring operations. The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with GAAP. We believe that the pro forma information enhances the investors' overall understanding of our financial performance and the comparability of the company's operating results from period to period.
 
 
Notes:
 
Management believes that this pro forma financial data supplements our GAAP financial statements by providing investors with additional information which allows them to have a more clear picture of the company's core recurring operations. The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with GAAP. We believe that the pro forma information enhances the investors' overall understanding of our financial performance and the comparability of the company's operating results from period to period.
 
 


