FILE:VRSN/VRSN-8K-20050126163723.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
On January 26, 2005, VeriSign, Inc. ("VeriSign" or the "Company") announced its financial results for the fiscal year and quarter ended December 31, 2004 and certain other information. A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
The information in this Form 8-K and the Exhibit attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information
 
VeriSign provides quarterly and annual financial statements that are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Along with this information, we typically disclose and discuss certain non-GAAP financial information in our quarterly earnings releases, on investor conference calls and during investor conferences and related events. This non-GAAP financial information does not include the following types of financial measures that are included in GAAP: amortization and write-down of goodwill and intangible assets related to acquisitions, the net gain on the sale of investments or the impairment of investments, restructuring and other charges, and stock-based compensation charges related to acquisitions. Management believes that this non-GAAP financial data supplements our GAAP financial by providing investors with additional information which allows them to have a clearer picture of the company's core recurring operations. The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with GAAP. We believe that the non-GAAP information enhances the investors' overall understanding of our financial performance and the comparability of the company's operating results from period to period. In the press release attached hereto to as Exhibit 99.1, we have provided a reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial information that we provide each quarter with the comparable financial information reported in accordance with GAAP for the given period.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Exhibit Index
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
VeriSign, Inc. (Nasdaq: VRSN), the leading provider of intelligent infrastructure services for the Internet and telecommunications networks, today reported its results for the fourth quarter and year ended December 31, 2004.
MOUNTAIN VIEW, CA  January 26, 2005 
 
Q4 2004 Financial Results
 
VeriSign reported revenue of $356 million for the fourth quarter of 2004. On a GAAP basis, VeriSign reported net income of $115 million for the fourth quarter and earnings per share of $0.43 per fully-diluted share which includes a onetime gain from the monetization of a portion of its investment in VeriSign Japan for $78 million.
 
On a non-GAAP, after tax basis, using a 30% effective tax rate on non-GAAP pre-tax income of $78 million, earnings per share for the fourth quarter were $0.21 per fully-diluted share. These non-GAAP results exclude the following items, which are included under GAAP: amortization and write-down of goodwill and intangible assets related to acquisitions, the net gain on the sale of VeriSign Japan stock, the impairment of investments, restructuring and other charges, and stock-based compensation charges related to acquisitions. A table reconciling the non-GAAP to GAAP numbers reported above is appended to this release.
 
"Our fourth quarter business and financial results capped a solid year of execution and growth for VeriSign," said Stratton Sclavos, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "We believe we are entering 2005 with significant momentum in our existing lines of business and exciting new opportunities in emerging markets and geographies."
 
2004 Financial Results
 
For the year ended December 31, 2004, VeriSign reported revenue of $1.17 billion. On a GAAP basis, VeriSign reported net income of $186 million with earnings per share for year of $0.72 per fully-diluted share.
 
On a non-GAAP, after tax basis, using a 30% effective tax rate on non-GAAP pre-tax income of $252 million, earnings per share for 2004 were $0.68 per fully diluted share. These non-GAAP results exclude the following items, which are included under GAAP: amortization and write-down of goodwill and intangible assets related to acquisitions, the net gain on the sale of VeriSign Japan stock, the net gain or loss on the sale of other investments, the impairment of investments, restructuring and other charges, and stock-based compensation charges related to acquisitions. A table reconciling the non-GAAP to GAAP numbers reported above is appended to this release.
 
"We are very pleased with the continued strength in our Internet and Communications lines of business," said Dana Evan, Chief Financial Officer of VeriSign. "Our strong sequential revenue growth in the fourth quarter, coupled with ongoing operational leverage, led to significant margin and earnings expansion. This execution also yielded record operating income and operating cash flow in the quarter."
 
During the fourth quarter, the VeriSign Security Services (VSS) business unit continued the expansion of its Unified Authentication Platform announcing a strategic alliance with US Bancorp to supply next generation tokens to secure transactions with commercial banking customers.
 
Also, VeriSign's Naming and Directory Services (VNDS) business unit saw continued momentum for its RFID initiatives in Asia and Australia that extend the availability of the VeriSign EPC Starter Service. These relationships support VeriSign's strategy to work closely with regional supply-chain ecosystems to drive adoption of Electronic Product Codes and the EPCglobal Network.
 
In the fourth quarter, VeriSign's Communications Services (VCS) group announced its Digital Content Services platform. As part of this strategy, VeriSign and Thomson also announced plans to create an on-demand authentication and authorization service bureau to support the secure delivery of electronic entertainment over digital networks.
 
Subsequent to the close of the quarter, VeriSign announced that it had signed a definitive agreement to acquire Santa Cruz, California-based LightSurf Technologies Inc. for $270 million in VeriSign stock. LightSurf is a global leader in multimedia messaging and interoperability solutions for the wireless market. Subject to regulatory approvals, the transaction is expected to close by the end of the first quarter of 2005.
 
Additional Financial Information
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Internet Services Group
 
 
 
 
 
 
Communications Services Group
 
 
 
 
 
Today's Conference Call
 
VeriSign will be hosting a teleconference call today at 2:00 pm (PST) to review the fourth quarter and annual results. The call will be accessible by direct dial at (888) 283-6901 (US) or (719) 955-1564 (international). A listen-only live webcast of the earnings call will also be available on the company's website at www.verisign.com under the Investor Relations tab and at www.streetevents.com. A replay of the teleconference will be available by calling (888) 203-1112 (passcode: 549309) beginning at 5:00 pm (PST) today and will run through February 2nd. This press release and the financial information discussed on today's conference call are available on the company's website at www.verisign.com under the Investor Relations tab.
 
About VeriSign
 
VeriSign, Inc. (Nasdaq: VRSN), operates intelligent infrastructure services that enable businesses and individuals to find, connect, secure, and transact across today's complex global networks. Additional news and information about the company is available at www.verisign.com.
 
Contacts
 
Media Relations: Brian O'Shaughnessy, boshaughnessy@verisign.com, 650-426-5270
Investor Relations: Tom McCallum, tmccallum@verisign.com, 650-426-3744
 
 
Statements in this announcement other than historical data and information constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause VeriSign's actual results to differ materially from those stated or
 
implied by such forward-looking statements. The potential risks and uncertainties include, among others, the uncertainty of future revenue and profitability and potential fluctuations in quarterly operating results due to such factors as increasing competition and pricing pressure from competing services offered at prices below our prices and market acceptance of our existing services, the inability of VeriSign to successfully develop and market new services and the uncertainty of whether new services as provided by VeriSign will achieve market acceptance or result in any revenues and the risk that the VeriSign and Jamba! businesses as well as other businesses will not be integrated successfully and unanticipated costs of such integration. More information about potential factors that could affect the company's business and financial results is included in VeriSign's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003 and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. VeriSign undertakes no obligation to update any of the forward-looking statements after the date of this press release.
 
VeriSign is a registered trademark of VeriSign, Inc. Other names may be trademarks of their respective owners.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Statement of Operations Reconciliation
 
 
VeriSign provides quarterly and annual financial statements that are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Along with this information, we typically disclose and discuss certain non-GAAP financial information in our quarterly earnings releases, on investor conference calls and during investor conferences and related events. This non-GAAP financial information does not include the following types of financial measures that are included in GAAP: amortization and write-down of goodwill and intangible assets related to acquisitions, the net gain on the sale of VeriSign Japan stock, the net gain or loss on the sale of other investments or the impairment of investments, restructuring and other charges, and stock-based compensation charges related to acquisitions. The non-GAAP financial information is also adjusted for a standard 30% tax rate which differs from the GAAP rate.
 
Management believes that this non-GAAP financial data supplements our GAAP financial by providing investors with additional information which allows them to have a clearer picture of the company's core recurring operations. The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with GAAP. We believe that the non-GAAP information enhances the investors' overall understanding of our financial performance and the comparability of the company's operating results from period to period. Above, we have provided a reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial information that we provide each quarter with the comparable financial information reported in accordance with GAAP for the given period.
 
 
 
 
Statement of Operations Reconciliation
 
 
VeriSign provides quarterly and annual financial statements that are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Along with this information, we typically disclose and discuss certain non-GAAP financial information in our quarterly earnings releases, on investor conference calls and during investor conferences and related events. This non-GAAP financial information does not include the following types of financial measures that are included in GAAP: amortization and write-down of goodwill and intangible assets related to acquisitions, the net gain on the sale of VeriSign Japan stock, the net gain or loss on the sale of other investments or the impairment of investments, restructuring and other charges, and stock-based compensation charges related to acquisitions. The non-GAAP financial information is also adjusted for a standard 30% tax rate which differs from the GAAP rate.
 
Management believes that this non-GAAP financial data supplements our GAAP financial by providing investors with additional information which allows them to have a clearer picture of the company's core recurring operations. The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with GAAP. We believe that the non-GAAP information enhances the investors' overall understanding of our financial performance and the comparability of the company's operating results from period to period. Above, we have provided a reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial information that we provide each quarter with the comparable financial information reported in accordance with GAAP for the given period.
 
 
 
 
 


