FILE:VRSN/VRSN-8K-20050720163058.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On July 20, 2005, VeriSign, Inc. ("VeriSign" or the "Company") announced its financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2005 and certain other information. A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
The information in this Form 8-K and the Exhibit attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information
 
VeriSign provides quarterly and annual financial statements that are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Along with this information, we typically disclose and discuss certain non-GAAP financial information in our quarterly earnings releases, on investor conference calls and during investor conferences and related events. This non-GAAP financial information does not include the following types of financial measures that are included in GAAP: amortization and write-down of goodwill and intangible assets related to acquisitions, in-process research and development, the net gain on the sale of investments or the impairment of investments, restructuring and other recoveries/charges, and stock-based compensation charges related to acquisitions. Management believes that this non-GAAP financial data supplements our GAAP financial by providing investors with additional information which allows them to have a clearer picture of the company's core recurring operations. The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with GAAP. We believe that the non-GAAP information enhances the investors' overall understanding of our financial performance and the comparability of the company's operating results from period to period. In the press release attached hereto to as Exhibit 99.1, we have provided a reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial information that we provide each quarter with the comparable financial information reported in accordance with GAAP for the given period.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Exhibit Index
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
VeriSign, Inc. (Nasdaq: VRSN), the leading provider of intelligent infrastructure services for the Internet and telecommunications networks, today reported its results for the second quarter ended June 30, 2005.
MOUNTAIN VIEW, CA  July 20, 2005 
 
VeriSign reported revenue of $445 million for the second quarter of 2005, a 74 percent increase compared to the same period of 2004. On a GAAP basis, VeriSign reported net income of $41 million for the second quarter 2005 and earnings per share of $0.15 per fully-diluted share. This compares with net income of $22 million and earnings per share of $.09 per fully-diluted share for the same period of 2004.
 
On a non-GAAP basis, using a 30% effective tax rate on non-GAAP pre-tax income of $105 million, earnings per share for the second quarter was $0.27 per fully-diluted share, as compared to non-GAAP pre-tax income of $55 million and earnings per fully-diluted share of $0.15 for the same period in 2004. These non-GAAP results exclude the following items, which are included under GAAP: amortization of intangible assets related to acquisitions, in-process research and development, the net gain or loss on the sale of investments, restructuring and other recoveries/charges, and stock-based compensation charges related to acquisitions. A table reconciling the non-GAAP to GAAP numbers reported above is appended to this release.
 
"Our second quarter results were driven by continued demand for our Intelligent Infrastructure services across the world's voice and data networks," said Stratton Sclavos, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of VeriSign. "As the global foundation for the delivery of communications, commerce and content continues to migrate from physical to digital, we are confident that our customers will look to utilize our services to enable and protect their interactions."
 
"Strong top and bottom-line growth during Q2 drove healthy cash flow and strengthened our balance sheet" said Dana Evan, Chief Financial Officer of VeriSign. "The record revenue and operating income generated $136 million in operating cash flow and led to a balance of more than $930 million in cash and cash equivalents at the end of the quarter."
 
Within VeriSign's Internet Services Group (ISG), the VeriSign Security Services (VSS) business achieved a number of milestones during the quarter. Highlights included the announcement of a multi-year Managed Security Services (MSS) contract with ScottishPower, a channel partner relationship with Global Crossing and the recent acquisition of iDEFENSE which will provide real-time intelligence to VeriSign's MSS customers. VSS also announced the launch of several new products including a three-year SSL certificate and enhancements to the VeriSign E-mail Security Solution which includes a Message Archiving Service that helps enterprises meet regulatory compliance and business continuity needs.
The VeriSign Naming and Directory Services (VNDS) business saw its active domain names under management reach a record level as new registrations and renewal rates remained strong. The company was also notified by the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN) that VeriSign has been awarded the contract to continue operating the domain registry. In addition, VNDS announced the acquisition of R4 Global Solutions to provide consulting and implementation services in support of the company's Intelligent Supply Chain offering for enterprises that deploy RFID technology.
.net
 
The VeriSign Communications Services (VCS) business saw continued growth across its Communications, Commerce and Content businesses in the second quarter. As part of VeriSign's mobile content strategy, VeriSign completed the acquisition of LightSurf and announced the powering of inter-carrier multi-media messaging across Canada and with carriers in the US including T-Mobile and Virgin Mobile. Through an asset acquisition, VCS also added Lightbridge's PrepayIN platform to the Communications & Commerce group's billing services.
 
Additional Financial Information
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Internet Services Group
 
 
 
 
Communications Services Group
 
 
 
 
Today's Conference Call
 
VeriSign will be hosting a teleconference call today at 2:00 pm (PT) to review the second quarter results. The call will be accessible by direct dial at (800) 946-0712 (US) or (719) 457-2641 (international). A listen-only live web cast of the Q2 earnings conference call will also be available at or . A replay of this call will be available at (888) 203-1112 (passcode: 6588408) or (719) 457-0820 (international) beginning at 5:00 pm (PT) on July 20th and will run through July 27th. This press release and the financial information discussed on today's conference call are available on the company's website at www.verisign.com under the Investor Relations site.
www.verisign.com
www.streetevents.com
 
About VeriSign
 
VeriSign, Inc. (Nasdaq: VRSN), operates intelligent infrastructure services that enable businesses and individuals to find, connect, secure, and transact across today's complex global networks. Additional news and information about the company is available at .
www.verisign.com
 
Contacts
 
Media Relations: Brian O'Shaughnessy, , 650-426-5270 Investor Relations: Tom McCallum, , 650-426-3744
boshaughnessy@verisign.com
tmccallum@verisign.com
 
 
Statements in this announcement other than historical data and information constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause VeriSign's actual results to differ materially from those stated or implied by such forward-looking statements. The potential risks and uncertainties include, among others, the uncertainty of future revenue and profitability and potential fluctuations in quarterly operating results due to such factors as increasing competition and pricing pressure from competing services offered at prices below our prices and market acceptance of our existing services, the inability of VeriSign to successfully develop and market new services and the uncertainty of whether new services as provided by VeriSign will achieve market acceptance or result in any revenues and the risk that the VeriSign and Jamba! businesses as well as other businesses will not be integrated successfully and unanticipated costs of such integration. More information about potential factors that could affect the company's business and financial results is included in VeriSign's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004 and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. VeriSign undertakes no obligation to update any of the forward-looking statements after the date of this press release.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
VeriSign provides quarterly and annual financial statements that are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Along with this information, we typically disclose and discuss certain non-GAAP financial information in our quarterly earnings releases, on investor conference calls and during investor conferences and related events. This non-GAAP financial information does not include the following types of financial measures that are included in GAAP: amortization of intangible assets related to acquisitions, In-process research and development, the net gain/loss on sale of investments, restructuring and other (recoveries)/charges, and stock-based compensation charges related to acquisitions. The non-GAAP financial information is also adjusted for a standard 30% tax rate which differs from the GAAP rate.
 
Management believes that this non-GAAP financial data supplements our GAAP financial data by providing investors with additional information which allows them to have a clearer picture of the company's core operations. The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with GAAP. We believe that the non-GAAP information enhances the investors' overall understanding of our financial performance and the comparability of the company's operating results from period to period. Above, we have provided a reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial information that we provide each quarter with the comparable financial information reported in accordance with GAAP for the given period.
 
 
 
VeriSign provides quarterly and annual financial statements that are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Along with this information, we typically disclose and discuss certain non-GAAP financial information in our quarterly earnings releases, on investor conference calls and during investor conferences and related events. This non-GAAP financial information does not include the following types of financial measures that are included in GAAP: amortization of intangible assets related to acquisitions, In-process research and development, the net gain/loss on sale of investments, restructuring and other (recoveries)/charges, and stock-based compensation charges related to acquisitions. The non-GAAP financial information is also adjusted for a standard 30% tax rate which differs from the GAAP rate.
 
Management believes that this non-GAAP financial data supplements our GAAP financial data by providing investors with additional information which allows them to have a clearer picture of the company's core operations. The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with GAAP. We believe that the non-GAAP information enhances the investors' overall understanding of our financial performance and the comparability of the company's operating results from period to period. Above, we have provided a reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial information that we provide each quarter with the comparable financial information reported in accordance with GAAP for the given period.
 
 


