FILE:VRSN/VRSN-8K-20060126163428.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On January 26, 2006, VeriSign, Inc. ("VeriSign" or the "Company") announced its financial results for the fiscal year and quarter ended December 31, 2005 and certain other information. A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
The information in this Form 8-K and the Exhibit attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information
 
VeriSign provides quarterly and annual financial statements that are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Along with this information, we typically disclose and discuss certain non-GAAP financial information in our quarterly earnings releases, on investor conference calls and during investor conferences and related events. This non-GAAP financial information does not include the following types of financial measures that are included in GAAP: amortization of intangible assets, acquired in-process research and development, stock-based compensation charges, litigation settlements, restructuring and other charges, the net gain on the sale of the payment gateway business, the net gain on the sale of investments and income tax expense. Management believes that this non-GAAP financial data supplements our GAAP financial by providing investors with additional information which allows them to have a clearer picture of the company's core recurring operations. The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with GAAP. We believe that the non-GAAP information enhances the investors' overall understanding of our financial performance and the comparability of the company's operating results from period to period. In the press release attached hereto to as Exhibit 99.1, we have provided a reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial information that we provide each quarter with the comparable financial information reported in accordance with GAAP for the given period.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
99.1    Text of press release of VeriSign, Inc. issued on January 26, 2006.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Exhibit Index
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
VeriSign, Inc. (Nasdaq: VRSN), the leading provider of intelligent infrastructure services for the Internet and telecommunications networks, today reported its results for the fourth quarter and year ended December 31, 2005.
MOUNTAIN VIEW, CA  January 26, 2006 
 
Q4 2005 Financial Results
 
VeriSign reported total revenue of $401 million for the fourth quarter of 2005. These results include approximately $8 million of revenue related to the payment gateway business that was sold on November 18, 2005 and which is reported under discontinued operations on the income statements. A table reconciling discontinued operations revenue is appended to this release.
 
On a GAAP basis, VeriSign reported net income of $271 million for the fourth quarter of 2005 and earnings per share of $1.06 per fully-diluted share. These results include a one-time net gain of $252 million from the sale of the payment gateway business in Q4.
 
On a non-GAAP basis, using a 30% effective tax rate on non-GAAP pre-tax income of $94 million, earnings per share for the fourth quarter was $0.26 per diluted share. These non-GAAP results exclude the following items which are included under GAAP: amortization of intangible assets, acquired in-process research and development, stock-based compensation charges, litigation settlements, restructuring and other charges, the net gain on the sale of the payment gateway business, the net gain on the sale of investments and income tax expense. These non-GAAP results include approximately $3 million of net income from discontinued operations related to the payment gateway business that was sold on November 18, 2005. A table reconciling the non-GAAP to GAAP net income reported above is appended to this release.
 
"Our fourth quarter results capped a solid year marked by strategic execution and strong revenue growth," said Stratton Sclavos, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of VeriSign. "Looking at 2006, we believe VeriSign is well-positioned to execute on our mission of enabling and protecting the world's voice and data interactions as the tectonic shifts in communications and commerce continue."
 
2005 Financial Results
 
For the year ended December 31, 2005, VeriSign reported total revenue of $1.66 billion, a 42% increase over 2004. These revenues include $52 million related to the payment gateway business through November 18, 2005. A table reconciling the discontinued operations revenue is appended to this release.
 
On a GAAP basis, VeriSign reported net income of $406 million for 2005 with earnings per share for the year of $1.54 per diluted share. On a non-GAAP basis, using a 30% effective tax rate on non-GAAP pre-tax income of $396 million, earnings per share for 2005 was $1.05 per diluted share. These non-GAAP results exclude the following items, which are included under GAAP: amortization of intangible assets, acquired in-process research and development, stock-based compensation charges, litigation settlements, restructuring and other charges, the net gain on the sale of the payment gateway business, the net gain on the sale of investments and income tax expense. These non-GAAP results include net income from the payment gateway business for the year through November 18, 2005. A table reconciling the non-GAAP to GAAP net income reported above is appended to this release.
"2005 marked a significant year in terms of strong results, improved financial metrics, and continued investment in the future for VeriSign," said Dana Evan, Chief Financial Officer of VeriSign. "Although the mobile content business continues to be challenging, we are pleased with the company's performance for Q4 and 2005 particularly in terms of operating cash flow which reached a record $141 million in Q4 and $480 million for the full year."
 
During the fourth quarter, VeriSign completed the sale of its payment gateway business to PayPal, an eBay company, for $370 million in cash. VeriSign will also provide eBay and PayPal with a suite of security services that includes the deployment of two-factor authentication, a security system that gives customers a one-time password or digital certificate to help protect against online identity theft. Under the three-year security technology agreement, eBay will purchase up to one million two-factor authentication tokens.
 
The VeriSign Naming and Directory Services (VNDS) business has changed its name to VeriSign Information Services (VIS) to highlight and address its movement into new business areas. The new name more accurately characterizes the expanded focus of the business to provide relevant, real-time information that enables intelligent network interactions. In 2005, the acquisitions of R4 Global Systems and Retail Solutions International, Inc. (RSI) broadened the business into supply chain services and the acquisitions of Moreover and Weblogs launched VeriSign into real-time publisher services.
 
Also during the Q4, VeriSign Communications Services (VCS) announced the launch of a new Jamster brand campaign in the United States and the United Kingdom (U.K.), that represents the first of several important steps in a global Jamba / Jamster brand roll-out strategy designed to improve the customer experience. The new campaign launched with a new Jamster logo, simplified subscription plans, improved advertising, and a redesigned Jamster Web site that promotes easier navigation for consumers. Taking the lead in providing parents with control over family usage by giving them the ability to block content downloads to specific phone numbers, VeriSign also launched the Jamster Guardian service in the U.S. and U.K. Roll-out of these programs to other countries is scheduled for this year.
 
On January 24, 2006, VeriSign completed its acquisition of Seattle-based CallVision, a leading provider of online call analysis applications for $30 million net of acquired cash. The acquisition will enable VeriSign's VCS business to deliver converged electronic bill presentment, payment and customer self-care applications to mobile operators, Tier 1 carriers, broadband companies and consumer-branded MVNOs worldwide. In addition, on January 25, 2006, VeriSign completed its acquisition of Soltrus Inc., a reseller of VeriSign services based in Toronto, Canada, for approximately $11 million in cash. Neither of these transactions is expected to have a material impact to 2006 financial results.
 
Additional Financial Information
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Internet Services Group
 
 
 
 
Communications Services Group
 
 
 
 
Today's Conference Call
 
VeriSign will be hosting a teleconference call today at 2:00 pm (PST) to review the fourth quarter and annual results. The call will be accessible by direct dial at (800) 210-9006 (US) or (719) 457-2621 (international). A listen-only live webcast of the earnings conference call will also be available at and . A replay of this call will be available at (888) 203-1112 (passcode: 4947853) or (719) 457-0820 (international) beginning at 5:00 pm (PST) on January 26 and will run through February 2. This press release and the financial information discussed on today's conference call are available on the company's website at www.verisign.com under the Investor Relations site.
www.verisign.com
www.streetevents.com
 
About VeriSign
 
VeriSign, Inc. (Nasdaq: VRSN), operates intelligent infrastructure services that enable and protect billions of interactions every day across the world's voice and data networks. Additional news and information about the company is available at .
www.verisign.com
Contacts
 
Media Relations: Brian O'Shaughnessy, , 650-426-5270 Investor Relations: Tom McCallum, , 650-426-3744
boshaughnessy@verisign.com
tmccallum@verisign.com
 
 
Statements in this announcement other than historical data and information constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause VeriSign's actual results to differ materially from those stated or implied by such forward-looking statements. The potential risks and uncertainties include, among others, the uncertainty of future revenue and profitability and potential fluctuations in quarterly operating results due to such factors as increasing competition and pricing pressure from competing services offered at prices below our prices and market acceptance of our existing services, the inability of VeriSign to successfully develop and market new services and the uncertainty of whether new services as provided by VeriSign will achieve market acceptance or result in any revenues and the risk that the VeriSign and Jamba! businesses as well as other acquired businesses will not be integrated successfully and unanticipated costs of such integration. More information about potential factors that could affect the company's business and financial results is included in VeriSign's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004 and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. VeriSign undertakes no obligation to update any of the forward-looking statements after the date of this press release.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
VeriSign provides quarterly and annual financial statements that are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Along with this information, we typically disclose and discuss certain non-GAAP financial information in our quarterly earnings releases, on investor conference calls and during investor conferences and related events. This non-GAAP financial information does not include the following types of financial measures that are included in GAAP: amortization of intangible assets, acquired in-process research and development, stock-based compensation charges, litigation settlements, restructuring and other charges, and the net gain on the sale of the Payment Gateway business, the net gain on the sale of investments and income tax expense, as these are considered one-time events. The non-GAAP financial information is also adjusted for a 30% tax rate which differs from the GAAP tax rate.
 
Management believes that this non-GAAP financial data supplements our GAAP financial data by providing investors with additional information which allows them to have a clearer picture of the company's core operations. The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with GAAP. We believe that the non-GAAP information enhances the investors' overall understanding of our financial performance and the comparability of the company's operating results from period to period. Above, we have provided a reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial information that we provide each quarter with the comparable financial information reported in accordance with GAAP for the given period.
 
 
 
VeriSign provides quarterly and annual financial statements that are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Along with this information, we typically disclose and discuss certain non-GAAP financial information in our quarterly earnings releases, on investor conference calls and during investor conferences and related events. This non-GAAP financial information does not include the following types of financial measures that are included in GAAP: amortization of intangible assets, acquired in-process research and development, stock-based compensation charges, litigation settlements, restructuring and other charges, and the net gain on the sale of the Payment Gateway business, the net gain on the sale of investments and income tax expense, as these are considered one-time events. The non-GAAP financial information is also adjusted for a 30% tax rate which differs from the GAAP tax rate.
 
Management believes that this non-GAAP financial data supplements our GAAP financial data by providing investors with additional information which allows them to have a clearer picture of the company's core operations. The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with GAAP. We believe that the non-GAAP information enhances the investors' overall understanding of our financial performance and the comparability of the company's operating results from period to period. Above, we have provided a reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial information that we provide each quarter with the comparable financial information reported in accordance with GAAP for the given period.
 
 


