FILE:VRSN/VRSN-8K-20060420163306.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On April 20, 2006, VeriSign, Inc. ("VeriSign" or the "Company") announced its financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2006 and certain other information. A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
The information in this Form 8-K and the Exhibit attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information
VeriSign provides quarterly and annual financial statements that are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Along with this information, we typically disclose and discuss certain non-GAAP financial information in our quarterly earnings releases, on investor conference calls and during investor conferences and related events. This non-GAAP financial information does not include the following types of financial measures that are included in GAAP: amortization and impairment of intangible assets, acquired in-process research and development, stock-based compensation charges, litigation settlements, restructuring and other charges, and the net gain on the sale of investments.
Management believes that this non-GAAP financial data supplements our GAAP financial by providing investors with additional information which allows them to have a clearer picture of the company's core recurring operations. The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with GAAP. We believe that the non-GAAP information enhances the investors' overall understanding of our financial performance and the comparability of the company's operating results from period to period. In the press release attached hereto to as Exhibit 99.1, we have provided a reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial information that we provide each quarter with the comparable financial information reported in accordance with GAAP for the given period.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Exhibit Index
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
VeriSign, Inc. (Nasdaq: VRSN), the leading provider of intelligent infrastructure services for the Internet and telecommunications networks, today reported its results for the first quarter ended March 31, 2006.
MOUNTAIN VIEW, CA  April 20, 2006 
VeriSign reported total revenue of $374 million for the first quarter of 2006. On a GAAP basis, VeriSign reported net income of $16 million for the first quarter of 2006 and earnings per share of $0.06 per fully-diluted share. Net income on a GAAP basis for the first quarter of 2006 included a non-cash stock-based compensation charge of $15 million, relating to the implementation of the accounting pronouncements around stock option expensing.
On a non-GAAP basis, using a 30% effective tax rate on non-GAAP pre-tax income of $84 million, earnings per share for the first quarter was $0.24 per diluted share. These non-GAAP results exclude the following items which are included under GAAP: amortization and impairment of intangible assets, acquired in-process research and development, stock-based compensation, litigation settlements, restructuring and other charges, and the net gain on the sale of investments. A table reconciling the GAAP to non-GAAP net income reported above is appended to this release.
"Our financial and business results for the first quarter met our forecast and provide a solid start to the year," said Stratton Sclavos, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of VeriSign. "We also continued to execute on our strategic plan in Q1 as we expanded our intelligent infrastructure portfolio through both internal development and key acquisitions in the security, content and messaging areas."
"We were pleased with our ability to achieve our operational plan in Q1 while still making strategic investments in future growth opportunities within each of VeriSign's business units" said Dana Evan, Chief Financial Officer of VeriSign. "Particularly strong performance in the VeriSign Information Services business added significant deferred revenues to our balance sheet and allowed us to generate cash flow from operations of over $90 million for the quarter."
During the first quarter within the Internet Services Group (ISG), VeriSign Security Services (VSS) launched VeriSign Identity Protection (VIP), a comprehensive network-based service to protect consumer identities online. VIP is supported by several leading e-commerce companies, including PayPal, eBay and Yahoo!. Device manufacturer, SanDisk has also announced plans to support VIP in its storage devices. VSS also acquired Snapcentric, a provider of online fraud detection solutions, for $12 million during the quarter. Snapcentric's advanced anomaly detection technology is a key addition to VeriSign's suite of authentication solutions. Also within the ISG business segment, VeriSign Information Services (VIS) received approval of the registry agreement from ICANN which is subject to final review and approval by the U.S. Department of Commerce.
.com
VeriSign Communications Services (VCS) continued to expand its mobile content platform in Q1 with the acquisition of 3united, a leading wireless application service provider, for $70 million and the execution of a definitive agreement to acquire m-Qube, a leading mobile channel enabler, for $250 million. Subject to regulatory approvals, the m-Qube transaction is expected to close in the second
quarter. VCS also entered the broadband content market with the acquisition of Kontiki for $58 million. The Kontiki technology will become the cornerstone of the Broadband Content Services platform to enable the delivery of rich media over broadband networks. These investments extend VCS's services to enable carriers, Internet portals, media companies, and consumer brands to deliver entertainment and information to any device, anytime, anywhere.
Additional Financial Information
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Internet Services Group
 
 
 
Communications Services Group
 
 
 
 
Today's Conference Call
VeriSign will be hosting a teleconference call today at 2:00 pm (PST) to review the first quarter results. The call will be accessible by direct dial at (800) 967-1784 (US) or (719) 457-2633 (international). A listen-only live webcast of the earnings conference call will also be available at and . A replay of this call will be available at (888) 203-1112 (passcode: 6643961) or (719) 457-0820 (international) beginning at 5:00 pm (PST) on April 20 and will run through April 27. This press release and the financial information discussed on today's conference call are available on the company's website at www.verisign.com under the Investor Relations site.
www.verisign.com
www.streetevents.com
VeriSign, Inc. (Nasdaq: VRSN), operates intelligent infrastructure services that enable and protect billions of interactions every day across the world's voice and data networks. Additional news and information about the company is available at .
About VeriSign
www.verisign.com
Contacts
Media Relations: Brendan P. Lewis, , 650-426-4470
brlewis@verisign.com
Investor Relations: Tom McCallum, , 650-426-3744
tmccallum@verisign.com
Statements in this announcement other than historical data and information constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause VeriSign's actual results to differ materially from those stated or implied by such forward-looking statements. The potential risks and uncertainties include, among others, the uncertainty of future revenue and profitability and potential fluctuations in quarterly operating results due to such factors as increasing competition and pricing pressure from competing services offered at prices below our prices and market acceptance of our existing services, the inability of VeriSign to successfully develop and market new services and the uncertainty of whether new services as provided by VeriSign will achieve market acceptance or result in any revenues and the risk acquired businesses will not be integrated successfully and unanticipated costs of such integration. More information about potential factors that could affect the company's business and financial results is included in VeriSign's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005 and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. VeriSign undertakes no obligation to update any of the forward-looking statements after the date of this press release.
 
 
 
 
Statement of Income Reconciliation
 
Management believes that this non-GAAP financial data supplements our GAAP financial data by providing investors with additional information which allows them to have a clearer picture of the company's core operations. The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with GAAP. We believe that the non-GAAP information enhances the investors' overall understanding of our financial performance and the comparability of the company's operating results from period to period. Above, we have provided a reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial information that we provide each quarter with the comparable financial information reported in accordance with GAAP for the given period.
 


