FILE:VRSN/VRSN-8K-20060607165631.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On June 7, 2006, VeriSign, Inc. ("VeriSign") entered into a Credit Agreement (the "Credit Agreement") among VeriSign, Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent (the "Administrative Agent"), Swing Line Lender and L/C Issuer, the other lenders party thereto (the "Lenders"), Citicorp USA, Inc., as Syndication Agent, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., KeyBank National Association and U.S. Bank National Association, as Co-Documentation Agents, and Banc of America Securities LLC and Citigroup Global Markets Inc., as joint lead arrangers and joint book running managers.
The Credit Agreement provides for a $500 million senior unsecured revolving credit facility (the "Facility"), under which VeriSign, or certain designated subsidiaries may be borrowers. The Facility includes (1) a $50 million sublimit for the issuance of standby letters of credit for the account of VeriSign to support its obligations or obligations of its subsidiaries, (2) a $50 million sublimit for swing line loans to VeriSign, (3) a $100 million sublimit for multicurrency borrowings, and (4) a $100 million sublimit for loans to certain non-U.S. wholly-owned subsidiaries of VeriSign. VeriSign also has the option to invite Lenders to bid for loans with maturities ranging from one to six months, in the case of LIBOR Rate Loans (defined below), and 14 to 180 days in the case of Base Rate Loans (defined below), for requested amounts, up to $100 million in the aggregate ("Competitive Bid Loans"). At the closing, $174 million of the Facility was used to refinance VeriSign's borrowings under a credit agreement that expires on July 10, 2006. The remainder of the Facility was undrawn at the closing. Any other borrowings under the Facility will be used for working capital, capital expenditures, permitted acquisitions and repurchases of VeriSign's common stock and other lawful corporate purposes.
Loans bear interest at a rate per annum equal to, at the election of VeriSign, (i) the Adjusted LIBOR Rate, plus a margin of between 0.50% and 1.025% ("LIBOR Rate Loans"), depending on VeriSign's ratio of funded indebtedness to EBITDA as calculated pursuant to the Credit Agreement (the "Leverage Ratio"), or (ii) the higher of (A) the prime rate, as announced from time to time by Bank of America, N.A., and (B) the Federal Funds rate plus 0.50% ("Base Rate Loans"). VeriSign is required to pay the Lenders under the revolving credit facility a commitment fee at a rate per annum of between 0.125% and 0.225%, depending on the Leverage Ratio, payable quarterly in arrears.
The revolving credit facility terminates on June 7, 2011 at which time outstanding borrowings under the revolving credit facility are due. VeriSign may optionally prepay loans under the Credit Agreement other than Competitive Bid Loans at any time, without penalty, subject to reimbursement of certain costs in the case of LIBOR borrowings.
The Credit Agreement contains customary representations and warranties, as well as affirmative and negative covenants. Affirmative covenants include, among others, financial and other reporting, maintenance of existence, payment of obligations, maintenance of properties, maintenance of insurance, compliance with laws, maintenance of books and records, maintenance of approvals and authorizations, and an agreement to cause future material domestic subsidiaries to become parties to the Subsidiary Guaranty referred to below. Negative covenants include, among others, limitations on incurrence of liens, limitations on investments, limitations on incurrence of additional indebtedness, limitations on mergers and acquisitions, limitations on asset sales, limitations on dividends, share redemptions and other restricted payments, limitations on changing its business, limitations on entering into certain types of burdensome agreements and limitations on transactions with affiliates. The Credit Agreement includes two financial covenants: (1) that VeriSign not permit the ratio of consolidated EBITDA to consolidated interest charges for any four fiscal quarters to be less than 2.50:1.00, and (2) that VeriSign not permit the Leverage Ratio to exceed 3.00: 1.00 at any time during any period of four fiscal quarters.
The Credit Agreement contains customary events of default, including among others, non payment of principal, interest or other amounts when due, inaccuracy of representations and warranties, violation of covenants, cross defaults with certain other indebtedness, certain undischarged judgments, bankruptcy, insolvency or inability to pay debts, the occurrence of certain ERISA events, or a Change of Control (as defined in the Credit Agreement). Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of an event of default under the Credit Agreement, the Lenders may declare the loans and all other obligations under the Credit Agreement immediately due and payable. A bankruptcy event of default causes such obligations automatically to become immediately due and payable.
The obligations of VeriSign under the Credit Agreement are guaranteed by the material U.S. subsidiaries of VeriSign pursuant to a Subsidiary Guaranty, dated June 7, 2006 (the "Guaranty Agreement"). The obligations of any subsidiaries that become borrowers under the Credit Agreement are guaranteed by VeriSign pursuant to a Company Guaranty, dated June 7, 2006 made by VeriSign in favor of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders.
The descriptions of the Credit Agreement, the Subsidiary Guaranty and the Company Guaranty contained herein are qualified in their entirety by reference to those agreements, copies of which are filed herewith as Exhibits 10.1, 10.2 and 10.3, respectively, and are incorporated herein by reference.
Item 2.03 Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
On June 7, 2006, VeriSign entered into the Credit Agreement described in Item 1.01 above, which information is incorporated by reference into this Item 2.03.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
Not Applicable
 
Not Applicable
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
[Execution Version]
[Published CUSIP Number: ]
                                
 
 
 
 
 
 
SCHEDULES
 
EXHIBITS
Form of
 
This CREDIT AGREEMENT ("") is entered into as of June 7, 2006, among VERISIGN, INC., a Delaware corporation (the ""), certain Subsidiaries of the Company party hereto pursuant to (each a "" and, together with the Company, the "" and, each a ""), each lender from time to time party hereto (collectively, the "" and individually, a ""), and BANK OF AMERICA, N.A.as Administrative Agent, Swing Line Lender and L/C Issuer.
Agreement
Company
Section 2.15
Designated Borrower
Borrowers
Borrower
Lenders
Lender
,
The Company has requested that the Lenders provide a revolving credit, competitive bid and letter of credit facility, and the Lenders are willing to do so on the terms and conditions set forth herein.
In consideration of the mutual covenants and agreements herein contained, the parties hereto covenant and agree as follows:
As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:
1.01 Defined Terms.
"" means a fixed rate of interest expressed in multiples of 1/100
Absolute Rate
th
of one basis point.
"" means a Bid Loan that bears interest at a rate determined with reference to an Absolute Rate.
Absolute Rate Loan
"" means any transaction or series of related transactions for the purpose of or resulting, directly or indirectly, in (a) the acquisition of all or substantially all of the assets of a Person, or of any business or division of a Person, (b) the acquisition of in excess of 50% of the capital stock, partnership interests, membership interests or equity of any Person, or otherwise causing any Person to become a Subsidiary, or (c) a merger or consolidation or any other combination with another Person (other than a Person that is a Subsidiary of the Company).
Acquisition
"" means, with respect to any information or event, that a Responsible Officer of the Company has actual knowledge of such information or event.
Actual Knowledge
"" means Bank of America in its capacity as administrative agent under any of the Loan Documents, or any successor administrative agent.
Administrative Agent
"" means, with respect to any currency, the Administrative Agent's address and, as appropriate, account as set forth on with respect to such currency, or such other address or account with respect to such currency as the Administrative Agent may from time to time notify to the Company and the Lenders.
Administrative Agent's Office
Schedule 10.02
"" means an Administrative Questionnaire in a form supplied by the Administrative Agent.
Administrative Questionnaire
 
"" means, with respect to any Person, another Person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, Controls or is Controlled by or is under common Control with the Person specified.
Affiliate
"" means the letter agreement, dated April 20, 2006, between the Company, BAS and the Administrative Agent.
Agent/BAS Fee Letter
"" means the Commitments of all the Lenders.
Aggregate Commitments
"" means this Credit Agreement.
Agreement
"" means each of Euro, Sterling, Yen and each other currency (other than Dollars) that is approved in accordance with .
Alternative Currency
Section 1.06
"" means, at any time, with respect to any amount denominated in Dollars, the equivalent amount thereof in the applicable Alternative Currency as determined by the Administrative Agent or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, at such time on the basis of the Spot Rate (determined in respect of the most recent Revaluation Date) for the purchase of such Alternative Currency with Dollars.
Alternative Currency Equivalent
"" means an amount equal to the lesser of the Aggregate Commitments and $100,000,000. The Alternative Currency Sublimit is part of, and not in addition to, the Aggregate Commitments.
Alternative Currency Sublimit
"" means with respect to any Lender at any time, the percentage (carried out to the ninth decimal place) of the Aggregate Commitments represented by such Lender's Commitment at such time. If the commitment of each Lender to make Loans and the obligation of the L/C Issuer to make L/C Credit Extensions have been terminated pursuant to or if the Aggregate Commitments have expired, then the Applicable Percentage of each Lender shall be determined based on the Applicable Percentage of such Lender most recently in effect, giving effect to any subsequent assignments. The initial Applicable Percentage of each Lender is set forth opposite the name of such Lender on or in the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which such Lender becomes a party hereto, as applicable.
Applicable Percentage
Section 8.02
Schedule 2.01
"" means, the following percentages per annum, based upon the Consolidated Leverage Ratio as set forth in the most recent Compliance Certificate received by the Administrative Agent pursuant to :
Applicable Rate
Section 6.02(b)
 
 
Any increase or decrease in the Applicable Rate resulting from a change in the Consolidated Leverage Ratio shall become effective as of the first Business Day immediately following the date a Compliance Certificate is delivered pursuant to ; , , that if a Compliance Certificate is not delivered when due in accordance with such Section, then Pricing Level V shall apply as of the first Business Day after the date on which such Compliance Certificate was required to have been delivered, and shall continue to so apply to and including the date on which such Compliance Certificate is so delivered (and thereafter the Pricing Level otherwise determined in accordance with this definition shall apply). The Applicable Rate in effect from the Closing Date through the first Business Day immediately following the date on which a Compliance Certificate is first delivered (or required to be delivered) following June 30, 2006 shall be determined based upon Pricing Level I.
Section 6.02(b)
provided
however
"" means, with respect to any borrowings and payments in any Alternative Currency, the local time in the place of settlement for such Alternative Currency as may be determined by the Administrative Agent or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, to be necessary for timely settlement on the relevant date in accordance with normal banking procedures in the place of payment.
Applicable Time
"" has the meaning specified in .
Applicant Borrower
Section 2.15
"" means any Fund that is administered or managed by (a) a Lender, (b) an Affiliate of a Lender or (c) an entity or an Affiliate of an entity that administers or manages a Lender.
Approved Fund
"" means BAS and Citigroup.
Arrangers
"" means two or more Eligible Assignees that are Affiliates of one another or two or more Approved Funds managed by the same investment advisor.
Assignee Group
"" means an assignment and assumption entered into by a Lender and an assignee (with the consent of any party whose consent is required by , and accepted by the Administrative Agent, in substantially the form of or any other form approved by the Administrative Agent.
Assignment and Assumption
Section 10.06(b)
Exhibit F
"" means, on any date, (a) in respect of any capital lease of any Person, the capitalized amount thereof that would appear on a balance sheet of such Person prepared as of such date in accordance with GAAP, and (b) in respect of any Synthetic Lease Obligation, the capitalized amount of the remaining lease payments under the relevant lease that would appear on a balance sheet of such Person prepared as of such date in accordance with GAAP if such lease were accounted for as a capital lease.
Attributable Indebtedness
"" means the audited consolidated balance sheet of the Company and its Subsidiaries for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005, and the related consolidated statements of operations, stockholders' equity and cash flows for such fiscal year of the Company and its Subsidiaries, including the notes thereto.
Audited Financial Statements
"" means the period from and including the Closing Date to the earliest of (a) the Maturity Date, (b) the date of termination of the Aggregate Commitments pursuant to
Availability Period
Section
 
, and (c) the date of termination of the commitment of each Lender to make Loans and of the obligation of the L/C Issuer to make L/C Credit Extensions pursuant to .
2.07
Section 8.02
"" means Bank of America, N.A. and its successors.
Bank of America
"" means Banc of America Securities LLC, in its capacity as joint lead arranger and joint book manager.
BAS
"" means for any day a fluctuating rate per annum equal to the higher of (a) the Federal Funds Rate plus 1/2 of 1% and (b) the rate of interest in effect for such day as publicly announced from time to time by Bank of America as its "prime rate." The "prime rate" is a rate set by Bank of America based upon various factors including Bank of America's costs and desired return, general economic conditions and other factors, and is used as a reference point for pricing some loans, which may be priced at, above, or below such announced rate. Any change in such rate announced by Bank of America shall take effect at the opening of business on the day specified in the public announcement of such change.
Base Rate
"" means a Committed Loan that is a Base Rate Loan.
Base Rate Committed Loan
"" means a Loan that bears interest based on the Base Rate. All Base Rate Loans shall be denominated in Dollars.
Base Rate Loan
"" means a borrowing consisting of simultaneous Bid Loans of the same Type from each of the Lenders whose offer to make one or more Bid Loans as part of such borrowing has been accepted under the auction bidding procedures described in .
Bid Borrowing
Section 2.03
"" has the meaning specified in .
Bid Loan
Section 2.03(a)
"" means, in respect of any Bid Loan, the Lender making such Bid Loan to a Borrower.
Bid Loan Lender
"" means an amount equal to $100,000,000. The Bid Loan Sublimit is part of, and not in addition to, the Aggregate Commitments.
Bid Loan Sublimit
"" means a written request for one or more Bid Loans substantially in the form of .
Bid Request
Exhibit B-1
"" and "" each has the meaning specified in the introductory paragraph hereto.
Borrower
Borrowers
"" has the meaning specified in .
Borrower Materials
Section 6.02
"" means a Committed Borrowing, a Bid Borrowing or a Swing Line Borrowing, as the context may require.
Borrowing
"" means any day other than a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which commercial banks are authorized to close under the Laws of, or are in fact closed in, the state where the Administrative Agent's Office with respect to Obligations denominated in Dollars is located and:
Business Day
(a) if such day relates to any interest rate settings as to a Eurocurrency Rate Loan denominated in Dollars, any fundings, disbursements, settlements and payments in Dollars
 
in respect of any such Eurocurrency Rate Loan, or any other dealings in Dollars to be carried out pursuant to this Agreement in respect of any such Eurocurrency Rate Loan, means any such day on which dealings in deposits in Dollars are conducted by and between banks in the London interbank eurodollar market;
(b) if such day relates to any interest rate settings as to a Eurocurrency Rate Loan denominated in Euro, any fundings, disbursements, settlements and payments in Euro in respect of any such Eurocurrency Rate Loan, or any other dealings in Euro to be carried out pursuant to this Agreement in respect of any such Eurocurrency Rate Loan, means a TARGET Day;
(c) if such day relates to any interest rate settings as to a Eurocurrency Rate Loan denominated in a currency other than Dollars or Euro, means any such day on which dealings in deposits in the relevant currency are conducted by and between banks in the London or other applicable offshore interbank market for such currency; and
(d) if such day relates to any fundings, disbursements, settlements and payments in a currency other than Dollars or Euro in respect of a Eurocurrency Rate Loan denominated in a currency other than Dollars or Euro, or any other dealings in any currency other than Dollars or Euro to be carried out pursuant to this Agreement in respect of any such Eurocurrency Rate Loan (other than any interest rate settings), means any such day on which banks are open for foreign exchange business in the principal financial center of the country of such currency.
"" has the meaning specified in .
Cash Collateralize
Section 2.04(g)
"" means the occurrence, after the date of this Agreement, of any of the following: (a) the adoption or taking effect of any law, rule, regulation or treaty, (b) any change in any law, rule, regulation or treaty or in the administration, interpretation or application thereof by any Governmental Authority charged with the enforcement, interpretation or administration thereof or (c) the making or issuance of any request, guideline or directive (whether or not having the force of law) by any such Governmental Authority.
Change in Law
"" means an event or series of events by which:
Change of Control
(a) any "person" or "group" (as such terms are used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act, but excluding any employee benefit plan of such person or its subsidiaries, and any person or entity acting in its capacity as trustee, agent or other fiduciary or administrator of any such plan) becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Exchange Act, directly or indirectly, of 35% or more of the equity securities of the Company entitled to vote for members of the board of directors or equivalent governing body of the Company on a fully-diluted basis; or
(b) during any period of 12 consecutive months, a majority of the members of the board of directors or other equivalent governing body of the Company cease to be composed of individuals (i) who were members of that board or equivalent governing body on the first day of such period, (ii) whose election or nomination to that board or equivalent governing body was approved by individuals referred to in  above constituting at the time of such election or nomination at least a majority of that board or equivalent governing body or (iii) whose election or nomination to that board or other equivalent governing body was approved by individuals
clause (i)
 
referred to in  and  above constituting at the time of such election or nomination at least a majority of that board or equivalent governing body.
clauses (i)
(ii)
"" means Citigroup Global Markets Inc., in its capacity as joint lead arranger and joint book manager.
Citigroup
"" means the letter agreement, dated April 20, 2006, between the Company and Citigroup.
Citigroup Fee Letter
"" means the first date all the conditions precedent in are satisfied or waived in accordance with .
Closing Date
Section 4.01
Section 10.01
"" means the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
Code
"" means, as to each Lender, its obligation to (a) make Committed Loans to the Borrowers pursuant to , (b) purchase participations in L/C Obligations, and (c) purchase participations in Swing Line Loans, in an aggregate principal amount at any one time outstanding not to exceed the Dollar amount set forth opposite such Lender's name on or in the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which such Lender becomes a party hereto, as applicable, as such amount may be adjusted from time to time in accordance with this Agreement.
Commitment
Section 2.01
Schedule 2.01
"" means a borrowing consisting of simultaneous Committed Loans of the same Type, in the same currency and, in the case of Eurocurrency Committed Rate Loans, having the same Interest Period made by each of the Lenders pursuant to .
Committed Borrowing
Section 2.01
"" has the meaning specified in .
Committed Loan
Section 2.01
"" means a notice of (a) a Committed Borrowing, (b) a conversion of Committed Loans from one Type to the other, or (c) a continuation of Eurocurrency Committed Rate Loans, pursuant to , which, if in writing, shall be substantially in the form of .
Committed Loan Notice
Section 2.02(a)
Exhibit A
"" has the meaning specified in the introductory paragraph hereto.
Company
"" means the Company Guaranty made by the Company in favor of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders, substantially in the form of .
Company Guaranty
Exhibit G
"" means a written offer by a Lender to make one or more Bid Loans, substantially in the form of , duly completed and signed by a Lender.
Competitive Bid
Exhibit B-2
"" means a certificate substantially in the form of .
Compliance Certificate
Exhibit E
"" means, for any period, for the Company and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, an amount equal to Consolidated Net Income for such period the following to the extent deducted (and not added back) in calculating such Consolidated Net Income: (i) Consolidated Interest Charges for such period, (ii) the provision for Federal, state, local and foreign income taxes payable by the Company and its Subsidiaries for such period, (iii) depreciation and amortization expense, (iv) other extraordinary or non-recurring expenses and charges of the Company and its Subsidiaries reducing such Consolidated Net Income which do not represent a cash item in such period or any future period, less extraordinary or non-recurring
Consolidated EBITDA
plus
 
gains of the Company and its Subsidiaries increasing such Consolidated Net Income (excluding any non-cash gain to the extent it represents the reversal of an accrual or reserve for a potential cash item that reduced Consolidated EBITDA in any prior period), (v) non-cash charges or expenses related to equity plans or stock option awards, (vi) non-cash charges or expenses relating to the impairment of property, plant and equipment, goodwill or other intangible assets in such period, (vii) non-recurring cash charges or expenses in connection with Dispositions and discontinued operation, and (viii) cash and non-cash charges or expenses incurred in connection with Acquisitions, that in the case of cash charges or expenses, such charges or expenses shall only be added to the extent that such charges or expenses arise from expenses which would have been capitalized, and would not have represented an expense in such period, under GAAP as in effect on the date of this Agreement; , , that solely for the purpose of the computations of the Consolidated Leverage Ratio and the Consolidated Interest Coverage Ratio, if there has occurred an Acquisition or Disposition during the relevant period, Consolidated EBITDA shall be calculated, at the option of the Company, on a Pro Forma Basis (as defined below) pursuant to this definition.
s
provided
provided
however
For purposes of this definition, "" means, (i) with respect to the preparation of pro forma financial statements for the purpose of the adjustment to Consolidated EBITDA relating to any Acquisition and for any other purpose related to any Acquisition, a pro forma on the basis that (A) any Indebtedness incurred or assumed in connection with such Acquisition or consolidation was incurred or assumed on the first day of the applicable period, (B) if such Indebtedness bears a floating interest rate, such interest shall be paid over the pro forma period either at the rate in effect on the date of such Acquisition or consolidation or the applicable rate experienced over the period, and (C) all income and expense associated with the assets or entity acquired in connection with such Acquisition or consolidation for the most recently ended four fiscal quarter period for which such income and expense amounts are available shall be treated as being earned or incurred by the Company and its Subsidiaries on a pro forma basis for the portion of the applicable period occurring prior to the date such Acquisition or consolidation has occurred without giving effect to any cost savings, except such cost savings as would be permitted in a pro forma financial statement prepared in compliance with SEC Regulation S-X; and (ii) with respect to the preparation of pro forma financial statements for purpose of the permitted adjustment to Consolidated EBITDA relating to any Disposition and for any other purpose related to any Disposition, a pro forma on the basis that (A) any Indebtedness prepaid out of the proceeds of such Disposition shall be deemed to have been prepaid as of the first day of the applicable period, and (B) all income and expense (other than such expenses as the Company, in good faith, estimates will not be reduced or eliminated as a consequence of such Disposition) associated with the assets or entity disposed of in connection with such Disposition shall be deemed to have been eliminated as of the first day of the applicable period.
Pro Forma Basis
"" means, as of any date of determination, for the Company and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, the sum of (a) the outstanding principal amount of all obligations, whether current or long-term, for borrowed money (including Obligations hereunder) and all obligations evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes, loan agreements or other similar instruments, (b) all purchase money Indebtedness, (c) all contractual, non-contingent obligations in respect of the deferred purchase price of property (other than trade accounts payable in the ordinary course of business), (d) Attributable Indebtedness in respect of capital leases and Synthetic Lease Obligations, (e) without duplication, all Guarantees with respect to outstanding Indebtedness of the types specified in  through  above of Persons other than the Company or any Subsidiary, and (f) all Indebtedness of the types referred to in
Consolidated Funded Indebtedness
clauses (a)
(d)
clauses
 
through  above of any partnership or joint venture (other than a joint venture that is itself a corporation or limited liability company) in which the Company or a Subsidiary is a general partner or joint venturer, unless such Indebtedness is non-recourse to the Company or such Subsidiary.
(a)
(e)
"" means, for any period, for the Company and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, the sum of (a) all interest, premium payments, debt discount, fees, charges and related expenses of the Company and its Subsidiaries in connection with borrowed money (including capitalized interest) or in connection with the deferred purchase price of assets, in each case to the extent treated as interest in accordance with GAAP, and (b) the portion of rent expense of the Company and its Subsidiaries with respect to such period under capital leases that is treated as interest in accordance with GAAP.
Consolidated Interest Charges
"" means, as of any date of determination, the ratio of (a) Consolidated EBITDA for the period of the four prior fiscal quarters most recently ended (b) Consolidated Interest Charges for such period.
Consolidated Interest Coverage Ratio
to
"" means, as of any date of determination, the ratio of (a) Consolidated Funded Indebtedness as of such date(b) Consolidated EBITDA for the period of the four fiscal quarters most recently ended.
Consolidated Leverage Ratio
to
"" means, for any period, for the Company and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, the net income of the Company and its Subsidiaries (excluding extraordinary gains and extraordinary losses, and excluding net income (loss) attributable to discontinued operations and Dispositions) for that period.
Consolidated Net Income
"" means, as to any Person, any provision of any security issued by such Person or of any agreement, instrument or other undertaking to which such Person is a party or by which it or any of its property is bound.
Contractual Obligation
"" means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of a Person, whether through the ability to exercise voting power, by contract or otherwise. "" and "" have meanings correlative thereto.
Control
Controlling
Controlled
"" means each of the following: (a) a Borrowing and (b) an L/C Credit Extension.
Credit Extension
"" means the Bankruptcy Code of the United States, and all other liquidation, conservatorship, bankruptcy, assignment for the benefit of creditors, moratorium, rearrangement, receivership, insolvency, reorganization, or similar debtor relief Laws of the United States or other applicable domestic or foreign jurisdictions from time to time in effect and affecting the rights of creditors generally.
Debtor Relief Laws
"" means any event or condition that constitutes an Event of Default or that, with the giving of any notice, the passage of time, or both, would be an Event of Default.
Default
"" means (a) when used with respect to Obligations other than Letter of Credit Fees, an interest rate equal to (i) the Base Rate (ii) the Applicable Rate, if any, applicable to Base Rate Loans (iii) 2% per annum; , , that with respect to a Eurocurrency Rate
Default Rate
plus
plus
provided
however
 
Loan, the Default Rate shall be an interest rate equal to the interest rate (including any Applicable Rate and any Mandatory Cost) otherwise applicable to such Loan plus 2% per annum, and (b) when used with respect to Letter of Credit Fees, a rate equal to the Applicable Rate 2% per annum.
plus
"" means any Lender that (a) has failed to fund any portion of the Committed Loans, participations in L/C Obligations or participations in Swing Line Loans required to be funded by it hereunder within one Business Day of the date required to be funded by it hereunder unless such failure has been cured, (b) has otherwise failed to pay over to the Administrative Agent or any other Lender any other amount required to be paid by it hereunder within one Business Day of the date when due, unless the subject of a good faith dispute or unless such failure has been cured, or (c) has been deemed insolvent or become the subject of a bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding.
Defaulting Lender
"" has the meaning specified in the introductory paragraph hereto.
Designated Borrower
"" has the meaning specified in .
Designated Borrower Notice
Section 2.15
"" has the meaning specified in .
Designated Borrower Request and Assumption Agreement
Section 2.15
"" or "" means the sale, transfer, license, lease or other disposition (including any sale and leaseback transaction) of any property by any Person, including any sale, assignment, transfer or other disposal, with or without recourse, of any notes or accounts receivable or any rights and claims associated therewith.
Disposition
Dispose
"" and "" mean lawful money of the United States.
Dollar
$
"" means, at any time, (a) with respect to any amount denominated in Dollars, such amount, and (b) with respect to any amount denominated in any Alternative Currency, the equivalent amount thereof in Dollars as determined by the Administrative Agent or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, at such time on the basis of the Spot Rate (determined in respect of the most recent Revaluation Date) for the purchase of Dollars with such Alternative Currency.
Dollar Equivalent
"" means any Subsidiary that is organized under the laws of any political subdivision of the United States.
Domestic Subsidiary
"" means any Person that meets the requirements to be an assignee under ,  and (vii) (subject to such consents, if any, as may be required under ).
Eligible Assignee
Section 10.06(b)(iii)
(v), (vi)
Section 10.06(b)(iii)
"" means the economic and monetary union in accordance with the Treaty of Rome 1957, as amended by the Single European Act 1986, the Maastricht Treaty of 1992 and the Amsterdam Treaty of 1998.
EMU
"" means the legislative measures of the European Council for the introduction of, changeover to or operation of a single or unified European currency.
EMU Legislation
"" means any and all Federal, state, local, and foreign statutes, laws, regulations, ordinances, rules, judgments, orders, decrees, permits, concessions, grants,
Environmental Laws
 
franchises, licenses, agreements or governmental restrictions relating to pollution and the protection of the environment or the release of any materials into the environment, including those related to hazardous substances or wastes, air emissions and discharges to waste or public systems.
"" means any liability, contingent or otherwise (including any liability for damages, costs of environmental remediation, fines, penalties or indemnities), of the Company, any other Loan Party or any of their respective Subsidiaries directly or indirectly resulting from or based upon (a) violation of any Environmental Law, (b) the generation, use, handling, transportation, storage, treatment or disposal of any Hazardous Materials, (c) exposure to any Hazardous Materials, (d) the release or threatened release of any Hazardous Materials into the environment or (e) any contract, agreement or other consensual arrangement pursuant to which liability is assumed or imposed with respect to any of the foregoing.
Environmental Liability
"" means, with respect to any Person, all of the shares of capital stock of (or other ownership or profit interests in) such Person, all of the warrants, options or other rights for the purchase or acquisition from such Person of shares of capital stock of (or other ownership or profit interests in) such Person, all of the securities convertible into or exchangeable for shares of capital stock of (or other ownership or profit interests in) such Person or warrants, rights or options for the purchase or acquisition from such Person of such shares (or such other interests), and all of the other ownership or profit interests in such Person (including partnership, member or trust interests therein), whether voting or nonvoting, and whether or not such shares, warrants, options, rights or other interests are outstanding on any date of determination.
Equity Interests
"" means the U.S. Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974.
ERISA
"" means any trade or business (whether or not incorporated) under common control with the Company within the meaning of Section 414(b) or (c) of the Code (and Sections 414(m) and (o) of the Code for purposes of provisions relating to Section 412 of the Code).
ERISA Affiliate
"" means (a) a Reportable Event with respect to a Pension Plan; (b) a withdrawal by the Company or any ERISA Affiliate from a Pension Plan subject to Section 4063 of ERISA during a plan year in which it was a substantial employer (as defined in Section 4001(a)(2) of ERISA) or a cessation of operations that is treated as such a withdrawal under Section 4062(e) of ERISA; (c) a complete or partial withdrawal by the Company or any ERISA Affiliate from a Multiemployer Plan or notification that a Multiemployer Plan is in reorganization; (d) the filing of a notice of intent to terminate, the treatment of a Plan amendment as a termination under Section 4041 or 4041A of ERISA, or the commencement of proceedings by the PBGC to terminate a Pension Plan or Multiemployer Plan; (e) an event or condition which constitutes grounds under Section 4042 of ERISA for the termination of, or the appointment of a trustee to administer, any Pension Plan or Multiemployer Plan; or (f) the imposition of any liability under Title IV of ERISA, other than for PBGC premiums due but not delinquent under Section 4007 of ERISA, upon the Company or any ERISA Affiliate.
ERISA Event
"" and "" mean the lawful currency of the Participating Member States introduced in accordance with the EMU Legislation.
Euro
EUR
"" has the meaning specified in the definition of Eurocurrency Rate.
Eurocurrency Base Rate
 
"" means the margin above or below the Eurocurrency Base Rate to be added to or subtracted from the Eurocurrency Base Rate, which margin shall be expressed in multiples of 1/100
Eurocurrency Bid Margin
th
of one basis point.
"" means a Bid Loan that bears interest at a rate based upon the Eurocurrency Base Rate.
Eurocurrency Margin Bid Loan
"" means for any Interest Period with respect to a Eurocurrency Rate Loan, a rate per annum determined by the Administrative Agent pursuant to the following formula:
Eurocurrency Rate
 
Where,
"" means, for such Interest Period, the rate per annum equal to the British Bankers' Association LIBOR Rate (""), as published by Reuters (or other commercially available source providing quotations of BBA LIBOR as designated by the Administrative Agent from time to time) at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period, for deposits in the relevant currency (for delivery on the first day of such Interest Period) with a term equivalent to such Interest Period. If such rate is not available at such time for any reason, then the "Eurocurrency Base Rate" for such Interest Period shall be the rate per annum determined by the Administrative Agent to be the rate at which deposits in the relevant currency for delivery on the first day of such Interest Period in Same Day Funds in the approximate amount of the Eurocurrency Rate Loan being made, continued or converted by Bank of America and with a term equivalent to such Interest Period would be offered by Bank of America's London Branch (or other Bank of America branch or Affiliate) to major banks in the London or other offshore interbank market for such currency at their request at approximately 11:00 a.m. (London time) two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period. Additionally, the "Eurocurrency Base Rate" for the initial Interest Period with respect to the initial Committed Borrowing shall be the rate per annum determined by the Administrative Agent to be the rate at which deposits in Dollars for delivery on the first day of such Interest Period in Same Day Funds in the approximate amount of the Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loan being made by Bank of America and with a term equivalent to such Interest Period would be offered by Bank of America's Grand Cayman Banking Center, Grand Cayman, British West Indies, to major banks in the offshore interbank market for Dollars on the first Business Day of such Interest Period.
Eurocurrency Base Rate
BBA LIBOR
"" means, for any day during any Interest Period, the reserve percentage (expressed as a decimal, carried out to five decimal places) in effect on such day, whether or not applicable to any Lender, under regulations issued from time to time by the FRB for determining the maximum reserve requirement (including any emergency, supplemental or other marginal reserve requirement) with respect to Eurocurrency funding (currently referred to as "Eurocurrency liabilities"). The Eurocurrency Rate for each outstanding Eurocurrency Rate Loan shall be adjusted automatically as of the effective date of any change in the Eurocurrency Reserve Percentage.
Eurocurrency Reserve Percentage
 
"" means a Committed Loan that bears interest at a rate based on the Eurocurrency Rate. Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loans may be denominated in Dollars or in an Alternative Currency. All Committed Loans denominated in an Alternative Currency must be Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loans.
Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loan
"" means a Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loan or a Eurocurrency Margin Bid Loan.
Eurocurrency Rate Loan
"" has the meaning specified in .
Event of Default
Section 8.01
"" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Exchange Act
"" means, with respect to the Administrative Agent, any Lender, the L/C Issuer or any other recipient of any payment to be made by or on account of any obligation of any Borrower hereunder, (a) taxes imposed on or measured by its overall net income (however denominated), and franchise taxes imposed on it (in lieu of net income taxes), by the jurisdiction (or any political subdivision thereof) under the laws of which such recipient is organized or in which its principal office is located or, in the case of any Lender, in which its applicable Lending Office is located, (b) any branch profits taxes imposed by the United States or any similar tax imposed by any other jurisdiction in which such Borrower is located and any taxes imposed on net income by reason of any connection between the recipient of such payment and the jurisdiction of the Governmental Authority imposing such taxes (other than any such connection arising from the recipient of such payment having executed, delivered or performed its obligations or received a payment under, or enforced, this Agreement or any other Loan Document), and (c) any withholding tax that is imposed on amounts payable to any Lender (other than an assignee pursuant to a request by the Company under Section 10.13) at the time such Lender becomes a party hereto (or designates a new Lending Office) or is attributable to such Lender's failure or inability (other than as a result of a Change in Law) to comply with , except to the extent that such Lender (or its assignor, if any) was entitled, at the time of designation of a new Lending Office (or assignment), to receive additional amounts from the applicable Borrower with respect to such withholding tax pursuant to , that the amount to which such Lender shall be entitled hereunder shall be no greater than the amount to which such Lender (or its assignor, if any) was entitled at the time of such designation of a new Lending Office (or assignment).
Excluded Taxes
Section 3.01(e)
Section 3.01(a)
provided
"" means that certain Term Credit Facility Agreement, dated as of April 10, 2006, by and between the Company and Bank of America, as lender.
Existing Credit Agreement
"" means, at any time and with respect to any property, the sale value of such property that could reasonably be expected to be realized in an arm's-length sale at such time between an informed and willing buyer and an informed and willing seller (neither being under a compulsion to buy or sell).
Fair Market Value
"" means, for any day, the rate per annum equal to the weighted average of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers on such day, as published by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York on the Business Day next succeeding such day; that (a) if such day is not a Business Day, the Federal Funds Rate for such day shall be such rate on such transactions on the next preceding Business Day as so published on the next succeeding Business Day, and (b) if no such rate is so published on such next succeeding Business Day, the Federal Funds Rate for such
Federal Funds Rate
provided
 
day shall be the average rate (rounded upward, if necessary, to a whole multiple of 1/100 of 1%) charged to Bank of America on such day on such transactions as determined by the Administrative Agent.
"" means the Agent/BAS Fee Letter and the Citigroup Fee Letter.
Fee Letters
"" means, with respect to any Borrower, any Lender that is organized under the laws of a jurisdiction other than that in which such Borrower is resident for tax purposes. For purposes of this definition, the United States, each State thereof and the District of Columbia shall be deemed to constitute a single jurisdiction.
Foreign Lender
"" means a Loan Party that is a Foreign Subsidiary.
Foreign Obligor
"" means an amount equal to the lesser of the Aggregate Commitments and $100,000,000. The Foreign Obligor Sublimit is part of, and not in addition to, the Aggregate Commitments.
Foreign Obligor Sublimit
"" means any Subsidiary that is organized under the laws of a jurisdiction other than the United States, a State thereof or the District of Columbia.
Foreign Subsidiary
"" means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System of the United States.
FRB
"" means any Person (other than a natural person) that is (or will be) engaged in making, purchasing, holding or otherwise investing in commercial loans and similar extensions of credit in the ordinary course of its business.
Fund
"" means generally accepted accounting principles in the United States set forth in the opinions and pronouncements of the Accounting Principles Board and the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and statements and pronouncements of the Financial Accounting Standards Board or such other principles as may be approved by a significant segment of the accounting profession in the United States, that are applicable to the circumstances as of the date of determination, consistently applied.
GAAP
"" means the government of the United States or any other nation, or of any political subdivision thereof, whether state or local, and any agency, authority, instrumentality, regulatory body, court, central bank or other entity exercising executive, legislative, judicial, taxing, regulatory or administrative powers or functions of or pertaining to government (including any supra-national bodies such as the European Union or the European Central Bank).
Governmental Authority
"" has the meaning specified in .
Granting Lender
Section 10.06(h)
"" means, as to any Person, any (a) any obligation, contingent or otherwise, of such Person guaranteeing or having the economic effect of guaranteeing any Indebtedness or other obligation payable or performable by another Person (the "primary obligor") in any manner, whether directly or indirectly, and including any obligation of such Person, direct or indirect, (i) to purchase or pay (or advance or supply funds for the purchase or payment of) such Indebtedness or other obligation, (ii) to purchase or lease property, securities or services for the purpose of assuring the obligee in respect of such Indebtedness or other obligation of the payment or performance of such Indebtedness or other obligation, (iii) to maintain working
Guarantee
 
capital, equity capital or any other financial statement condition or liquidity or level of income or cash flow of the primary obligor so as to enable the primary obligor to pay such Indebtedness or other obligation, or (iv) entered into for the purpose of assuring in any other manner the obligee in respect of such Indebtedness or other obligation of the payment or performance thereof or to protect such obligee against loss in respect thereof (in whole or in part), or (b) any Lien on any assets of such Person securing any Indebtedness or other obligation of any other Person, whether or not such Indebtedness or other obligation is assumed by such Person (or any right, contingent or otherwise, of any holder of such Indebtedness to obtain any such Lien); provided that the term "Guarantee" shall not include endorsements for collection or deposit, in either case in the ordinary course of business, or contingent or inchoate indemnity obligations in effect on the Closing Date or entered into in connection with any acquisition or disposition of assets or Permitted Acquisitions permitted under this Agreement (other than such obligations with respect to Indebtedness). The amount of any Guarantee shall be deemed to be an amount equal to the stated or determinable amount of the related primary obligation, or portion thereof, in respect of which such Guarantee is made or, if not stated or determinable, the maximum reasonably anticipated liability in respect thereof as determined by the guaranteeing Person in good faith. The term "Guarantee" as a verb has a corresponding meaning.
"" means the Company Guaranty and the Subsidiary Guaranty.
Guaranties
"" means all explosive or radioactive substances or wastes and all hazardous or toxic substances, wastes or other pollutants, including petroleum or petroleum distillates, asbestos or asbestos-containing materials, polychlorinated biphenyls, radon gas, infectious or medical wastes and all other substances or wastes of any nature regulated pursuant to any Environmental Law.
Hazardous Materials
"" means, as to any Person at a particular time, without duplication, all of the following, whether or not included as indebtedness or liabilities in accordance with GAAP:
Indebtedness
(a) all obligations of such Person for borrowed money and all obligations of such Person evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes, loan agreements or other similar instruments;
(b) all direct non-contingent payment and reimbursement obligations of such Person arising under letters of credit (including standby and commercial), bankers' acceptances, bank guaranties, surety bonds and similar instruments issued or created by or for the account of such Person;
(c) net obligations of such Person under any Swap Contract;
(d) all non-contingent, contractual obligations of such Person to pay the deferred purchase price of property (other than (i) trade accounts payable in the ordinary course of business and (ii) earn-outs, hold-backs and other deferred payment of consideration in Acquisitions which do not constitute interest-bearing non-contingent liabilities);
(e) indebtedness (excluding prepaid interest thereon) secured by a Lien on property owned or being purchased by such Person (including indebtedness arising under conditional sales or other title retention agreements), whether or not such indebtedness shall have been assumed by such Person or is limited in recourse;
 
(f) capital leases and Synthetic Lease Obligations;
(g) all obligations of such Person to purchase, redeem, retire, defease or otherwise make any payment in cash in respect of any Equity Interest in such Person or any other Person, valued, in the case of a redeemable preferred interest, at the greater of its voluntary or involuntary liquidation preference accrued and unpaid dividends; and
plus
(h) all Guarantees of such Person in respect of any of the foregoing.
For all purposes hereof, the Indebtedness of any Person shall include the Indebtedness of any partnership or joint venture (other than a joint venture that is itself a corporation or limited liability company) in which such Person is a general partner or a joint venturer, unless such Indebtedness is non-recourse to such Person. The amount of any net obligation under any Swap Contract on any date shall be deemed to be the Swap Termination Value thereof as of such date. The amount of any capital lease or Synthetic Lease Obligation as of any date shall be deemed to be the amount of Attributable Indebtedness in respect thereof as of such date.
"" means Taxes other than Excluded Taxes.
Indemnified Taxes
"" has the meaning specified in .
Indemnitees
Section 10.04(b)
"" has the meaning specified in .
Information
Section 10.07
"" means, (a) as to any Loan other than a Base Rate Loan, the last day of each Interest Period applicable to such Loan and the Maturity Date; , , that if any Interest Period for a Eurocurrency Rate Loan exceeds three months, the respective dates that fall every three months after the beginning of such Interest Period shall also be Interest Payment Dates; and (b) as to any Base Rate Loan (including a Swing Line Loan), the last Business Day of each March, June, September and December and the Maturity Date.
Interest Payment Date
provided
however
"" means, (a) as to each Eurocurrency Rate Loan, the period commencing on the date such Eurocurrency Rate Loan is disbursed or (in the case of any Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loan) converted to or continued as a Eurocurrency Rate Loan and ending on the date one week thereafter, or one, two, three or six months thereafter, as selected by the Company in its Committed Loan Notice or Bid Request, as the case may be, or, in the case of Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loans, such other period that is twelve months or less requested by the Company and consented to by all Lenders; and (b) as to each Absolute Rate Loan, a period of not less than 14 days and not more than 180 days as selected by the Company in its Bid Request; that:
Interest Period
provided
(i) any Interest Period that would otherwise end on a day that is not a Business Day shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day unless, in the case of a Eurocurrency Rate Loan, such Business Day falls in another calendar month, in which case such Interest Period shall end on the next preceding Business Day;
(ii) any Interest Period pertaining to a Eurocurrency Rate Loan that begins on the last Business Day of a calendar month (or on a day for which there is no numerically corresponding day in the calendar month at the end of such Interest Period) shall end on the last Business Day of the calendar month at the end of such Interest Period; and
 
"" means a material weakness in, or fraud that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in, the Company's internal controls over financial reporting, in each case as described in the Securities Laws.
Internal Control Event
"" means, as to any Person, any direct or indirect acquisition or investment by such Person, whether by means of (a) the purchase or other acquisition of capital stock or other securities of another Person, (b) a loan, advance or capital contribution to, Guarantee or assumption of debt of, or purchase or other acquisition of any other debt or equity participation or interest in, another Person, including any partnership or joint venture interest in such other Person and any arrangement pursuant to which the investor Guarantees Indebtedness of such other Person, or (c) the purchase or other acquisition (in one transaction or a series of transactions) of assets of another Person that constitute a business unit. For purposes of covenant compliance, the amount of any Investment shall be the amount actually invested, without adjustment for subsequent increases or decreases in the value of such Investment.
Investment
"" has the meaning specified in .
IP Rights
Section 5.18
"" means the United States Internal Revenue Service.
IRS
"" means, with respect to any Letter of Credit, the "International Standby Practices 1998" published by the Institute of International Banking Law & Practice, Inc. (or such later version thereof as may be in effect at the time of issuance).
ISP
"" means with respect to any Letter of Credit, the Letter of Credit Application, and any other document, agreement and instrument entered into by the L/C Issuer and the Company (or any Subsidiary) or in favor of the L/C Issuer and relating to such Letter of Credit.
Issuer Documents
"" means, collectively, all international, foreign, Federal, state and local statutes, treaties, rules, guidelines, regulations, ordinances, codes and administrative or judicial precedents or authorities, including the interpretation or administration thereof by any Governmental Authority charged with the enforcement, interpretation or administration thereof, and all applicable administrative orders, directed duties, requests, licenses, authorizations and permits of, and agreements with, any Governmental Authority, in each case whether or not having the force of law.
Laws
"" means, with respect to each Lender, such Lender's funding of its participation in any L/C Borrowing in accordance with its Applicable Percentage. All L/C Advances shall be denominated in Dollars.
L/C Advance
"" means an extension of credit resulting from a drawing under any Letter of Credit which has not been reimbursed on the date when made or refinanced as a Committed Borrowing. All L/C Borrowings shall be denominated in Dollars.
L/C Borrowing
"" means, with respect to any Letter of Credit, the issuance thereof or extension of the expiry date thereof, or the increase of the amount thereof.
L/C Credit Extension
"" means Bank of America in its capacity as issuer of Letters of Credit hereunder, or any successor issuer of Letters of Credit hereunder.
L/C Issuer
 
"" means, as at any date of determination, the aggregate amount available to be drawn under all outstanding Letters of Credit the aggregate of all Unreimbursed Amounts, including all L/C Borrowings. For purposes of computing the amount available to be drawn under any Letter of Credit, the amount of such Letter of Credit shall be determined in accordance with . For all purposes of this Agreement, if on any date of determination a Letter of Credit has expired by its terms but any amount may still be drawn thereunder by reason of the operation of Rule 3.14 of the ISP, such Letter of Credit shall be deemed to be "outstanding" in the amount so remaining available to be drawn.
L/C Obligations
plus
Section 1.09
"" has the meaning specified in the introductory paragraph hereto and, as the context requires, includes the Swing Line Lender.
Lender
"" means, as to any Lender, the office or offices of such Lender described as such in such Lender's Administrative Questionnaire, or such other office or offices as a Lender may from time to time notify the Company and the Administrative Agent.
Lending Office
"" means any standby letter of credit issued hereunder. Letters of Credit may be issued in Dollars or any Alternative Currency.
Letter of Credit
"" means an application and agreement for the issuance or amendment of a Letter of Credit in the form from time to time in use by the L/C Issuer.
Letter of Credit Application
"" means the day that is seven days prior to the Maturity Date then in effect (or, if such day is not a Business Day, the next preceding Business Day).
Letter of Credit Expiration Date
"" has the meaning specified in .
Letter of Credit Fee
Section 2.04(i)
"" means an amount equal to $50,000,000. The Letter of Credit Sublimit is part of, and not in addition to, the Aggregate Commitments.
Letter of Credit Sublimit
"" means any mortgage, pledge, hypothecation, assignment, deposit arrangement, encumbrance, lien (statutory or other), charge, or preference, priority or other security interest or preferential arrangement in the nature of a security interest of any kind or nature whatsoever (including any conditional sale or other title retention agreement, any easement, right of way or other encumbrance on title to real property, and any financing lease having substantially the same economic effect as any of the foregoing).
Lien
"" means an extension of credit by a Lender to a Borrower under in the form of a Committed Loan, a Bid Loan or a Swing Line Loan.
Loan
Article II
"" means this Agreement, each Designated Borrower Request and Assumption Agreement, each Note, each Issuer Document, the Fee Letters and the Guaranties.
Loan Documents
"" means, collectively, the Company, each Subsidiary Guarantor and each Designated Borrower.
Loan Parties
"" means, with respect to any period, the percentage rate per annum determined in accordance with .
Mandatory Cost
Schedule 1.01
"" means (a) a material adverse change in, or a material adverse effect upon, the operations, business, properties or financial condition of the Company or the Company
Material Adverse Effect
 
and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole; (b) a material impairment of the ability of any Loan Party to perform its obligations under any Loan Document to which it is a party; or (c) a material adverse effect upon the legality, validity, binding effect or enforceability against any Loan Party of any Loan Document to which it is a party.
"" means any Domestic Subsidiary of the Company (a) with assets (exclusive of goodwill) the net book value of which (measured as of the end of the Company's most recent fiscal year end) is in excess of $100,000,000 or (b) that has revenues (for the Company's most recent fiscal year) of at least $100,000,000. Such determinations shall be made with respect to the Domestic Subsidiaries at the time that the annual financial statements for the Company and its Subsidiaries are delivered pursuant to ; , , that if a Person becomes a Subsidiary pursuant to or in connection with an Acquisition, then such determination shall be made as of the date of such Acquisition, based on the financial statements of such Person for its most recent quarter end (or for the four most recent quarters, as applicable) for which financial statements are available (which may be unaudited).
Material Domestic Subsidiary
Section 6.01(a)
provided
however
"" means [June , 2011] or such earlier date as the Aggregate Commitments may be terminated in accordance with the terms hereof; , , that, in each case, if such date is not a Business Day, the Maturity Date shall be the next preceding Business Day.
Maturity Date
        
provided
however
"" means any employee benefit plan of the type described in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA, to which the Company or any ERISA Affiliate makes or is obligated to make contributions, or during the preceding five plan years, has made or been obligated to make contributions.
Multiemployer Plan
"" means a promissory note made by a Borrower in favor of a Lender evidencing Loans made by such Lender to such Borrower, substantially in the form of .
Note
Exhibit D
"" means all advances to, and debts, liabilities, obligations, covenants and duties of, any Loan Party arising under any Loan Document or otherwise with respect to any Loan or Letter of Credit, whether direct or indirect (including those acquired by assumption), absolute or contingent, due or to become due, now existing or hereafter arising and including interest and fees that accrue after the commencement by or against any Loan Party or any Affiliate thereof of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Laws naming such Person as the debtor in such proceeding, regardless of whether such interest and fees are allowed claims in such proceeding.
Obligations
"" means, (a) with respect to any corporation, the certificate or articles of incorporation and the bylaws (or equivalent or comparable constitutive documents with respect to any non-U.S. jurisdiction); (b) with respect to any limited liability company, the certificate or articles of formation or organization and operating agreement; and (c) with respect to any partnership, joint venture, trust or other form of business entity, the partnership, joint venture or other applicable agreement of formation or organization and any agreement, instrument, filing or notice with respect thereto filed in connection with its formation or organization with the applicable Governmental Authority in the jurisdiction of its formation or organization and, if applicable, any certificate or articles of formation or organization of such entity.
Organization Documents
"" means all present or future stamp or documentary taxes or any other excise or property taxes, charges or similar levies arising from any payment made hereunder or under any
Other Taxes
 
other Loan Document or from the execution, delivery or enforcement of, or otherwise with respect to, this Agreement or any other Loan Document.
"" means (i) with respect to Committed Loans on any date, the Dollar Equivalent amount of the aggregate outstanding principal amount thereof after giving effect to any borrowings and prepayments or repayments of such Committed Loans occurring on such date; (ii) with respect to Swing Line Loans on any date, the aggregate outstanding principal amount thereof after giving effect to any borrowings and prepayments or repayments of such Swing Line Loans occurring on such date; and (iii) with respect to any L/C Obligations on any date, the Dollar Equivalent amount of the aggregate outstanding amount of such L/C Obligations on such date after giving effect to any L/C Credit Extension occurring on such date and any other changes in the aggregate amount of the L/C Obligations as of such date, including as a result of any reimbursements by the Company of Unreimbursed Amounts.
Outstanding Amount
"" means, for any day, (a) with respect to any amount denominated in Dollars, the greater of (i) the Federal Funds Rate and (ii) an overnight rate determined by the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer, or the Swing Line Lender, as the case may be, in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation, and (b) with respect to any amount denominated in an Alternative Currency, the rate of interest per annum at which overnight deposits in the applicable Alternative Currency, in an amount approximately equal to the amount with respect to which such rate is being determined, would be offered for such day by a branch or Affiliate of Bank of America in the applicable offshore interbank market for such currency to major banks in such interbank market.
Overnight Rate
"" has the meaning specified in .
Participant
Section 10.06(d)
"" means each state so described in any EMU Legislation.
Participating Member State
"" means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation.
PBGC
"" means the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board.
PCAOB
"" means any "employee pension benefit plan" (as such term is defined in Section 3(2) of ERISA), other than a Multiemployer Plan, that is subject to Title IV of ERISA and is sponsored or maintained by the Company or any ERISA Affiliate or to which the Company or any ERISA Affiliate contributes or has an obligation to contribute, or in the case of a multiple employer or other plan described in Section 4064(a) of ERISA, has made contributions at any time during the immediately preceding five plan years.
Pension Plan
"" means any Acquisition that conforms to the following requirements: (a) the assets, Person, division or line of business to be acquired is in a similar, related or complementary or ancillary or related line of business as the Company, or a reasonable extension thereof, (b) all transactions related to such Acquisition shall be consummated in all material respects in accordance with applicable Law, (c) the board of directors or equivalent governing body of the acquiree has not at any time notified the Company that it opposes such action or, if it had done so, such opposition has been withdrawn, (d) the Company shall be in compliance with the financial covenants set forth in on a basis as of the last day of the fiscal quarter most recently ended, and immediately prior to, and after giving effect to, such Acquisition, no Default shall have occurred and be continuing or would result therefrom, (e) if the consideration to be paid in connection with Permitted Acquisition is equal to or greater than
Permitted Acquisition
Section 7.11
pro forma
 
$200,000,000, the Company shall have demonstrated to the reasonable satisfaction of the Administrative Agent and the Required Lenders that the Company shall be in compliance with the financial covenants set forth in on a basis as of the last day of the fiscal quarter most recently ended, and (f) all actions required to be taken under with respect to any acquired or newly formed Subsidiary in connection with such Acquisition, shall have been or will be taken in accordance therewith.
Section 7.11
pro forma
Section 6.13
"" means an Investment in Equity Interests of another Person that is not a direct or indirect Subsidiary of the Company before or after giving effect to such Investment, provided that such Person is primarily engaged in a similar, related or complementary or ancillary or related line of business as the Company, or a reasonable extension thereof.
Permitted Joint Venture
"" means any natural person, corporation, limited liability company, trust, joint venture, association, company, partnership, Governmental Authority or other entity.
Person
"" means any "employee benefit plan" (as such term is defined in Section 3(3) of ERISA) established by the Company or, with respect to any such plan that is subject to Section 412 of the Code or Title IV of ERISA, any ERISA Affiliate.
Plan
"" has the meaning specified in .
Platform
Section 6.02
"" means, without duplication, (a) all Indebtedness (including guaranties of Indebtedness but excluding intercompany Indebtedness) of Subsidiaries of the Company that are not Subsidiary Guarantors, and (b) all Indebtedness of the Company and its Subsidiaries that is secured by a Lien on any assets of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries.
Priority Debt
"" has the meaning specified in Section 6.02.
Public Lender
"" has the meaning specified in .
Register
Section 10.06(c)
"" has the meaning specified in the Securities Laws and shall be independent of the Company as prescribed by the Securities Laws.
Registered Public Accounting Firm
"" means, with respect to any Person, such Person's Affiliates and the partners, directors, officers, employees, agents and advisors of such Person and of such Person's Affiliates.
Related Parties
"" means any of the events set forth in Section 4043(c) of ERISA, other than events for which the 30 day notice period has been waived.
Reportable Event
"" means (a) with respect to a Borrowing, conversion or continuation of Committed Loans, a Committed Loan Notice, (b) with respect to a Bid Loan, a Bid Request, (c) with respect to an L/C Credit Extension, a Letter of Credit Application, and (d) with respect to a Swing Line Loan, a Swing Line Loan Notice.
Request for Credit Extension
"" means, as of any date of determination, Lenders having more than 50% of the Aggregate Commitments or, if the commitment of each Lender to make Loans and the obligation of the L/C Issuer to make L/C Credit Extensions have been terminated pursuant to , Lenders holding in the aggregate more than 50% of the Total Outstandings (with the aggregate amount of each Lender's risk participation and funded participation in L/C
Required Lenders
Section 8.02
 
Obligations and Swing Line Loans being deemed "held" by such Lender for purposes of this definition); that the Commitment of, and the portion of the Total Outstandings held or deemed held by, any Defaulting Lender shall be excluded for purposes of making a determination of Required Lenders.
provided
"" means the chief executive officer, president, chief financial officer or treasurer of a Loan Party and, solely for purposes of notices given pursuant to Article II, any other officer or employee of the applicable Loan Party so designated by any of the foregoing officers in a notice to the Administrative Agent. Any document delivered hereunder that is signed by a Responsible Officer of a Loan Party shall be conclusively presumed to have been authorized by all necessary corporate, partnership and/or other action on the part of such Loan Party and such Responsible Officer shall be conclusively presumed to have acted on behalf of such Loan Party.
Responsible Officer
"" means any dividend or other distribution (whether in cash, securities or other property) with respect to any capital stock or other Equity Interest of the Company or any Subsidiary, or any payment (whether in cash, securities or other property), including any sinking fund or similar deposit, on account of the purchase, redemption, retirement, acquisition, cancellation or termination of any such capital stock or other Equity Interest, or on account of any return of capital to the Company's stockholders, partners or members (or the equivalent Person thereof).
Restricted Payment
"" means (a) with respect to any Loan (other than Bid Loans), each of the following: (i) each date of a Borrowing of a Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loan denominated in an Alternative Currency, (ii) each date of a continuation of a Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loan denominated in an Alternative Currency pursuant to , and (iii) such additional dates as the Administrative Agent shall determine or the Required Lenders shall require; and (b) with respect to any Letter of Credit, each of the following: (i) each date of issuance of a Letter of Credit denominated in an Alternative Currency, (ii) each date of an amendment of any such Letter of Credit having the effect of increasing the amount thereof (solely with respect to the increased amount), (iii) each date of any payment by the L/C Issuer under any Letter of Credit denominated in an Alternative Currency and (iv) such additional dates as the Administrative Agent or the L/C Issuer shall determine or the Required Lenders shall require.
Revaluation Date
Section 2.02
"" means (a) with respect to disbursements and payments in Dollars, immediately available funds, and (b) with respect to disbursements and payments in an Alternative Currency, same day or other funds as may be determined by the Administrative Agent or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, to be customary in the place of disbursement or payment for the settlement of international banking transactions in the relevant Alternative Currency.
Same Day Funds
"" means the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
Sarbanes-Oxley
"" means the Securities and Exchange Commission, or any Governmental Authority succeeding to any of its principal functions.
SEC
"" means the Securities Act of 1933, the Exchange Act, Sarbanes-Oxley and the applicable accounting and auditing principles, rules, standards and practices promulgated, approved or incorporated by the SEC or the PCAOB.
Securities Laws
 
"" means, as to any Person at any time, that (a) the fair value of the property of such Person is greater than the amount of such Person's liabilities (including disputed, contingent and unliquidated liabilities) as such value is established and liabilities evaluated for purposes of Section 101(32) of the Bankruptcy Code of the United States and, in the alternative, for purposes of the California Uniform Fraudulent Transfer Act; (b) the present fair saleable value of the property of such Person is not less than the amount that will be required to pay the probable liability of such Person on its debts as they become absolute and matured; (c) such Person is able to realize upon its property and pay its debts and other liabilities (including disputed, contingent and unliquidated liabilities) as they mature in the normal course of business; (d) such Person does not intend to, and does not believe that it will, incur debts or liabilities beyond such Person's ability to pay as such debts and liabilities mature; and (e) such Person is not engaged in business or a transaction, and is not about to engage in business or a transaction, for which such Person's property would constitute unreasonably small capital.
Solvent
"" has the meaning specified in .
SPC
Section 10.06(h)
"" means at any time an Alternative Currency, other than the currency of a country that is a member of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development at such time located in North America or Europe.
Special Notice Currency
"" for a currency means the rate determined by the Administrative Agent or the L/C Issuer, as applicable, to be the rate quoted by the Person acting in such capacity as the spot rate for the purchase by such Person of such currency with another currency through its principal foreign exchange trading office at approximately 11:00 a.m. on the date two Business Days prior to the date as of which the foreign exchange computation is made; that the Administrative Agent or the L/C Issuer may obtain such spot rate from another financial institution designated by the Administrative Agent or the L/C Issuer if the Person acting in such capacity does not have as of the date of determination a spot buying rate for any such currency; and that the L/C Issuer may use such spot rate quoted on the date as of which the foreign exchange computation is made in the case of any Letter of Credit denominated in an Alternative Currency.
Spot Rate
provided
provided
further
"" and "" mean the lawful currency of the United Kingdom.
Sterling
"" of a Person means a corporation, partnership, joint venture, limited liability company or other business entity of which a majority of the shares of securities or other interests having ordinary voting power for the election of directors or other governing body (other than securities or interests having such power only by reason of the happening of a contingency) are at the time beneficially owned, or the management of which is otherwise controlled, directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, or both, by such Person. Unless otherwise specified, all references herein to a "Subsidiary" or to "Subsidiaries" shall refer to a Subsidiary or Subsidiaries of the Company.
Subsidiary
"" means, collectively, each direct and indirect Material Domestic Subsidiary, whether now existing or hereafter acquired or organized, executing and delivering the Subsidiary Guaranty as of the Closing Date, or acceding thereto thereafter as provided in .
Subsidiary Guarantors
Section 6.13
 
"" means the Subsidiary Guaranty made by the Subsidiary Guarantors in favor of the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer, the Swing Line Lender and the Lenders, substantially in the form of .
Subsidiary Guaranty
Exhibit H
"" means, for purposes of , (1) with respect to assets of the Company and its Subsidiaries which are the subject of any Dispositions (except those assets which are the subject of Dispositions pursuant to through  of , Disposition Assets (as defined in and as determined as provided below), having a book value, in the same fiscal year, equal to or exceeding 20% of the total assets of the Company and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole (the "") (as determined as provided below), and (2) with respect to the revenues of any Subsidiaries, divisions and business units of the Company and its Subsidiaries which are the subject of any Dispositions (except those assets which are the subject of Dispositions pursuant to through  of , aggregate Disposition Revenues (as defined in and as determined as provided below), in the same fiscal year, equal to or exceeding 20% of the total revenues of the Company and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole (the "") (as determined as provided below). For purposes of of this definition, the book value of any Disposition Assets and Total Assets shall in each case be determined as of the end of the most recent fiscal year prior to the date of the applicable Disposition for which annual financial statements for the Company and its Subsidiaries have been delivered pursuant to by reference to such financial statements. For purposes of  of this definition, until the annual financial statements for the Company and its Subsidiaries for the 2006 fiscal year are delivered pursuant to , the aggregate Disposition Revenues and Total Revenues (as defined in ) shall be determined based on annualized 2006 quarterly revenues as follows: (x) so long as the most recent quarterly financial statements for the Company and its Subsidiaries delivered pursuant to prior to the date of the applicable Disposition shall be the quarterly financial statements for the fiscal quarter ending March 31, 2006, such Disposition Revenues and Total Revenues shall be determined by multiplying all Disposition Revenues and Total Revenues, as the case may be, for the fiscal quarter ending March 31, 2006 by four (4), (y) so long as the most recent quarterly financial statements for the Company and its Subsidiaries delivered pursuant to prior to the date of the applicable Disposition shall be the quarterly financial statements for the fiscal quarter ending June 30, 2006, such Disposition Revenues and Total Revenues shall be determined by multiplying all Disposition Revenues and Total Revenues, as the case may be, for the fiscal quarters ending March 31, 2006, and June 30, 2006 by two (2), and (z) so long as the most recent quarterly financial statements for the Company and its Subsidiaries delivered pursuant to prior to the date of the applicable Disposition shall be the quarterly financial statements for the fiscal quarter ending September 30, 2006, such Disposition Revenues and Total Revenues shall be determined by multiplying all Disposition Revenues and Total Revenues for the fiscal quarters ending March 31, 2006, June 30, 2006 and September 30, 2006 by one and one-third (1 1/3). With respect to any Disposition effected after such time that the annual financial statements for the Company and its Subsidiaries for the 2006 fiscal year are delivered pursuant to , for purposes of , the aggregate Disposition Revenues and Total Revenues shall be determined as of the end of the most recent fiscal year for which annual financial statements for the Company and its Subsidiaries have been delivered pursuant to by reference to such financial statements. For purposes of  and  of this definition, no Disposition shall be included in determining Disposition Assets or Disposition Revenues until the earlier of (1) the end of the Reinvestment Period (as defined in ) with respect
Substantial Portion
Section 7.05(l)
subsections (a)
(k)
Section 7.05
Section 7.05(l)
Total Assets
subsections (a)
(k)
Section 7.05
Section 7.05(l)
Total Revenues
clause (1) 
Section 6.01(a)
clause (2)
Section 6.01(a)
Section 7.05(l)
Section 6.01(a)
Section 6.01(a)
Section 6.01(a)
Section 6.01(a)
clause (2)
Section 6.01(a)
clause (1)
clause (2)
Section 7.05(k)
 
to such Disposition, and (2) the end of the calendar year in which the Disposition occurred, in which case the Disposition shall be deemed to have occurred as of the earlier of such dates.
"" means (a) any and all rate swap transactions, basis swaps, credit derivative transactions, forward rate transactions, commodity swaps, commodity options, forward commodity contracts, equity or equity index swaps or options, bond or bond price or bond index swaps or options or forward bond or forward bond price or forward bond index transactions, interest rate options, forward foreign exchange transactions, cap transactions, floor transactions, collar transactions, currency swap transactions, cross-currency rate swap transactions, currency options, spot contracts, or any other similar transactions or any combination of any of the foregoing (including any options to enter into any of the foregoing), whether or not any such transaction is governed by or subject to any master agreement, and (b) any and all transactions of any kind, and the related confirmations, which are subject to the terms and conditions of, or governed by, any form of master agreement published by the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc., any International Foreign Exchange Master Agreement, or any similar master agreement (any such master agreement, together with any related schedules, a ""), including any such obligations or liabilities under any Master Agreement.
Swap Contract
Master Agreement
"" means, in respect of any one or more Swap Contracts, after taking into account the effect of any legally enforceable netting agreement relating to such Swap Contracts, (a) for any date on or after the date such Swap Contracts have been closed out and termination value(s) determined in accordance therewith, such termination value(s), and (b) for any date prior to the date referenced in , the amount(s) determined as the mark-to-market value(s) for such Swap Contracts, as determined based upon one or more mid-market or other readily available quotations provided by any recognized dealer in such Swap Contracts (which may include a Lender or any Affiliate of a Lender).
Swap Termination Value
clause (a)
"" means the revolving credit facility made available by the Swing Line Lender pursuant to .
Swing Line
Section 2.05
"" means a borrowing of a Swing Line Loan pursuant to .
Swing Line Borrowing
Section 2.05
"" means Bank of America in its capacity as provider of Swing Line Loans, or any successor swing line lender hereunder.
Swing Line Lender
"" has the meaning specified in .
Swing Line Loan
Section 2.05(a)
"" means a notice of a Swing Line Borrowing pursuant to , which, if in writing, shall be substantially in the form of .
Swing Line Loan Notice
Section 2.05(b)
Exhibit C
"" means an amount equal to the lesser of (a) $50,000,000 and (b) the Aggregate Commitments. The Swing Line Sublimit is part of, and not in addition to, the Aggregate Commitments.
Swing Line Sublimit
"" means the monetary obligation of a Person under (a) a so-called synthetic, off-balance sheet or tax retention lease, or (b) an agreement for the use or possession of property creating obligations that do not appear on the balance sheet of such Person but which, upon the insolvency or bankruptcy of such Person, would be characterized as the indebtedness of such Person (without regard to accounting treatment).
Synthetic Lease Obligation
 
"" means any day on which the Trans-European Automated Real-time Gross Settlement Express Transfer (TARGET) payment system (or, if such payment system ceases to be operative, such other payment system (if any) determined by the Administrative Agent to be a suitable replacement) is open for the settlement of payments in Euro.
TARGET Day
"" means all present or future taxes, levies, imposts, duties, deductions, withholdings, assessments, fees or other charges imposed by any Governmental Authority, including any interest, additions to tax or penalties applicable thereto.
Taxes
"" means $50,000,000.
Threshold Amount
"" means the aggregate Outstanding Amount of all Loans and all L/C Obligations.
Total Outstandings
"" means, (a) with respect to a Committed Loan, its character as a Base Rate Loan or a Eurocurrency Rate Loan, and (b) with respect to a Bid Loan, its character as an Absolute Rate Loan or a Eurocurrency Margin Bid Loan.
Type
"" means the excess of a Pension Plan's benefit liabilities under Section 4001(a)(16) of ERISA, over the current value of that Pension Plan's assets, determined in accordance with the assumptions used for funding the Pension Plan pursuant to Section 412 of the Code for the applicable plan year.
Unfunded Pension Liability
"" and "" mean the United States of America.
United States
U.S.
"" has the meaning specified in .
Unreimbursed Amount
Section 2.04(c)(i)
"" and "" mean the lawful currency of Japan.
Yen
With reference to this Agreement and each other Loan Document, unless otherwise specified herein or in such other Loan Document:
1.02 Other Interpretive Provisions.
(a) The definitions of terms herein shall apply equally to the singular and plural forms of the terms defined. Whenever the context may require, any pronoun shall include the corresponding masculine, feminine and neuter forms. The words "," "" and "" shall be deemed to be followed by the phrase "without limitation." The word "" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect as the word "." Unless the context requires otherwise, (i) any definition of or reference to any agreement, instrument or other document (including any Organization Document) shall be construed as referring to such agreement, instrument or other document as from time to time amended, supplemented or otherwise modified (subject to any restrictions on such amendments, supplements or modifications set forth herein or in any other Loan Document), (ii) any reference herein to any Person shall be construed to include such Person's successors and assigns, (iii) the words "," "" and "," and words of similar import when used in any Loan Document, shall be construed to refer to such Loan Document in its entirety and not to any particular provision thereof, (iv) all references in a Loan Document to Articles, Sections, Exhibits and Schedules shall be construed to refer to Articles and Sections of, and Exhibits and Schedules to, the Loan Document in which such references appear, (v) any reference to any law shall include all statutory and regulatory provisions consolidating, amending, replacing or interpreting such law and any reference to any law or regulation shall, unless otherwise specified,
include
includes
including
will
shall
herein
hereof
hereunder
 
refer to such law or regulation as amended, modified or supplemented from time to time, and (vi) the words "" and "" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect and to refer to any and all tangible and intangible assets and properties, including cash, securities, accounts and contract rights.
asset
property
(b) In the computation of periods of time from a specified date to a later specified date, the word "" means ";" the words "" and "" each mean ";" and the word "" means "."
from
from and including
to
until
to but excluding
through
to and including
(c) Section headings herein and in the other Loan Documents are included for convenience of reference only and shall not affect the interpretation of this Agreement or any other Loan Document.
1.03 Accounting Terms.
(a) . All accounting terms not specifically or completely defined herein shall be construed in conformity with, and all financial data (including financial ratios and other financial calculations) required to be submitted pursuant to this Agreement shall be prepared in conformity with, GAAP applied on a consistent basis, as in effect from time to time, applied in a manner consistent with that used in preparing the Audited Financial Statements, as otherwise specifically prescribed herein.
Generally
except
(b) . If at any time any change in GAAP would affect the computation of any financial ratio or requirement set forth in any Loan Document, and either the Company or the Required Lenders shall so request, the Administrative Agent, the Lenders and the Company shall negotiate in good faith to amend such ratio or requirement to preserve the original intent thereof in light of such change in GAAP (subject to the approval of the Required Lenders); , until so amended, (i) such ratio or requirement shall continue to be computed in accordance with GAAP prior to such change therein and (ii) the Company shall provide to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders financial statements and other documents required under this Agreement or as reasonably requested hereunder setting forth a reconciliation between calculations of such ratio or requirement made before and after giving effect to such change in GAAP.
Changes in GAAP
provided
that
(c) . All references herein to consolidated financial statements of the Company and its Subsidiaries or to the determination of any amount for the Company and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis or any similar reference shall, in each case, be deemed to include each variable interest entity that the Company is required to consolidate pursuant to FASB Interpretation No. 46 (revised December 2003)  as if such variable interest entity were a Subsidiary as defined herein.
Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities
Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities
Any financial ratios required to be maintained by the Company pursuant to this Agreement shall be calculated by dividing the appropriate component by the other component, carrying the result to one place more than the number of places by which such ratio is expressed herein and rounding the result up or down to the nearest number (with a rounding-up if there is no nearest number).
1.04 Rounding.
 
1.05 Exchange Rates; Currency Equivalents.
(a) The Administrative Agent or the L/C Issuer, as applicable, shall determine the Spot Rates as of each Revaluation Date to be used for calculating Dollar Equivalent amounts of Credit Extensions and Outstanding Amounts denominated in Alternative Currencies. Such Spot Rates shall become effective as of such Revaluation Date and shall be the Spot Rates employed in converting any amounts between the applicable currencies until the next Revaluation Date to occur. Except for purposes of financial statements delivered by Loan Parties hereunder or calculating financial covenants hereunder or except as otherwise provided herein, the applicable amount of any currency (other than Dollars) for purposes of the Loan Documents shall be such Dollar Equivalent amount as so determined by the Administrative Agent or the L/C Issuer, as applicable.
(b) Wherever in this Agreement in connection with a Committed Borrowing, conversion, continuation or prepayment of a Eurocurrency Rate Loan or the issuance, amendment or extension of a Letter of Credit, an amount, such as a required minimum or multiple amount, is expressed in Dollars, but such Committed Borrowing, Eurocurrency Rate Loan or Letter of Credit is denominated in an Alternative Currency, such amount shall be the relevant Alternative Currency Equivalent of such Dollar amount (rounded to the nearest unit of such Alternative Currency, with 0.5 of a unit being rounded upward), as determined by the Administrative Agent or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be.
1.06 Additional Alternative Currencies.
(a) The Company may from time to time request that Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loans be made and/or Letters of Credit be issued in a currency other than those specifically listed in the definition of "Alternative Currency;" provided that such requested currency is a lawful currency (other than Dollars) that is readily available and freely transferable and convertible into Dollars. In the case of any such request with respect to the making of Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loans, such request shall be subject to the approval of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders; and in the case of any such request with respect to the issuance of Letters of Credit, such request shall be subject to the approval of the Administrative Agent and the L/C Issuer.
(b) Any such request shall be made to the Administrative Agent not later than 11:00 a.m., 20 Business Days prior to the date of the desired Credit Extension (or such other time or date as may be agreed by the Administrative Agent and, in the case of any such request pertaining to Letters of Credit, the L/C Issuer, in its or their sole discretion). In the case of any such request pertaining to Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loans, the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Lender thereof; and in the case of any such request pertaining to Letters of Credit, the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify the L/C Issuer thereof. Each Lender (in the case of any such request pertaining to Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loans) or the L/C Issuer (in the case of a request pertaining to Letters of Credit) shall notify the Administrative Agent, not later than 11:00 a.m., ten Business Days after receipt of such request whether it consents, in its sole discretion, to the making of Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loans or the issuance of Letters of Credit, as the case may be, in such requested currency.
(c) Any failure by a Lender or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, to respond to such request within the time period specified in the preceding sentence shall be deemed to be a refusal by such Lender or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, to permit Eurocurrency Rate Committed
 
Loans to be made or Letters of Credit to be issued in such requested currency. If the Administrative Agent and all the Lenders consent to making Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loans in such requested currency, the Administrative Agent shall so notify the Company and such currency shall thereupon be deemed for all purposes to be an Alternative Currency hereunder for purposes of any Committed Borrowings of Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loans; and if the Administrative Agent and the L/C Issuer consent to the issuance of Letters of Credit in such requested currency, the Administrative Agent shall so notify the Company and such currency shall thereupon be deemed for all purposes to be an Alternative Currency hereunder for purposes of any Letter of Credit issuances. If the Administrative Agent shall fail to obtain consent to any request for an additional currency under this , the Administrative Agent shall promptly so notify the Company.
Section 1.06
1.07 Change of Currency.
(a) Each obligation of the Borrowers to make a payment denominated in the national currency unit of any member state of the European Union that adopts the Euro as its lawful currency after the date hereof shall be redenominated into Euro at the time of such adoption (in accordance with the EMU Legislation). If, in relation to the currency of any such member state, the basis of accrual of interest expressed in this Agreement in respect of that currency shall be inconsistent with any convention or practice in the London interbank market for the basis of accrual of interest in respect of the Euro, such expressed basis shall be replaced by such convention or practice with effect from the date on which such member state adopts the Euro as its lawful currency; that if any Committed Borrowing in the currency of such member state is outstanding immediately prior to such date, such replacement shall take effect, with respect to such Committed Borrowing, at the end of the then current Interest Period.
provided
(b) Each provision of this Agreement shall be subject to such reasonable changes of construction as the Administrative Agent may from time to time specify to be appropriate to reflect the adoption of the Euro by any member state of the European Union and any relevant market conventions or practices relating to the Euro.
(c) Each provision of this Agreement also shall be subject to such reasonable changes of construction as the Administrative Agent may from time to time specify to be appropriate to reflect a change in currency of any other country and any relevant market conventions or practices relating to the change in currency.
Unless otherwise specified, all references herein to times of day shall be references to Eastern time (daylight or standard, as applicable).
1.08 Times of Day.
Unless otherwise specified herein, the amount of a Letter of Credit at any time shall be deemed to be the Dollar Equivalent of the stated amount of such Letter of Credit in effect at such time; , , that with respect to any Letter of Credit that, by its terms or the terms of any Issuer Document related thereto, provides for one or more automatic increases in the stated amount thereof, the amount of such Letter of Credit shall be deemed to be the Dollar Equivalent of the maximum stated amount of such Letter of Credit after giving effect to all such increases, whether or not such maximum stated amount is in effect at such time.
1.09 Letter of Credit Amounts.
provided
however
 
Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, each Lender severally agrees to make loans (each such loan, a "") to the Borrowers in Dollars or in one or more Alternative Currencies from time to time, on any Business Day during the Availability Period, in an aggregate amount not to exceed at any time outstanding the amount of such Lender's Commitment; , , that after giving effect to any Committed Borrowing, (i) the Total Outstandings shall not exceed the Aggregate Commitments, (ii) the aggregate Outstanding Amount of the Committed Loans of any Lender, such Lender's Applicable Percentage of the Outstanding Amount of all L/C Obligations, such Lender's Applicable Percentage of the Outstanding Amount of all Swing Line Loans shall not exceed such Lender's Commitment, (iii) the aggregate Outstanding Amount of all Committed Loans made to the Foreign Obligors shall not exceed the Foreign Obligor Sublimit, and (iv) the aggregate Outstanding Amount of all Committed Loans denominated in Alternative Currencies shall not exceed the Alternative Currency Sublimit; and , , that the initial Committed Borrowing hereunder shall be in Dollars. Within the limits of each Lender's Commitment, and subject to the other terms and conditions hereof, the Borrowers may borrow under this , prepay under , and reborrow under this . Committed Loans may be Base Rate Loans or Eurocurrency Rate Loans, as further provided herein.
2.01 Committed Loans.
Committed Loan
provided
however
plus
plus
provided
further
however
Section 2.01
Section 2.06
Section 2.01
2.02 Borrowings, Conversions and Continuations of Committed Loans.
(a) Each Committed Borrowing, each conversion of Committed Loans from one Type to the other, and each continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loans shall be made upon the Company's irrevocable notice to the Administrative Agent, which may be given by telephone. Each such notice must be received by the Administrative Agent not later than 11:00 a.m. (i) three Business Days prior to the requested date of any Borrowing of, conversion to or continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loans denominated in Dollars or of any conversion of Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loans denominated in Dollars to Base Rate Committed Loans, (ii) four Business Days (or five Business Days in the case of a Special Notice Currency) prior to the requested date of any Borrowing or continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loans denominated in Alternative Currencies, and (iii) on the requested date of any Borrowing of Base Rate Committed Loans; , , that if the Company wishes to request Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loans having an Interest Period other than one week or one, two, three or six months in duration as provided in the definition of "Interest Period", the applicable notice must be received by the Administrative Agent not later than 11:00 a.m. (i) four Business Days prior to the requested date of such Borrowing, conversion or continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loans denominated in Dollars, or (ii) five Business Days (or six Business days in the case of a Special Notice Currency) prior to the requested date of such Borrowing, conversion or continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loans denominated in Alternative Currencies, whereupon the Administrative Agent shall give prompt notice to the Lenders of such request and determine whether the requested Interest Period is acceptable to all of them. Not later than 11:00 a.m., (i) three Business Days before the requested date of such Borrowing, conversion or continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loans denominated in Dollars, or (ii) four Business Days (or five Business days in the case of a Special Notice Currency) prior to the requested date of such Borrowing, conversion or continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loans denominated in Alternative Currencies, the Administrative Agent shall notify the Company (which notice may be by telephone) whether or not the
provided
however
 
requested Interest Period has been consented to by all the Lenders. Each telephonic notice by the Company pursuant to this must be confirmed promptly by delivery to the Administrative Agent of a written Committed Loan Notice, appropriately completed and signed by a Responsible Officer of the Company. Each Borrowing of, conversion to or continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loans shall be in a principal amount of $5,000,000 or a whole multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof, or if the remaining amount available under the Aggregate Commitments is less than $5,000,000, in which case in multiples of $1,000,000. Except as provided above and in and , each Committed Borrowing of or conversion to Base Rate Loans shall be in a principal amount of $5,000,000 or a whole multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof, or if the remaining amount available under the Aggregate Commitments is less than $5,000,000, in which case in multiples of $1,000,000. Each Committed Loan Notice (whether telephonic or written) shall specify (i) whether the Company is requesting a Committed Borrowing, a conversion of Committed Loans from one Type to the other, or a continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loans, (ii) the requested date of the Borrowing, conversion or continuation, as the case may be (which shall be a Business Day), (iii) the principal amount of Committed Loans to be borrowed, converted or continued, (iv) the Type of Committed Loans to be borrowed or to which existing Committed Loans are to be converted, (v) if applicable, the duration of the Interest Period with respect thereto, (vi) the currency of the Committed Loans to be borrowed, and (vii) if applicable, the Designated Borrower. If the Company fails to specify a currency in a Committed Loan Notice requesting a Borrowing, then the Committed Loans so requested shall be made in Dollars. If the Company fails to specify a Type of Committed Loan in a Committed Loan Notice or if the Company fails to give a timely notice requesting a conversion or continuation, then the applicable Committed Loans shall be made as, or converted to, Base Rate Loans; , , that in the case of a failure to timely request a continuation of Committed Loans denominated in an Alternative Currency, such Loans shall be continued as Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loans in their original currency with an Interest Period of one month. Any automatic conversion to Base Rate Loans shall be effective as of the last day of the Interest Period then in effect with respect to the applicable Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loans. If the Company requests a Borrowing of, conversion to, or continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loans in any such Committed Loan Notice, but fails to specify an Interest Period, it will be deemed to have specified an Interest Period of one month. No Committed Loan may be converted into or continued as a Committed Loan denominated in a different currency, but instead must be prepaid in the original currency of such Committed Loan and reborrowed in the other currency.
Section 2.02(a)
Sections 2.04(c)
2.05(c)
provided
however
(b) Following receipt of a Committed Loan Notice, the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Lender of the amount (and currency) of its Applicable Percentage of the applicable Committed Loans, and if no timely notice of a conversion or continuation is provided by the Company, the Administrative Agent shall notify each Lender of the details of any automatic conversion to Base Rate Loans or continuation of Committed Loans denominated in a currency other than Dollars, in each case as described in the preceding subsection. In the case of a Committed Borrowing, each Lender shall make the amount of its Committed Loan available to the Administrative Agent in Same Day Funds at the Administrative Agent's Office for the applicable currency not later than 1:00 p.m., in the case of any Committed Loan denominated in Dollars, and not later than the Applicable Time specified by the Administrative Agent in the case of any Committed Loan in an Alternative Currency, in each case on the Business Day specified in the applicable Committed Loan Notice. Upon satisfaction of the applicable conditions set forth in (and, if such Borrowing is the initial Credit Extension, ), the Administrative Agent shall make all funds so received available to the Company or the other
Section 4.02
Section 4.01
 
applicable Borrower in like funds as received by the Administrative Agent either by (i) crediting the account of such Borrower on the books of Bank of America with the amount of such funds or (ii) wire transfer of such funds, in each case in accordance with instructions provided to (and reasonably acceptable to) the Administrative Agent by the Company; , , that if, on the date the Committed Loan Notice with respect to such Borrowing denominated in Dollars is given by the Company, there are L/C Obligations outstanding, then the proceeds of such Borrowing, , shall be applied to the payment in full of any such L/C Obligations, and, , shall be made available to the applicable Borrower as provided above.
provided
however
first
second
(c) Except as otherwise provided herein, a Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loan may be continued or converted only on the last day of an Interest Period for such Eurocurrency Rate Loan. During the existence of a Default, no Loans may be requested as, converted to or continued as Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loans (whether in Dollars or any Alternative Currency) without the consent of the Required Lenders, and the Required Lenders may demand that any or all of the then outstanding Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loans denominated in an Alternative Currency be prepaid, or redenominated into Dollars in the amount of the Dollar Equivalent thereof, on the last day of the then current Interest Period with respect thereto.
(d) The Administrative Agent shall promptly notify the Company and the Lenders of the interest rate applicable to any Interest Period for Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loans upon determination of such interest rate. At any time that Base Rate Loans are outstanding, the Administrative Agent shall notify the Company and the Lenders of any change in Bank of America's prime rate used in determining the Base Rate promptly following the public announcement of such change.
(e) After giving effect to all Committed Borrowings, all conversions of Committed Loans from one Type to the other, and all continuations of Committed Loans as the same Type, there shall not be more than ten Interest Periods in effect with respect to Committed Loans.
2.03 Bid Loans.
(a) . Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, each Lender agrees that the Company may from time to time request the Lenders to submit offers to make loans in Dollars (each such loan, a "") to the Company prior to the Maturity Date pursuant to this ; , , that after giving effect to any Bid Borrowing, (i) the Total Outstandings shall not exceed the Aggregate Commitments, and (ii) the aggregate Outstanding Amount of all Bid Loans shall not exceed the Bid Loan Sublimit. There shall not be more than ten different Interest Periods in effect with respect to Bid Loans at any time.
General
Bid Loan
Section 2.03
provided
however
(b) . The Company may request the submission of Competitive Bids by delivering a Bid Request to the Administrative Agent not later than 12:00 noon (i) one Business Day prior to the requested date of any Bid Borrowing that is to consist of Absolute Rate Loans, or (ii) four Business Days prior to the requested date of any Bid Borrowing that is to consist of Eurocurrency Margin Bid Loans. Each Bid Request shall specify (i) the requested date of the Bid Borrowing (which shall be a Business Day), (ii) the aggregate principal amount of Bid Loans requested (which must be $10,000,000 or a whole multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof, or if the remaining amount available under the Bid Loan Sublimit is less than $10,000,000, in which case in multiples of $1,000,000), (iii) the Type of Bid Loans requested, and (iv) the duration of the Interest Period with respect thereto, and shall be signed by a Responsible Officer of the Company. No Bid Request shall contain a request for (i) more than
Requesting Competitive Bids
 
one Type of Bid Loan or (ii) Bid Loans having more than three different Interest Periods. Unless the Administrative Agent otherwise agrees in its sole and absolute discretion, the Company may not submit a Bid Request if it has submitted another Bid Request within the prior five Business Days.
(c) .
Submitting Competitive Bids
(i) The Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Lender of each Bid Request received by it from the Company and the contents of such Bid Request.
(ii) Each Lender may (but shall have no obligation to) submit a Competitive Bid containing an offer to make one or more Bid Loans in response to such Bid Request. Such Competitive Bid must be delivered to the Administrative Agent not later than 10:30 a.m. (A) on the requested date of any Bid Borrowing that is to consist of Absolute Rate Loans, and (B) three Business Days prior to the requested date of any Bid Borrowing that is to consist of Eurocurrency Margin Bid Loans; , , that any Competitive Bid submitted by Bank of America in its capacity as a Lender in response to any Bid Request must be submitted to the Administrative Agent not later than 10:15 a.m. on the date on which Competitive Bids are required to be delivered by the other Lenders in response to such Bid Request. Each Competitive Bid shall specify (A) the proposed date of the Bid Borrowing; (B) the principal amount of each Bid Loan for which such Competitive Bid is being made, which principal amount (x) may be equal to, greater than or less than the Commitment of the bidding Lender, (y) must be $10,000,000 or a whole multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof, or if the remaining amount available under the Bid Loan Sublimit is less than $10,000,000, in which case in multiples of $1,000,000, and (z) may not exceed the principal amount of Bid Loans for which Competitive Bids were requested; (C) if the proposed Bid Borrowing is to consist of Absolute Rate Bid Loans, the Absolute Rate offered for each such Bid Loan and the Interest Period applicable thereto; (D) if the proposed Bid Borrowing is to consist of Eurocurrency Margin Bid Loans, the Eurocurrency Bid Margin with respect to each such Eurocurrency Margin Bid Loan and the Interest Period applicable thereto; and (E) the identity of the bidding Lender.
provided
however
(iii) Any Competitive Bid shall be disregarded if it (A) is received after the applicable time specified in  above, (B) is not substantially in the form of a Competitive Bid as specified herein, (C) contains qualifying, conditional or similar language, (D) proposes terms other than or in addition to those set forth in the applicable Bid Request, or (E) is otherwise not responsive to such Bid Request. Any Lender may correct a Competitive Bid containing a manifest error by submitting a corrected Competitive Bid (identified as such) not later than the applicable time required for submission of Competitive Bids. Any such submission of a corrected Competitive Bid shall constitute a revocation of the Competitive Bid that contained the manifest error. The Administrative Agent may, but shall not be required to, notify any Lender of any manifest error it detects in such Lender's Competitive Bid.
clause (ii)
(iv) Subject only to the provisions of , and and  above, each Competitive Bid shall be irrevocable.
Sections 3.02
3.03
4.02
clause (iii)
(d) . Not later than 11:00 a.m. (i) on the requested date of any Bid Borrowing that is to consist of Absolute Rate Loans, or (ii) three Business Days prior to the requested date of any Bid Borrowing that is to consist of Eurocurrency Margin Bid Loans, the Administrative Agent shall notify the Company of the
Notice to Company of Competitive Bids
 
identity of each Lender that has submitted a Competitive Bid that complies with and of the terms of the offers contained in each such Competitive Bid.
Section 2.03(c)
(e) . Not later than 11:30 a.m. (i) on the requested date of any Bid Borrowing that is to consist of Absolute Rate Loans, and (ii) three Business Days prior to the requested date of any Bid Borrowing that is to consist of Eurocurrency Margin Bid Loans, the Company shall notify the Administrative Agent of its acceptance or rejection of the offers notified to it pursuant to . The Company shall be under no obligation to accept any Competitive Bid and may choose to reject all Competitive Bids. In the case of acceptance, such notice shall specify the aggregate principal amount of Competitive Bids for each Interest Period that is accepted. The Company may accept any Competitive Bid in whole or in part; provided that:
Acceptance of Competitive Bids
Section 2.03(d)
(i) the aggregate principal amount of each Bid Borrowing may not exceed the applicable amount set forth in the related Bid Request;
(ii) the principal amount of each Bid Loan must be $10,000,000 or a whole multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof, or if the remaining amount available under the Bid Loan Sublimit is less than $10,000,000, in which case in multiples of $1,000,000;
(iii) the acceptance of offers may be made only on the basis of ascending Absolute Rates or Eurocurrency Bid Margins within each Interest Period; and
(iv) the Company may not accept any offer that is described in or that otherwise fails to comply with the requirements hereof.
Section 2.03(c)(iii)
(f) . If two or more Lenders have submitted Competitive Bids at the same Absolute Rate or Eurocurrency Bid Margin, as the case may be, for the same Interest Period, and the result of accepting all of such Competitive Bids in whole (together with any other Competitive Bids at lower Absolute Rates or Eurocurrency Bid Margins, as the case may be, accepted for such Interest Period in conformity with the requirements of ) would be to cause the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the applicable Bid Borrowing to exceed the amount specified therefor in the related Bid Request, then, unless otherwise agreed by the Company, the Administrative Agent and such Lenders, such Competitive Bids shall be accepted as nearly as possible in proportion to the amount offered by each such Lender in respect of such Interest Period, with such accepted amounts being rounded to the nearest whole multiple of $1,000,000.
Procedure for Identical Bids
Section 2.03(e)(iii)
(g) . The Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Lender having submitted a Competitive Bid whether or not its offer has been accepted and, if its offer has been accepted, of the amount of the Bid Loan or Bid Loans to be made by it on the date of the applicable Bid Borrowing. Any Competitive Bid or portion thereof that is not accepted by the Company by the applicable time specified in shall be deemed rejected.
Notice to Lenders of Acceptance or Rejection of Bids
Section 2.03(e)
(h) . If any Bid Borrowing is to consist of Eurocurrency Margin Bid Loans, the Administrative Agent shall determine the Eurocurrency Base Rate for the relevant Interest Period, and promptly after making such determination, shall notify the Company and the Lenders that will be participating in such Bid Borrowing of such Eurocurrency Base Rate.
Notice of Eurocurrency Base Rate
 
(i) . Each Lender that has received notice pursuant to that all or a portion of its Competitive Bid has been accepted by the Company shall make the amount of its Bid Loan(s) available to the Administrative Agent in Same Day Funds at the Administrative Agent's Office for Dollar-denominated payments not later than 1:00 p.m. on the date of the requested Bid Borrowing. Upon satisfaction of the applicable conditions set forth in , the Administrative Agent shall make all funds so received available to the Company in like funds as received by the Administrative Agent.
Funding of Bid Loans
Section 2.03(g)
Section 4.02
(j) . After each Competitive Bid auction pursuant to this , the Administrative Agent shall notify each Lender that submitted a Competitive Bid in such auction of the ranges of bids submitted (without the bidder's name) and accepted for each Bid Loan and the aggregate amount of each Bid Borrowing.
Notice of Range of Bids
Section 2.03
2.04 Letters of Credit.
(a) .
The Letter of Credit Commitment
(i) Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, (A) the L/C Issuer agrees, in reliance upon the agreements of the Lenders set forth in this , (1) from time to time on any Business Day during the period from the Closing Date until the Letter of Credit Expiration Date, to issue Letters of Credit denominated in Dollars or in one or more Alternative Currencies for the account of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, as specified by the Company in requesting such Letter of Credit, and to amend or extend Letters of Credit previously issued by it, in accordance with subsection (b) below, and (2) to honor drawings under the Letters of Credit; and (B) the Lenders severally agree to participate in Letters of Credit issued for the account of the Company or its Subsidiaries and any drawings thereunder; that after giving effect to any L/C Credit Extension with respect to any Letter of Credit, (x) the Total Outstandings shall not exceed the Aggregate Commitments, (y) the aggregate Outstanding Amount of the Committed Loans of any Lender, such Lender's Applicable Percentage of the Outstanding Amount of all L/C Obligations, such Lender's Applicable Percentage of the Outstanding Amount of all Swing Line Loans shall not exceed such Lender's Commitment and (z) the Outstanding Amount of the L/C Obligations shall not exceed the Letter of Credit Sublimit. Each request by the Company for the issuance or amendment of a Letter of Credit shall be deemed to be a representation by the Company that the L/C Credit Extension so requested complies with the conditions set forth in and  in the preceding sentence. Within the foregoing limits, and subject to the terms and conditions hereof, the Company's ability to obtain Letters of Credit shall be fully revolving, and accordingly the Company may, during the foregoing period, obtain Letters of Credit to replace Letters of Credit that have expired or that have been drawn upon and reimbursed.
Section 2.04
provided
plus
plus
clauses (x)
(z)
(ii) The L/C Issuer shall not issue any Letter of Credit, if:
(A) subject to , the expiry date of such requested Letter of Credit would occur more than twelve months after the date of issuance or the last extension, unless the Required Lenders have approved such expiry date; or
Section 2.04(b)(iii)
(B) the expiry date of such requested Letter of Credit would occur after the Letter of Credit Expiration Date, unless all the Lenders have approved such expiry date.
 
(iii) The L/C Issuer shall not be under any obligation to issue any Letter of Credit if:
(A) any order, judgment or decree of any Governmental Authority or arbitrator shall by its terms purport to enjoin or restrain the L/C Issuer from issuing such Letter of Credit, or any Law applicable to the L/C Issuer or any request or directive (whether or not having the force of law) from any Governmental Authority with jurisdiction over the L/C Issuer shall prohibit, or request that the L/C Issuer refrain from, the issuance of letters of credit generally or such Letter of Credit in particular or shall impose upon the L/C Issuer with respect to such Letter of Credit any restriction, reserve or capital requirement (for which the L/C Issuer is not otherwise compensated hereunder) not in effect on the Closing Date, or shall impose upon the L/C Issuer any unreimbursed loss, cost or expense which was not applicable on the Closing Date and which the L/C Issuer in good faith deems material to it;
(B) the issuance of such Letter of Credit would violate one or more policies of the L/C Issuer applicable to letters of credit generally;
(C) except as otherwise agreed by the Administrative Agent and the L/C Issuer, such Letter of Credit is in an initial stated amount less than $500,000;
(D) the L/C Issuer does not as of the issuance date of such requested Letter of Credit issue Letters of Credit in the requested currency;
(E) such Letter of Credit contains any provisions for automatic reinstatement of the stated amount after any drawing thereunder; or
(F) a default of any Lender's obligations to fund under exists or any Lender is at such time a Defaulting Lender hereunder, unless the L/C Issuer has entered into satisfactory arrangements with the Company or such Lender to eliminate the L/C Issuer's risk with respect to such Lender.
Section 2.04(c)
(iv) The L/C Issuer shall not amend any Letter of Credit if the L/C Issuer would not be permitted at such time to issue such Letter of Credit in its amended form under the terms hereof.
(v) The L/C Issuer shall be under no obligation to amend any Letter of Credit if (A) the L/C Issuer would have no obligation at such time to issue such Letter of Credit in its amended form under the terms hereof, or (B) the beneficiary of such Letter of Credit does not accept the proposed amendment to such Letter of Credit.
(vi) The L/C Issuer shall act on behalf of the Lenders with respect to any Letters of Credit issued by it and the documents associated therewith, and the L/C Issuer shall have all of the benefits and immunities (A) provided to the Administrative Agent in with respect to any acts taken or omissions suffered by the L/C Issuer in connection with Letters of Credit issued by it or proposed to be issued by it and Issuer Documents pertaining to such Letters of Credit as fully as if the term "Administrative Agent" as used in included the L/C Issuer with respect to such acts or omissions, and (B) as additionally provided herein with respect to the L/C Issuer.
Article IX
Article IX
 
(b) .
Procedures for Issuance and Amendment of Letters of Credit; Auto-Extension Letters of Credit
(i) Each Letter of Credit shall be issued or amended, as the case may be, upon the request of the Company delivered to the L/C Issuer (with a copy to the Administrative Agent) in the form of a Letter of Credit Application, appropriately completed and signed by a Responsible Officer of the Company. Such Letter of Credit Application must be received by the L/C Issuer and the Administrative Agent not later than 11:00 a.m. at least two Business Days (or such later date and time as the Administrative Agent and the L/C Issuer may agree in a particular instance in their sole discretion) prior to the proposed issuance date or date of amendment, as the case may be. In the case of a request for an initial issuance of a Letter of Credit, such Letter of Credit Application shall specify in form and detail satisfactory to the L/C Issuer: (A) the proposed issuance date of the requested Letter of Credit (which shall be a Business Day); (B) the amount and currency thereof; (C) the expiry date thereof; (D) the name and address of the beneficiary thereof; (E) the documents to be presented by such beneficiary in case of any drawing thereunder; (F) the full text of any certificate to be presented by such beneficiary in case of any drawing thereunder; and (G) such other matters as the L/C Issuer may require. In the case of a request for an amendment of any outstanding Letter of Credit, such Letter of Credit Application shall specify in form and detail satisfactory to the L/C Issuer (A) the Letter of Credit to be amended; (B) the proposed date of amendment thereof (which shall be a Business Day); (C) the nature of the proposed amendment; and (D) such other matters as the L/C Issuer may require. Additionally, the Company shall furnish to the L/C Issuer and the Administrative Agent such other documents and information pertaining to such requested Letter of Credit issuance or amendment, including any Issuer Documents, as the L/C Issuer or the Administrative Agent may require.
(ii) Promptly after receipt of any Letter of Credit Application, the L/C Issuer will confirm with the Administrative Agent (by telephone or in writing) that the Administrative Agent has received a copy of such Letter of Credit Application from the Company and, if not, the L/C Issuer will provide the Administrative Agent with a copy thereof. Unless the L/C Issuer has received written notice from any Lender, the Administrative Agent or any Loan Party, at least one Business Day prior to the requested date of issuance or amendment of the applicable Letter of Credit, that one or more applicable conditions contained in shall not then be satisfied, then, subject to the terms and conditions hereof, the L/C Issuer shall, on the requested date, issue a Letter of Credit for the account of the Company (or the applicable Subsidiary) or enter into the applicable amendment, as the case may be, in each case in accordance with the L/C Issuer's usual and customary business practices. Immediately upon the issuance of each Letter of Credit, each Lender shall be deemed to, and hereby irrevocably and unconditionally agrees to, purchase from the L/C Issuer a risk participation in such Letter of Credit in an amount equal to the product of such Lender's Applicable Percentage the amount of such Letter of Credit.
Article IV
times
(iii) If the Company so requests in any applicable Letter of Credit Application, the L/C Issuer may, in its sole and absolute discretion, agree to issue a Letter of Credit that has automatic extension provisions (each, an ""); that any such Auto-Extension Letter of Credit must permit the L/C Issuer to prevent any such extension at least once in each twelve-month period (commencing with the date of issuance of such Letter of Credit) by giving prior notice to the beneficiary thereof not later than a day (the "") in each such twelve-month period to be agreed upon at the time such Letter of Credit is issued. Unless otherwise directed by the L/C Issuer, the Company shall not be required
Auto-Extension Letter of Credit
provided
Non-Extension Notice Date
 
to make a specific request to the L/C Issuer for any such extension. Once an Auto-Extension Letter of Credit has been issued, the Lenders shall be deemed to have authorized (but may not require) the L/C Issuer to permit the extension of such Letter of Credit at any time to an expiry date not later than the Letter of Credit Expiration Date; , , that the L/C Issuer shall not permit any such extension if (A) the L/C Issuer has determined that it would not be permitted, or would have no obligation, at such time to issue such Letter of Credit in its revised form (as extended) under the terms hereof (by reason of the provisions of  or  of or otherwise), or (B) it has received notice (which may be by telephone or in writing) on or before the day that is five Business Days before the Non-Extension Notice Date (1) from the Administrative Agent that the Required Lenders have elected not to permit such extension or (2) from the Administrative Agent, any Lender or the Company that one or more of the applicable conditions specified in is not then satisfied, and in each such case directing the L/C Issuer not to permit such extension.
provided
however
clause (ii)
(iii)
Section 2.04(a)
Section 4.02
(iv) Promptly after its delivery of any Letter of Credit or any amendment to a Letter of Credit to an advising bank with respect thereto or to the beneficiary thereof, the L/C Issuer will also deliver to the Company and the Administrative Agent a true and complete copy of such Letter of Credit or amendment.
(c) .
Drawings and Reimbursements; Funding of Participations
(i) Upon receipt from the beneficiary of any Letter of Credit of any notice of a drawing under such Letter of Credit, the L/C Issuer shall notify the Company and the Administrative Agent thereof. In the case of a Letter of Credit denominated in an Alternative Currency, the Company shall reimburse the L/C Issuer in such Alternative Currency, unless (A) the L/C Issuer (at its option) shall have specified in such notice that it will require reimbursement in Dollars, or (B) in the absence of any such requirement for reimbursement in Dollars, the Company shall have notified the L/C Issuer promptly following receipt of the notice of drawing that the Company will reimburse the L/C Issuer in Dollars. In the case of any such reimbursement in Dollars of a drawing under a Letter of Credit denominated in an Alternative Currency, the L/C Issuer shall notify the Company of the Dollar Equivalent of the amount of the drawing promptly following the determination thereof. Not later than 11:00 a.m. on the third Business Day after the date of any payment by the L/C Issuer under a Letter of Credit to be reimbursed in Dollars, or the Applicable Time on the third Business Day after the date of any payment by the L/C Issuer under a Letter of Credit to be reimbursed in an Alternative Currency (each such date of payment by the L/C Issuer, an ""), the Company shall reimburse the L/C Issuer through the Administrative Agent in an amount equal to the amount of such drawing and in the applicable currency. If the Company fails to so reimburse the L/C Issuer by such time on the third Business Day following the Honor Date, the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Lender of the amount of the unreimbursed drawing (expressed in Dollars in the amount of the Dollar Equivalent thereof in the case of a Letter of Credit denominated in an Alternative Currency) (the ""), and the amount of such Lender's Applicable Percentage thereof. In such event, the Company shall be deemed to have requested a Committed Borrowing of Base Rate Loans to be disbursed on the third Business Day following the Honor Date in an amount equal to the Unreimbursed Amount, without regard to the minimum and multiples specified in for the principal amount of Base Rate Loans, but subject to the amount of the unutilized portion of the Aggregate Commitments and the conditions set forth in (other than the delivery of a Committed Loan Notice). Any notice given by the L/C Issuer or the Administrative Agent pursuant to this
Honor Date
Unreimbursed Amount
Section 2.02
Section 4.02
Section 2.04(c)(i)
 
may be given by telephone if immediately confirmed in writing; that the lack of such an immediate confirmation shall not affect the conclusiveness or binding effect of such notice. Interest shall accrue on any Unreimbursed Amount from the Honor Date until such third Business Day at a rate per annum equal to the Base Rate the Applicable Rate and shall be due and payable on demand.
provided
plus
(ii) Each Lender shall upon any notice pursuant to make funds available to the Administrative Agent for the account of the L/C Issuer, in Dollars, at the Administrative Agent's Office for Dollar-denominated payments in an amount equal to its Applicable Percentage of the Unreimbursed Amount not later than 1:00 p.m. on the Business Day specified in such notice by the Administrative Agent, whereupon, subject to the provisions of , each Lender that so makes funds available shall be deemed to have made a Base Rate Committed Loan to the Company in such amount. The Administrative Agent shall remit the funds so received to the L/C Issuer in Dollars.
Section 2.04(c)(i)
Section 2.04(c)(iii)
(iii) With respect to any Unreimbursed Amount that is not fully refinanced by the third Business Day following the Honor Date, a Committed Borrowing of Base Rate Loans because the conditions set forth in cannot be satisfied or for any other reason, the Company shall be deemed to have incurred from the L/C Issuer on such third Business Day following the Honor Date, an L/C Borrowing in the amount of the Unreimbursed Amount that is not so refinanced, which L/C Borrowing shall be due and payable on demand (together with interest) and, from such third Business Day following the Honor Date, shall bear interest at the Default Rate. In such event, each Lender's payment to the Administrative Agent for the account of the L/C Issuer pursuant to shall be deemed payment in respect of its participation in such L/C Borrowing and shall constitute an L/C Advance from such Lender in satisfaction of its participation obligation under this .
Section 4.02
Section 2.04(c)(ii)
Section 2.04
(iv) Until each Lender funds its Committed Loan or L/C Advance pursuant to this to reimburse the L/C Issuer for any amount drawn under any Letter of Credit, interest in respect of such Lender's Applicable Percentage of such amount shall be solely for the account of the L/C Issuer.
Section 2.04(c)
(v) Each Lender's obligation to make Committed Loans or L/C Advances to reimburse the L/C Issuer for amounts drawn under Letters of Credit, as contemplated by this , shall be absolute and unconditional and shall not be affected by any circumstance, including (A) any setoff, counterclaim, recoupment, defense or other right which such Lender may have against the L/C Issuer, the Company, any Subsidiary or any other Person for any reason whatsoever; (B) the occurrence or continuance of a Default, or (C) any other occurrence, event or condition, whether or not similar to any of the foregoing; , , that each Lender's obligation to make Committed Loans pursuant to this is subject to the conditions set forth in (other than delivery by the Company of a Committed Loan Notice). No such making of an L/C Advance shall relieve or otherwise impair the obligation of the Company to reimburse the L/C Issuer for the amount of any payment made by the L/C Issuer under any Letter of Credit, together with interest as provided herein.
Section 2.04(c)
provided
however
Section 2.04(c)
Section 4.02
(vi) If any Lender fails to make available to the Administrative Agent for the account of the L/C Issuer any amount required to be paid by such Lender pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this by the time specified in , the L/C Issuer shall be entitled to recover from such Lender (acting through the Administrative Agent), on demand, such amount with interest thereon for the period from the date such payment is
Section 2.04(c)
Section 2.04(c)(ii)
 
required to the date on which such payment is immediately available to the L/C Issuer at a rate per annum equal to the applicable Overnight Rate from time to time in effect, plus any administrative, processing or similar fees customarily charged by the L/C Issuer in connection with the foregoing. If such Lender pays such amount (with interest and fees as aforesaid), the amount so paid shall constitute such Lender's Committed Loan included in the relevant Committed Borrowing or L/C Advance in respect of the relevant L/C Borrowing, as the case may be. A certificate of the L/C Issuer submitted to any Lender (through the Administrative Agent) with respect to any amounts owing under this  shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
clause (vi)
(d) .
Repayment of Participations
(i) At any time after the L/C Issuer has made a payment under any Letter of Credit and has received from any Lender such Lender's L/C Advance in respect of such payment in accordance with , if the Administrative Agent receives for the account of the L/C Issuer any payment in respect of the related Unreimbursed Amount or interest thereon (whether directly from the Company or otherwise, including proceeds of Cash Collateral applied thereto by the Administrative Agent), the Administrative Agent will promptly distribute to such Lender its Applicable Percentage thereof in Dollars and in the same funds as those received by the Administrative Agent.
Section 2.04(c)
(ii) If any payment received by the Administrative Agent for the account of the L/C Issuer pursuant to is required to be returned under any of the circumstances described in (including pursuant to any settlement entered into by the L/C Issuer in its discretion), each Lender shall pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of the L/C Issuer its Applicable Percentage thereof on demand of the Administrative Agent, plus interest thereon from the date of such demand to the date such amount is returned by such Lender, at a rate per annum equal to the applicable Overnight Rate from time to time in effect. The obligations of the Lenders under this clause shall survive the payment in full of the Obligations and the termination of this Agreement.
Section 2.04(c)(i)
Section 10.05
(e) .The obligation of the Company to reimburse the L/C Issuer for each drawing under each Letter of Credit and to repay each L/C Borrowing shall be absolute, unconditional and irrevocable, and shall be paid strictly in accordance with the terms of this Agreement under all circumstances, including the following:
Obligations Absolute
(i) any lack of validity or enforceability of such Letter of Credit, this Agreement, or any other Loan Document;
(ii) the existence of any claim, counterclaim, setoff, defense or other right that the Company or any Subsidiary may have at any time against any beneficiary or any transferee of such Letter of Credit (or any Person for whom any such beneficiary or any such transferee may be acting), the L/C Issuer or any other Person, whether in connection with this Agreement, the transactions contemplated hereby or by such Letter of Credit or any agreement or instrument relating thereto, or any unrelated transaction;
(iii) any draft, demand, certificate or other document presented under such Letter of Credit proving to be forged, fraudulent, invalid or insufficient in any respect or any statement therein being untrue or inaccurate in any respect; or any loss or delay in the
 
transmission or otherwise of any document required in order to make a drawing under such Letter of Credit;
(iv) any payment by the L/C Issuer under such Letter of Credit against presentation of a draft or certificate that does not strictly comply with the terms of such Letter of Credit; or any payment made by the L/C Issuer under such Letter of Credit to any Person purporting to be a trustee in bankruptcy, debtor-in-possession, assignee for the benefit of creditors, liquidator, receiver or other representative of or successor to any beneficiary or any transferee of such Letter of Credit, including any arising in connection with any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law;
(v) any adverse change in the relevant exchange rates or in the availability of the relevant Alternative Currency to the Company or any Subsidiary or in the relevant currency markets generally; or
(vi) any other circumstance or happening whatsoever, whether or not similar to any of the foregoing, including any other circumstance that might otherwise constitute a defense available to, or a discharge of, the Company or any Subsidiary.
The Company shall promptly examine a copy of each Letter of Credit and each amendment thereto that is delivered to it and, in the event of any claim of noncompliance with the Company's instructions or other irregularity, the Company will immediately notify the L/C Issuer. The Company shall be conclusively deemed to have waived any such claim against the L/C Issuer and its correspondents unless such notice is given as aforesaid.
(f) .Each Lender and the Company agree that, in paying any drawing under a Letter of Credit, the L/C Issuer shall not have any responsibility to obtain any document (other than any sight draft, certificates and documents expressly required by the Letter of Credit) or to ascertain or inquire as to the validity or accuracy of any such document or the authority of the Person executing or delivering any such document. None of the L/C Issuer, the Administrative Agent, any of their respective Related Parties nor any correspondent, participant or assignee of the L/C Issuer shall be liable to any Lender for (i) any action taken or omitted in connection herewith at the request or with the approval of the Lenders or the Required Lenders, as applicable; (ii) any action taken or omitted in the absence of gross negligence or willful misconduct; or (iii) the due execution, effectiveness, validity or enforceability of any document or instrument related to any Letter of Credit or Issuer Document. The Company hereby assumes all risks of the acts or omissions of any beneficiary or transferee with respect to its use of any Letter of Credit; , , that this assumption is not intended to, and shall not, preclude the Company's pursuing such rights and remedies as it may have against the beneficiary or transferee at law or under any other agreement. None of the L/C Issuer, the Administrative Agent, any of their respective Related Parties nor any correspondent, participant or assignee of the L/C Issuer shall be liable or responsible for any of the matters described in  through  of ; , , that anything in such clauses to the contrary notwithstanding, the Company may have a claim against the L/C Issuer, and the L/C Issuer may be liable to the Company, to the extent, but only to the extent, of any direct, as opposed to consequential or exemplary, damages suffered by the Company which the Company proves were caused by the L/C Issuer's willful misconduct or gross negligence or the L/C Issuer's willful failure to pay under any Letter of Credit after the presentation to it by the beneficiary of a sight draft and certificate(s) strictly complying with the terms and conditions of a Letter of Credit. In furtherance and not in limitation of the foregoing, the L/C Issuer may accept documents that
Role of L/C Issuer
provided
however
clauses (i)
(v)
Section 2.04(e)
provided
however
 
appear on their face to be in order, without responsibility for further investigation, regardless of any notice or information to the contrary, and the L/C Issuer shall not be responsible for the validity or sufficiency of any instrument transferring or assigning or purporting to transfer or assign a Letter of Credit or the rights or benefits thereunder or proceeds thereof, in whole or in part, which may prove to be invalid or ineffective for any reason.
(g) . (i) Upon the request of the Administrative Agent, (A) if the L/C Issuer has honored any full or partial drawing request under any Letter of Credit and such drawing has not been repaid or refinanced within three Business Days, or (B) if, as of the Letter of Credit Expiration Date, any L/C Obligation for any reason remains outstanding, the Company shall, in each case, Cash Collateralize the then Outstanding Amount of all L/C Obligations, and shall do so not later than 2:00 p.m. on the third Business Day after the Business Day on which the Company receives such request (if the Company receives such request prior to 12:00 noon on such Business Day) or otherwise by 2:00 p.m. on the fourth Business Day after the Business Day on which the Company receives such request.
Cash Collateral
(ii) In addition, if the Administrative Agent notifies the Company at any time that the Outstanding Amount of all L/C Obligations at such time exceeds the Letter of Credit Sublimit then in effect in an amount equal to or in excess of $1,000,000, then the Company shall, in each case, Cash Collateralize the L/C Obligations in an amount equal to the amount by which the Outstanding Amount of all L/C Obligations exceeds the Letter of Credit Sublimit, and shall do so not later than 2:00 p.m. on the third Business Day after the Business Day on which the Company receives such request (if the Company receives such request prior to 12:00 noon on such Business Day) or otherwise by 2:00 p.m. on the fourth Business Day after the Business Day on which the Company receives such request.
(iii) The Administrative Agent may, at any time and from time to time after the initial deposit of Cash Collateral, request that additional Cash Collateral be provided in order to protect against the results of exchange rate fluctuations, in each case to be provided not later than 2:00 p.m. on the third Business Day after the Business Day on which the Company receives such request (if the Company receives such request prior to 12:00 noon on such Business Day) or otherwise by 2:00 p.m. on the fourth Business Day after the Business Day on which the Company receives such request.
(iv) and set forth certain additional requirements to deliver Cash Collateral hereunder. For purposes of this , and , "" means to pledge and deposit with or deliver to the Administrative Agent, for the benefit of the L/C Issuer and the Lenders, as collateral for the L/C Obligations, cash or deposit account balances pursuant to documentation in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and the L/C Issuer (which documents are hereby consented to by the Lenders). Derivatives of such term have corresponding meanings. The Company hereby grants to the Administrative Agent, for the benefit of the L/C Issuer and the Lenders, a security interest in all such cash, deposit accounts and all balances therein and all proceeds of the foregoing. Cash Collateral shall be maintained in blocked, interest bearing deposit accounts at Bank of America.
Sections 2.06
8.02(c)
Section 2.04
Section 2.06
Section 8.02(c)
Cash Collateralize
(v) Upon the drawing of any Letter of Credit for which funds are on deposit as Cash Collateral, such funds shall be applied, to the extent permitted under applicable Law, to reimburse the L/C Issuer. To the extent the amount of any Cash Collateral exceeds the then
 
Outstanding Amount of such L/C Obligations and so long as no Default has occurred and is continuing, the excess shall be refunded to the Company.
(h) .Unless otherwise expressly agreed by the L/C Issuer and the Company when a Letter of Credit is issued, the rules of the ISP shall apply to each Letter of Credit.
Applicability of ISP
(i) . The Company shall pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender in accordance with its Applicable Percentage, in Dollars, a Letter of Credit fee (the "") for each Letter of Credit equal to the Applicable Rate the Dollar Equivalent of the daily amount available to be drawn under such Letter of Credit. For purposes of computing the daily amount available to be drawn under any Letter of Credit, the amount of such Letter of Credit shall be determined in accordance with . Letter of Credit Fees shall be (i) due and payable on the first Business Day after the end of each March, June, September and December, commencing with the first such date to occur after the issuance of such Letter of Credit, on the Letter of Credit Expiration Date and thereafter on demand and (ii) computed on a quarterly basis in arrears. If there is any change in the Applicable Rate during any quarter, the daily amount available to be drawn under each Letter of Credit shall be computed and multiplied by the Applicable Rate separately for each period during such quarter that such Applicable Rate was in effect. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, upon the request of the Required Lenders, while any Event of Default exists, all Letter of Credit Fees shall accrue at the Default Rate.
Letter of Credit Fees
Letter of Credit Fee
times
Section 1.09
(j) .The Company shall pay directly to the L/C Issuer for its own account, in Dollars, a fronting fee with respect to each Letter of Credit, at the rate per annum specified in the Agent/BAS Fee Letter, computed on the Dollar Equivalent of the daily amount available to be drawn under such Letter of Credit on a quarterly basis in arrears. Such fronting fee shall be due and payable on the tenth Business Day after the end of each March, June, September and December in respect of the most recently-ended quarterly period (or portion thereof, in the case of the first payment), commencing with the first such date to occur after the issuance of such Letter of Credit, on the Letter of Credit Expiration Date and thereafter on demand. For purposes of computing the daily amount available to be drawn under any Letter of Credit, the amount of such Letter of Credit shall be determined in accordance with . In addition, the Company shall pay directly to the L/C Issuer for its own account, in Dollars, the customary issuance, presentation, amendment and other processing fees, and other standard costs and charges, of the L/C Issuer relating to letters of credit as from time to time in effect. Such customary fees and standard costs and charges are due and payable within ten Business Days of demand and are nonrefundable.
Fronting Fee and Documentary and Processing Charges Payable to L/C Issuer
Section 1.09
(k) . In the event of any conflict between the terms hereof and the terms of any Issuer Document, the terms hereof shall control.
Conflict with Issuer Documents
(l) . Notwithstanding that a Letter of Credit issued or outstanding hereunder is in support of any obligations of, or is for the account of, a Subsidiary, the Company shall be obligated to reimburse the L/C Issuer hereunder for any and all drawings under such Letter of Credit. The Company hereby acknowledges that the issuance of Letters of Credit for the account of Subsidiaries inures to the benefit of the Company, and that the Company's business derives substantial benefits from the businesses of such Subsidiaries.
Letters of Credit Issued for Subsidiaries
 
2.05 Swing Line Loans.
(a) . Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Swing Line Lender agrees, in reliance upon the agreements of the other Lenders set forth in this , to make loans in Dollars (each such loan, a "") to the Company from time to time on any Business Day during the Availability Period in an aggregate amount not to exceed at any time outstanding the amount of the Swing Line Sublimit, notwithstanding the fact that such Swing Line Loans, when aggregated with the Applicable Percentage of the Outstanding Amount of Committed Loans and L/C Obligations of the Lender acting as Swing Line Lender, may exceed the amount of such Lender's Commitment; , , that after giving effect to any Swing Line Loan, (i) the Total Outstandings shall not exceed the Aggregate Commitments, and (ii) the aggregate Outstanding Amount of the Committed Loans of any Lender, such Lender's Applicable Percentage of the Outstanding Amount of all L/C Obligations, such Lender's Applicable Percentage of the Outstanding Amount of all Swing Line Loans shall not exceed such Lender's Commitment, and , , that the Company shall not use the proceeds of any Swing Line Loan to refinance any outstanding Swing Line Loan. Within the foregoing limits, and subject to the other terms and conditions hereof, the Company may borrow under this , prepay under , and reborrow under this . Each Swing Line Loan shall be a Base Rate Loan. Immediately upon the making of a Swing Line Loan, each Lender shall be deemed to, and hereby irrevocably and unconditionally agrees to, purchase from the Swing Line Lender a risk participation in such Swing Line Loan in an amount equal to the product of such Lender's Applicable Percentage the amount of such Swing Line Loan.
The Swing Line
Section 2.05
Swing Line Loan
provided
however
plus
plus
provided
further
Section 2.05
Section 2.06
Section 2.05
times
(b) . Each Swing Line Borrowing shall be made upon the Company's irrevocable notice to the Swing Line Lender and the Administrative Agent, which may be given by telephone. Each such notice must be received by the Swing Line Lender and the Administrative Agent not later than 1:00 p.m. on the requested borrowing date, and shall specify (i) the amount to be borrowed, which shall be a minimum of $5,000,000, or if the remaining amount available under the Swing Line Sublimit is less than such amount, in which case in multiples of $1,000,000, and (ii) the requested borrowing date, which shall be a Business Day. Each such telephonic notice must be confirmed promptly by delivery to the Swing Line Lender and the Administrative Agent of a written Swing Line Loan Notice, appropriately completed and signed by a Responsible Officer of the Company. Promptly after receipt by the Swing Line Lender of any telephonic Swing Line Loan Notice, the Swing Line Lender will confirm with the Administrative Agent (by telephone or in writing) that the Administrative Agent has also received such Swing Line Loan Notice and, if not, the Swing Line Lender will notify the Administrative Agent (by telephone or in writing) of the contents thereof. Unless the Swing Line Lender has received notice (by telephone or in writing) from the Administrative Agent (including at the request of any Lender) prior to 2:00 p.m. on the date of the proposed Swing Line Borrowing (A) directing the Swing Line Lender not to make such Swing Line Loan as a result of the limitations set forth in the proviso to the first sentence of , or (B) that one or more of the applicable conditions specified in is not then satisfied, then, subject to the terms and conditions hereof, the Swing Line Lender will, not later than 3:00 p.m. on the borrowing date specified in such Swing Line Loan Notice, make the amount of its Swing Line Loan available to the Company at its office by crediting the account of the Company on the books of the Swing Line Lender in Same Day Funds.
Borrowing Procedures
Section 2.05(a)
Article IV
 
(c) .
Refinancing of Swing Line Loans
(i) The Swing Line Lender at any time in its sole and absolute discretion may request, on behalf of the Company (which hereby irrevocably authorizes the Swing Line Lender to so request on its behalf), that each Lender make a Base Rate Committed Loan in an amount equal to such Lender's Applicable Percentage of the amount of Swing Line Loans then outstanding. Such request shall be made in writing (which written request shall be deemed to be a Committed Loan Notice for purposes hereof) and in accordance with the requirements of , without regard to the minimum and multiples specified therein for the principal amount of Base Rate Loans, but subject to the unutilized portion of the Aggregate Commitments and the conditions set forth in . The Swing Line Lender shall furnish the Company with a copy of the applicable Committed Loan Notice promptly after delivering such notice to the Administrative Agent. Each Lender shall make an amount equal to its Applicable Percentage of the amount specified in such Committed Loan Notice available to the Administrative Agent in Same Day Funds for the account of the Swing Line Lender at the Administrative Agent's Office for Dollar-denominated payments not later than 1:00 p.m. on the day specified in such Committed Loan Notice, whereupon, subject to , each Lender that so makes funds available shall be deemed to have made a Base Rate Committed Loan to the Company in such amount. The Administrative Agent shall remit the funds so received to the Swing Line Lender.
Section 2.02
Section 4.02
Section 2.05(c)(ii)
(ii) If for any reason any Swing Line Loan cannot be refinanced by such a Committed Borrowing in accordance with , the request for Base Rate Committed Loans submitted by the Swing Line Lender as set forth herein shall be deemed to be a request by the Swing Line Lender that each of the Lenders fund its risk participation in the relevant Swing Line Loan and each Lender's payment to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Swing Line Lender pursuant to shall be deemed payment in respect of such participation.
Section 2.05(c)(i)
Section 2.05(c)(i)
(iii) If any Lender fails to make available to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Swing Line Lender any amount required to be paid by such Lender pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this by the time specified in , the Swing Line Lender shall be entitled to recover from such Lender (acting through the Administrative Agent), on demand, such amount with interest thereon for the period from the date such payment is required to the date on which such payment is immediately available to the Swing Line Lender at a rate per annum equal to the applicable Overnight Rate from time to time in effect, plus any administrative, processing or similar fees customarily charged by the Swing Line Lender in connection with the foregoing. If such Lender pays such amount (with interest and fees as aforesaid), the amount so paid shall constitute such Lender's Committed Loan included in the relevant Committed Borrowing or funded participation in the relevant Swing Line Loan, as the case may be. A certificate of the Swing Line Lender submitted to any Lender (through the Administrative Agent) with respect to any amounts owing under this  shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
Section 2.05(c)
Section 2.05(c)(i)
clause (iii)
(iv) Each Lender's obligation to make Committed Loans or to purchase and fund risk participations in Swing Line Loans pursuant to this shall be absolute and unconditional and shall not be affected by any circumstance, including (A) any setoff, counterclaim, recoupment, defense or other right which such Lender may have against the Swing Line Lender, the Company or any other Person for any reason whatsoever, (B) the occurrence or
Section 2.05(c)
 
continuance of a Default, or (C) any other occurrence, event or condition, whether or not similar to any of the foregoing; , , that each Lender's obligation to make Committed Loans pursuant to this is subject to the conditions set forth in . No such funding of risk participations shall relieve or otherwise impair the obligation of the Company to repay Swing Line Loans, together with interest as provided herein.
provided
however
Section 2.05(c)
Section 4.02
(d) .
Repayment of Participations
(i) At any time after any Lender has purchased and funded a risk participation in a Swing Line Loan, if the Swing Line Lender receives any payment on account of such Swing Line Loan, the Swing Line Lender will distribute to such Lender its Applicable Percentage thereof in the same funds as those received by the Swing Line Lender.
(ii) If any payment received by the Swing Line Lender in respect of principal or interest on any Swing Line Loan is required to be returned by the Swing Line Lender under any of the circumstances described in (including pursuant to any settlement entered into by the Swing Line Lender in its discretion), each Lender shall pay to the Swing Line Lender its Applicable Percentage thereof on demand of the Administrative Agent, plus interest thereon from the date of such demand to the date such amount is returned, at a rate per annum equal to the applicable Overnight Rate. The Administrative Agent will make such demand upon the request of the Swing Line Lender. The obligations of the Lenders under this clause shall survive the payment in full of the Obligations and the termination of this Agreement.
Section 10.05
(e) . The Swing Line Lender shall be responsible for invoicing the Company for interest on the Swing Line Loans. Until each Lender funds its Base Rate Committed Loan or risk participation pursuant to this to refinance such Lender's Applicable Percentage of any Swing Line Loan, interest in respect of such Applicable Percentage shall be solely for the account of the Swing Line Lender.
Interest for Account of Swing Line Lender
Section 2.05
(f) . The Company shall make all payments of principal and interest in respect of the Swing Line Loans directly to the Swing Line Lender.
Payments Directly to Swing Line Lender
2.06 Prepayments.
(a) Each Borrower may, upon notice from the Company to the Administrative Agent, at any time or from time to time voluntarily prepay Committed Loans in whole or in part without premium or penalty; that (i) such notice must be received by the Administrative Agent not later than 11:00 a.m. (A) three Business Days prior to any date of prepayment of Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loans denominated in Dollars, (B) four Business Days (or five, in the case of prepayment of Loans denominated in Special Notice Currencies) prior to any date of prepayment of Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loans denominated in Alternative Currencies, and (C) on the date of prepayment of Base Rate Committed Loans; (ii) any prepayment of Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loans denominated in Dollars shall be in a principal amount of $5,000,000 or a whole multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof; (iii) any prepayment of Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loans denominated in Alternative Currencies shall be in a minimum principal amount of $5,000,000 or a whole multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof; and (iv) any prepayment of Base Rate Committed Loans shall be in a principal amount of $5,000,000 or a whole multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof or, in each case, if less, the entire principal amount thereof then outstanding. Each such notice shall specify the date and amount of such prepayment and the Type(s) of Committed Loans to be prepaid and, if Eurocurrency Rate
provided
 
Committed Loans are to be prepaid, the Interest Period(s) of such Loans. The Administrative Agent will promptly notify each Lender of its receipt of each such notice, and of the amount of such Lender's Applicable Percentage of such prepayment. If such notice is given by the Company, the applicable Borrower shall make such prepayment and the payment amount specified in such notice shall be due and payable on the date specified therein. Any prepayment of a Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loan shall be accompanied by all accrued interest on the amount prepaid, together with any additional amounts required pursuant to . Each such prepayment shall be applied to the Committed Loans of the Lenders in accordance with their respective Applicable Percentages.
Section 3.05
(b) No Bid Loan may be prepaid without the prior consent of the applicable Bid Loan Lender.
(c) The Company may, upon notice to the Swing Line Lender (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), at any time or from time to time, voluntarily prepay Swing Line Loans in whole or in part without premium or penalty; that (i) such notice must be received by the Swing Line Lender and the Administrative Agent not later than 1:00 p.m. on the date of the prepayment, and (ii) any such prepayment shall be in a minimum principal amount of $1,000,000. Each such notice shall specify the date and amount of such prepayment. If such notice is given by the Company, the Company shall make such prepayment and the payment amount specified in such notice shall be due and payable on the date specified therein.
provided
(d) If the Administrative Agent notifies the Company at any time that the Total Outstandings at such time exceed the Aggregate Commitments then in effect in an amount equal to or in excess of $2,000,000, then, within three Business Days after receipt of such notice, the Borrowers shall prepay Loans and/or the Company shall Cash Collateralize the L/C Obligations in an aggregate amount sufficient to reduce such Outstanding Amount as of such date of payment to an amount not to exceed 100% of the Aggregate Commitments then in effect; , , that, subject to the provisions of , the Company shall not be required to Cash Collateralize the L/C Obligations pursuant to this unless after the prepayment in full of the Committed Loans and Swing Line Loans, the Total Outstandings exceed the Aggregate Commitments then in effect. The Administrative Agent may, at any time and from time to time after the initial deposit of such Cash Collateral, request that additional Cash Collateral be provided in order to protect against the results of further exchange rate fluctuations.
provided
however
Section 2.04(g)(ii)
Section 2.06(d)
(e) If the Administrative Agent notifies the Company at any time that the Outstanding Amount of all Loans denominated in Alternative Currencies at such time exceeds the Alternative Currency Sublimit then in effect in an amount equal to or in excess of $2,000,000, then, within three Business Days after receipt of such notice, the Borrowers shall prepay Loans in an aggregate amount sufficient to reduce such Outstanding Amount as of such date of payment to an amount not to exceed 100% of the Alternative Currency Sublimit then in effect.
The Company may, upon notice to the Administrative Agent, terminate the Aggregate Commitments, or from time to time permanently reduce the Aggregate Commitments; that (i) any such notice shall be received by the Administrative Agent not later than 11:00 a.m. five Business Days prior to the date of termination or reduction, (ii) any such partial reduction shall be in an aggregate amount of $10,000,000 or any whole multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof, (iii) the Company shall not terminate or reduce the Aggregate Commitments if, after giving effect thereto and to any
2.07 Termination or Reduction of Commitments.
provided
 
concurrent prepayments hereunder, the Total Outstandings would exceed the Aggregate Commitments, and (iv) if, after giving effect to any reduction of the Aggregate Commitments, the Bid Loan Sublimit, the Alternative Currency Sublimit, the Letter of Credit Sublimit, the Foreign Obligor Sublimit or the Swing Line Sublimit exceeds the amount of the Aggregate Commitments, such Sublimit shall be automatically reduced by the amount of such excess. The Administrative Agent will promptly notify the Lenders of any such notice of termination or reduction of the Aggregate Commitments. The amount of any such Aggregate Commitment reduction shall not be applied to the Alternative Currency Sublimit or the Letter of Credit Sublimit unless otherwise specified by the Company. Any reduction of the Aggregate Commitments shall be applied to the Commitment of each Lender according to its Applicable Percentage. All fees accrued until the effective date of any termination of the Aggregate Commitments shall be paid on the effective date of such termination.
2.08 Repayment of Loans.
(a) Each Borrower shall repay to the Lenders on the Maturity Date the aggregate principal amount of Committed Loans made to such Borrower outstanding on such date.
(b) The Company shall repay each Bid Loan on the last day of the Interest Period in respect thereof.
(c) The Company shall repay each Swing Line Loan on the earlier to occur of (i) the date ten Business Days after such Loan is made and (ii) the Maturity Date.
2.09 Interest.
(a) Subject to the provisions of subsection (b) below, (i) each Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loan shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount thereof for each Interest Period at a rate per annum equal to the Eurocurrency Rate for such Interest Period the Applicable Rate (in the case of a Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loan of any Lender which is lent from a Lending Office in the United Kingdom or a Participating Member State) the Mandatory Cost; (ii) each Base Rate Committed Loan shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount thereof from the applicable borrowing date at a rate per annum equal to the Base Rate the Applicable Rate; (iii) each Bid Loan shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount thereof for the Interest Period therefor at a rate per annum equal to the Eurocurrency Base Rate for such Interest Period plus (or minus) the Eurocurrency Bid Margin, or at the Absolute Rate for such Interest Period, as the case may be; and (iv) each Swing Line Loan shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount thereof from the applicable borrowing date at a rate per annum equal to the Base Rate the Applicable Rate.
plus
plus
plus
plus
(b) (i) If any amount of principal of any Loan is not paid when due (without regard to any applicable grace periods), whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise, such amount shall thereafter bear interest at a fluctuating interest rate per annum at all times equal to the Default Rate to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Laws.
(ii) If any amount (other than principal of any Loan) payable by any Borrower under any Loan Document is not paid when due (without regard to any applicable grace periods), whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise, then upon the request of the Required Lenders, such amount shall thereafter bear interest at a fluctuating interest rate per annum at all times equal to the Default Rate to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Laws.
 
(iii) Upon the request of the Required Lenders, while any Event of Default exists, the Borrowers shall pay interest on the principal amount of all outstanding Obligations hereunder at a fluctuating interest rate per annum at all times equal to the Default Rate to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Laws.
(iv) Accrued and unpaid interest on past due amounts (including interest on past due interest) shall be due and payable upon demand.
(c) Interest on each Loan shall be due and payable in arrears on each Interest Payment Date applicable thereto and at such other times as may be specified herein. Interest hereunder shall be due and payable in accordance with the terms hereof before and after judgment, and before and after the commencement of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law.
In addition to certain fees described in subsections (i) and (j) of :
2.10 Fees.
Section 2.04
(a) . The Company shall pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender in accordance with its Applicable Percentage, a facility fee in Dollars equal to the Applicable Rate the actual daily amount of the Aggregate Commitments (or, if the Aggregate Commitments have terminated, on the Outstanding Amount of all Committed Loans, Swing Line Loans and L/C Obligations), regardless of usage. The facility fee shall accrue at all times during the Availability Period (and thereafter so long as any Committed Loans, Swing Line Loans or L/C Obligations remain outstanding), including at any time during which one or more of the conditions in is not met, and shall be due and payable quarterly in arrears on the last Business Day of each March, June, September and December, commencing with the first such date to occur after the Closing Date, and on the last day of the Availability Period (and, if applicable, thereafter on demand). The facility fee shall be calculated quarterly in arrears, and if there is any change in the Applicable Rate during any quarter, the actual daily amount shall be computed and multiplied by the Applicable Rate separately for each period during such quarter that such Applicable Rate was in effect.
Facility Fee
times
Article IV
(b) . (i) The Company shall pay to the Arrangers and the Administrative Agent for their own respective accounts, in Dollars, fees in the amounts and at the times specified in the Fee Letters. Such fees shall be fully earned when paid and shall not be refundable for any reason whatsoever.
Other Fees
(ii) The Company shall pay to the Lenders, in Dollars, such fees as shall have been separately agreed upon in writing in the amounts and at the times so specified. Such fees shall be fully earned when paid and shall not be refundable for any reason whatsoever.
All computations of interest for Base Rate Loans when the Base Rate is determined by Bank of America's "prime rate" shall be made on the basis of a year of 365 or 366 days, as the case may be, and actual days elapsed. All other computations of fees and interest shall be made on the basis of a 360-day year and actual days elapsed (which results in more fees or interest, as applicable, being paid than if computed on the basis of a 365-day year), or, in the case of interest in respect of Committed Loans denominated in Alternative Currencies as to which market practice differs from the foregoing, in accordance with such market practice. Interest shall accrue on each Loan for the day on which the Loan is made, and shall not accrue on a Loan, or any portion thereof, for the day on which the Loan or
2.11 Computation of Interest and Fees.
 
such portion is paid, that any Loan that is repaid on the same day on which it is made shall, subject to , bear interest for one day. Each determination by the Administrative Agent of an interest rate or fee hereunder shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error.
provided
Section 2.13(a)
2.12 Evidence of Debt.
(a) The Credit Extensions made by each Lender shall be evidenced by one or more accounts or records maintained by such Lender and by the Administrative Agent in the ordinary course of business. The accounts or records maintained by the Administrative Agent and each Lender shall be conclusive absent manifest error of the amount of the Credit Extensions made by the Lenders to the Borrowers and the interest and payments thereon. Any failure to so record or any error in doing so shall not, however, limit or otherwise affect the obligation of the Borrowers hereunder to pay any amount owing with respect to the Obligations. In the event of any conflict between the accounts and records maintained by any Lender and the accounts and records of the Administrative Agent in respect of such matters, the accounts and records of the Administrative Agent shall control in the absence of manifest error. Upon the request of any Lender to a Borrower made through the Administrative Agent, such Borrower shall execute and deliver to such Lender (through the Administrative Agent) a Note, which shall evidence such Lender's Loans to such Borrower in addition to such accounts or records. Each Lender may attach schedules to a Note and endorse thereon the date, Type (if applicable), amount, currency and maturity of its Loans and payments with respect thereto.
(b) In addition to the accounts and records referred to in subsection (a), each Lender and the Administrative Agent shall maintain in accordance with its usual practice accounts or records evidencing the purchases and sales by such Lender of participations in Letters of Credit and Swing Line Loans. In the event of any conflict between the accounts and records maintained by the Administrative Agent and the accounts and records of any Lender in respect of such matters, the accounts and records of the Administrative Agent shall control in the absence of manifest error.
2.13 Payments Generally; Administrative Agent's Clawback.
(a) . All payments to be made by the Borrowers shall be made without condition or deduction for any counterclaim, defense, recoupment or setoff. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein and except with respect to principal of and interest on Loans denominated in an Alternative Currency, all payments by the Borrowers hereunder shall be made to the Administrative Agent, for the account of the respective Lenders to which such payment is owed, at the applicable Administrative Agent's Office in Dollars and in Same Day Funds not later than 2:00 p.m. on the date specified herein. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, all payments by the Borrowers hereunder with respect to principal and interest on Loans denominated in an Alternative Currency shall be made to the Administrative Agent, for the account of the respective Lenders to which such payment is owed, at the applicable Administrative Agent's Office in such Alternative Currency and in Same Day Funds not later than the Applicable Time specified by the Administrative Agent on the dates specified herein. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Administrative Agent may require that any payments due under this Agreement be made in the United States. If, for any reason, any Borrower is prohibited by any Law from making any required payment hereunder in an Alternative Currency, such Borrower shall make such payment in Dollars in the Dollar Equivalent of the Alternative Currency payment amount. The Administrative Agent will
General
 
promptly distribute to each Lender its Applicable Percentage (or other applicable share as provided herein) of such payment in like funds as received by wire transfer to such Lender's Lending Office. All payments received by the Administrative Agent (i) after 2:00 p.m., in the case of payments in Dollars, or (ii) after the Applicable Time specified by the Administrative Agent in the case of payments in an Alternative Currency, shall in each case be deemed received on the next succeeding Business Day and any applicable interest or fee shall continue to accrue. If any payment to be made by any Borrower shall come due on a day other than a Business Day, payment shall be made on the next following Business Day, and such extension of time shall be reflected in computing interest or fees, as the case may be.
(b) (i) . Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from a Lender prior to the proposed date of any Committed Borrowing of Eurocurrency Rate Loans (or, in the case of any Committed Borrowing of Base Rate Loans, prior to 12:00 noon on the date of such Committed Borrowing) that such Lender will not make available to the Administrative Agent such Lender's share of such Committed Borrowing, the Administrative Agent may assume that such Lender has made such share available on such date in accordance with (or, in the case of a Committed Borrowing of Base Rate Loans, that such Lender has made such share available in accordance with and at the time required by ) and may, in reliance upon such assumption, make available to the applicable Borrower a corresponding amount. In such event, if a Lender has not in fact made its share of the applicable Committed Borrowing available to the Administrative Agent, then the applicable Lender and the applicable Borrower severally agree to pay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand such corresponding amount in Same Day Funds with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is made available to such Borrower to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, at (A) in the case of a payment to be made by such Lender, the Overnight Rate, plus any administrative, processing or similar fees customarily charged by the Administrative Agent in connection with the foregoing, and (B) in the case of a payment to be made by such Borrower, the interest rate applicable to Base Rate Loans. If such Borrower and such Lender shall pay such interest to the Administrative Agent for the same or an overlapping period, the Administrative Agent shall promptly remit to such Borrower the amount of such interest paid by such Borrower for such period. If such Lender pays its share of the applicable Committed Borrowing to the Administrative Agent, then the amount so paid shall constitute such Lender's Committed Loan included in such Committed Borrowing. Any payment by such Borrower shall be without prejudice to any claim such Borrower may have against a Lender that shall have failed to make such payment to the Administrative Agent.
Funding by Lenders; Presumption by Administrative Agent
Section 2.02
Section 2.02
(ii) . Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from a Borrower prior to the date on which any payment is due to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Lenders or the L/C Issuer hereunder that such Borrower will not make such payment, the Administrative Agent may assume that such Borrower has made such payment on such date in accordance herewith and may, in reliance upon such assumption, distribute to the Lenders or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, the amount due. In such event, if such Borrower has not in fact made such payment, then each of the Lenders or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, severally agrees to repay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand the amount so distributed to such Lender or the L/C Issuer, in Same Day Funds with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is distributed to it to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, at the Overnight Rate.
Payments by Borrowers; Presumptions by Administrative Agent
 
A notice of the Administrative Agent to any Lender or Borrower with respect to any amount owing under this subsection (b) shall be conclusive, absent manifest error.
(c) . If any Lender makes available to the Administrative Agent funds for any Loan to be made by such Lender to any Borrower as provided in the foregoing provisions of this , and such funds are not made available to such Borrower by the Administrative Agent because the conditions to the applicable Credit Extension set forth in are not satisfied or waived in accordance with the terms hereof, the Administrative Agent shall return such funds (in like funds as received from such Lender) to such Lender within one Business Day, without interest.
Failure to Satisfy Conditions Precedent
Article II
Article IV
(d) . The obligations of the Lenders hereunder to make Committed Loans, to fund participations in Letters of Credit and Swing Line Loans and to make payments pursuant to are several and not joint. The failure of any Lender to make any Committed Loan, to fund any such participation or to make any payment under on any date required hereunder shall not relieve any other Lender of its corresponding obligation to do so on such date, and no Lender shall be responsible for the failure of any other Lender to so make its Committed Loan, to purchase its participation or to make its payment under .
Obligations of Lenders Several
Section 10.04(c)
Section 10.04(c)
Section 10.04(c)
(e) . Nothing herein shall be deemed to obligate any Lender to obtain the funds for any Loan in any particular place or manner or to constitute a representation by any Lender that it has obtained or will obtain the funds for any Loan in any particular place or manner.
Funding Source
If any Lender shall, by exercising any right of setoff or counterclaim or otherwise, obtain payment in respect of any principal of or interest on any of the Committed Loans made by it, or the participations in L/C Obligations or in Swing Line Loans held by it resulting in such Lender's receiving payment of a proportion of the aggregate amount of such Committed Loans or participations and accrued interest thereon greater than its share thereof as provided herein, then the Lender receiving such greater proportion shall (a) notify the Administrative Agent of such fact, and (b) purchase (for cash at face value) participations in the Committed Loans and subparticipations in L/C Obligations and Swing Line Loans of the other Lenders, or make such other adjustments as shall be equitable, so that the benefit of all such payments shall be shared by the Lenders ratably in accordance with the aggregate amount of principal of and accrued interest on their respective Committed Loans and other amounts owing them, that:
2.14 Sharing of Payments by Lenders.
pro rata
provided
(i) if any such participations or subparticipations are purchased and all or any portion of the payment giving rise thereto is recovered, such participations or subparticipations shall be rescinded and the purchase price restored to the extent of such recovery, without interest; and
(ii) the provisions of this Section shall not be construed to apply to (x) any payment made by a Borrower pursuant to and in accordance with the express terms of this Agreement or (y) any payment obtained by a Lender as consideration for the assignment of or sale of a participation in any of its Committed Loans or subparticipations in L/C Obligations or Swing Line Loans to any assignee or participant, other than to the Company or any Subsidiary thereof (as to which the provisions of this Section shall apply).
 
Each Borrower consents to the foregoing and agrees, to the extent it may effectively do so under applicable law, that any Lender acquiring a participation pursuant to the foregoing arrangements may exercise against such Borrower rights of setoff and counterclaim with respect to such participation as fully as if such Lender were a direct creditor of such Borrower in the amount of such participation.
2.15 Designated Borrowers.
(a) The Company may at any time, upon not less than 15 Business Days' notice from the Company to the Administrative Agent (or such shorter period as may be agreed by the Administrative Agent in its sole discretion), designate any additional Subsidiary of the Company (an "") as a Designated Borrower to receive Loans (other than Bid Loans) hereunder by delivering to the Administrative Agent (which shall promptly deliver counterparts thereof to each Lender) a duly executed notice and agreement in substantially the form of (a ""), provided that no Default exists at the time of such designation. The parties hereto acknowledge and agree that prior to any Applicant Borrower becoming entitled to utilize the credit facilities provided for herein the Administrative Agent and the Lenders shall have received such supporting resolutions, incumbency certificates, opinions of counsel and other documents or information, in form, content and scope reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent, as may be required by the Administrative Agent or the Required Lenders in their sole discretion, and Notes signed by such new Borrowers to the extent any Lenders so require. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, except as provided below, any such opinion of counsel shall include confirmation that is not necessary under the Laws of the jurisdiction of any non-U.S. new Borrower (a "") (i) in order to enable the Lenders and the Administrative Agent or any of them to enforce their respective rights under this Agreement or (ii) by reason only of the execution, delivery or performance of this Agreement, that any of them should be licensed, qualified or entitled to carry on business in such jurisdiction, and that the Laws of such jurisdiction do not require any of the Lenders to book or fund its Loans to such New Foreign Borrower in such jurisdiction or prevent any of such Lenders from booking or funding its Loans to such New Foreign Borrower in or from any other jurisdiction, including the United States. No such opinion shall be required, however, in the event the Administrative Agent determines in its reasonable discretion and after consultation with legal counsel that it is not reasonably practicable to obtain such opinion. If the Administrative Agent and the Required Lenders agree that an Applicant Borrower shall be entitled to receive Loans (other than Bid Loans) hereunder, then, so long as no Default exists, promptly following receipt of all such requested resolutions, incumbency certificates, opinions of counsel and other documents or information, the Administrative Agent shall send a notice in substantially the form of (a "") to the Company and the Lenders specifying the effective date upon which the Applicant Borrower shall constitute a Designated Borrower for purposes hereof, whereupon each of the Lenders agrees to permit such Designated Borrower to receive Loans (other than Bid Loans) hereunder, on the terms and conditions set forth herein, and each of the parties agrees that such Designated Borrower otherwise shall be a Borrower for all purposes of this Agreement; that no Committed Loan Notice or Letter of Credit Application may be submitted by or on behalf of such Designated Borrower until the date five Business Days after such effective date; and , , that no New Foreign Borrower shall become a Borrower hereunder if any Lender within seven Business Days of receipt by the Lenders of notice of such designation shall determine in good faith that it is unlawful, or any Governmental Authority has asserted that it is unlawful, for such Lender or its applicable Lending Office to make, maintain or fund Loans
Applicant Borrower
Exhibit I
Designated Borrower Request and Assumption Agreement
New Foreign Borrower
Exhibit J
Designated Borrower Notice
provided
provided
further
 
to such New Foreign Borrower, and it is not reasonably practicable for such Lender to designate a different Lending Office for funding or booking its Loans hereunder to such New Foreign Borrower, or to assign its rights and obligations hereunder to another of its offices, branches or affiliates, as a means of eliminating the need for the notice. Following the giving of any notice pursuant to this Section, if the designation of such Designated Subsidiary obligates the Administrative Agent or any Lender to comply with "know your customer" or similar identification procedures in circumstances where the necessary information is not already available to it, the Company shall, promptly upon the request of the Administrative Agent or any Lender, supply such documentation and other evidence as is reasonably requested by the Administrative Agent or any Lender in order for the Administrative Agent or such Lender to carry out and be satisfied it has complied with the results of all necessary "know your customer" or other similar checks under all applicable Laws.
(b) The Obligations of each Designated Borrower shall be guaranteed by the Company pursuant to the Company Guaranty and by each Subsidiary Guarantor pursuant to the Subsidiary Guaranty.
(c) Each Subsidiary of the Company that becomes a "" pursuant to this hereby irrevocably appoints the Company as its agent for all purposes relevant to this Agreement and each of the other Loan Documents, including (i) the giving and receipt of notices, (ii) the execution and delivery of all documents, instruments and certificates contemplated herein and all modifications hereto, and (iii) the receipt of the proceeds of any Loans made by the Lenders, to any such Designated Borrower hereunder. Any acknowledgment, consent, direction, certification or other action which might otherwise be valid or effective only if given or taken by all Borrowers, or by each Borrower acting singly, shall be valid and effective if given or taken only by the Company, whether or not any such other Borrower joins therein. Any notice, demand, consent, acknowledgement, direction, certification or other communication delivered to the Company in accordance with the terms of this Agreement shall be deemed to have been delivered to each Designated Borrower.
Designated Borrower
Section 2.15
(d) The Company may from time to time, upon not less than 15 Business Days' notice from the Company to the Administrative Agent (or such shorter period as may be agreed by the Administrative Agent in its sole discretion), terminate a Designated Borrower's status as such, that there are no outstanding Loans payable by such Designated Borrower, or other amounts payable by such Designated Borrower on account of any Loans made to it, as of the effective date of such termination. The Administrative Agent will promptly notify the Lenders of any such termination of a Designated Borrower's status.
provided
2.16 Increase in Commitments.
(a) . Provided there exists no Default, upon notice to the Administrative Agent (which shall promptly notify the Lenders), the Company may from time to time, request an increase in the Aggregate Commitments by an amount (for all such requests) not exceeding $250,000,000; that (i) any such request for an increase shall be in a minimum amount of $25,000,000, and (ii) the Company may make a maximum of five such requests. At the time of sending such notice, the Company (in consultation with the Administrative Agent) shall specify the time period within which each Lender is requested to respond (which shall in no event be less than ten Business Days from the date of delivery of such notice to the Lenders).
Request for Increase
provided
 
(b) . Each Lender shall notify the Administrative Agent within such time period whether or not it agrees to increase its Commitment and, if so, whether by an amount equal to, greater than, or less than its Applicable Percentage of such requested increase. Any Lender not responding within such time period shall be deemed to have declined to increase its Commitment.
Lender Elections to Increase
(c) . The Administrative Agent shall notify the Company and each Lender of the Lenders' responses to each request made hereunder. To achieve the full amount of a requested increase and subject to the approval of the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer and the Swing Line Lender (which approvals shall not be unreasonably withheld), the Company may also invite additional Eligible Assignees to become Lenders pursuant to a joinder agreement in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and its counsel.
Notification by Administrative Agent; Additional Lenders
(d) . If the Aggregate Commitments are increased in accordance with this Section, the Administrative Agent and the Company shall determine the effective date (the "") and the final allocation of such increase. The Administrative Agent shall promptly notify the Company and the Lenders of the final allocation of such increase and the Increase Effective Date. No such increase shall increase any of the Alternative Currency Sublimit, Foreign Obligor Sublimit, Letter of Credit Sublimit, or Swing Line Sublimit.
Effective Date and Allocations
Increase Effective Date
(e) . As a condition precedent to such increase, the Company shall deliver to the Administrative Agent a certificate of each Loan Party dated as of the Increase Effective Date (in sufficient copies for each Lender) signed by a Responsible Officer of such Loan Party (i) certifying and attaching the resolutions adopted by such Loan Party approving or consenting to such increase, and (ii) in the case of the Company, certifying that, before and after giving effect to such increase, (A) the representations and warranties contained in and the other Loan Documents are true and correct on and as of the Increase Effective Date, except to the extent that such representations and warranties specifically refer to an earlier date, in which case they are true and correct as of such earlier date, and except that for purposes of this , the representations and warranties contained in  and  of shall be deemed to refer to the most recent statements furnished pursuant to  and , respectively, of , and (B) no Default exists. The Borrowers shall prepay any Committed Loans outstanding on the Increase Effective Date (and pay any additional amounts required pursuant to ) to the extent necessary to keep the outstanding Committed Loans ratable with any revised Applicable Percentages arising from any nonratable increase in the Commitments under this Section.
Conditions to Effectiveness of Increase
Article V
Section 2.17
subsections (a)
(b)
Section 5.05
clauses (a)
(b)
Section 6.01
Section 3.05
(f) . This Section shall supersede any provisions in or to the contrary.
Conflicting Provisions
Section 2.14
10.01
3.01 Taxes.
(a) . Any and all payments by or on account of any obligation of the respective Borrowers hereunder or under any other Loan Document shall be made free and clear of and without reduction or withholding for any Indemnified Taxes or Other
Payments Free of Taxes
 
Taxes, that if the applicable Borrower shall be required by applicable law to deduct any Indemnified Taxes (including any Other Taxes) from such payments, then (i) the sum payable shall be increased as necessary so that after making all required deductions (including deductions for Indemnified Taxes applicable to additional sums payable under this Section) the Administrative Agent, Lender or L/C Issuer, as the case may be, receives an amount equal to the sum it would have received had no such deductions been made, (ii) such Borrower shall make such deductions and (iii) such Borrower shall timely pay the full amount deducted to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law.
provided
(b) . Without limiting the provisions of subsection (a) above, each Borrower shall timely pay any Other Taxes to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law.
Payment of Other Taxes by the Borrowers
(c) . Each Borrower shall indemnify the Administrative Agent, each Lender and the L/C Issuer, within 10 days after demand therefor, for the full amount of any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes (including Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes imposed or asserted on or attributable to amounts payable under this Section) paid by the Administrative Agent, such Lender or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, and any penalties, interest and reasonable expenses arising therefrom or with respect thereto, whether or not such Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes were correctly or legally imposed or asserted by the relevant Governmental Authority. A certificate as to the amount of such payment or liability delivered to a Borrower by a Lender or the L/C Issuer (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), or by the Administrative Agent on its own behalf or on behalf of a Lender or the L/C Issuer, shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
Indemnification by the Borrowers
(d) . As soon as practicable after any payment of Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes by any Borrower to a Governmental Authority, such Borrower shall deliver to the Administrative Agent the original or a certified copy of a receipt issued by such Governmental Authority evidencing such payment, a copy of the return reporting such payment or other evidence of such payment reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent.
Evidence of Payments
(e) . Any Foreign Lender that is entitled to an exemption from or reduction of withholding tax under the law of the jurisdiction in which a Borrower is resident for tax purposes, or any treaty to which such jurisdiction is a party, with respect to payments hereunder or under any other Loan Document shall deliver to the Company (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), at the time or times prescribed by applicable law or reasonably requested by the Company or the Administrative Agent, such properly completed and executed documentation prescribed by applicable law as will permit such payments to be made without withholding or at a reduced rate of withholding. In addition, any Lender, if requested by the Company or the Administrative Agent, shall deliver such other documentation prescribed by applicable law or reasonably requested by the Company or the Administrative Agent as will enable the Company or the Administrative Agent to determine whether or not such Lender is subject to withholding, backup withholding or information reporting requirements or will allow such Borrower to comply with its reporting requirements.
Status of Lenders
Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, in the event that a Borrower is resident for tax purposes in the United States, any Foreign Lender shall deliver to Company and the Administrative Agent (in such number of copies as shall be requested by the recipient) on or prior to the date on which such Foreign Lender becomes a Lender under this Agreement (and
 
from time to time thereafter upon the request of the Company or the Administrative Agent, but only if such Foreign Lender is legally entitled to do so), whichever of the following is applicable:
(i) a valid Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN duly and properly completed claiming eligibility for benefits of an income tax treaty to which the United States is a party,
(ii) a valid duly completed copy of Internal Revenue Service Form W-8ECI duly and properly completed,
(iii) in the case of a Foreign Lender claiming the benefits of the exemption for portfolio interest under section 881(c) of the Code, (x) a certificate to the effect that such Foreign Lender is not (A) a "bank" within the meaning of section 881(c)(3)(A) of the Code, (B) a "10 percent shareholder" of the applicable Borrower within the meaning of section 881(c)(3)(B) of the Code, or (C) a "controlled foreign corporation" described in section 881(c)(3)(C) of the Code and (y) duly completed copies of Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN, or
(iv) any other form prescribed by applicable law as a basis for claiming exemption from or a reduction in United States Federal withholding tax duly completed together with such supplementary documentation as may be prescribed by applicable law to permit the Company to determine the withholding or deduction required to be made.
Without limiting the obligations of the Lenders set forth above regarding delivery of certain forms and documents to establish each Lender's status for U.S. withholding tax purposes, each Lender agrees promptly to deliver to the Administrative Agent or the Company, as the Administrative Agent or the Company shall reasonably request, on or prior to the Closing Date, and in a timely fashion thereafter, such other documents and forms required by any relevant taxing authorities under the Laws of any other jurisdiction, duly executed and completed by such Lender, as are required under such Laws to confirm such Lender's entitlement to any available exemption from, or reduction of, applicable withholding taxes in respect of all payments to be made to such Lender outside of the U.S. by the Borrowers pursuant to this Agreement or otherwise to establish such Lender's status for withholding tax purposes in such other jurisdiction. Each Lender shall promptly (i) notify the Administrative Agent of any change in circumstances which would modify or render invalid any such claimed exemption or reduction, and (ii) take such steps as shall not be materially disadvantageous to it, in the reasonable judgment of such Lender, and as may be reasonably necessary (including the re-designation of its Lending Office) to avoid any requirement of applicable Laws of any such jurisdiction that any Borrower make any deduction or withholding for taxes from amounts payable to such Lender. Additionally, each of the Borrowers shall promptly deliver to the Administrative Agent or any Lender, as the Administrative Agent or such Lender shall reasonably request, on or prior to the Closing Date, and in a timely fashion thereafter, such documents and forms required by any relevant taxing authorities under the Laws of any jurisdiction, duly executed and completed by such Borrower, as are required to be furnished by such Lender or the Administrative Agent under such Laws in connection with any payment by the Administrative Agent or any Lender of Taxes or Other Taxes, or otherwise in connection with the Loan Documents, with respect to such jurisdiction.
(f) . If the Administrative Agent, any Lender or the L/C Issuer determines, in its sole discretion, that it has received a refund of any Taxes or Other Taxes as to which it has been indemnified by any Borrower or with respect to which any
Treatment of Certain Refunds
 
Borrower has paid additional amounts pursuant to this Section, it shall pay to such Borrower an amount equal to such refund (but only to the extent of indemnity payments made, or additional amounts paid, by such Borrower under this Section with respect to the Taxes or Other Taxes giving rise to such refund), net of all out-of-pocket expenses of the Administrative Agent, such Lender or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, and without interest (other than any interest paid by the relevant Governmental Authority with respect to such refund), that each Borrower, upon the request of the Administrative Agent, such Lender or the L/C Issuer, agrees to repay the amount paid over to such Borrower (plus any penalties, interest or other charges imposed by the relevant Governmental Authority) to the Administrative Agent, such Lender or the L/C Issuer in the event the Administrative Agent, such Lender or the L/C Issuer is required to repay such refund to such Governmental Authority. This subsection shall not be construed to require the Administrative Agent, any Lender or the L/C Issuer to make available its tax returns (or any other information relating to its taxes that it deems confidential) to any Borrower or any other Person.
provided
If any Lender determines that any Law has made it unlawful, or that any Governmental Authority has asserted that it is unlawful, for any Lender or its applicable Lending Office to make, maintain or fund Eurocurrency Rate Loans (whether denominated in Dollars or an Alternative Currency), or to determine or charge interest rates based upon the Eurocurrency Rate, or any Governmental Authority has imposed material restrictions on the authority of such Lender to purchase or sell, or to take deposits of, Dollars or any Alternative Currency in the applicable interbank market, then, on notice thereof by such Lender to the Company through the Administrative Agent, any obligation of such Lender to make or continue Eurocurrency Rate Loans in the affected currency or currencies or, in the case of Eurocurrency Rate Loans in Dollars, to convert Base Rate Committed Loans to Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loans, shall be suspended until such Lender notifies the Administrative Agent and the Company that the circumstances giving rise to such determination no longer exist. Upon receipt of such notice, the Borrowers shall, upon demand from such Lender (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), prepay or, if applicable and such Loans are denominated in Dollars, convert all such Eurocurrency Rate Loans of such Lender to Base Rate Loans, either on the last day of the Interest Period therefor, if such Lender may lawfully continue to maintain such Eurocurrency Rate Loans to such day, or immediately, if such Lender may not lawfully continue to maintain such Eurocurrency Rate Loans. Upon any such prepayment or conversion, the Borrowers shall also pay accrued interest on the amount so prepaid or converted.
3.02 Illegality.
If the Required Lenders determine that for any reason in connection with any request for a Eurocurrency Rate Loan or a conversion to or continuation thereof that (a) deposits (whether in Dollars or an Alternative Currency) are not being offered to banks in the applicable offshore interbank market for such currency for the applicable amount and Interest Period of such Eurocurrency Rate Loan, (b) adequate and reasonable means do not exist for determining the Eurocurrency Base Rate for any requested Interest Period with respect to a proposed Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loan (whether denominated in Dollars or an Alternative Currency), or (c) the Eurocurrency Base Rate for any requested Interest Period with respect to a proposed Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loan does not adequately and fairly reflect the cost to such Lenders of funding such Eurocurrency Rate Loan, the Administrative Agent will promptly so notify the Company and each Lender. Thereafter, the obligation of the Lenders to make or maintain Eurocurrency Rate Loans in the affected currency or currencies shall be suspended until the Administrative Agent (upon the instruction of the Required Lenders) revokes such notice. Upon receipt of such notice, the
3.03 Inability to Determine Rates.
 
Company may revoke any pending request for a Borrowing of, conversion to or continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loans in the affected currency or currencies or, failing that, will be deemed to have converted such request into a request for a Committed Borrowing of Base Rate Loans in the amount specified therein.
3.04 Increased Costs; Reserves on Eurocurrency Rate Loans.
(a) . If any Change in Law shall:
Increased Costs Generally
(i) impose, modify or deem applicable any reserve, special deposit, compulsory loan, insurance charge or similar requirement against assets of, deposits with or for the account of, or credit extended or participated in by, any Lender (except (A) any reserve requirement reflected in the Eurocurrency Rate and (B) the requirements of the Bank of England and the Financial Services Authority or the European Central Bank reflected in the Mandatory Cost, other than as set forth below) or the L/C Issuer;
(ii) result in the failure of the Mandatory Cost, as calculated hereunder, to represent the cost to any Lender of complying with the requirements of the Bank of England and/or the Financial Services Authority or the European Central Bank in relation to its making, funding or maintaining Eurocurrency Rate Loans; or
(iii) impose on any Lender or the L/C Issuer or the London interbank market any other condition, cost or expense affecting this Agreement or Eurocurrency Rate Loans made by such Lender or any Letter of Credit or participation therein;
and the result of any of the foregoing shall be to increase the cost to such Lender of making or maintaining any Eurocurrency Rate Loan (or of maintaining its obligation to make any such Loan), or to increase the cost to such Lender or the L/C Issuer of participating in, issuing or maintaining any Letter of Credit (or of maintaining its obligation to participate in or to issue any Letter of Credit), or to reduce the amount of any sum received or receivable by such Lender or the L/C Issuer hereunder (whether of principal, interest or any other amount), by an amount deemed by such Lender or the L/C Issuer to be material, then, upon request of such Lender or the L/C Issuer, the Company will pay (or cause the applicable Designated Borrower to pay) to such Lender or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, for such additional costs incurred or reduction suffered.
(b) . If any Lender or the L/C Issuer determines that any Change in Law affecting such Lender or the L/C Issuer or any Lending Office of such Lender or such Lender's or the L/C Issuer's holding company, if any, regarding capital requirements has or would have the effect of reducing the rate of return on such Lender's or the L/C Issuer's capital or on the capital of such Lender's or the L/C Issuer's holding company, if any, by an amount deemed by such Lender or the L/C Issuer to be material, as a consequence of this Agreement, the Commitments of such Lender or the Loans made by, or participations in Letters of Credit held by, such Lender, or the Letters of Credit issued by the L/C Issuer, to a level below that which such Lender or the L/C Issuer or such Lender's or the L/C Issuer's holding company could have achieved but for such Change in Law (taking into consideration such Lender's or the L/C Issuer's policies and the policies of such Lender's or the L/C Issuer's holding company with respect to capital adequacy), then from time to time the Company will pay (or cause the applicable Designated Borrower to pay) to such Lender or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be,
Capital Requirements
 
such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender or the L/C Issuer or such Lender's or the L/C Issuer's holding company for any such reduction suffered.
(c) . A certificate of a Lender or the L/C Issuer setting forth the amount or amounts necessary to compensate such Lender or the L/C Issuer or its holding company, as the case may be, as specified in subsection (a) or (b) of this Section and delivered to the Company shall be conclusive absent manifest error. The Company shall pay (or cause the applicable Designated Borrower to pay) such Lender or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, the amount shown as due on any such certificate within 30 days after receipt thereof.
Certificates for Reimbursement
(d) . Failure or delay on the part of any Lender or the L/C Issuer to demand compensation pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this Section shall not constitute a waiver of such Lender's or the L/C Issuer's right to demand such compensation, that no Borrower shall be required to compensate a Lender or the L/C Issuer pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this Section for any increased costs incurred or reductions suffered more than nine months prior to the date that such Lender or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, notifies the Company of the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions and of such Lender's or the L/C Issuer's intention to claim compensation therefor (except that, if the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions is retroactive, then the nine-month period referred to above shall be extended to include the period of retroactive effect thereof).
Delay in Requests
provided
(e) . The Company shall pay (or cause the applicable Designated Borrower to pay) to each Lender, as long as such Lender shall be required to comply with any reserve ratio requirement or analogous requirement of any central banking or financial regulatory authority imposed in respect of the maintenance of the Commitments or the funding of the Eurocurrency Rate Loans, such additional costs (expressed as a percentage per annum and rounded upwards, if necessary, to the nearest five decimal places) equal to the actual costs allocated to such Commitment or Loan by such Lender (as determined by such Lender in good faith, which determination shall be conclusive), which shall be due and payable on each date on which interest is payable on such Loan, the Company shall have received at least 10 days' prior notice (with a copy to the Administrative Agent) of such additional costs from such Lender. If a Lender fails to give notice 10 days prior to the relevant Interest Payment Date, such additional costs shall be due and payable 10 days from receipt of such notice.
Additional Reserve Requirements
provided
Upon demand of any Lender (with a copy to the Administrative Agent) from time to time, the Company shall promptly compensate (or cause the applicable Designated Borrower to compensate) such Lender for and hold such Lender harmless from any loss, cost or expense incurred by it as a result of:
3.05 Compensation for Losses.
(a) any continuation, conversion, payment or prepayment of any Loan other than a Base Rate Loan on a day other than the last day of the Interest Period for such Loan (whether voluntary, mandatory, automatic, by reason of acceleration, or otherwise);
(b) any failure by any Borrower (for a reason other than the failure of such Lender to make a Loan) to prepay, borrow, continue or convert any Loan other than a Base Rate Loan on the date or in the amount notified by the Company or the applicable Designated Borrower;
(c) any failure by any Borrower to make payment of any Loan or drawing under any Letter of Credit (or interest due thereon) denominated in an Alternative Currency on its scheduled due date or any payment thereof in a different currency; or
 
(d) any assignment of a Eurocurrency Rate Loan on a day other than the last day of the Interest Period therefor as a result of a request by the Company pursuant to ;
Section 10.13
including any loss of anticipated profits, any foreign exchange losses and any loss or expense arising from the liquidation or reemployment of funds obtained by it to maintain such Loan, from fees payable to terminate the deposits from which such funds were obtained or from the performance of any foreign exchange contract. The Company shall also pay (or cause the applicable Designated Borrower to pay) any customary administrative fees charged by such Lender in connection with the foregoing.
For purposes of calculating amounts payable by the Company (or the applicable Designated Borrower) to the Lenders under this , each Lender shall be deemed to have funded each Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loan made by it at the Eurocurrency Base Rate used in determining the Eurocurrency Rate for such Loan by a matching deposit or other borrowing in the offshore interbank market for such currency for a comparable amount and for the relevant period, whether or not such Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loan was in fact so funded.
Section 3.05
3.06 Mitigation Obligations; Replacement of Lenders.
(a) . If any Lender requests compensation under , or any Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to , or if any Lender gives a notice pursuant to , then such Lender shall use reasonable efforts to designate a different Lending Office for funding or booking its Loans hereunder or to assign its rights and obligations hereunder to another of its offices, branches or affiliates, if, in the judgment of such Lender, such designation or assignment (i) would eliminate or reduce amounts payable pursuant to or , as the case may be, in the future, or eliminate the need for the notice pursuant to , as applicable, and (ii) in each case, would not subject such Lender to any unreimbursed cost or expense and would not otherwise be disadvantageous to such Lender. The Company hereby agrees to pay (or to cause the applicable Designated Borrower to pay) all reasonable costs and expenses incurred by any Lender in connection with any such designation or assignment.
Designation of a Different Lending Office
Section 3.04
Section 3.01
Section 3.02
Section 3.01
3.04
Section 3.02
(b) . If any Lender requests compensation under , or if any Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to , the Company may replace such Lender in accordance with .
Replacement of Lenders
Section 3.04
Section 3.01
Section 10.13
All of the Borrowers' obligations under this shall survive termination of the Aggregate Commitments and repayment of all other Obligations hereunder.
3.07 Survival.
Article III
 
The obligation of the L/C Issuer and each Lender to make its initial Credit Extension hereunder is subject to satisfaction of the following conditions precedent:
4.01 Conditions of Initial Credit Extension.
(a) The Administrative Agent's receipt of the following, each of which shall be originals or telecopies (followed promptly by originals) unless otherwise specified, each properly executed by a Responsible Officer of the signing Loan Party, each dated the Closing Date (or, in the case of certificates of governmental officials, a recent date before the Closing Date) and each in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and each of the Lenders:
(i) executed counterparts of this Agreement and the Guaranties, sufficient in number for distribution to the Administrative Agent, each Lender and the Company;
(ii) Notes executed by the Borrowers in favor of each Lender requesting Notes;
(iii) such certificates of resolutions or other action, incumbency certificates and/or other certificates of Responsible Officers of each Loan Party as the Administrative Agent may require evidencing the identity, authority and capacity of each Responsible Officer thereof authorized to act as a Responsible Officer in connection with this Agreement and the other Loan Documents to which such Loan Party is a party;
(iv) such documents and certifications as the Administrative Agent may reasonably require to evidence that each Loan Party is duly organized or formed, and that each Loan Party is validly existing, in good standing and qualified to engage in business in each jurisdiction where its ownership, lease or operation of properties or the conduct of its business requires such qualification, except to the extent that failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect;
(v) a favorable opinion of counsel to the Loan Parties, addressed to the Administrative Agent and each Lender, as to the matters set forth in ;
Exhibit K
(vi) a certificate of a Responsible Officer of each Loan Party either (A) attaching copies of all consents, licenses and approvals required in connection with the execution, delivery and performance by such Loan Party and the validity against such Loan Party of the Loan Documents to which it is a party, and such consents, licenses and approvals shall be in full force and effect, or (B) stating that no such consents, licenses or approvals are so required;
(vii) a certificate signed by a Responsible Officer of the Company certifying (A) that the conditions specified in and  have been satisfied, (B) that there has been no event or circumstance since the date of the Audited Financial Statements that has had or could be reasonably expected to have, either individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect and (C) a calculation of the Consolidated Leverage Ratio as of the last day of the fiscal quarter of the Company most recently ended prior to the Closing Date;
Sections 4.02(a)
(b)
(viii) a duly completed Compliance Certificate as of the last day of the fiscal quarter of the Company ended on March 31, 2006, signed by a Responsible Officer of the Company;
(ix) evidence that the Existing Credit Agreement has been or concurrently with the Closing Date is being terminated and all Liens, if any, securing obligations under the Existing Credit Agreement have been or concurrently with the Closing Date are being released; and
 
(x) such other assurances, certificates, documents, consents or opinions as the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer, the Swing Line Lender or the Required Lenders reasonably may require.
(b) Any fees required to be paid on or before the Closing Date shall have been paid.
(c) Unless waived by the Administrative Agent, the Company shall have paid all reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of counsel to the Administrative Agent (directly to such counsel if requested by the Administrative Agent) to the extent invoiced prior to or on the Closing Date, plus such additional amounts of such fees, charges and disbursements as shall constitute its reasonable estimate of such fees, charges and disbursements incurred or to be incurred by it through the closing proceedings (provided that such estimate shall not thereafter preclude a final settling of accounts between the Company and the Administrative Agent).
(d) The Closing Date shall have occurred on or before June 16, 2006.
Without limiting the generality of the provisions of , for purposes of determining compliance with the conditions specified in this , each Lender that has signed this Agreement shall be deemed to have consented to, approved or accepted or to be satisfied with, each document or other matter required thereunder to be consented to or approved by or acceptable or satisfactory to a Lender unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from such Lender prior to the proposed Closing Date specifying its objection thereto.
Section 9.04
Section 4.01
The obligation of each Lender to honor any Request for Credit Extension (other than a Committed Loan Notice requesting only a conversion of Committed Loans to the other Type, or a continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loans) is subject to the following conditions precedent:
4.02 Conditions to all Credit Extensions.
(a) The representations and warranties (i) of the Borrowers contained in Article V and each Loan Party contained in each other Loan Document, or in any document furnished at any time under or in connection herewith or therewith, that are qualified by materiality shall be true and correct on and as of the date of such Credit Extension, and (ii) of the Borrowers contained in Article V and each Loan Party contained in each other Loan Document, or in any document furnished at any time under or in connection herewith or therewith, that are not qualified by materiality shall be true and correct in all material respects on and as of the date of such Credit Extension, except in each case to the extent that such representations and warranties specifically refer to an earlier date, in which case they shall be true and correct as of such earlier date, and except that for purposes of this , the representations and warranties contained in subsections (a) and (b) of shall be deemed to refer to the most recent statements furnished pursuant to  and , respectively, of .
Section 4.02
Section 5.05
clauses (a)
(b)
Section 6.01
(b) No Default shall exist, or would result from such proposed Credit Extension or the application of the proceeds thereof.
(c) The Administrative Agent and, if applicable, the L/C Issuer or the Swing Line Lender shall have received a Request for Credit Extension in accordance with the requirements hereof.
 
(d) If the applicable Borrower is a Designated Borrower, then the conditions of to the designation of such Borrower as a Designated Borrower shall have been met to the satisfaction of the Administrative Agent.
Section 2.14
(e) In the case of a Credit Extension to be denominated in an Alternative Currency, there shall not have occurred any change in national or international financial, political or economic conditions or currency exchange rates or exchange controls which in the reasonable opinion of the Administrative Agent, the Required Lenders (in the case of any Loans to be denominated in an Alternative Currency) or the L/C Issuer (in the case of any Letter of Credit to be denominated in an Alternative Currency) would make it impracticable for such Credit Extension to be denominated in the relevant Alternative Currency.
Each Request for Credit Extension (other than a Committed Loan Notice requesting only a conversion of Committed Loans to the other Type or a continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Committed Loans) submitted by the Company shall be deemed to be a representation and warranty that the conditions specified in and  have been satisfied on and as of the date of the applicable Credit Extension.
Sections 4.02(a)
(b)
Except as otherwise provided in , each Borrower represents and warrants to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders that:
Section 5.18
Each Loan Party (a) is duly organized or formed, validly existing and, as applicable, in good standing under the Laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation or organization, (b) has all requisite power and authority and all requisite governmental licenses, authorizations, consents and approvals to (i) own or lease its assets and carry on its business and (ii) execute, deliver and perform its obligations under the Loan Documents to which it is a party, and (c) is duly qualified and is licensed and, as applicable, in good standing under the Laws of each jurisdiction where its ownership, lease or operation of properties or the conduct of its business requires such qualification or license; except in each case referred to in or , to the extent that failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
5.01 Existence, Qualification and Power.
clause (b)(i)
(c)
The execution, delivery and performance by each Loan Party of each Loan Document to which such Person is party, have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate or other organizational action, and do not and will not (a) contravene the terms of any of such Person's Organization Documents; (b) conflict with or result in any breach or contravention of, or the creation of any Lien under, or require any payment to be made under (i) any material Contractual Obligation to which such Person is a party or affecting such Person or the material properties of such Person or any of its Subsidiaries or (ii) any material order, injunction, writ or decree of any Governmental Authority or any arbitral award to which such Person or its property is subject; or (c) violate any Law applicable to the Loan Parties.
5.02 Authorization; No Contravention.
No approval, consent, exemption, authorization, or other action by, or notice to, or filing with, any Governmental Authority or any other Person is necessary or required in connection with the execution, delivery
5.03 Governmental Authorization; Other Consents.
 
or performance by, or enforcement against, any Loan Party of this Agreement or any other Loan Document.
This Agreement has been, and each other Loan Document, when delivered hereunder, will have been, duly executed and delivered by each Loan Party that is party thereto. This Agreement constitutes, and each other Loan Document when so delivered will constitute, a legal, valid and binding obligation of such Loan Party, enforceable against each Loan Party that is party thereto in accordance with its terms, subject to the effect of applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, arrangement, moratorium and other similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally and to the application of general principles of equity.
5.04 Binding Effect.
5.05 Financial Statements; No Material Adverse Effect.
(a) The Audited Financial Statements (i) were prepared in accordance with GAAP consistently applied throughout the period covered thereby, except as otherwise expressly noted therein; (ii) fairly present the financial condition of the Company and its Subsidiaries as of the date thereof and their results of operations for the period covered thereby in accordance with GAAP consistently applied throughout the period covered thereby, except as otherwise expressly noted therein; and (iii) show all material Indebtedness and other liabilities, direct or contingent, of the Company and its Subsidiaries as of the date thereof, including liabilities for taxes, material commitments and Indebtedness.
(b) The unaudited consolidated balance sheet of the Company and its Subsidiaries dated March 31, 2006 and the related consolidated statements of operations and cash flows for the fiscal quarter ended on that date (i) were prepared in accordance with GAAP consistently applied throughout the period covered thereby, except as otherwise expressly noted therein, and (ii) fairly present the financial condition of the Company and its Subsidiaries in all material respects as of the date thereof and their results of operations and cash flows for the period covered thereby, subject, in the case of  and , only to the absence of footnotes and to normal year-end audit adjustments.
clauses (i)
(ii)
(c) Since the date of the Audited Financial Statements, there has been no event or circumstance, either individually or in the aggregate, that has had or could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
There are no actions, suits, proceedings, investigations, claims or disputes pending or, to the knowledge of the Company after due and diligent investigation, threatened or contemplated, at law, in equity, in arbitration or before any Governmental Authority, by or against the Company or any of its Subsidiaries or against any of their properties or revenues that (a) purport to affect or pertain to this Agreement or any other Loan Document, or any of the transactions contemplated hereby, or (b) except as specifically disclosed in , either individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, and there has been no material adverse change in the status, or financial effect on any Loan Party or any Subsidiary thereof, of the matters described on .
5.06 Litigation.
Schedule 5.06
Schedule 5.06
Neither any Loan Party nor any Subsidiary thereof is in default under or with respect to any Contractual Obligation that could, either individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. No Default has occurred and is continuing or would result from the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or any other Loan Document.
5.07 No Default.
 
Each of the Company and each Subsidiary has good record and marketable title in fee simple to, or valid leasehold interests in, all real property necessary or used in the ordinary conduct of its business, except for such defects in title as could not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. The property of the Company and its Subsidiaries is subject to no Liens, other than Liens permitted by .
5.08 Ownership of Property; Liens.
Section 7.01
The Company and its Subsidiaries conduct in the ordinary course of business a review of the effect of existing Environmental Laws and claims alleging potential liability or responsibility for violation of any Environmental Law on their respective businesses, operations and properties, and as a result thereof the Company has reasonably concluded that, except as specifically disclosed in , such Environmental Laws and claims could not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
5.09 Environmental Compliance.
Schedule 5.09
The properties of the Company and its Subsidiaries are insured with financially sound and reputable insurance companies not Affiliates of the Company, in such amounts, with such deductibles and covering such risks as are reasonable and appropriate in view of the businesses conducted, and properties owned, by the Company and its Subsidiaries.
5.10 Insurance.
The Company and its Subsidiaries have filed all Federal, material state and other material tax returns and reports required to be filed, and have paid all Federal, material state and other material taxes, assessments, fees and other governmental charges levied or imposed upon them or their properties, income or assets otherwise due and payable, except those which are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted and for which adequate reserves have been provided in accordance with GAAP. There is no proposed tax assessment against the Company or any Subsidiary that would, if made, have a Material Adverse Effect. Neither any Loan Party nor any Subsidiary thereof is a party to any tax sharing agreement.
5.11 Taxes.
5.12 ERISA Compliance.
(a) Each Plan is in compliance in all material respects with the applicable provisions of ERISA, the Code and other Federal or state Laws. Each Plan that is intended to qualify under Section 401(a) of the Code has received a favorable determination letter from the IRS or an application for such a letter is currently being processed by the IRS with respect thereto and, to the best knowledge of the Company, nothing has occurred which would prevent, or cause the loss of, such qualification. The Company and each ERISA Affiliate have made all required contributions to each Plan subject to Section 412 of the Code, and no application for a funding waiver or an extension of any amortization period pursuant to Section 412 of the Code has been made with respect to any Plan, provided that any such contributions, applications for funding waivers, or extensions that have been made would not result in or could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
(b) There are no pending or, to the best knowledge of the Company, threatened claims, actions or lawsuits, or action by any Governmental Authority, with respect to any Plan that could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. There has been no prohibited transaction or violation of the fiduciary responsibility rules with respect to any Plan that has resulted or could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
 
(c) (i) No ERISA Event has occurred or is reasonably expected to occur; (ii) no Pension Plan has any Unfunded Pension Liability; (iii) neither the Company nor any ERISA Affiliate has incurred, or reasonably expects to incur, any liability under Title IV of ERISA with respect to any Pension Plan (other than premiums due and not delinquent under Section 4007 of ERISA); (iv) neither the Company nor any ERISA Affiliate has incurred, or reasonably expects to incur, any liability (and no event has occurred which, with the giving of notice under Section 4219 of ERISA, would result in such liability) under Section 4201 or 4243 of ERISA with respect to a Multiemployer Plan; and (v) neither the Company nor any ERISA Affiliate has engaged in a transaction that could be subject to Section 4069 or 4212(c) of ERISA, provided that in each of the preceding instances, the individual event described has resulted or could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
As of the Closing Date, the Company has no Material Domestic Subsidiaries other than those specifically disclosed in Part (a) of . As of the Closing Date, the Company has no equity investments in any other Person other than (i) those specifically disclosed in Part (b) of , and (ii) investments in Subsidiaries, and (iii) other equity Investments having a book value individually of less than $10,000,000.
5.13 Material Domestic Subsidiaries; Equity Interests.
Schedule 5.13
Schedule 5.13
5.14 Margin Regulations; Investment Company Act.
(a) No Borrower is engaged or will engage, principally or as one of its important activities, in the business of purchasing or carrying margin stock (within the meaning of Regulation U issued by the FRB), or extending credit for the purpose of purchasing or carrying margin stock.
(b) None of the Company, any Person Controlling the Company, or any Subsidiary is or is required to be registered as an "investment company" under the Investment Company Act of 1940.
No statement (whether written or oral) made by any Loan Party to the Administrative Agent or any Lender in connection with this transactions contemplated hereby and the negotiation of this Agreement or delivered hereunder or under any other Loan Document (in each case, as modified or supplemented by other information so furnished), when taken as a whole, contains any untrue statement of a material fact or omits a material fact necessary to make the statement made, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; that, with respect to projected financial information, each Loan Party represents only that such information was prepared in good faith based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable at the time such projected financial information was prepared; it being recognized by the Administrative Agent and the Lenders that such financial information as it relates to future events is not to be viewed as fact and that actual results for the periods covered may differ from the projected results set forth therein.
5.15 Disclosure.
provided
Each Loan Party and each Subsidiary thereof is in compliance in all material respects with the requirements of all Laws and all orders, writs, injunctions and decrees applicable to it or to its properties, except in such instances in which (a) such requirement of Law or order, writ, injunction or decree is being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted or (b) the failure to comply therewith, either individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
5.16 Compliance with Laws.
 
The true and correct U.S. taxpayer identification number of the Company is set forth on .
5.17 Taxpayer Identification Number; Other Identifying Information.
Schedule 10.02
The Company and its Subsidiaries own, or possess the right to use, all of the trademarks, service marks, trade names, copyrights, patents, patent rights, franchises, licenses and other intellectual property rights (collectively, "") that are reasonably necessary for the operation of their respective businesses, without conflict with the rights of any other Person, except where the failure to own or possess the right to use any such IP Rights would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. To the Actual Knowledge of the Company, no slogan or other advertising device, product, process, method, substance, part or other material now employed, or now contemplated to be employed, by the Company or any Subsidiary infringes upon any rights held by any other Person except where such infringement would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. No claim or litigation regarding any of the foregoing is pending or, to the best knowledge of the Company, threatened, which, either individually or in the aggregate, would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
5.18 Intellectual Property; Licenses, Etc.
IP Rights
Each Loan Party is, and upon the incurrence of any Obligation by such Loan Party on any date on which this representation and warranty is made will be, Solvent.
5.19 Solvency.
Each of the Company and each Foreign Obligor represents and warrants to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders that:
5.20 Representations as to Foreign Obligors.
(a) Such Foreign Obligor is subject to civil and commercial Laws with respect to its obligations under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents to which it is a party (collectively as to such Foreign Obligor, the ""), and the execution, delivery and performance by such Foreign Obligor of the Applicable Foreign Obligor Documents constitute and will constitute private and commercial acts and not public or governmental acts. Neither such Foreign Obligor nor any of its property has any immunity from jurisdiction of any court or from any legal process (whether through service or notice, attachment prior to judgment, attachment in aid of execution, execution or otherwise) under the laws of the jurisdiction in which such Foreign Obligor is organized and existing in respect of its obligations under the Applicable Foreign Obligor Documents.
Applicable Foreign Obligor Documents
(b) The Applicable Foreign Obligor Documents are in proper legal form under the Laws of the jurisdiction in which such Foreign Obligor is organized and existing for the enforcement thereof against such Foreign Obligor under the Laws of such jurisdiction, and to ensure the legality, validity, enforceability, priority or admissibility in evidence of the Applicable Foreign Obligor Documents. It is not necessary to ensure the legality, validity, enforceability, priority or admissibility in evidence of the Applicable Foreign Obligor Documents that the Applicable Foreign Obligor Documents be filed, registered or recorded with, or executed or notarized before, any court or other authority in the jurisdiction in which such Foreign Obligor is organized and existing or that any registration charge or stamp or similar tax be paid on or in respect of the Applicable Foreign Obligor Documents or any other document, except for (i) any such filing, registration, recording, execution or notarization as has been made or is not required to be made until the Applicable Foreign Obligor Document or any other document is sought to be enforced and (ii) any charge or tax as has been timely paid.
(c) The execution, delivery and performance of the Applicable Foreign Obligor Documents executed by such Foreign Obligor are, under applicable foreign exchange control
 
regulations of the jurisdiction in which such Foreign Obligor is organized and existing, not subject to any notification or authorization except (i) such as have been made or obtained or (ii) such as cannot be made or obtained until a later date ( that any notification or authorization described in  shall be made or obtained as soon as is reasonably practicable).
provided
clause (ii)
So long as any Lender shall have any Commitment hereunder, any Loan or other Obligation hereunder shall remain unpaid or unsatisfied, or any Letter of Credit shall remain outstanding, the Company shall, and shall (except in the case of the covenants set forth in , , and ) cause each Subsidiary to:
Sections 6.01
6.02
6.03
Deliver to the Administrative Agent and each Lender, in form and detail satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and the Required Lenders:
6.01 Financial Statements.
(a) as soon as available, but in any event within 90 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Company, a consolidated balance sheet of the Company and its Subsidiaries as at the end of such fiscal year, and the related consolidated statements of operations, stockholders' equity and cash flows for such fiscal year, setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the previous fiscal year, all in reasonable detail and prepared in accordance with GAAP, audited and accompanied by (i) a report and opinion of KPMG LLP or another Registered Public Accounting Firm of nationally recognized standing reasonably acceptable to the Required Lenders, which report and opinion shall be prepared in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards and applicable Securities Laws and shall not be subject to any "going concern" or like qualification or exception or any qualification or exception as to the scope of such audit or with respect to the absence of any material misstatement and (ii) an attestation report of such Registered Public Accounting Firm on management's assessment of the Company's internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Item 308 of SEC Regulation S-K, PCAOB Auditing Standard No. 2, and Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley; and
(b) as soon as available, but in any event within 45 days after the end of each of the first three fiscal quarters of each fiscal year of the Company, a consolidated balance sheet of the Company and its Subsidiaries as at the end of such fiscal quarter, and the related consolidated statements of operations and cash flows for such fiscal quarter and for the portion of the Company's fiscal year then ended, setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the corresponding fiscal quarter of the previous fiscal year and the corresponding portion of the previous fiscal year, all in reasonable detail, certified by the chief executive officer or chief financial officer of the Company as fairly presenting in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the Company and its Subsidiaries in accordance with GAAP, subject only to normal year-end audit adjustments and the absence of footnotes.
As to any information contained in materials furnished pursuant to , the Company shall not be separately required to furnish such information under or  above, but the foregoing shall not be in derogation of the obligation of the Company to furnish the information and materials described in  and  above at the times specified therein.
Section 6.02(c)
clause (a)
(b)
clauses (a)
(b)
 
Deliver to the Administrative Agent and each Lender, in form and detail satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and the Required Lenders:
6.02 Certificates; Other Information.
(a) concurrently with the delivery of the financial statements referred to in , a certificate of the Registered Public Accounting Firm certifying such financial statements and stating that in making the examination necessary therefor no knowledge was obtained of any Default under the financial covenants set forth in or, if any such Default shall exist, stating the nature and status of such event;
Section 6.01(a)
Section 7.11
(b) concurrently with the delivery of the financial statements referred to in and , a duly completed Compliance Certificate signed by the Responsible Officer of the Company;
Sections 6.01(a)
(b)
(c) promptly after the same are available, copies of each annual report, proxy or financial statement or other report or communication sent to the stockholders of the Company, and copies of all annual, regular, periodic and special reports and registration statements which the Company may file or be required to file with the SEC under Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, and not otherwise required to be delivered to the Administrative Agent pursuant hereto; and
(d) promptly, such additional information regarding the business, financial or corporate affairs of the Company or any Subsidiary, or compliance with the terms of the Loan Documents, as the Administrative Agent or any Lender may from time to time reasonably request.
Documents required to be delivered pursuant to or  or (to the extent any such documents are included in materials otherwise filed with the SEC) may be delivered electronically and if so delivered, shall be deemed to have been delivered on the date (i) on which the Company posts such documents, or provides a link thereto on the Company's website on the Internet at the website address listed on ; or (ii) on which such documents are posted on the Company's behalf on an Internet or intranet website, if any, to which each Lender and the Administrative Agent have access (whether a commercial, third-party website or whether sponsored by the Administrative Agent); that: (i) the Company shall deliver paper copies of such documents to the Administrative Agent or any Lender that requests the Company to deliver such paper copies until a written request to cease delivering paper copies is given by the Administrative Agent or such Lender and (ii) the Company shall notify the Administrative Agent and each Lender (by telecopier or electronic mail) of the posting of any such documents and provide to the Administrative Agent by electronic mail electronic versions (, soft copies) of such documents. Notwithstanding anything contained herein, in every instance the Company shall be required to provide paper copies of the Compliance Certificates required by to the Administrative Agent. Except for such Compliance Certificates, the Administrative Agent shall have no obligation to request the delivery or to maintain copies of the documents referred to above, and in any event shall have no responsibility to monitor compliance by the Company with any such request for delivery, and each Lender shall be solely responsible for requesting delivery to it or maintaining its copies of such documents.
Section 6.01(a)
(b)
Section 6.02(c)
Schedule 10.02
provided
i.e.
Section 6.02(b)
Each Borrower hereby acknowledges that (a) the Administrative Agent and/or the Arranger will make available to the Lenders and the L/C Issuer materials and/or information provided by or on behalf of such Borrower hereunder (collectively, "") by
Borrower Materials
 
posting the Borrower Materials on IntraLinks or another similar electronic system (the "") and (b) certain of the Lenders may be "public-side" Lenders ( Lenders that do not wish to receive material non-public information with respect to any Borrower or its securities) (each, a ""). Each Borrower hereby agrees that (w) all Borrower Materials that are to be made available to Public Lenders shall be clearly and conspicuously marked "PUBLIC" which, at a minimum, shall mean that the word "PUBLIC" shall appear prominently on the first page thereof; (x) by marking Borrower Materials "PUBLIC," the Borrowers shall be deemed to have authorized the Administrative Agent, the Arranger, the L/C Issuer and the Lenders to treat such Borrower Materials as not containing any material non-public information with respect to the Borrowers or their respective securities for purposes of United States Federal and state securities laws (, , that to the extent such Borrower Materials constitute Information, they shall be treated as set forth in Section ); (y) all Borrower Materials marked "PUBLIC" are permitted to be made available through a portion of the Platform designated "Public Investor;" and only Borrower Materials marked "PUBLIC" shall be made available through the portion of the Platform designated "Public Investor;" and (z) the Administrative Agent and the Arranger shall be entitled to treat any Borrower Materials that are not marked "PUBLIC" as being suitable only for posting on a portion of the Platform not designated "Public Investor." Notwithstanding the foregoing, no Borrower shall be under any obligation to mark any Borrower Materials "PUBLIC."
Platform
i.e.,
Public Lender
provided
however
10.07
Promptly after the Company's obtaining Actual Knowledge thereofnotify the Administrative Agent and each Lender:
6.03 Notices.
,
(a) of the occurrence of any Default;
(b) of any matter that has resulted or could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect, including any such matter consisting of or involving (i) breach or non-performance of, or any default under, a Contractual Obligation of the Company or any Subsidiary; (ii) any dispute, litigation, investigation, proceeding or suspension between the Company or any Subsidiary and any Governmental Authority; or (iii) the commencement of, or any material development in, any litigation or proceeding affecting the Company or any Subsidiary, including pursuant to any applicable Environmental Laws;
(c) of the occurrence of any ERISA Event that has resulted in or could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect;
(d) of any material change in accounting policies or financial reporting practices by the Company or any Subsidiary which requirement shall be deemed satisfied by disclosure of any such change on a Form 10-Q, 10-K or 8-K filed by the Company with the SEC; and
(e) of the determination by the Registered Public Accounting Firm providing the opinion required under (in connection with its preparation of such opinion) or the Company's determination at any time of the occurrence or existence of any Internal Control Event that has resulted in or would reasonably be expected to result in a misstatement in any material respect, in any financial information delivered or to be delivered to the Administrative Agent or the Lenders, of (i) covenant compliance calculations provided hereunder or (ii) the assets, liabilities, financial condition or results of operations of the Company and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis.
Section 6.01(a)(ii)
 
Each notice pursuant to this shall be accompanied by a statement of a Responsible Officer of the Company setting forth details of the occurrence referred to therein and stating what action the Company has taken and proposes to take with respect thereto. Each notice pursuant to shall describe with particularity any and all provisions of this Agreement and any other Loan Document that have been breached.
Section 6.03
Section 6.03(a)
Pay and discharge as the same shall become due and payable, all its material obligations and material liabilities, including (a) all material tax liabilities, assessments and governmental charges or levies upon it or its properties or assets, unless the same are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and adequate reserves in accordance with GAAP are being maintained by the Company or such Subsidiary; (b) all lawful material claims which, if unpaid, would by law become a Lien upon its property (other than Liens permitted under ); and (c) all Indebtedness, as and when due and payable, but subject to any subordination provisions contained in any instrument or agreement evidencing such Indebtedness.
6.04 Payment of Obligations.
Section 7.01
(a) Preserve, renew and maintain in full force and effect its legal existence and good standing under the Laws of the jurisdiction of its organization except in a transaction permitted by or ; (b) take all reasonable action to maintain all rights, privileges, permits, licenses and franchises necessary or desirable in the normal conduct of its business, except to the extent that failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect; and (c) preserve or renew all of its registered patents, trademarks, trade names and service marks, the non-preservation of which could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
6.05 Preservation of Existence, Etc.
Section 7.04
7.05
(a) Maintain, preserve and protect all of its material properties and equipment necessary in the operation of its business in good working order and condition, ordinary wear and tear excepted ( that the foregoing shall not prohibit any Disposition of property permitted in ; and (b) make all necessary repairs thereto and renewals and replacements thereof except where the failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
6.06 Maintenance of Properties.
provided
Article VII)
Maintain with financially sound and reputable insurance companies not Affiliates in such amounts, with such deductibles and covering such risks as are reasonable and appropriate in view of the businesses conducted and properties owned by the Company and its Subsidiaries.
6.07 Maintenance of Insurance.
Comply in all material respects with the requirements of all Laws and all orders, writs, injunctions and decrees applicable to it or to its business or property, except in such instances in which (a) such requirement of Law or order, writ, injunction or decree is being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted; or (b) the failure to comply therewith could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
6.08 Compliance with Laws.
(a) Maintain proper books of record and account in conformity with GAAP consistently applied of all financial transactions involving the assets and business of the Company or such Subsidiary, as the case may be, and (b) maintain such books of record and account in material conformity with all applicable requirements of any Governmental Authority having regulatory jurisdiction over the Company or such Subsidiary, as the case may be.
6.09 Books and Records.
 
Permit representatives and independent contractors of the Administrative Agent and each Lender to visit and inspect any of its properties, to examine its corporate, financial and operating records, and make copies thereof or abstracts therefrom, and to discuss its affairs, finances and accounts with its directors, officers, and independent public accountants, all at such reasonable times and upon reasonable prior notice and during normal business hours, upon reasonable advance notice to the Company; , , that when an Event of Default exists the Administrative Agent or any Lender (or any of their respective representatives or independent contractors) may do any of the foregoing at the expense of the Company at any time during normal business hours, without advance notice.
6.10 Inspection Rights.
provided
however
Use the proceeds of the Credit Extensions for any purposes other than (i) for working capital, capital expenditures and other lawful purposes; (ii) to finance Permitted Acquisitions and repurchases of Equity Interests of the Company; and (iii) to refinance the Existing Credit Agreement, in each case not in contravention of any Law or any Loan Document.
6.11 Use of Proceeds.
Maintain all authorizations, consents, approvals and licenses from, exemptions of, and filings and registrations with, each Governmental Authority of the jurisdiction in which each Foreign Obligor is organized and existing, and all approvals and consents of each other Person in such jurisdiction, in each case that are required in connection with the Loan Documents.
6.12 Approvals and Authorizations.
(a) Notify the Administrative Agent at the time that any Person becomes a Material Domestic Subsidiary of the Company, and promptly thereafter (and in any event within 30 days), cause such Person to (a) become a Subsidiary Guarantor by executing and delivering to the Administrative Agent a counterpart of the Subsidiary Guaranty or such other document as the Administrative Agent shall deem appropriate for such purpose, and (b) deliver to the Administrative Agent documents of the types referred to in  and  of and favorable, customary opinions of counsel to such Person (which shall cover, among other things, the legality, validity, binding effect and enforceability of the documentation referred to in ), all in form, content and scope reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent.
6.13 Additional Subsidiary Guarantors.
clauses (iii)
(iv)
Section 4.01(a)
clause (a)
So long as any Lender shall have any Commitment hereunder, any Loan or other Obligation hereunder shall remain unpaid or unsatisfied, or any Letter of Credit shall remain outstanding, the Company shall not, nor shall it permit any Subsidiary to, directly or indirectly:
Create, incur, assume or suffer to exist any Lien upon any of its property, assets or revenues, whether now owned or hereafter acquired, other than the following:
7.01 Liens.
(a) Liens pursuant to any Loan Document;
(b) Liens for taxes not yet due or which are being contested in good faith and by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted, if adequate reserves with respect thereto are maintained on the books of the applicable Person in accordance with GAAP;
 
(c) carriers', warehousemen's, mechanics', materialmen's, repairmen's or other like Liens arising in the ordinary course of business which are not overdue for a period of more than 30 days or which are being contested in good faith and by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted, if adequate reserves with respect thereto are maintained on the books of the applicable Person;
(d) pledges or deposits in the ordinary course of business in connection with workers' compensation, unemployment insurance and other social security legislation, other than any Lien imposed by ERISA;
(e) deposits to secure the performance of bids, trade contracts and leases (other than Indebtedness), statutory obligations, surety and appeal bonds (other than bonds related to judgments or litigation), performance bonds and other obligations of a like nature incurred in the ordinary course of business;
(f) easements, rights-of-way, restrictions and other similar encumbrances affecting real property which, in the aggregate, are not substantial in amount, and which do not in any case materially detract from the value of the property subject thereto or materially interfere with the ordinary conduct of the business of the applicable Person;
(g) Liens securing Indebtedness permitted under , that (i) the principal amount of such Indebtedness does not exceed 100% of the cost of purchasing or developing such property and related expenses and (ii) such Liens do not at any time encumber any property other than the property financed by such Indebtedness;
Section 7.03(c)
provided
(h) Liens existing on any real property or other specific tangible assets prior to the acquisition thereof by the Company or any Subsidiary or existing on any such property or asset of any Person that becomes a Subsidiary, that (i) such Lien is not created in connection with, or in anticipation of, such acquisition or such Person becoming a Subsidiary, as the case may be; (ii) such Lien shall not apply to any other property or assets of the Company or Subsidiary; and (iii) any such Lien does not by its terms secure any Indebtedness other than Indebtedness existing immediately prior to the time of such acquisition or such Person becoming a Subsidiary, as the case may be;
provided
(i) Liens securing judgments for the payment of money not constituting an Event of Default under or securing appeal or other surety bonds related to such judgments;
Section 8.01(h)
(j) Liens securing Priority Debt permitted under ;
Section 7.03(e)
(k) Liens arising under repurchase agreements, reverse repurchase agreements, securities lending and borrowing agreements and similar transactions;
(l) Liens arising from precautionary filings in respect of operating leases;
(m) Liens arising from leases, licenses, subleases or sublicenses granted to others in the ordinary course of business which do not (A) interfere in any material respect with the business of the Company or any Subsidiary or (B) secure any Indebtedness; and
 
(n) Liens on cash collateral or government securities to secure obligations under Swap Contracts and letters of credit, that the aggregate value of such collateral so pledged by the Company and its Subsidiaries does not at any time exceed $30,000,000 in the aggregate.
provided
Make any Investments, except:
7.02 Investments.
(a) Investments held by the Company or such Subsidiary in the form of cash equivalents or readily marketable, investment grade debt securities;
(b) advances to officers, directors and employees of the Company and Subsidiaries for travel, entertainment, relocation and similar ordinary business purposes;
(c) (i) Investments of the Company in any Subsidiary; and (ii) Investments of any Subsidiary in the Company or any other Subsidiary;
(d) Investments consisting of extensions of credit in the nature of accounts receivable or notes receivable arising from the grant of trade credit in the ordinary course of business, and Investments received in satisfaction or partial satisfaction thereof from financially troubled account debtors;
(e) Guarantees permitted by ;
Section 7.03
(f) Acquisitions which constitute Permitted Acquisitions;
(g) Investments in Permitted Joint Ventures, provided, that at the time of such Investment, no Default shall exist or result therefrom;
(h) Investments constituting Swap Contracts or payments or advances permitted hereunder; and
(i) other Investments (exclusive of Investments specifically described in  through , that at the time of such Investment, no Default shall exist or result therefrom.
clauses (a)
(h)
provided
Create, incur, assume or suffer to exist any Priority Debt, except:
7.03 Indebtedness.
(a) Indebtedness under the Loan Documents;
(b) obligations (contingent or otherwise) of the Company or any Subsidiary under any Swap Contract in connection with any currency or foreign exchange transaction, provided that such obligations are (or were) entered into by such Person in the ordinary course of business for the purpose of directly mitigating risks associated with such transactions and not for purposes of speculation;
(c) Indebtedness in respect of capital leases, Synthetic Lease Obligations, purchase money obligations and other obligations, the proceeds of which are used to acquire or construct fixed or capital assets or improvements with respect thereto within the limitations set forth in or any refinancings, refundings, renewals, amendments or extensions thereof, that the amount of such Indebtedness is not increased at the time of such refinancing, refunding, renewal, amendment or extension except by an amount equal to a reasonable premium
Section 7.01(g)
provided
 
or other reasonable amount paid, and fees and expenses reasonably incurred, in connection with such refinancing;
(d) Indebtedness secured by Liens permitted by or any refinancings, refundings, renewals, amendments or extensions thereof, that the amount of such Indebtedness is not increased at the time of such refinancing, refunding, renewal, amendment or extension except by an amount equal to a reasonable premium or other reasonable amount paid, and fees and expenses reasonably incurred, in connection with such refinancing; and that neither the Company nor any Subsidiary (other than a Person acquired as part of any Permitted Acquisition) is directly or indirectly liable for such Indebtedness, whether through any Guarantee or otherwise, other than liability with respect to which recourse is limited to the property or assets so acquired (or Investment in the Person so acquired); and
Section 7.01(h)
provided
provided further
(e) Priority Debt not exceeding $200,000,000 in aggregate principal amount at any time outstanding.
Merge, dissolve, liquidate, consolidate with or into another Person, or Dispose of (whether in one transaction or in a series of transactions) all or substantially all of its assets (whether now owned or hereafter acquired) to or in favor of any Person, except that, so long as no Default exists or would result therefrom:
7.04 Fundamental Changes.
(a) (i) any Subsidiary may merge with the Company, that the Company shall be the continuing or surviving Person, and (ii) any Subsidiary of the Company many merge with any one or more Subsidiaries of the Borrower, that (A) when any Subsidiary Guarantor is merging with or into another Subsidiary, the Subsidiary Guarantor shall be the continuing or surviving Person or the surviving Person shall become a Subsidiary Guarantor in accordance with, and within the time period specified in, , and (B) when any Domestic Subsidiary is merging with or into a Foreign Subsidiary, the Domestic Subsidiary shall be the continuing or surviving Person;
provided
provided
Section 6.13
(b) any Subsidiary may Dispose of all or substantially all of its assets (upon voluntary liquidation or otherwise), (i) to the Company or to another Subsidiary; that if the seller in such a transaction is a Subsidiary Guarantor then the purchaser must be the Company or a Subsidiary Guarantor or the purchaser must (to the extent required by as a result of such transaction) become a Subsidiary Guarantor in accordance with, and within the time period specified in, , or (ii) as part of any other Disposition otherwise permitted by and
provided
Section 6.13
Section 6.13
Section 7.05;
(c) the Company or any of its Subsidiaries may make any Investment permitted by .
Section 7.02
Make any Disposition or enter into any agreement to make any Disposition, except:
7.05 Dispositions.
(a) Dispositions of obsolete or worn out property or property no longer used or useful in the business, whether now owned or hereafter acquired;
(b) Dispositions of inventory in the ordinary course of business and immaterial assets;
 
(c) Dispositions of equipment or real property to the extent that (i) such property is exchanged for credit against the purchase price of similar replacement property or (ii) the proceeds of such Disposition are reasonably promptly applied to the purchase price of such replacement property;
(d) Dispositions of property by the Company to any Subsidiary or by any Subsidiary to the Company or to any other Subsidiary;
(e) non-exclusive licenses of IP Rights;
(f) Dispositions of investment securities held for investment purposes in the ordinary course of business;
(g) Dispositions pursuant to true leases;
(h) Dispositions of cash equivalents;
(i) Dispositions of accounts receivable in connection with the collection or compromise thereof;
(j) Dispositions pursuant to Investments permitted by ;
Section 7.02
(k) Dispositions if at least 75% of the proceeds therefrom shall be in the form of cash and the net cash proceeds shall be reinvested in additional assets (whether in an Acquisition or otherwise), that (A) any reinvestment of proceeds shall be effected within 180 days of receipt of such proceeds (the ""), (B) the Company shall determine in good faith that the Disposition is for Fair Market Value and is in the best interest of the Company, and (C) immediately after the consummation of the transaction and after giving effect thereto, no Default would exist; and
provided
Reinvestment Period
(l) other Dispositions of assets (whether consummated in a single transaction or a series of related transactions) if all of the following conditions are met with respect to such Dispositions: (A)(i) the assets (valued at book value), in the aggregate, which are the subject of such Dispositions consummated in any fiscal year (the ""), do not constitute a Substantial Portion, or (ii) the revenues of the Subsidiaries, divisions and business units which are the subject of such Dispositions consummated in any fiscal year (the ""), in the aggregate, do not constitute a Substantial Portion, (B) the Company shall determine in good faith that the sale is for Fair Market Value and is in the best interest of the Company, and (C) immediately after the consummation of the transaction and after giving effect thereto, no Default would exist;
Disposition Assets
Disposition Revenues
, , except as provided in , no Disposition shall include accounts or notes receivable, unless in connection with the Disposition of all or substantially all of a business unit, division or Subsidiary of the Company and such Disposition is otherwise permitted hereunder.
provided
however
clause (i)
Declare or make, directly or indirectly, any Restricted Payments, or incur any obligation (contingent or otherwise) to do so, except that, so long as no Default shall have occurred and be continuing at the time of any action described below or would
7.06 Restricted Payments.
 
result therefrom, in the ordinary course of the business needs of the Company and its Subsidiaries:
(a) each Subsidiary may make Restricted Payments to the Company, the Subsidiary Guarantors and any other Person that owns an Equity Interest in such Subsidiary, ratably according to their respective holdings of the type of Equity Interest in respect of which such Restricted Payment is being made;
(b) the Company and each Subsidiary may declare and make dividend payments or other distributions payable solely in the common stock or other common Equity Interests of such Person;
(c) the Company and each Subsidiary may purchase, redeem or otherwise acquire Equity Interests issued by it with the proceeds received from the substantially concurrent issue of new shares of its common stock or other common Equity Interests; and
(d) the Company may (i) declare or pay cash dividends to its stockholders and (ii) purchase, redeem or otherwise acquire for cash Equity Interests issued by it.
Engage in any material line of business substantially different from those lines of business conducted by the Company and its Subsidiaries on the Closing Date or any business substantially similar, related or complementary thereto.
7.07 Change in Nature of Business.
Enter into any transaction of any kind with any Affiliate of the Company, whether or not in the ordinary course of business, other than on fair and reasonable terms substantially as favorable to the Company or such Subsidiary as would be obtainable by the Company or such Subsidiary at the time in a comparable arm's length transaction with a Person other than an Affiliate (or on terms required to comply with applicable Tax laws), except for:
7.08 Transactions with Affiliates.
(a) transactions approved by a majority of the disinterested members of the board of directors of the Company or a duly constituted committee thereof;
(b) the payment of fees, expenses and compensation to officers and directors of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries (including in the nature of the fees and compensation described in the Company's 2005 proxy statement) and indemnification agreements entered into by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries;
(c) transactions between the Company and one or more Subsidiaries; or between two or more Subsidiaries;
(d) the issuance of equity to officers or directors of the Company or any Subsidiary in accordance with employee benefit plans; and
(e) employment and severance arrangements with officers and employees.
Enter into any Contractual Obligation (other than this Agreement or any other Loan Document) that limits in any material respect the ability (i) of any Subsidiary to make Restricted Payments to the Company or any Subsidiary Guarantor or to
7.09 Burdensome Agreements.
 
otherwise transfer property to the Company or any Subsidiary Guarantor, (ii) of any Subsidiary to Guarantee the Indebtedness of the Company or (iii) of the Company or any Subsidiary to create, incur, assume or suffer to exist Liens (other than Liens permitted under ) on property of such Person, that the foregoing ,  and  shall not apply to Contractual Obligations which:
Section 7.01
provided
clauses (i)
(ii)
(iii)
(a) are binding on a Subsidiary at the time such Subsidiary first becomes a Subsidiary, so long as such Contractual Obligations were not entered into solely in contemplation of such Person becoming a Subsidiary;
(b) represent or secure Indebtedness of a Subsidiary that is not a Domestic Subsidiary;
(c) are customary provisions in joint venture agreements and other similar agreements applicable to joint ventures (to the extent permitted under ) and applicable solely to such joint venture;
Section 7.02
(d) are negative pledges and restrictions on Liens in favor of any holder of Indebtedness permitted under but solely to the extent any negative pledge relates to the property financed by or the subject of such Indebtedness,
Section 7.03
(e) restrictions imposed pursuant to an agreement that has been entered into in connection with a transaction permitted pursuant to ;
Section 7.08
(f) are customary restrictions on leases, subleases, licenses or asset sale agreements otherwise permitted hereby so long as such restrictions relate to the assets subject thereto;
(g) comprise restrictions imposed by any agreement relating to secured Indebtedness permitted pursuant to to the extent that such restrictions apply only to the property or assets securing such Indebtedness; or
Section 7.03
(h) are customary provisions restricting subletting or assignment of any lease governing a leasehold interest of the Company or any Subsidiary.
Use the proceeds of any Credit Extension, whether directly or indirectly, and whether immediately, incidentally or ultimately, to purchase or carry margin stock (within the meaning of Regulation U of the FRB) or to extend credit to others for the purpose of purchasing or carrying margin stock or to refund indebtedness originally incurred for such purpose.
7.10 Use of Proceeds.
7.11 Financial Covenants.
(a) . Permit the Consolidated Interest Coverage Ratio as of the end of any fiscal quarter of the Company to be less than 2.50 to 1.00.
Consolidated Interest Coverage Ratio
(b) . Permit the Consolidated Leverage Ratio at any time during any period of four fiscal quarters of the Company to be greater than 3.00 to 1.00.
Consolidated Leverage Ratio
 
Any of the following shall constitute an Event of Default:
8.01 Events of Default.
(a) . Any Borrower or any other Loan Party fails to pay (i) when and as required to be paid herein, and in the currency required hereunder, any amount of principal of any Loan, or (ii) within three Business Days after the same becomes due, any L/C Obligation, any interest on any Loan or on any L/C Obligation, or any fee due hereunder, or (iii) within three Business Days after the same becomes due, any other amount payable hereunder or under any other Loan Document; or
Non-Payment
(b) . The Company fails to perform or observe any term, covenant or agreement contained in any of , , , or or ; or
Specific Covenants
Section 6.01
6.02
6.05
6.11
6.13
Article VII
(c) . Any Loan Party fails to perform or observe any other covenant or agreement (not specified in subsection (a) or (b) above) contained in any Loan Document on its part to be performed or observed and such failure continues for 30 days after the earlier of (i) a Responsible Officer of the Company or such Loan Party having Actual Knowledge of such Default or (ii) the receipt by the Company and such Loan Party of notice from the Administrative Agent or any Lender of such Default; or
Other Defaults
(d) . Any representation, warranty, certification or statement of fact made or deemed made by or on behalf of the Company or any other Loan Party herein, in any other Loan Document, or in any document delivered in connection herewith or therewith shall be incorrect or misleading in any material respect when made or deemed made; or
Representations and Warranties
(e) . (i) The Company or any Subsidiary (A) fails to make any payment when due (whether by scheduled maturity, required prepayment, acceleration, demand, or otherwise) in respect of any Indebtedness or Guarantee (other than Indebtedness hereunder and Indebtedness under Swap Contracts) having an aggregate principal amount (including undrawn committed amounts and including amounts owing to all creditors under any combined or syndicated credit arrangement) of more than the Threshold Amount, after giving effect to any applicable grace period, if any, specified in the agreement or instrument relating to such Indebtedness or Guarantee, or (B) fails to observe or perform any other agreement or condition relating to any such Indebtedness or Guarantee or contained in any instrument or agreement evidencing, securing or relating thereto, after giving effect to any applicable grace period, if any, specified in the agreement or instrument relating to such Indebtedness or Guarantee, or any other event occurs, the effect of which default or other event is to cause, or to permit the holder or holders of such Indebtedness or the beneficiary or beneficiaries of such Guarantee (or a trustee or agent on behalf of such holder or holders or beneficiary or beneficiaries) to cause, with the giving of notice if required, such Indebtedness to be demanded or to become due or to be repurchased, prepaid, defeased or redeemed (automatically or otherwise), or an offer to repurchase, prepay, defease or redeem such Indebtedness to be made, prior to its stated maturity, or such Guarantee to become payable or cash collateral in respect thereof to be demanded; or (ii) there occurs under any Swap Contract an Early Termination Date (as defined in such Swap Contract) resulting from (A) any event of default under such Swap Contract as to which the Company or any Subsidiary is the Defaulting Party (as defined in such Swap Contract) and the Swap Termination Value owed by the Company or such Subsidiary as a result thereof is greater than the Threshold Amount, or (B) any Termination Event (as so defined) under such Swap
Cross-Default
 
Contract as to which the Company or any Subsidiary is an Affected Party (as so defined) and (1) the Swap Termination Value owed by the Company or such Subsidiary as a result thereof is greater than the Threshold Amount, and (2) the Company or such Subsidiary shall fail to make payment thereof within the later to occur of five Business Days after the due date thereof and the expiration of any grace periods in such Swap Contract applicable to such payment obligation; or
(f) . Any Loan Party or any of its Subsidiaries institutes or consents to the institution of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law, or makes an assignment for the benefit of creditors; or applies for or consents to the appointment of any receiver, trustee, custodian, conservator, liquidator, rehabilitator or similar officer for it or for all or any material part of its property; or any receiver, trustee, custodian, conservator, liquidator, rehabilitator or similar officer is appointed without the application or consent of such Person and the appointment continues undischarged or unstayed for 60 calendar days; or any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law relating to any such Person or to all or any material part of its property is instituted without the consent of such Person and continues undismissed or unstayed for 60 calendar days, or an order for relief is entered in any such proceeding; or
Insolvency Proceedings, Etc
(g) . (i) The Company or any Subsidiary becomes unable or admits in writing its inability or fails generally to pay its debts as they become due, or (ii) any writ or warrant of attachment or execution or similar process is issued or levied against all or any material part of the property of any such Person and is not released, vacated or fully bonded within 30 days after its issue or levy; or
Inability to Pay Debts; Attachment
(h) . There is entered against the Company or any Subsidiary (i) one or more final judgments or orders for the payment of money in an aggregate amount (as to all such judgments or orders) exceeding the Threshold Amount (to the extent not covered by independent third-party insurance as to which the insurer does not dispute coverage), or (ii) any one or more non-monetary final judgments that have, or could reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect and, in either case, (A) enforcement proceedings are commenced by any creditor upon such judgment or order, or (B) there is a period of 30 consecutive calendar days during which a stay of enforcement of such judgment, by reason of a pending appeal or otherwise, is not in effect; or
Judgments
(i) . (i) An ERISA Event occurs with respect to a Pension Plan or Multiemployer Plan which has resulted or could reasonably be expected to result in liability of the Company under Title IV of ERISA to the Pension Plan, Multiemployer Plan or the PBGC in an aggregate amount in excess of the Threshold Amount, or (ii) the Company or any ERISA Affiliate fails to pay when due, after the expiration of any applicable grace period, any installment payment with respect to its withdrawal liability under Section 4201 of ERISA under a Multiemployer Plan in an aggregate amount in excess of the Threshold Amount; or
ERISA
(j) . Any Loan Document, at any time after its execution and delivery and for any reason other than as expressly permitted hereunder or thereunder or satisfaction in full of all the Obligations, ceases to be in full force and effect; or any Loan Party or any other Person contests in any manner the validity or enforceability of any Loan Document; or any Loan Party denies that it has any or further liability or obligation under any Loan Document, or purports to revoke, terminate or rescind any Loan Document; or
Invalidity of Loan Documents
(k) . There occurs any Change of Control.
Change of Control
 
If any Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Administrative Agent shall, at the request of, or may, with the consent of, the Required Lenders, take any or all of the following actions:
8.02 Remedies Upon Event of Default.
(a) declare the commitment of each Lender to make Loans and any obligation of the L/C Issuer to make L/C Credit Extensions to be terminated, whereupon such commitments and obligation shall be terminated;
(b) declare the unpaid principal amount of all outstanding Loans, all interest accrued and unpaid thereon, and all other amounts owing or payable hereunder or under any other Loan Document to be immediately due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the Borrowers;
(c) require that the Company Cash Collateralize the L/C Obligations (in an amount equal to the then Outstanding Amount thereof); and
(d) exercise on behalf of itself, the Lenders and the L/C Issuer all rights and remedies available to it, the Lenders and the L/C Issuer under the Loan Documents;
, , that upon the occurrence of an actual or deemed entry of an order for relief with respect to any Borrower under the Bankruptcy Code of the United States, the obligation of each Lender to make Loans and any obligation of the L/C Issuer to make L/C Credit Extensions shall automatically terminate, the unpaid principal amount of all outstanding Loans and all interest and other amounts as aforesaid shall automatically become due and payable, and the obligation of the Company to Cash Collateralize the L/C Obligations as aforesaid shall automatically become effective, in each case without further act of the Administrative Agent or any Lender.
provided
however
After the exercise of remedies provided for in (or after the Loans have automatically become immediately due and payable and the L/C Obligations have automatically been required to be Cash Collateralized as set forth in the proviso to ), any amounts received on account of the Obligations shall be applied by the Administrative Agent in the following order:
8.03 Application of Funds.
Section 8.02
Section 8.02
, to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting fees, indemnities, expenses and other amounts (including fees, charges and disbursements of counsel to the Administrative Agent and amounts payable under ) payable to the Administrative Agent in its capacity as such;
First
Article III
, to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting fees, indemnities and other amounts (other than principal, interest and Letter of Credit Fees) payable to the Lenders and the L/C Issuer (including fees, charges and disbursements of counsel to the respective Lenders and the L/C Issuer (including fees and time charges for attorneys who may be employees of any Lender or the L/C Issuer) and amounts payable under ), ratably among them in proportion to the respective amounts described in this clause payable to them;
Second
Article III
Second
, to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting accrued and unpaid Letter of Credit Fees and interest on the Loans, L/C Borrowings and other Obligations, ratably
Third
 
among the Lenders and the L/C Issuer in proportion to the respective amounts described in this clause payable to them;
Third
, to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting unpaid principal of the Loans, Unreimbursed Amounts and L/C Borrowings, ratably among the Lenders and the L/C Issuer in proportion to the respective amounts described in this clause held by them;
Fourth
Fourth
, to the Administrative Agent for the account of the L/C Issuer, to Cash Collateralize that portion of L/C Obligations comprised of the aggregate undrawn amount of Letters of Credit; and
Fifth
, the balance, if any, after all of the Obligations have been indefeasibly paid in full, to the Company or as otherwise required by Law.
Last
Subject to , amounts used to Cash Collateralize the aggregate undrawn amount of Letters of Credit pursuant to clause above shall be applied to satisfy drawings under such Letters of Credit as they occur. If any amount remains on deposit as Cash Collateral after all Letters of Credit have either been fully drawn or expired, such remaining amount shall be applied to the other Obligations, if any, in the order set forth above.
Section 2.04(c)
Fifth
Each of the Lenders and the L/C Issuer hereby irrevocably appoints Bank of America to act on its behalf as the Administrative Agent hereunder and under the other Loan Documents and authorizes the Administrative Agent to take such actions on its behalf and to exercise such powers as are delegated to the Administrative Agent by the terms hereof or thereof, together with such actions and powers as are reasonably incidental thereto. The provisions of this Article other than are solely for the benefit of the Administrative Agent, the Lenders and the L/C Issuer, and no Borrower shall have rights as a third party beneficiary of any of such provisions (other than ).
9.01 Appointment and Authority.
Section 9.06
Section 9.06
The Person serving as the Administrative Agent hereunder shall have the same rights and powers in its capacity as a Lender as any other Lender and may exercise the same as though it were not the Administrative Agent and the term "Lender" or "Lenders" shall, unless otherwise expressly indicated or unless the context otherwise requires, include the Person serving as the Administrative Agent hereunder in its individual capacity. Such Person and its Affiliates may accept deposits from, lend money to, act as the financial advisor or in any other advisory capacity for and generally engage in any kind of business with the Borrowers or any Subsidiary or other Affiliate thereof as if such Person were not the Administrative Agent hereunder and without any duty to account therefor to the Lenders.
9.02 Rights as a Lender.
The Administrative Agent shall not have any duties or obligations except those expressly set forth herein and in the other Loan Documents. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Administrative Agent:
9.03 Exculpatory Provisions.
(a) shall not be subject to any fiduciary or other implied duties, regardless of whether a Default has occurred and is continuing;
 
(b) shall not have any duty to take any discretionary action or exercise any discretionary powers, except discretionary rights and powers expressly contemplated hereby or by the other Loan Documents that the Administrative Agent is required to exercise as directed in writing by the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be expressly provided for herein or in the other Loan Documents), that the Administrative Agent shall not be required to take any action that, in its opinion or the opinion of its counsel, may expose the Administrative Agent to liability or that is contrary to any Loan Document or applicable law; and
provided
(c) shall not, except as expressly set forth herein and in the other Loan Documents, have any duty to disclose, and shall not be liable for the failure to disclose, any information relating to any of the Borrowers or any of their respective Affiliates that is communicated to or obtained by the Person serving as the Administrative Agent or any of its Affiliates in any capacity.
The Administrative Agent shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it (i) with the consent or at the request of the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be necessary, or as the Administrative Agent shall believe in good faith shall be necessary, under the circumstances as provided in and ) or (ii) in the absence of its own gross negligence or willful misconduct. The Administrative Agent shall be deemed not to have knowledge of any Default unless and until notice describing such Default is given to the Administrative Agent by the Company, a Lender or the L/C Issuer.
Sections 10.01
8.02
The Administrative Agent shall not be responsible for or have any duty to ascertain or inquire into (i) any statement, warranty or representation made in or in connection with this Agreement or any other Loan Document, (ii) the contents of any certificate, report or other document delivered hereunder or thereunder or in connection herewith or therewith, (iii) the performance or observance of any of the covenants, agreements or other terms or conditions set forth herein or therein or the occurrence of any Default, (iv) the validity, enforceability, effectiveness or genuineness of this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any other agreement, instrument or document or (v) the satisfaction of any condition set forth in or elsewhere herein, other than to confirm receipt of items expressly required to be delivered to the Administrative Agent.
Article IV
The Administrative Agent shall be entitled to rely upon, and shall not incur any liability for relying upon, any notice, request, certificate, consent, statement, instrument, document or other writing (including any electronic message, Internet or intranet website posting or other distribution) believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed, sent or otherwise authenticated by the proper Person. The Administrative Agent also may rely upon any statement made to it orally or by telephone and believed by it to have been made by the proper Person, and shall not incur any liability for relying thereon. In determining compliance with any condition hereunder to the making of a Loan, or the issuance of a Letter of Credit, that by its terms must be fulfilled to the satisfaction of a Lender or the L/C Issuer, the Administrative Agent may presume that such condition is satisfactory to such Lender or the L/C Issuer unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice to the contrary from such Lender or the L/C Issuer prior to the making of such Loan or the issuance of such Letter of Credit. The Administrative Agent may consult with legal counsel (who may be counsel for the Company), independent accountants and other experts selected by it, and shall not be liable for
9.04 Reliance by Administrative Agent.
 
any action taken or not taken by it in accordance with the advice of any such counsel, accountants or experts.
The Administrative Agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers hereunder or under any other Loan Document by or through any one or more sub-agents appointed by the Administrative Agent. The Administrative Agent and any such sub-agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers by or through their respective Related Parties. The exculpatory provisions of this Article shall apply to any such sub-agent and to the Related Parties of the Administrative Agent and any such sub-agent, and shall apply to their respective activities in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein as well as activities as Administrative Agent.
9.05 Delegation of Duties.
The Administrative Agent may at any time give notice of its resignation to the Lenders, the L/C Issuer and the Company. Upon receipt of any such notice of resignation, the Required Lenders shall have the right, with the consent of the Company (not to be unreasonably withheld) unless an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, to appoint a successor, which shall be a bank with an office in the United States, or an Affiliate of any such bank with an office in the United States. If no such successor shall have been so appointed by the Required Lenders and shall have accepted such appointment within 30 days after the retiring Administrative Agent gives notice of its resignation, then the retiring Administrative Agent may on behalf of the Lenders and the L/C Issuer, appoint a successor Administrative Agent meeting the qualifications set forth above; that if the Administrative Agent shall notify the Company and the Lenders that no qualifying Person has accepted such appointment, then such resignation shall nonetheless become effective in accordance with such notice and (1) the retiring Administrative Agent shall be discharged from its duties and obligations hereunder and under the other Loan Documents (except that in the case of any collateral security held by the Administrative Agent on behalf of the Lenders or the L/C Issuer under any of the Loan Documents, the retiring Administrative Agent shall continue to hold such collateral security until such time as a successor Administrative Agent is appointed) and (2) all payments, communications and determinations provided to be made by, to or through the Administrative Agent shall instead be made by or to each Lender and the L/C Issuer directly, until such time as the Required Lenders appoint a successor Administrative Agent as provided for above in this Section. Upon the acceptance of a successor's appointment as Administrative Agent hereunder, such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all of the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring (or retired) Administrative Agent, and the retiring Administrative Agent shall be discharged from all of its duties and obligations hereunder or under the other Loan Documents (if not already discharged therefrom as provided above in this Section). The fees payable by the Company to a successor Administrative Agent shall be the same as those payable to its predecessor unless otherwise agreed between the Company and such successor. After the retiring Administrative Agent's resignation hereunder and under the other Loan Documents, the provisions of this Article and shall continue in effect for the benefit of such retiring Administrative Agent, its sub-agents and their respective Related Parties in respect of any actions taken or omitted to be taken by any of them while the retiring Administrative Agent was acting as Administrative Agent.
9.06 Resignation of Administrative Agent.
provided
Section 10.04
Any resignation by Bank of America as Administrative Agent pursuant to this Section shall also constitute its resignation as L/C Issuer and Swing Line Lender. Upon the acceptance of a successor's appointment as Administrative Agent hereunder, (a) such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all of the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring
 
L/C Issuer and Swing Line Lender, (b) the retiring L/C Issuer and Swing Line Lender shall be discharged from all of their respective duties and obligations hereunder or under the other Loan Documents, and (c) the successor L/C Issuer shall issue letters of credit in substitution for the Letters of Credit, if any, outstanding at the time of such succession or make other arrangements satisfactory to the retiring L/C Issuer to effectively assume the obligations of the retiring L/C Issuer with respect to such Letters of Credit.
Each Lender and the L/C Issuer acknowledges that it has, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender or any of their Related Parties and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Agreement. Each Lender and the L/C Issuer also acknowledges that it will, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender or any of their Related Parties and based on such documents and information as it shall from time to time deem appropriate, continue to make its own decisions in taking or not taking action under or based upon this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any related agreement or any document furnished hereunder or thereunder.
9.07 Non-Reliance on Administrative Agent and Other Lenders.
Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, none of the Bookrunners, Arrangers, Syndication Agent or Co-Documentation Agents or other titles as necessary listed on the cover page hereof shall have any powers, duties or responsibilities under this Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents, except in its capacity, as applicable, as the Administrative Agent, a Lender or the L/C Issuer hereunder.
9.08 No Other Duties, Etc.
In case of the pendency of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law or any other judicial proceeding relative to any Loan Party, the Administrative Agent (irrespective of whether the principal of any Loan or L/C Obligation shall then be due and payable as herein expressed or by declaration or otherwise and irrespective of whether the Administrative Agent shall have made any demand on any Borrower) shall be entitled and empowered, by intervention in such proceeding or otherwise
9.09 Administrative Agent May File Proofs of Claim.
(a) to file and prove a claim for the whole amount of the principal and interest owing and unpaid in respect of the Loans, L/C Obligations and all other Obligations that are owing and unpaid and to file such other documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the Lenders, the L/C Issuer and the Administrative Agent (including any claim for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Lenders, the L/C Issuer and the Administrative Agent and their respective agents and counsel and all other amounts due the Lenders, the L/C Issuer and the Administrative Agent under and , and ) allowed in such judicial proceeding; and
Sections 2.04(i)
(j)
2.10
10.04
(b) to collect and receive any monies or other property payable or deliverable on any such claims and to distribute the same;
and any custodian, receiver, assignee, trustee, liquidator, sequestrator or other similar official in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Lender and the L/C Issuer to make such payments to the Administrative Agent and, in the event that the Administrative Agent shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Lenders and the L/C Issuer, to pay to the Administrative Agent any amount due for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Administrative Agent and its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Administrative Agent under and .
Sections 2.10
10.04
 
Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to authorize the Administrative Agent to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Lender or the L/C Issuer any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Obligations or the rights of any Lender or the L/C Issuer to authorize the Administrative Agent to vote in respect of the claim of any Lender or the L/C Issuer in any such proceeding.
9.10 Guaranty Matters.
(a) The Lenders and the L/C Issuer irrevocably authorize the Administrative Agent, at its option and in its discretion, to release any Subsidiary Guarantor from its obligations under the Subsidiary Guaranty if such Person ceases to be a Subsidiary as a result of a transaction permitted hereunder.
(b) Upon request by the Administrative Agent at any time, the Required Lenders will confirm in writing the Administrative Agent's authority to release any Subsidiary Guarantor from its obligations under the Guaranty pursuant to this .
Section 9.10
No amendment or waiver of any provision of this Agreement or any other Loan Document, and no consent to any departure by the Company or any other Loan Party therefrom, shall be effective unless in writing signed by the Required Lenders and the Company or the applicable Loan Party, as the case may be, and acknowledged by the Administrative Agent, and each such waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the specific purpose for which given; , , that no such amendment, waiver or consent shall:
10.01 Amendments, Etc.
provided
however
(a) waive any condition set forth in without the written consent of each Lender;
Section 4.01(a)
(b) extend or increase the Commitment of any Lender (or reinstate any Commitment terminated pursuant to ) without the written consent of such Lender;
Section 8.02
(c) postpone any date fixed by this Agreement or any other Loan Document for any payment or mandatory prepayment of principal, interest, fees or other amounts due to the Lenders (or any of them) or any scheduled or mandatory reduction of the Aggregate Commitments hereunder or under any other Loan Document without the written consent of each Lender directly affected thereby;
(d) reduce the principal of, or the rate of interest specified herein on, any Loan or L/C Borrowing, or (subject to  of the second proviso to this ) any fees or other amounts payable hereunder or under any other Loan Document, without the written consent of each Lender directly affected thereby; , , that only the consent of the Required Lenders shall be necessary (i) to amend the definition of "Default Rate" or to waive any obligation of any Borrower to pay interest or Letter of Credit Fees at the Default Rate or (ii) to amend any financial covenant hereunder (or any defined term used therein) even if the effect of such amendment would be to reduce the rate of interest on any Loan or L/C Borrowing or to reduce any fee payable hereunder;
clause (v)
Section 10.01
provided
however
 
(e) change or in a manner that would alter the pro rata sharing of payments required thereby without the written consent of each Lender;
Section 2.14
Section 8.03
(f) amend or the definition of "Alternative Currency" without the written consent of each Lender;
Section 1.06
(g) change any provision of this Section or the definition of "Required Lenders" or any other provision hereof specifying the number or percentage of Lenders required to amend, waive or otherwise modify any rights hereunder or make any determination or grant any consent hereunder without the written consent of each Lender; or
(h) release the Company from the Company Guaranty or any Subsidiary Guarantor from any Guaranty without the written consent of each Lender, except to the extent the release of such Subsidiary Guarantor is permitted pursuant to (in which case such release may be made by the Administrative Agent acting alone);
Section 9.10
and, , that (i) no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by the L/C Issuer in addition to the Lenders required above, affect the rights or duties of the L/C Issuer under this Agreement or any Issuer Document relating to any Letter of Credit issued or to be issued by it; (ii) no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by the Swing Line Lender in addition to the Lenders required above, affect the rights or duties of the Swing Line Lender under this Agreement; (iii) no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by the Administrative Agent in addition to the Lenders required above, affect the rights or duties of the Administrative Agent under this Agreement or any other Loan Document; (iv)  may not be amended, waived or otherwise modified without the consent of each Granting Lender all or any part of whose Loans are being funded by an SPC at the time of such amendment, waiver or other modification; and (v) the Fee Letters may be amended, or rights or privileges thereunder waived, in a writing executed only by the parties thereto. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, no Defaulting Lender shall have any right to approve or disapprove any amendment, waiver or consent hereunder, except that the Commitment of such Lender may not be increased or extended without the consent of such Lender.
provided further
Section 10.06(h)
10.02 Notices; Effectiveness; Electronic Communication.
(a) . Except in the case of notices and other communications expressly permitted to be given by telephone (and except as provided in subsection (b) below), all notices and other communications provided for herein shall be in writing and shall be delivered by hand or overnight courier service, mailed by certified or registered mail or sent by telecopier as follows, and all notices and other communications expressly permitted hereunder to be given by telephone shall be made to the applicable telephone number, as follows:
Notices Generally
(i) if to a Borrower, the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer or the Swing Line Lender, to the address, telecopier number, electronic mail address or telephone number specified for such Person on ; and
Schedule 10.02
(ii) if to any other Lender, to the address, telecopier number, electronic mail address or telephone number specified in its Administrative Questionnaire.
 
Notices sent by hand or overnight courier service, or mailed by certified or registered mail, shall be deemed to have been given when received; notices sent by telecopier shall be deemed to have been given when sent (except that, if not given during normal business hours for the recipient, shall be deemed to have been given at the opening of business on the next business day for the recipient). Notices delivered through electronic communications to the extent provided in subsection (b) below, shall be effective as provided in such subsection (b).
(b) . Notices and other communications to the Lenders and the L/C Issuer hereunder may be delivered or furnished by electronic communication (including e-mail and Internet or intranet websites) pursuant to procedures approved by the Administrative Agent, that the foregoing shall not apply to notices to any Lender or the L/C Issuer pursuant to if such Lender or the L/C Issuer, as applicable, has notified the Administrative Agent that it is incapable of receiving notices under such Article by electronic communication. The Administrative Agent or the Company may, in its discretion, agree to accept notices and other communications to it hereunder by electronic communications pursuant to procedures approved by it, that approval of such procedures may be limited to particular notices or communications.
Electronic Communications
provided
Article II
provided
Unless the Administrative Agent otherwise prescribes, (i) notices and other communications sent to an e-mail address shall be deemed received upon the sender's receipt of an acknowledgement from the intended recipient (such as by the "return receipt requested" function, as available, return e-mail or other written acknowledgement), that if such notice or other communication is not sent during the normal business hours of the recipient, such notice or communication shall be deemed to have been sent at the opening of business on the next business day for the recipient, and (ii) notices or communications posted to an Internet or intranet website shall be deemed received upon the deemed receipt by the intended recipient at its e-mail address as described in the foregoing of notification that such notice or communication is available and identifying the website address therefor.
provided
clause (i)
(c) . THE PLATFORM IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND "AS AVAILABLE." THE AGENT PARTIES (AS DEFINED BELOW) DO NOT WARRANT THE ACCURACY OR COMPLETENESS OF THE BORROWER MATERIALS OR THE ADEQUACY OF THE PLATFORM, AND EXPRESSLY DISCLAIM LIABILITY FOR ERRORS IN OR OMISSIONS FROM THE BORROWER MATERIALS. NO WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR STATUTORY, INCLUDING ANY WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS OR FREEDOM FROM VIRUSES OR OTHER CODE DEFECTS, IS MADE BY ANY AGENT PARTY IN CONNECTION WITH THE BORROWER MATERIALS OR THE PLATFORM. In no event shall the Administrative Agent or any of its Related Parties (collectively, the "") have any liability to any Borrower, any Lender, the L/C Issuer or any other Person for losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses of any kind (whether in tort, contract or otherwise) arising out of any Borrower's or the Administrative Agent's transmission of Borrower Materials through the Internet, except to the extent that such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by a final and nonappealable judgment to have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Agent Party; , , that in no event shall any Agent Party have any liability to any Borrower, any Lender, the L/C Issuer or any other Person for indirect, special, incidental, consequential or punitive damages (as opposed to direct or actual damages).
The Platform
Agent Parties
provided
however
 
(d) . Each of the Borrowers, the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer and the Swing Line Lender may change its address, telecopier or telephone number for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the other parties hereto. Each other Lender may change its address, telecopier or telephone number for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the Company, the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer and the Swing Line Lender. In addition, each Lender agrees to notify the Administrative Agent from time to time to ensure that the Administrative Agent has on record (i) an effective address, contact name, telephone number, telecopier number and electronic mail address to which notices and other communications may be sent and (ii) accurate wire instructions for such Lender.
Change of Address, Etc
(e) .The Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer and the Lenders shall be entitled to rely and act upon any notices (including telephonic Committed Loan Notices and Swing Line Loan Notices) purportedly given by or on behalf of any Borrower even if (i) such notices were not made in a manner specified herein, were incomplete or were not preceded or followed by any other form of notice specified herein, or (ii) the terms thereof, as understood by the recipient, varied from any confirmation thereof. The Company shall indemnify the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer, each Lender and the Related Parties of each of them from all losses, costs, expenses and liabilities resulting from the reliance by such Person on each notice purportedly given by or on behalf of any Borrower, that such indemnity shall not be available as to any Indemnitee (as defined in ) to the extent that such losses, costs, expenses and liabilities are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by final and nonappealable judgment to have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnitee. All telephonic notices to and other telephonic communications with the Administrative Agent may be recorded by the Administrative Agent, and each of the parties hereto hereby consents to such recording.
Reliance by Administrative Agent, L/C Issuer and Lenders
provided
Section 10.04(b)
No failure by any Lender or the Administrative Agent to exercise, and no delay by any such Person in exercising, any right, remedy, power or privilege hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof; nor shall any single or partial exercise of any right, remedy, power or privilege hereunder preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, remedy, power or privilege. The rights, remedies, powers and privileges herein provided are cumulative and not exclusive of any rights, remedies, powers and privileges provided by law.
10.03 No Waiver; Cumulative Remedies.
10.04 Expenses; Indemnity; Damage Waiver.
(a) . The Company shall pay (i) all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent and its Affiliates (including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of counsel for the Administrative Agent), in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein, the preparation, negotiation, execution and delivery of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents or any amendments, modifications or waivers of the provisions hereof or thereof (whether or not the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby shall be consummated), (ii) all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the L/C Issuer in connection with the issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of any Letter of Credit or any demand for payment thereunder and (iii) all out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent, any Lender or the L/C Issuer (including the fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for the Administrative Agent, any Lender or the L/C Issuer), and shall pay all fees and time charges for attorneys who may be employees of the Administrative Agent, any Lender or the L/C Issuer, in connection with the enforcement or protection of its
Costs and Expenses
 
rights (A) in connection with this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, including its rights under this Section, or (B) in connection with the Loans made or Letters of Credit issued hereunder, including all such out-of-pocket expenses incurred during any workout, restructuring or negotiations in respect of such Loans or Letters of Credit.
(b) . The Company shall indemnify the Administrative Agent (and any sub-agent thereof), each Lender and the L/C Issuer, and each Related Party of any of the foregoing Persons (each such Person being called an "") against, and hold each Indemnitee harmless from, any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities and related expenses (including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for any Indemnitee), and shall indemnify and hold harmless each Indemnitee from all fees and time charges and disbursements for attorneys who may be employees of any Indemnitee incurred by any Indemnitee or asserted against any Indemnitee by any third party or by any Borrower or any other Loan Party arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of (i) the execution or delivery of this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby or thereby, the performance by the parties hereto of their respective obligations hereunder or thereunder, the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby, or, in the case of the Administrative Agent (and any sub-agent thereof) and its Related Parties only, the administration of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, (ii) any Loan or Letter of Credit or the use or proposed use of the proceeds therefrom (including any refusal by the L/C Issuer to honor a demand for payment under a Letter of Credit if the documents presented in connection with such demand do not strictly comply with the terms of such Letter of Credit), (iii) any actual or alleged presence or release of Hazardous Materials on or from any property owned or operated by any Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, or any Environmental Liability related in any way to any Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, or (iv) any actual or prospective claim, litigation, investigation or proceeding relating to any of the foregoing, whether based on contract, tort or any other theory, whether brought by a third party or by the Company or any other Loan Party, and regardless of whether any Indemnitee is a party thereto; that such indemnity shall not, as to any Indemnitee, be available to the extent that such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or related expenses (x) are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by final and nonappealable judgment to have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnitee, (y) result from a claim brought by the Company or any other Loan Party against an Indemnitee for breach in bad faith of such Indemnitee's obligations hereunder or under any other Loan Document, if the Company or such other Loan Party has obtained a final and nonappealable judgment in its favor on such claim as determined by a court of competent jurisdiction or (z) result from a claim by an Indemnitee against any other Indemnitee that does not involve an act or omission of any Loan Party for which an Indemnitee would otherwise be entitled to indemnification under this Section 10.04(b).
Indemnification by the Company
Indemnitee
provided
(c) . To the extent that the Company for any reason fails to indefeasibly pay any amount required under subsection (a) or (b) of this Section to be paid by it to the Administrative Agent (or any sub-agent thereof), the L/C Issuer or any Related Party of any of the foregoing, each Lender severally agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent (or any such sub-agent), the L/C Issuer or such Related Party, as the case may be, such Lender's Applicable Percentage (determined as of the time that the applicable unreimbursed expense or indemnity payment is sought) of such unpaid amount, that the unreimbursed expense or indemnified loss, claim, damage, liability or related expense, as the case may be, was incurred by or asserted against the Administrative Agent (or any such sub-agent) or the L/C Issuer in its capacity as such, or against any Related Party of any of the foregoing acting for the
Reimbursement by Lenders
provided
 
Administrative Agent (or any such sub-agent) or L/C Issuer in connection with such capacity. The obligations of the Lenders under this subsection (c) are subject to the provisions of .
Section 2.13(d)
(d) . To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, no Borrower shall assert, and hereby waives, any claim against any Indemnitee, on any theory of liability, for special, indirect, consequential or punitive damages (as opposed to direct or actual damages) arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of, this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby, the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby, any Loan or Letter of Credit or the use of the proceeds thereof. No Indemnitee referred to in subsection (b) above shall be liable for any damages arising from the use by unintended recipients of any information or other materials distributed to such unintended recipients by such Indemnitee through telecommunications, electronic or other information transmission systems in connection with this Agreement or the other Loan Documents or the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby other than for direct or actual damages resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnitee as determined by a final and nonappealable judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction.
Waiver of Consequential Damages, Etc
(e) . All amounts due under this Section shall be payable not later than 30 days after demand therefor.
Payments
(f) . The agreements in this Section shall survive the resignation of the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer and the Swing Line Lender, the replacement of any Lender, the termination of the Aggregate Commitments and the repayment, satisfaction or discharge of all the other Obligations.
Survival
To the extent that any payment by or on behalf of any Borrower is made to the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer or any Lender, or the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer or any Lender exercises its right of setoff, and such payment or the proceeds of such setoff or any part thereof is subsequently invalidated, declared to be fraudulent or preferential, set aside or required (including pursuant to any settlement entered into by the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer or such Lender in its discretion) to be repaid to a trustee, receiver or any other party, in connection with any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law or otherwise, then (a) to the extent of such recovery, the obligation or part thereof originally intended to be satisfied shall be revived and continued in full force and effect as if such payment had not been made or such setoff had not occurred, and (b) each Lender and the L/C Issuer severally agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent upon demand its applicable share (without duplication) of any amount so recovered from or repaid by the Administrative Agent, plus interest thereon from the date of such demand to the date such payment is made at a rate per annum equal to the applicable Overnight Rate from time to time in effect, in the applicable currency of such recovery or payment. The obligations of the Lenders and the L/C Issuer under  of the preceding sentence shall survive the payment in full of the Obligations and the termination of this Agreement.
10.05 Payments Set Aside.
clause (b)
10.06 Successors and Assigns.
(a) . The provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby, except that no Borrower may assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder without the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent and
Successors and Assigns Generally
 
each Lender and no Lender may assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder except (i) to an assignee in accordance with the provisions of subsection (b) of this Section, (ii) by way of participation in accordance with the provisions of subsection (d) of this Section, (iii) by way of pledge or assignment of a security interest subject to the restrictions of subsection (f) of this Section, or (iv) to an SPC in accordance with the provisions of subsection (h) of this (and any other attempted assignment or transfer by any party hereto shall be null and void). Nothing in this Agreement, expressed or implied, shall be construed to confer upon any Person (other than the parties hereto, their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby, Participants to the extent provided in subsection (d) of this Section and, to the extent expressly contemplated hereby, the Related Parties of each of the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer and the Lenders) any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or by reason of this Agreement.
Section 10.06
(b) . Any Lender may at any time assign to one or more assignees all or a portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and the Loans (including for purposes of this subsection (b), participations in L/C Obligations and in Swing Line Loans) at the time owing to it); that any such assignment shall be subject to the following conditions:
Assignments by Lenders
provided
(i) .
Minimum Amounts
(A) In the case of an assignment of the entire remaining amount of the assigning Lender's Commitment and the Loans at the time owing to it or in the case of an assignment to a Lender, an Affiliate of a Lender or an Approved Fund, no minimum amount need be assigned; and
(B) in any case not described in subsection (b)(i)(A) of this Section, the aggregate amount of the Commitment (which for this purpose includes Loans outstanding thereunder) or, if the Commitment is not then in effect, the principal outstanding balance of the Loans of the assigning Lender subject to each such assignment, determined as of the date the Assignment and Assumption with respect to such assignment is delivered to the Administrative Agent or, if "Trade Date" is specified in the Assignment and Assumption, as of the Trade Date, shall not be less than $5,000,000 unless each of the Administrative Agent and, so long as no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Company otherwise consents (each such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed); , , that concurrent assignments to members of an Assignee Group and concurrent assignments from members of an Assignee Group to a single assignee (or to an assignee and members of its Assignee Group) will be treated as a single assignment for purposes of determining whether such minimum amount has been met.
provided
however
(ii) . Each partial assignment shall be made as an assignment of a proportionate part of all the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement with respect to the Loans or the Commitment assigned, except that this  shall not apply to rights in respect of Bid Loans or the Swing Line Lender's rights and obligations in respect of Swing Line Loans;
Proportionate Amounts
clause (ii)
(iii) . No consent shall be required for any assignment except to the extent required by subsection (b)(i)(B) of this Section and, in addition:
Required Consents
(A) the consent of the Company (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) shall be required unless (1) an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing at the time of such assignment or (2) such assignment is to a Lender, an Affiliate of a Lender or an Approved Fund;
 
(B) the consent of the Administrative Agent (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) shall be required if such assignment is to a Person that is not a Lender, an Affiliate of such Lender or an Approved Fund with respect to such Lender;
(C) the consent of the L/C Issuer (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) shall be required for any assignment that increases the obligation of the assignee to participate in exposure under one or more Letters of Credit (whether or not then outstanding); and
(D) the consent of the Swing Line Lender (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) shall be required for any assignment.
(iv) . The parties to each assignment shall execute and deliver to the Administrative Agent an Assignment and Assumption, together with a processing and recordation fee in the amount, if any, required as set forth in ; , , that the Administrative Agent may, in its sole discretion, elect to waive such processing and recordation fee in the case of any assignment. The assignee, if it is not a Lender, shall deliver to the Administrative Agent an Administrative Questionnaire.
Assignment and Assumption
Schedule 10.06
provided
however
(v) . No such assignment shall be made to the Company or any of the Company's Affiliates or Subsidiaries.
No Assignment to Company
(vi) . No such assignment shall be made to a natural person.
No Assignment to Natural Persons
Subject to acceptance and recording thereof by the Administrative Agent pursuant to subsection (c) of this Section, from and after the effective date specified in each Assignment and Assumption, the assignee thereunder shall be a party to this Agreement and, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, have the rights and obligations of a Lender under this Agreement, and the assigning Lender thereunder shall, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, be released from its obligations under this Agreement (and, in the case of an Assignment and Assumption covering all of the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, such Lender shall cease to be a party hereto) but shall continue to be entitled to the benefits of , , , and with respect to facts and circumstances occurring prior to the effective date of such assignment. Upon request, each Borrower (at its expense) shall execute and deliver a Note to the assignee Lender. Any assignment or transfer by a Lender of rights or obligations under this Agreement that does not comply with this subsection shall be treated for purposes of this Agreement as a sale by such Lender of a participation in such rights and obligations in accordance with subsection (d) of this Section.
Sections 3.01
3.04
3.05
10.04
(c) . The Administrative Agent, acting solely for this purpose as an agent of the Borrowers, shall maintain at the Administrative Agent's Office a copy of each Assignment and Assumption delivered to it and a register for the recordation of the names and addresses of the Lenders, and the Commitments of, and principal amounts of the Loans and L/C Obligations
Register
 
owing to, each Lender pursuant to the terms hereof from time to time (the ""). The entries in the Register shall be conclusive, and the Borrowers, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders may treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Register pursuant to the terms hereof as a Lender hereunder for all purposes of this Agreement, notwithstanding notice to the contrary. The Register shall be available for inspection by the Borrowers and any Lender, at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice.
Register
(d) . Any Lender may at any time, without the consent of, or notice to, any Borrower or the Administrative Agent, sell participations to any Person (other than a natural person or the Company or any of the Company's Affiliates or Subsidiaries) (each, a "") in all or a portion of such Lender's rights and/or obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and/or the Loans (including such Lender's participations in L/C Obligations and/or Swing Line Loans) owing to it); that (i) such Lender's obligations under this Agreement shall remain unchanged, (ii) such Lender shall remain solely responsible to the other parties hereto for the performance of such obligations and (iii) the Borrowers, the Administrative Agent, the Lenders and the L/C Issuer shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Lender in connection with such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement.
Participations
Participant
provided
Any agreement or instrument pursuant to which a Lender sells such a participation shall provide that such Lender shall retain the sole right to enforce this Agreement and to approve any amendment, modification or waiver of any provision of this Agreement; that such agreement or instrument may provide that such Lender will not, without the consent of the Participant, agree to any amendment, waiver or other modification described in the first proviso to that affects such Participant. Subject to subsection (e) of this Section, each Borrower agrees that each Participant shall be entitled to the benefits of , and to the same extent as if it were a Lender and had acquired its interest by assignment pursuant to subsection (b) of this Section. To the extent permitted by law, each Participant also shall be entitled to the benefits of as though it were a Lender, such Participant agrees to be subject to as though it were a Lender.
provided
Section 10.01
Sections 3.01
3.04
3.05
Section 10.08
provided
Section 2.14
(e) . A Participant shall not be entitled to receive any greater payment under or than the applicable Lender would have been entitled to receive with respect to the participation sold to such Participant, unless the sale of the participation to such Participant is made with the Company's prior written consent. A Participant that would be a Foreign Lender if it were a Lender shall not be entitled to the benefits of unless the Company is notified of the participation sold to such Participant and such Participant agrees, for the benefit of the Borrowers, to comply with as though it were a Lender.
Limitations upon Participant Rights
Section 3.01
3.04
Section 3.01
Section 3.01(e)
(f) . Any Lender may at any time pledge or assign a security interest in all or any portion of its rights under this Agreement (including under its Note(s), if any) to secure obligations of such Lender, including any pledge or assignment to secure obligations to a Federal Reserve Bank; that no such pledge or assignment shall release such Lender from any of its obligations hereunder or substitute any such pledgee or assignee for such Lender as a party hereto.
Certain Pledges
provided
(g) . The words "execution," "signed," "signature," and words of like import in any Assignment and Assumption shall be deemed to include electronic signatures or the keeping of records in electronic form, each of which shall be
Electronic Execution of Assignments
 
of the same legal effect, validity or enforceability as a manually executed signature or the use of a paper-based recordkeeping system, as the case may be, to the extent and as provided for in any applicable law, including the Federal Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act, the New York State Electronic Signatures and Records Act, or any other similar state laws based on the Uniform Electronic Transactions Act.
(h) . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, any Lender (a "") may grant to a special purpose funding vehicle identified as such in writing from time to time by the Granting Lender to the Administrative Agent and the Company (an "") the option to provide all or any part of any Committed Loan that such Granting Lender would otherwise be obligated to make pursuant to this Agreement; that (i) nothing herein shall constitute a commitment by any SPC to fund any Committed Loan, and (ii) if an SPC elects not to exercise such option or otherwise fails to make all or any part of such Committed Loan, the Granting Lender shall be obligated to make such Committed Loan pursuant to the terms hereof or, if it fails to do so, to make such payment to the Administrative Agent as is required under . Each party hereto hereby agrees that (i) neither the grant to any SPC nor the exercise by any SPC of such option shall increase the costs or expenses or otherwise increase or change the obligations of the Borrowers under this Agreement (including its obligations under ), (ii) no SPC shall be liable for any indemnity or similar payment obligation under this Agreement for which a Lender would be liable, and (iii) the Granting Lender shall for all purposes, including the approval of any amendment, waiver or other modification of any provision of any Loan Document, remain the lender of record hereunder. The making of a Committed Loan by an SPC hereunder shall utilize the Commitment of the Granting Lender to the same extent, and as if, such Committed Loan were made by such Granting Lender. In furtherance of the foregoing, each party hereto hereby agrees (which agreement shall survive the termination of this Agreement) that, prior to the date that is one year and one day after the payment in full of all outstanding commercial paper or other senior debt of any SPC, it will not institute against, or join any other Person in instituting against, such SPC any bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, insolvency, or liquidation proceeding under the laws of the United States or any State thereof in connection with any obligations of such SPC under the Loan Documents. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, any SPC may (i) with notice to, but without prior consent of the Company and the Administrative Agent and with the payment of a processing fee in the amount of $2,500, assign all or any portion of its right to receive payment with respect to any Committed Loan to the Granting Lender and (ii) disclose on a confidential basis any non-public information relating to its funding of Committed Loans to any rating agency, commercial paper dealer or provider of any surety or Guarantee or credit or liquidity enhancement to such SPC.
Special Purpose Funding Vehicles
Granting Lender
SPC
provided
Section 2.13(b)(ii)
Section 3.04
(i) . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, if at any time Bank of America assigns all of its Commitment and Loans pursuant to subsection (b) above, Bank of America may, (i) upon 30 days' notice to the Company and the Lenders, resign as L/C Issuer and/or (ii) upon 30 days' notice to the Company, resign as Swing Line Lender. In the event of any such resignation as L/C Issuer or Swing Line Lender, the Company shall be entitled to appoint from among the Lenders a successor L/C Issuer or Swing Line Lender hereunder; , , that no failure by the Company to appoint any such successor shall affect the resignation of Bank of America as L/C Issuer or Swing Line Lender, as the case may be. If Bank of America resigns as L/C Issuer, it shall retain all the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the L/C Issuer hereunder with respect to all Letters of Credit outstanding as of the effective date of its
Resignation as L/C Issuer or Swing Line Lender after Assignment
provided
however
 
resignation as L/C Issuer and all L/C Obligations with respect thereto (including the right to require the Lenders to make Base Rate Committed Loans or fund risk participations in Unreimbursed Amounts pursuant to ). If Bank of America resigns as Swing Line Lender, it shall retain all the rights of the Swing Line Lender provided for hereunder with respect to Swing Line Loans made by it and outstanding as of the effective date of such resignation, including the right to require the Lenders to make Base Rate Committed Loans or fund risk participations in outstanding Swing Line Loans pursuant to . Upon the appointment of a successor L/C Issuer and/or Swing Line Lender and the acceptance thereof, (a) such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all of the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring L/C Issuer or Swing Line Lender, as the case may be, and (b) the successor L/C Issuer shall issue letters of credit in substitution for the Letters of Credit, if any, outstanding at the time of such succession or make other arrangements satisfactory to Bank of America to effectively assume the obligations of Bank of America with respect to such Letters of Credit.
Section 2.04(c)
Section 2.05(c)
Each of the Administrative Agent, the Lenders, the Swing Line Lender and the L/C Issuer agrees to maintain the confidentiality of the Information (as defined below), except that Information may be disclosed (a) to its Affiliates and to its and its Affiliates' respective partners, directors, officers, employees, agents, advisors and representatives (it being understood that the Persons to whom such disclosure is made will be informed of the confidential nature of such Information and instructed to keep such Information confidential), (b) to the extent requested by any regulatory authority purporting to have jurisdiction over it (including any self-regulatory authority, such as the National Association of Insurance Commissioners), (c) to the extent required by applicable laws or regulations or by any subpoena or similar legal process, (d) to any other party hereto, (e) in connection with the exercise of any remedies hereunder or under any other Loan Document or any action or proceeding relating to this Agreement or any other Loan Document or the enforcement of rights hereunder or thereunder, (f) subject to an agreement containing provisions substantially the same as those of this Section, to (i) any assignee of or Participant in, or any prospective assignee of or Participant in, any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement, or (ii) any actual or prospective counterparty (or its advisors) to any securitization, swap or derivative transaction relating to the Company and its obligations, or any Subsidiary and its obligations, (g) with the consent of the Company or (h) to the extent such Information (x) becomes publicly available other than as a result of a breach of this Section or (y) becomes available to the Administrative Agent, any Lender, the Swing Line Lender, the L/C Issuer or any of their respective Affiliates on a nonconfidential basis from a source other than the Company. In the event that any of the Administrative Agent, the Lenders, the L/C Issuer or the Swing Line Lender shall be required to disclose the Information pursuant to applicable Law or by subpoena or similar legal process, such party shall give prompt written notice to the Company as soon as practicable in advance of such disclosure (unless such notification is prohibited by applicable law) so that the Company may seek a protective order or other appropriate remedy and such party will use only that portion of the Information that such party is advised by its counsel is legally required or otherwise deemed necessary to disclose; , , that such party shall not be required to notify the Company regarding any disclosure of any Information to a regulatory authority having jurisdiction over such party in the course of such authority's inspection or examination of such party.
10.07 Treatment of Certain Information; Confidentiality.
provided
however
For purposes of this Section, "" means all information received from the Company or any Subsidiary relating to the Company or any Subsidiary or any of their respective
Information
 
businesses, other than any such information that is available to the Administrative Agent, any Lender or the L/C Issuer on a nonconfidential basis prior to disclosure by the Company or any Subsidiary, that, in the case of information received from the Company or any Subsidiary after the date hereof, such information is clearly identified at the time of delivery as confidential. Any Person required to maintain the confidentiality of Information as provided in this Section shall be considered to have complied with its obligation to do so if such Person has exercised the same degree of care to maintain the confidentiality of such Information as such Person would accord to its own confidential information.
provided
Each of the Administrative Agent, the Lenders, the Swing Line Lender and the L/C Issuer acknowledges that (a) the Information may include material non-public information concerning the Company or a Subsidiary, as the case may be, (b) it has developed compliance procedures regarding the use of material non-public information and (c) it will handle such material non-public information in accordance with applicable Law, including Federal and state securities Laws.
If an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, each Lender, the L/C Issuer and each of their respective Affiliates is hereby authorized at any time and from time to time, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, to set off and apply any and all deposits (general or special, time or demand, provisional or final, in whatever currency) at any time held and other obligations (in whatever currency) at any time owing by such Lender, the L/C Issuer or any such Affiliate to or for the credit or the account of any Borrower against any and all of the obligations of such Borrower now or hereafter existing under this Agreement or any other Loan Document to such Lender or the L/C Issuer, irrespective of whether or not such Lender or the L/C Issuer shall have made any demand under this Agreement or any other Loan Document and although such obligations of such Borrower may be contingent or unmatured or are owed to a branch or office of such Lender or the L/C Issuer different from the branch or office holding such deposit or obligated on such indebtedness. The rights of each Lender, the L/C Issuer and their respective Affiliates under this Section are in addition to other rights and remedies (including other rights of setoff) that such Lender, the L/C Issuer or their respective Affiliates may have. Each Lender and the L/C Issuer agrees to notify the Company and the Administrative Agent promptly after any such setoff and application, that the failure to give such notice shall not affect the validity of such setoff and application.
10.08 Right of Setoff.
provided
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any Loan Document, the interest paid or agreed to be paid under the Loan Documents shall not exceed the maximum rate of non-usurious interest permitted by applicable Law (the ""). If the Administrative Agent or any Lender shall receive interest in an amount that exceeds the Maximum Rate, the excess interest shall be applied to the principal of the Loans or, if it exceeds such unpaid principal, refunded to the Company. In determining whether the interest contracted for, charged, or received by the Administrative Agent or a Lender exceeds the Maximum Rate, such Person may, to the extent permitted by applicable Law, (a) characterize any payment that is not principal as an expense, fee, or premium rather than interest, (b) exclude voluntary prepayments and the effects thereof, and (c) amortize, prorate, allocate, and spread in equal or unequal parts the total amount of interest throughout the contemplated term of the Obligations hereunder.
10.09 Interest Rate Limitation.
Maximum Rate
This Agreement may be executed in counterparts (and by different parties hereto in different counterparts), each of which shall
10.10 Counterparts; Integration; Effectiveness.
 
constitute an original, but all of which when taken together shall constitute a single contract. This Agreement and the other Loan Documents constitute the entire contract among the parties relating to the subject matter hereof and supersede any and all previous agreements and understandings, oral or written, relating to the subject matter hereof. Except as provided in , this Agreement shall become effective when it shall have been executed by the Administrative Agent and when the Administrative Agent shall have received counterparts hereof that, when taken together, bear the signatures of each of the other parties hereto. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Agreement by telecopy shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Agreement.
Section 4.01
All representations and warranties made hereunder and in any other Loan Document or other document delivered pursuant hereto or thereto or in connection herewith or therewith shall survive the execution and delivery hereof and thereof. Such representations and warranties have been or will be relied upon by the Administrative Agent and each Lender, regardless of any investigation made by the Administrative Agent or any Lender or on their behalf and notwithstanding that the Administrative Agent or any Lender may have had notice or knowledge of any Default at the time of any Credit Extension, and shall continue in full force and effect as long as any Loan or any other Obligation hereunder shall remain unpaid or unsatisfied or any Letter of Credit shall remain outstanding.
10.11 Survival of Representations and Warranties.
If any provision of this Agreement or the other Loan Documents is held to be illegal, invalid or unenforceable, to the fullest extent permitted by law (a) the legality, validity and enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents shall not be affected or impaired thereby and (b) the parties shall endeavor in good faith negotiations to replace the illegal, invalid or unenforceable provisions with valid provisions the economic effect of which comes as close as possible to that of the illegal, invalid or unenforceable provisions. The invalidity of a provision in a particular jurisdiction shall not invalidate or render unenforceable such provision in any other jurisdiction.
10.12 Severability.
If any Lender requests compensation under , or if any Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to , or if any Lender is a Defaulting Lender, or if any other circumstance exists hereunder that gives the Company the right to replace a Lender as a party hereto, then the Company may, at its sole expense and effort, upon notice to such Lender and the Administrative Agent, require such Lender to assign and delegate, without recourse (in accordance with and subject to the restrictions contained in, and consents required by, ), all of its interests, rights and obligations under this Agreement and the related Loan Documents to an assignee that shall assume such obligations (which assignee may be another Lender, if a Lender accepts such assignment), that:
10.13 Replacement of Lenders.
Section 3.04
Section 3.01
Section 10.06
provided
(a) the Company shall have paid (or caused a Designated Borrower to pay) to the Administrative Agent the assignment fee specified in ;
Section 10.06(b)
(b) such Lender shall have received payment of an amount equal to the outstanding principal of its Loans and L/C Advances, accrued interest thereon, accrued fees and all other amounts payable to it hereunder and under the other Loan Documents (including any amounts under ) from the assignee (to the extent of such outstanding principal and accrued interest and fees) or the Company or applicable Designated Borrower (in the case of all other amounts);
Section 3.05
 
(c) in the case of any such assignment resulting from a claim for compensation under or payments required to be made pursuant to , such assignment will result in a reduction in such compensation or payments thereafter; and
Section 3.04
Section 3.01
(d) such assignment does not conflict with applicable Laws.
A Lender shall not be required to make any such assignment or delegation if, prior thereto, as a result of a waiver by such Lender or otherwise, the circumstances entitling the Company to require such assignment and delegation cease to apply.
10.14 Governing Law; Jurisdiction; Etc.
(a) . THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
GOVERNING LAW
(b) . EACH BORROWER IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY SUBMITS, FOR ITSELF AND ITS PROPERTY, TO THE NONEXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION OF THE COURTS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK SITTING IN NEW YORK COUNTY AND OF THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK, AND ANY APPELLATE COURT FROM ANY THEREOF, IN ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT, OR FOR RECOGNITION OR ENFORCEMENT OF ANY JUDGMENT, AND EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY AGREES THAT ALL CLAIMS IN RESPECT OF ANY SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING MAY BE HEARD AND DETERMINED IN SUCH NEW YORK STATE COURT OR, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, IN SUCH FEDERAL COURT. EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO AGREES THAT A FINAL JUDGMENT IN ANY SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING SHALL BE CONCLUSIVE AND MAY BE ENFORCED IN OTHER JURISDICTIONS BY SUIT ON THE JUDGMENT OR IN ANY OTHER MANNER PROVIDED BY LAW. NOTHING IN THIS AGREEMENT OR IN ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT SHALL AFFECT ANY RIGHT THAT THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT, ANY LENDER OR THE L/C ISSUER MAY OTHERWISE HAVE TO BRING ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT AGAINST ANY BORROWER OR ITS PROPERTIES IN THE COURTS OF ANY JURISDICTION.
SUBMISSION TO JURISDICTION
(c) . EACH BORROWER IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY OBJECTION THAT IT MAY NOW OR HEREAFTER HAVE TO THE LAYING OF VENUE OF ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT IN ANY COURT REFERRED TO IN PARAGRAPH (B) OF THIS SECTION. EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, THE DEFENSE OF AN INCONVENIENT FORUM TO THE MAINTENANCE OF SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING IN ANY SUCH COURT.
WAIVER OF VENUE
(d) . EACH PARTY HERETO IRREVOCABLY CONSENTS TO SERVICE OF PROCESS IN THE MANNER PROVIDED FOR NOTICES IN . NOTHING IN THIS AGREEMENT WILL AFFECT THE RIGHT OF ANY
SERVICE OF PROCESS
SECTION 10.02
 
PARTY HERETO TO SERVE PROCESS IN ANY OTHER MANNER PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW.
EACH PARTY HERETO HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY RIGHT IT MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY OR THEREBY (WHETHER BASED ON CONTRACT, TORT OR ANY OTHER THEORY). EACH PARTY HERETO (A) CERTIFIES THAT NO REPRESENTATIVE, AGENT OR ATTORNEY OF ANY OTHER PERSON HAS REPRESENTED, EXPRESSLY OR OTHERWISE, THAT SUCH OTHER PERSON WOULD NOT, IN THE EVENT OF LITIGATION, SEEK TO ENFORCE THE FOREGOING WAIVER AND (B) ACKNOWLEDGES THAT IT AND THE OTHER PARTIES HERETO HAVE BEEN INDUCED TO ENTER INTO THIS AGREEMENT AND THE OTHER LOAN DOCUMENTS BY, AMONG OTHER THINGS, THE MUTUAL WAIVERS AND CERTIFICATIONS IN THIS SECTION.
10.15 Waiver of Jury Trial.
Time is of the essence of the Loan Documents.
10.16 Time is of the Essence.
If any action or proceeding is filed in a court of the State of California by or against any party hereto in connection with any of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or any other Loan Document, (a) the court shall, and is hereby directed to, make a general reference pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure Section 638 to a referee (who shall be a single active or retired judge) to hear and determine all of the issues in such action or proceeding (whether of fact or of law) and to report a statement of decision, that at the option of any party to such proceeding, any such issues pertaining to a "provisional remedy" as defined in California Code of Civil Procedure Section 1281.8 shall be heard and determined by the court, and (b) without limiting the generality of , the Company shall be solely responsible to pay all fees and expenses of any referee appointed in such action or proceeding.
10.17 California Judicial Reference.
provided
Section 10.04
In connection with all aspects of each transaction contemplated hereby, each Borrower acknowledges and agrees that: (i) the credit facilities provided for hereunder and any related arranging or other services in connection therewith (including in connection with any amendment, waiver or other modification hereof or of any other Loan Document) are an arm's-length commercial transaction between the Borrowers and their respective Affiliates, on the one hand, and the Administrative Agent and the Arrangers, on the other hand, and the Borrowers are capable of evaluating and understanding and understand and accept the terms, risks and conditions of the transactions contemplated hereby and by the other Loan Documents (including any amendment, waiver or other modification hereof or thereof); (ii) in connection with the process leading to such transaction, the Administrative Agent and the Arrangers, each is and has been acting solely as a principal and is not the financial advisor, agent or fiduciary, for any Borrowers or any of their respective Affiliates, stockholders, creditors or employees or any other Person; (iii) neither the Administrative Agent nor the Arrangers have assumed or will assume an advisory, agency or fiduciary responsibility in favor of any Borrower with respect to any of the transactions contemplated hereby or the process leading thereto, including with respect to any amendment, waiver or other modification hereof or of any other Loan Document (irrespective of whether the
10.18 No Advisory or Fiduciary Responsibility.
 
Administrative Agent or the Arrangers have advised or is currently advising any of the Borrowers or their respective Affiliates on other matters) and neither the Administrative Agent nor the Arrangers have any obligation to any of the Borrowers or their respective Affiliates with respect to the transactions contemplated hereby except those obligations expressly set forth herein and in the other Loan Documents; (iv) the Administrative Agent and the Arrangers and their respective Affiliates may be engaged in a broad range of transactions that involve interests that differ from those of the Borrowers and their respective Affiliates, and neither the Administrative Agent nor the Arrangers have any obligation to disclose any of such interests by virtue of any advisory, agency or fiduciary relationship; and (v) the Administrative Agent and the Arrangers have not provided and will not provide any legal, accounting, regulatory or tax advice with respect to any of the transactions contemplated hereby (including any amendment, waiver or other modification hereof or of any other Loan Document) and each Borrower has consulted its own legal, accounting, regulatory and tax advisors to the extent it has deemed appropriate. Each Borrower hereby waives and releases, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any claims that it may have against the Administrative Agent and the Arrangers with respect to any breach or alleged breach of agency or fiduciary duty.
Each Lender that is subject to the Act (as hereinafter defined) and the Administrative Agent (for itself and not on behalf of any Lender) hereby notifies the Borrowers that pursuant to the requirements of the USA PATRIOT Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001)) (the ""), it is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies the Borrowers, which information includes the name and address of each Borrower and other information that will allow such Lender or the Administrative Agent, as applicable, to identify such Borrower in accordance with the Act.
10.19 USA PATRIOT Act Notice.
Act
If, for the purposes of obtaining judgment in any court, it is necessary to convert a sum due hereunder or any other Loan Document in one currency into another currency, the rate of exchange used shall be that at which in accordance with normal banking procedures the Administrative Agent could purchase the first currency with such other currency on the Business Day preceding that on which final judgment is given. The obligation of each Borrower in respect of any such sum due from it to the Administrative Agent or the Lenders hereunder or under the other Loan Documents shall, notwithstanding any judgment in a currency (the "") other than that in which such sum is denominated in accordance with the applicable provisions of this Agreement (the ""), be discharged only to the extent that on the Business Day following receipt by the Administrative Agent of any sum adjudged to be so due in the Judgment Currency, the Administrative Agent may in accordance with normal banking procedures purchase the Agreement Currency with the Judgment Currency. If the amount of the Agreement Currency so purchased is less than the sum originally due to the Administrative Agent or any Lender from any Borrower in the Agreement Currency, such Borrower agrees, as a separate obligation and notwithstanding any such judgment, to indemnify the Administrative Agent or the Person to whom such obligation was owing against such loss. If the amount of the Agreement Currency so purchased is greater than the sum originally due to the Administrative Agent in such currency, the Administrative Agent agrees to return the amount of any excess to such Borrower (or to any other Person who may be entitled thereto under applicable law).
10.20 Judgment Currency.
Judgment Currency
Agreement Currency
 
the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed as of the date first above written.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF,
 

Exhibit 10.2
[Execution Copy]
THIS GUARANTY (this ""), dated as of June 7, 2006, is made by each Guarantor named in the signature pages hereof (each a "" and, collectively, the ""), in favor of the Lenders party to the Credit Agreement referred to below, the L/C Issuer, the Swing Line Lender and Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent (in such capacity, the "").
Guaranty
Guarantor
Guarantors
Administrative Agent
VeriSign, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""), certain Subsidiaries of the Company from time to time party thereto pursuant to thereof as Designated Borrowers (each a "" and, collectively, the ""), the Lenders from time to time party thereto (each a "" and, collectively, the ""), the L/C Issuer, the Swing Line Lender and the Administrative Agent are parties to a Credit Agreement dated as of June 7, 2006 (as amended, modified, renewed or extended from time to time, the "").
Company
Section 2.15
Designated Borrower
Designated Borrowers
Lender
Lenders
Credit Agreement
It is a condition precedent to the Borrowings and issuances of Letters of Credit under the Credit Agreement that each Guarantor guarantee the indebtedness and other obligations of the Company and each Designated Borrower to the Guaranteed Parties under or in connection with the Credit Agreement and the obligations of the Company to the L/C Issuer under or in connection with the Issuer Documents . Each Guarantor, as a Subsidiary or Affiliate of the Company, will derive substantial direct and indirect benefits from the making of the Loans to, and issuances of Letters of Credit for the account or benefit of, the Company, the Designated Borrowers or other Subsidiaries, as the case may be, pursuant to the Credit Agreement (which benefits are hereby acknowledged by each Guarantor).
Accordingly, to induce the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer, the Swing Line Lender and the Lenders to enter into the Credit Agreement and to extend credit thereunder, and in consideration thereof, each Guarantor hereby agrees as follows:
SECTION 1 .
Definitions; Interpretation
(a) . All capitalized terms used in this Guaranty (including in the recitals hereof) and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Credit Agreement.
Terms Defined in Credit Agreement
(b) . As used in this Guaranty (including in the recitals hereof), the following terms shall have the following meanings:
Certain Defined Terms
"" means the Federal Bankruptcy Reform Act of 1978 (11 U.S.C. 101, .).
Bankruptcy Code
et seq
"" means any Cash Collateral provided by the Guarantor pursuant to the Credit Agreement.
Collateral
 
"" means any agreement pursuant to which any Guarantor or any other Person provides a Lien on any Collateral and all filings, documents and agreements made or delivered pursuant thereto.
Collateral Documents
"" means, with respect to any Guaranteed Party or any other recipient of any payment to be made by or on account of any Guaranteed Obligation hereunder, (a) taxes imposed on or measured by its overall net income (however denominated), and franchise taxes imposed on it (in lieu of net income taxes), by the jurisdiction (or any political subdivision thereof) under the laws of which such recipient is organized or in which its principal office is located or, in the case of any Lender, in which its applicable Lending Office is located, (b) any branch profits taxes imposed by the United States or any similar tax imposed by any other jurisdiction in which any Guarantor is located and any taxes imposed on net income by reason of any connection between the recipient of such payment and the jurisdiction of the Governmental Authority imposing such taxes (other than any such connection arising from the recipient of such payment having executed, delivered or performed its obligations or received a payment under, or enforced, this Guaranty or any other Guarantor Document), (c) any tax to the extent (and solely in the amount) that such tax (or a similar tax imposed by another jurisdiction) was an Excluded Tax on a payment made under the Guaranteed Obligation, or (d) any tax that is attributable to a Guaranteed Party's failure or inability (other than as a result of a Change in Law) to comply with .
Excluded Taxes
Section 9(f)
"" has the meaning set forth in .
Guaranteed Obligations
Section 2
"" means the Administrative Agent, the Lenders, the L/C Issuer and the Swing Line Lender.
Guaranteed Parties
"" means this Guaranty and all other certificates, documents, agreements and instruments delivered to any Guaranteed Party by a Guarantor under or in connection with this Guaranty.
Guarantor Documents
"" means Taxes other than Excluded Taxes.
Indemnified Taxes
"" means, with respect to any Person, (a) any case, action or proceeding with respect to such Person before any court or other Governmental Authority relating to bankruptcy, reorganization, insolvency, liquidation, receivership, dissolution, winding-up or relief of debtors, or (b) any general assignment for the benefit of creditors, composition, marshalling of assets for creditors, or other, similar arrangement in respect of its creditors generally or any substantial portion of its creditors; in either case undertaken under Debtor Relief Laws.
Insolvency Proceeding
"" means all present or future stamp or documentary taxes or any other excise or property taxes, charges or similar levies arising from any payment made hereunder or under any other Guarantor Document or from the execution, delivery or enforcement of, or otherwise with respect to, this Guaranty or any other Guarantor Document.
Other Taxes
"" has the meaning set forth in .
Subordinated Debt
Section 7
 
"" means all present or future taxes, levies, imposts, duties, deductions, withholdings, assessments, fees or other charges imposed by any Governmental Authority, including any interest, additions to tax or penalties applicable thereto.
Taxes
(c) . The rules of interpretation set forth in of the Credit Agreement shall be applicable to this Guaranty and are incorporated herein by this reference.
Interpretation
Section 1.02
SECTION 2 .
Guaranty
(a) . Each Guarantor hereby unconditionally and irrevocably guarantees to the Guaranteed Parties, and their respective successors and permitted assigns, the full and prompt payment when due (whether at stated maturity, by required prepayment, declaration, acceleration, demand or otherwise) of the indebtedness, liabilities and other obligations of Company and each Designated Borrower to the Guaranteed Parties under or in connection with the Credit Agreement, the Notes, the Issuer Documents and the other Loan Documents, including all unpaid principal of the Loans, all amounts owing in respect of the L/C Obligations, all interest accrued thereon, all fees due under the Credit Agreement and all other amounts payable by the Company or any Designated Borrower to the Guaranteed Parties thereunder or in connection therewith. The terms "indebtedness," "liabilities" and "obligations" are used herein in their most comprehensive sense and include any and all advances, debts, obligations and liabilities, now existing or hereafter arising, whether voluntary or involuntary and whether due or not due, absolute or contingent, liquidated or unliquidated, determined or undetermined, and whether recovery upon such indebtedness, liabilities and obligations may be or hereafter become unenforceable or shall be an allowed or disallowed claim under any Debtor Relief Law, and including interest that accrues after the commencement by or against the Company or any Designated Borrower of any Insolvency Proceeding naming such Person as the debtor in such proceeding. The foregoing indebtedness, liabilities and other obligations of the Company and each Designated Borrower, and all other indebtedness, liabilities and obligations to be paid or performed by the Guarantors in connection with this Guaranty (including any and all amounts due under ), shall hereinafter be collectively referred to as the "."
Guaranty
Section 15
Guaranteed Obligations
(b) . To the extent that any court of competent jurisdiction shall impose by final judgment under applicable law (including the California Uniform Fraudulent Transfer Act and  544 and 548 of the Bankruptcy Code) any limitations on the amount of any Guarantor's liability with respect to the Guaranteed Obligations which any Guaranteed Party can enforce under this Guaranty, the Guaranteed Parties by their acceptance hereof accept such limitation on the amount of such Guarantor's liability hereunder to the extent needed to make this Guaranty and the Guarantor Documents fully enforceable and nonavoidable.
Limitation of Guaranty
(c) . The Guarantors together desire to allocate among themselves, in a fair and equitable manner, their obligations arising under of this Guaranty. Accordingly, in the event any payment or distribution is made on any date by any Guarantor (a "") under that exceeds its Fair Share (as defined below) as of such date, such Funding Guarantor shall be entitled to a contribution from each of the other Guarantors in the amount of such other Guarantor's Fair Share Shortfall (as defined
Allocation of Payments
Section 2(a)
Funding Guarantor
Section 2(a)
 
below) as of such date, so that all such contributions will cause each Guarantor's Aggregate Payments (as defined below) to equal its Fair Share as of such date. "" means, with respect to any Guarantor as of any date of determination, an amount equal to (i) the ratio of (x) the Adjusted Maximum Amount (as defined below) with respect to such Guarantor to (y) the aggregate of the Adjusted Maximum Amounts with respect to all Guarantors, (ii) the aggregate amount paid or distributed on or before such date by all Funding Guarantors under in respect of the obligations guarantied. "" means, with respect to a Guarantor as of any date of determination, the excess, if any, of the Fair Share of such Guarantor over the Aggregate Payments of such Guarantor. "" means, with respect to any Guarantor as of any date of determination, the maximum aggregate amount of the obligations of such Guarantor under , subject to , if applicable, determined as of such date; provided that, solely for purposes of calculating the "" with respect to any Guarantor for purposes of this , any assets or liabilities of such Guarantor arising by virtue of any rights to subrogation, reimbursement or indemnification or any rights to or obligations of contribution hereunder shall not be considered as assets or liabilities of such Guarantor. "" means, with respect to a Guarantor as of any date of determination, an amount equal to (i) the aggregate amount of all payments and distributions made on or before such date by such Guarantor in respect of this (including in respect of this ) (ii) the aggregate amount of all payments received on or before such date by such Guarantor from the other Guarantors as contributions under this . The amounts payable as contributions hereunder shall be determined as of the date on which the related payment or distribution is made by the applicable Funding Guarantor. The allocation among Guarantors of their obligations as set forth in this shall not be construed in any way to limit the liability of any Guarantor hereunder.
Fair Share
multiplied by
Section 2(a)
Fair Share Shortfall
Adjusted Maximum Amount
Section 2(a)
Section 2(b)
Adjusted Maximum Amount
Section 2(c)
Aggregate Payments
Section 2
Section 2(c)
minus
Section 2(c)
Section 2(c)
SECTION 3 . The liability of the Guarantors under this Guaranty shall be irrevocable, absolute, independent and unconditional, and shall not be affected by any circumstance which might constitute a discharge of a surety or guarantor other than the indefeasible payment and performance in full of all Guaranteed Obligations. In furtherance of the foregoing and without limiting the generality thereof, each Guarantor agrees as follows:
Liability of Guarantors
(i) such Guarantor's liability hereunder shall be the immediate, direct, and primary obligation of such Guarantor and shall not be contingent upon any Guaranteed Party's exercise or enforcement of any remedy it may have against the Company, any Designated Borrower or any other Person, or against any Collateral;
(ii) this Guaranty is a guaranty of payment when due and not merely of collectibility;
(iii) the Guaranteed Parties may enforce this Guaranty upon the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default to the extent any Guaranteed Obligations are then due and payable, notwithstanding the existence of any dispute between any of the Guaranteed Parties and the Company or any Designated Borrower with respect to the existence of such Event of Default;
 
(iv) such Guarantor's payment of a portion, but not all, of the Guaranteed Obligations shall in no way limit, affect, modify or abridge such Guarantor's liability for any portion of the Guaranteed Obligations remaining unsatisfied; and
(v) such Guarantor's liability with respect to the Guaranteed Obligations shall remain in full force and effect without regard to, and shall not be impaired or affected by, nor shall such Guarantor be exonerated or discharged by, any of the following events:
(A) any Insolvency Proceeding with respect to the Company, any Designated Borrower, such Guarantor, any other Loan Party or any other Person;
(B) any limitation, discharge, or cessation of the liability of the Company, any Designated Borrower, such Guarantor, any other Loan Party or any other Person for any Guaranteed Obligations due to any statute, regulation or rule of law, or any invalidity or unenforceability in whole or in part of any of the Guaranteed Obligations or the Loan Documents;
(C) any merger, acquisition, consolidation or change in structure of the Company, any Designated Borrower, such Guarantor or any other Loan Party or Person, or any sale, lease, transfer or other disposition of any or all of the assets or shares of the Company, any Designated Borrower, such Guarantor, any other Loan Party or other Person;
(D) any assignment or other transfer, in whole or in part, of any Guaranteed Party's interests in and rights under this Guaranty or the other Loan Documents, including any Guaranteed Party's right to receive payment of the Guaranteed Obligations, or any assignment or other transfer, in whole or in part, of any Guaranteed Party's interests in and to any of the Collateral, in each of the foregoing cases to the extent such assignment or other transfer is made pursuant to of this Guaranty;
Section 18(b)
(E) any claim, defense, counterclaim or setoff, other than that of prior performance, that the Company, any Designated Borrower, such Guarantor, any other Loan Party or other Person may have or assert, including any defense of incapacity or lack of corporate or other authority to execute any of the Loan Documents;
(F) any Guaranteed Party's amendment, modification, renewal, extension, cancellation or surrender of any Loan Document, any Guaranteed Obligations, or any Collateral, or any Guaranteed Party's exchange, release, or waiver of any Collateral;
(G) any Guaranteed Party's exercise or nonexercise of any power, right or remedy with respect to any of the Collateral, including any Guaranteed Party's compromise, release, settlement or waiver with or of any Designated Borrower, any other Loan Party or any other Person;
(H) any Guaranteed Party's vote, claim, distribution, election, acceptance, action or inaction in any Insolvency Proceeding related to the Guaranteed Obligations;
 
(I) any impairment or invalidity of any of the Collateral or any other collateral securing any of the Guaranteed Obligations or any failure to perfect any of the Liens of the Guaranteed Parties thereon or therein;
(J) any acts of any Governmental Authority of or in any jurisdiction affecting the Company, any Designated Borrower, such Guarantor, any other Loan Party or other Person, including any restrictions on the conversion or exchange of currency or repatriation or control of funds, a declaration of banking moratorium or any suspension of payments by banks in any jurisdiction or the imposition by any jurisdiction or any Governmental Authority thereof or therein of any moratorium on, the required rescheduling or restructuring of, or required approval of payments on, any indebtedness in such jurisdiction, or any total or partial expropriation, confiscation, nationalization or requisition of any such Person's property; any war (whether or not declared), insurrection, revolution, hostile act, civil strife or similar events occurring in any jurisdiction; or any economic, political, regulatory or other events in any jurisdiction; and
(K) any other guaranty, whether by such Guarantor or any other Person, of all or any part of the Guaranteed Obligations or any other indebtedness, obligations or liabilities of the Company, any Designated Borrower to any Guaranteed Party.
SECTION 4 . Each Guarantor hereby unconditionally consents and agrees that, without notice to or further assent from such Guarantor:
Consents of Guarantors
(i) the principal amount of the Guaranteed Obligations may be increased or decreased and additional Obligations of the Loan Parties under the Loan Documents may be incurred, by one or more amendments, modifications, renewals or extensions of any Loan Document or otherwise;
(ii) the time, manner, place or terms of any payment under any Loan Document may be extended or changed, including by an increase or decrease in the interest rate on any Guaranteed Obligation or any fee or other amount payable under such Loan Document, by an amendment, modification or renewal of any Loan Document or otherwise;
(iii) the time for the Company's or any Designated Borrower's (or any other Person's) performance of or compliance with any term, covenant or agreement on its part to be performed or observed under any Loan Document may be extended, or such performance or compliance waived, or failure in or departure from such performance or compliance consented to, all in such manner and upon such terms as the Guaranteed Parties may deem proper;
(iv) any Guaranteed Party may discharge or release, in whole or in part, any other Loan Party or any other Person liable for the payment and performance of all or any part of the Guaranteed Obligations, and may permit or consent to any such action or any result of such action, and shall not be obligated to demand or enforce payment upon any of the Collateral or any other collateral, nor shall any Guaranteed Party be liable to the Guarantors for any failure to collect or enforce payment or performance of the Guaranteed Obligations from any Person or to realize on the Collateral or other collateral therefor;
(v) in addition to the Collateral, the Guaranteed Parties may take and hold other security (legal or equitable) of any kind, at any time, as collateral for the Guaranteed
 
Obligations, and may, from time to time, in whole or in part, exchange, sell, surrender, release, subordinate, modify, waive, rescind, compromise or extend such security and may permit or consent to any such action or the result of any such action, and may apply such security and direct the order or manner of sale thereof;
(vi) the Guaranteed Parties may request and accept other guaranties of the Guaranteed Obligations and any other indebtedness, obligations or liabilities of the Company or any Designated Borrower to any Guaranteed Party and may, from time to time, in whole or in part, surrender, release, subordinate, modify, waive, rescind, compromise or extend any such guaranty and may permit or consent to any such action or the result of any such action; and
(vii) the Guaranteed Parties may exercise, or waive or otherwise refrain from exercising, any other right, remedy, power or privilege (including the right to accelerate the maturity of any Loan and any power of sale) granted by any Loan Document or other security document or agreement, or otherwise available to any Guaranteed Party, with respect to the Guaranteed Obligations or any of the Collateral, even if the exercise of such right, remedy, power or privilege affects or eliminates any right of subrogation or any other right of the Guarantors against the Company or any Designated Borrower;
all as the Guaranteed Parties may deem advisable, and all without impairing, abridging, releasing or affecting this Guaranty.
SECTION 5 .
Guarantor Waivers
(a) . Each Guarantor waives and agrees not to assert:
Certain Waivers
(i) any right to require any Guaranteed Party to marshal assets in favor of the Company or any Designated Borrower, such Guarantor, any other Loan Party or any other Person, to proceed against the Company, any Designated Borrower, any other Loan Party or any other Person, to proceed against or exhaust any of the Collateral, to give notice of the terms, time and place of any public or private sale of personal property security constituting the Collateral or other collateral for the Guaranteed Obligations or comply with any other provisions of 9611 of the New York UCC (or any equivalent provision of any other applicable law) or to pursue any other right, remedy, power or privilege of any Guaranteed Party whatsoever;
(ii) the defense of the statute of limitations in any action hereunder or for the collection or performance of the Guaranteed Obligations;
(iii) any defense arising by reason of any lack of corporate or other authority or any other defense of the Company, any Designated Borrower, such Guarantor or any other Person;
(iv) any defense based upon any Guaranteed Party's errors or omissions in the administration of the Guaranteed Obligations;
(v) any rights to set-offs and counterclaims;
 
(vi) any defense available as the result of any law or regulation of any jurisdiction affecting any term of a Guaranteed Obligation;
(vii) any defense based upon an election of remedies (including, if available, an election to proceed by nonjudicial foreclosure) which destroys or impairs the subrogation rights of such Guarantor or the right of such Guarantor to proceed against the Company, any Designated Borrower or any other obligor of the Guaranteed Obligations for reimbursement; and
(viii) without limiting the generality of the foregoing, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any defenses or benefits that may be derived from or afforded by applicable law limiting the liability of or exonerating guarantors or sureties, or which may conflict with the terms of this Guaranty, including any rights and defenses which are or may become available to any Guarantor by reason of California Civil Code 2787 through 2855, 2899 and 3433. As provided below, this Guaranty shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the law of the State of New York. The foregoing is included solely out of an abundance of caution, and shall not be construed to mean that any of the above referenced provisions of California law are in any way applicable to this Guaranty or the Guaranteed Obligations.
(b) . Each Guarantor waives any and all notice of the acceptance of this Guaranty, and any and all notice of the creation, renewal, modification, extension or accrual of the Guaranteed Obligations, or the reliance by the Guaranteed Parties upon this Guaranty, or the exercise of any right, power or privilege hereunder. The Guaranteed Obligations shall conclusively be deemed to have been created, contracted, incurred and permitted to exist in reliance upon this Guaranty. Each Guarantor waives promptness, diligence, presentment, protest, demand for payment, notice of default, dishonor or nonpayment and all other notices to or upon the Company, any Designated Borrower, such Guarantor or any other Person with respect to the Guaranteed Obligations.
Additional Waivers
(c) . The obligations of each Guarantor hereunder are independent of and separate from the obligations of the Company, any Designated Borrower and any other Loan Party and upon the occurrence and during the continuance of any Event of Default to the extent any Guaranteed Obligations are then due and payable, a separate action or actions may be brought against such Guarantor, whether or not the Company, any Designated Borrower or any such other Loan Party is joined therein or a separate action or actions are brought against the Company, any Designated Borrower or any such other Loan Party.
Independent Obligations
(d) . No Guarantor shall have any right to require any Guaranteed Party to obtain or disclose any information with respect to: (i) the financial condition or character of the Company or any Designated Borrower or the ability of the Company or any Designated Borrower to pay and perform the Guaranteed Obligations; (ii) the Guaranteed Obligations; (iii) the Collateral; (iv) the existence or nonexistence of any other guarantees of all or any part of the Guaranteed Obligations; (v) any action or inaction on the part of any Guaranteed Party or any other Person; or (vi) any other matter, fact or occurrence whatsoever.
Financial Condition of the Company and the Designated Borrowers
 
SECTION 6 . Until the Guaranteed Obligations shall be satisfied in full and the Commitments shall be terminated, no Guarantor shall have, and no Guarantor shall directly or indirectly exercise, (i) any rights that it may acquire by way of subrogation under this Guaranty, by any payment hereunder or otherwise, (ii) any rights of contribution, indemnification, reimbursement or similar suretyship claims arising out of this Guaranty or (iii) any other right which it might otherwise have or acquire (in any way whatsoever) which could entitle it at any time to share or participate in any right, remedy or security of any Guaranteed Party as against the Company, any Designated Borrower or other Loan Parties, whether in connection with this Guaranty, any of the other Loan Documents or otherwise. If any amount shall be paid to any Guarantor on account of the foregoing rights at any time when all the Guaranteed Obligations shall not have been paid in full, such amount shall be held in trust for the benefit of the Guaranteed Parties and shall forthwith be paid to the Administrative Agent to be credited and applied to the Guaranteed Obligations, whether matured or unmatured, in accordance with the terms of the Loan Documents.
Subrogation
SECTION 7 .
Subordination
(a) . All payments on account of all indebtedness, liabilities and other obligations of the Company or any Designated Borrower to each Guarantor, whether created under, arising out of or in connection with any documents or instruments evidencing any credit extensions to the Company or any Designated Borrower or otherwise, including all principal on any such credit extensions, all interest accrued thereon, all fees and all other amounts payable by the Company or any Designated Borrower to such Guarantor in connection therewith, whether now existing or hereafter arising, and whether due or to become due, absolute or contingent, liquidated or unliquidated, determined or undetermined (the "") shall be subject, subordinate and junior in right of payment and exercise of remedies, to the extent and in the manner set forth herein, to the prior payment in full in cash or cash equivalents of the Guaranteed Obligations.
Subordination to Payment of Guaranteed Obligations
Subordinated Debt
(b) . As long as any of the Guaranteed Obligations shall remain outstanding and unpaid, no Guarantor shall accept or receive any payment or distribution by or on behalf of the Company or any Designated Borrower, directly or indirectly, of assets of the Company or any Designated Borrower of any kind or character, whether in cash, property or securities, including on account of the purchase, redemption or other acquisition of Subordinated Debt, as a result of any collection, sale or other disposition of collateral, or by setoff, exchange or in any other manner, for or on account of the Subordinated Debt (""), except that if no Event of Default exists and no Guaranteed Obligations are then due and payable, a Guarantor shall be entitled to accept and receive regularly scheduled payments and other payments in the ordinary course or consistent with past practice of the relevant Guarantor on the Subordinated Debt, in accordance with the terms of the documents and instruments governing the Subordinated Debt and other Subordinated Debt Payments in respect of Subordinated Debt not evidenced by documents or instruments, in each case to the extent not in violation of of the Credit Agreement. During the existence of an Event of Default (or if any Event of Default would exist immediately after the making of a Subordinated Debt Payment), if the Guaranteed Obligations are then due and payable, and until such Event of Default is cured or waived, such Guarantor shall not make, accept or receive any Subordinated Debt Payment. In the event that, notwithstanding the provisions of this , any
No Payments
Subordinated Debt Payments
Article VII
Section 7
 
Subordinated Debt Payments shall be received in contravention of this by any Guarantor before all Guaranteed Obligations are paid in full in cash or cash equivalents, such Subordinated Debt Payments shall be held in trust for the benefit of the Guaranteed Parties and shall be paid over or delivered to the Administrative Agent for application to the payment in full in cash or cash equivalents of all Guaranteed Obligations remaining unpaid to the extent necessary to give effect to this , after giving effect to any concurrent payments or distributions to any Guaranteed Party in respect of the Guaranteed Obligations.
Section 7
Section 7
(c) . As long as any Guaranteed Obligations shall remain outstanding and unpaid, no Guarantor shall, without the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent:
Subordination of Remedies
(i) accelerate, make demand or otherwise make due and payable prior to the original stated maturity thereof any Subordinated Debt or bring suit or institute any other actions or proceedings to enforce its rights or interests under or in respect of the Subordinated Debt;
(ii) exercise any rights under or with respect to (A) any guaranties of the Subordinated Debt, or (B) any collateral held by it, including causing or compelling the pledge or delivery of any collateral, any attachment of, levy upon, execution against, foreclosure upon or the taking of other action against or institution of other proceedings with respect to any collateral held by it, notifying any account debtors of the Company or any Designated Borrower or asserting any claim or interest in any insurance with respect to any collateral, or attempt to do any of the foregoing;
(iii) exercise any rights to set-offs and counterclaims in respect of any indebtedness, liabilities or obligations of such Guarantor to the Company or any Designated Borrower against any of the Subordinated Debt; or
(iv) commence, or cause to be commenced, or join with any creditor other than any Guaranteed Party in commencing, any Insolvency Proceeding.
(d) . In the event of any payment or distribution of assets of the Company or any Designated Borrower of any kind or character, whether in cash, property or securities, upon any Insolvency Proceeding with respect to or involving the Company or such Designated Borrower, (i) all amounts owing on account of the Guaranteed Obligations, including all interest accrued thereon at the contract rate both before and after the initiation of any such proceeding, whether or not an allowed claim in any such proceeding, shall first be paid in full in cash, or payment provided for in cash or in cash equivalents, before any Subordinated Debt Payment is made; and (ii) to the extent permitted by applicable law, any Subordinated Debt Payment to which such Guarantor would be entitled except for the provisions hereof, shall be paid or delivered by the trustee in bankruptcy, receiver, assignee for the benefit of creditors or other liquidating agent making such payment or distribution directly to the Administrative Agent (on behalf of the other Guaranteed Parties) for application to the payment of the Guaranteed Obligations in accordance with clause (i), after giving effect to any concurrent payment or
Subordination Upon Any Distribution of Assets of the Company or Designated Borrowers
 
distribution or provision therefor to any Guaranteed Party in respect of such Guaranteed Obligations.
(e) . If, while any Subordinated Debt is outstanding, any Insolvency Proceeding is commenced by or against the Company or its property or any Designated Borrower or its property:
Authorization to Administrative Agent
(i) the Administrative Agent, when so instructed by the Required Lenders, is hereby irrevocably authorized and empowered (in the name of the Guaranteed Parties or in the name of any Guarantor or otherwise), but shall have no obligation, to demand, sue for, collect and receive every payment or distribution in respect of the Subordinated Debt and give acquittance therefor and to file claims and proofs of claim and take such other action (including voting the Subordinated Debt) as it may deem necessary or advisable for the exercise or enforcement of any of the rights or interests of the Guaranteed Parties; and
(ii) each Guarantor shall promptly take such action as the Administrative Agent (on instruction from the Required Lenders) may reasonably request (A) to collect the Subordinated Debt for the account of the Guaranteed Parties and to file appropriate claims or proofs of claim in respect of the Subordinated Debt, (B) to execute and deliver to the Administrative Agent, such powers of attorney, assignments and other instruments as it may request to enable it to enforce any and all claims with respect to the Subordinated Debt, and (C) to collect and receive any and all Subordinated Debt Payments.
SECTION 8 . This Guaranty is a continuing guaranty and agreement of subordination relating to any Guaranteed Obligations, including Guaranteed Obligations which may exist continuously or which may arise from time to time under successive transactions, and the Guarantors expressly acknowledge that this Guaranty shall remain in full force and effect notwithstanding that there may be periods in which no Guaranteed Obligations exist. This Guaranty shall continue in effect and be binding upon the Guarantors until termination of the Commitments and payment and performance in full of the Guaranteed Obligations.
Continuing Guaranty
SECTION 9 . (a) Each Guarantor hereby agrees, in furtherance of the foregoing provisions of this Guaranty and not in limitation of any other right which any Guaranteed Party or any other Person may have against such Guarantor by virtue hereof, upon the failure of the Company or any Designated Borrower to pay any of the Guaranteed Obligations when and as the same shall become due, whether at stated maturity, by required prepayment, declaration, acceleration, demand or otherwise (including amounts that would become due but for the operation of the automatic stay under 362(a) of the Bankruptcy Code), such Guarantor shall forthwith pay, or cause to be paid, in cash, to the Administrative Agent an amount equal to the amount of the Guaranteed Obligations then due as aforesaid (including interest which, but for the filing of a petition in any Insolvency Proceeding with respect to the Company or any Designated Borrower, would have accrued on such Guaranteed Obligations, whether or not a claim is allowed against the Company or any Designated Borrower for such interest in any such Insolvency Proceeding). Each Guarantor shall make each payment hereunder, unconditionally in full without set-off, counterclaim or other defense, on the day when due in the currency in which such Guaranteed Obligations are denominated, in Same Day
Payments
 
Funds, to the Administrative Agent at such office of the Administrative Agent and to such account as are specified in the Credit Agreement. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Administrative Agent may require that any payments due under this Guaranty shall be made in the United States.
(b) Any and all payments by or on account of any Guaranteed Obligation hereunder or under any other Guarantor Document shall be made free and clear of and without reduction or withholding for any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes, that if any Guarantor shall be required by applicable law to deduct any Indemnified Taxes (including any Other Taxes) from such payments, then (i) the sum payable shall be increased as necessary so that after making all required deductions (including deductions for Indemnified Taxes applicable to additional sums payable under this Section) the Guaranteed Party receives an amount equal to the sum it would have received had no such deductions been made, (ii) such Guarantor shall make such deductions and (iii) such Guarantor shall timely pay the full amount deducted to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law.
provided
(c) Without limiting the provisions of , each Guarantor shall timely pay any Other Taxes to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law.
subsection (b)
(d) Each Guarantor shall indemnify the Guaranteed Parties, within ten days after demand therefor, for the full amount of any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes (including Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes imposed or asserted on or attributable to amounts payable under this Section) paid by the Guaranteed Parties and any penalties, interest and reasonable expenses arising therefrom or with respect thereto, whether or not such Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes were correctly or legally imposed or asserted by the relevant Governmental Authority. A certificate as to the amount of such payment or liability delivered to such Guarantor by a Guaranteed Party (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), or by the Administrative Agent on its own behalf or on behalf of another Guaranteed Party, shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
(e) As soon as practicable after any payment of Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes by a Guarantor to a Governmental Authority, such Guarantor shall deliver to the Administrative Agent the original or a certified copy of a receipt issued by such Governmental Authority evidencing such payment, a copy of the return reporting such payment or other evidence of such payment reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent.
(f) Each Guaranteed Party agrees to comply with any certification, identification, information, documentation or other reporting requirement if (i) such compliance is required by law, regulation, administrative practice or an applicable treaty as a precondition to exemption from, or reduction in the rate of, deduction or withholding of any Taxes for which any Guarantor is required to pay additional amounts pursuant to and (ii) such Guarantor shall have notified the Administrative Agent that a Guaranteed Party will be required to comply with such requirement.
Section 9(b)
(g) Any payments by any Guarantor hereunder the application of which is not otherwise provided for herein, shall be applied in the order specified in of the Credit Agreement.
Section 8.03
 
(h) To the extent that any payment by or on behalf of any Loan Party is made to the Administrative Agent or any other Guaranteed Party, or the Administrative Agent or any other Guaranteed Party exercises its right of setoff, and such payment or the proceeds of such setoff or any part thereof is subsequently invalidated, declared to be fraudulent or preferential, set aside or required (including pursuant to any settlement entered into by the Administrative Agent or any other Guaranteed Party in its discretion) to be repaid to a trustee, receiver or any other party, in connection with any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law or otherwise, then (i) to the extent of such recovery, the obligation or part thereof originally intended to be satisfied shall be revived and continued in full force and effect as if such payment had not been made or such setoff had not occurred, and (ii) each Lender and the L/C Issuer severally (by its acceptance hereof) agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent upon demand its applicable share (without duplication) of any amount so recovered from or repaid by the Administrative Agent, plus interest thereon from the date of such demand to the date such payment is made at a rate per annum equal to the applicable Overnight Rate from time to time in effect. The obligations of the Lenders and the L/C Issuer under clause (ii) of the preceding sentence shall survive the payment in full of the Guaranteed Obligations and the termination of this Guaranty.
(i) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein or in any Guarantor Document, the interest paid or agreed to be paid hereunder and under the other Guarantor Documents shall not exceed the maximum rate of non-usurious interest permitted by applicable Law (the ""). If the Administrative Agent or any other Guaranteed Party shall receive interest in an amount that exceeds the Maximum Rate, the excess interest shall be applied to the principal of the Guaranteed Obligations or, if it exceeds such unpaid principal, refunded to such Guarantor. In determining whether the interest contracted for, charged, or received by the Administrative Agent or any other Guaranteed Party exceeds the Maximum Rate, such Person may, to the extent permitted by applicable Law, (i) characterize any payment that is not principal as an expense, fee, or premium rather than interest, (ii) exclude voluntary prepayments and the effects thereof, and (iii) amortize, prorate, allocate, and spread in equal or unequal parts the total amount of interest throughout the contemplated term of the Obligations hereunder.
Maximum Rate
(j) The agreements in this shall survive the termination of the Aggregate Commitments and the repayment, satisfaction or discharge of all the other Guaranteed Obligations.
Section 9
SECTION 10 . Each Guarantor represents and warrants to each Guaranteed Party that:
Representations and Warranties
(a) . Each Guarantor is (i) duly organized or formed, validly existing and in good standing under the Laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation or organization, (ii) has all requisite power and authority and all requisite governmental licenses, authorizations, consents and approvals to (A) own its assets and carry on its business and (B) to execute, deliver, and perform its obligations under this Guaranty and the other Guarantor Documents to which it is a party, (iii) is duly qualified and is licensed and in good standing under the Laws of each jurisdiction where its ownership, lease or operation of properties or the conduct of its business requires such qualification or license, and (iv) is in compliance with all Laws, except in each case referred to in clause (ii)(A), clause (iii) or clause (iv), to the extent that
Organization and Powers
 
failure to do so individually or in the aggregate could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
(b) . The execution, delivery and performance by each Guarantor of this Guaranty and any other Guarantor Documents have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate or other organizational action, and do not and will not (i) contravene the terms of any of such Guarantor's Organization Documents; (ii) conflict with or result in any breach or contravention of, or the creation of any Lien under, or require any payment to be made under (A) any material Contractual Obligation to which such Guarantor is a party or affecting such Guarantor or the material properties of such Guarantor or any of its Subsidiaries or (B) any material order, injunction, writ or decree of any Governmental Authority or any arbitral award to which such Guarantor or its property is subject; or (iii) violate any Law applicable to each Guarantor. Each Guarantor is in compliance with all material Contractual Obligations referred to in clause (ii)(A), except to the extent that failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Authorization; No Conflict
(c) . This Guaranty has been, and the other Guarantor Documents, when executed and delivered by each Guarantor that is party thereto, will have been, duly executed and delivered by each such Guarantor that is party thereto. This Guaranty constitutes, and each other Guarantor Document when so executed and delivered will constitute, a legal, valid and binding obligation of such Guarantor, enforceable against each Guarantor that is party thereto in accordance with its terms, subject to the effect of applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, arrangement, moratorium and other similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally and to the application of general principles of equity.
Binding Obligation
(d) . No approval, consent, exemption, authorization, or other action by, or notice to, or filing with, any Governmental Authority or any other Person is necessary or required in connection with the execution, delivery or performance by, or enforcement against, any Guarantor of this Guaranty or any other Guarantor Documents.
Governmental Consents
(e) . No Guarantor has previously assigned any interest in the Subordinated Debt or any collateral relating thereto, no Person other than a Guarantor owns an interest in any of the Subordinated Debt or any such collateral (whether as joint holders of the Subordinated Debt, participants or otherwise), and the entire Subordinated Debt is owing only to the Guarantors.
No Prior Assignment
(f) . Immediately prior to and after and giving effect to the incurrence of each Guarantor's obligations under this Guaranty such Guarantor is and will be Solvent.
Solvency
(g) . Each Guarantor hereby acknowledges that it has undertaken its own independent investigation of the financial condition of the Company or any Designated Borrower and all other matters pertaining to this Guaranty and further acknowledges that it is not relying in any manner upon any representation or statement of any Guaranteed Party with respect thereto. Each Guarantor represents and warrants that it has received and reviewed copies of the Loan Documents and that it is in a position to obtain, and it hereby assumes full responsibility for obtaining, any additional information concerning the financial condition of the Company or any Designated Borrower and any other matters pertinent hereto that any Guarantor
Independent Investigation
 
may desire. No Guarantor is relying upon or expecting any Guaranteed Party to furnish to such Guarantor any information now or hereafter in any Guaranteed Party's possession concerning the financial condition of the Company or any Designated Borrower or any other matter.
SECTION 11 . So long as any Guaranteed Obligations shall remain unpaid or unsatisfied, any Letter of Credit shall remain outstanding or any Lender shall have any Commitment, each Guarantor agrees that it shall furnish to the Administrative Agent: (a) promptly after a Responsible Officer of such Guarantor obtains Actual Knowledge thereof, written notice of any condition or event which has resulted, or that could reasonably be expected to result, in a Material Adverse Effect; and (b) such other information respecting the operations, properties, business or financial condition of such Guarantor or its Subsidiaries as the Administrative Agent, at the request of any Guaranteed Party, may from time to time reasonably request.
Reporting Covenant
SECTION 12 . So long as any Guaranteed Obligations shall remain unpaid or unsatisfied, any Letter of Credit shall remain outstanding or any Lender shall have any Commitment, each Guarantor agrees that:
Additional Affirmative Covenants
(a) . Each Guarantor shall (a) preserve, renew and maintain in full force and effect its legal existence and good standing under the Laws of the jurisdiction of its organization, except in a transaction permitted by or of the Credit Agreement; and (b) take all reasonable action to maintain all rights, privileges, permits, licenses and franchises necessary or desirable in the normal conduct of its business, except to the extent that failure to do so individually or in the aggregate could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Preservation of Existence, Etc
Section 7.04
7.05
(b) . Each Guarantor shall execute, acknowledge, deliver, file, notarize and register at its own expense all such further agreements, instruments, certificates, documents and assurances and perform such acts as the Administrative Agent or the Required Lenders shall deem necessary or appropriate to effectuate the purposes of this Guaranty and the other Guarantor Documents, and promptly provide the Administrative Agent with evidence of the foregoing satisfactory in form and substance to the Administrative Agent and the Required Lenders.
Further Assurances and Additional Acts
(c) . Each Guarantor shall observe, perform and comply with all covenants applicable to such Guarantor set forth in and of the Credit Agreement, which by their terms the Company is required to cause such Guarantor to observe, perform and comply with, as if such covenants were set forth in full herein.
Credit Agreement Covenants
Articles VI
VII
(d) . Each Guarantor shall maintain all authorizations, consents, approvals, licenses, exemptions of, or filings or registrations with, any Governmental Authority, or approvals or consents of any other Person, required in connection with this Guaranty or any other Guarantor Documents.
Governmental Consents
SECTION 13 . All notices and other communications provided for herein shall be in writing and shall be delivered by hand or overnight courier service, mailed by certified or registered mail or sent by telecopier, in the case of each Guarantor, to the address or
Notices
 
telecopier number specified on the signature page hereof, and in the case of the Guaranteed Parties, to the addresses or telecopier numbers specified in the Credit Agreement. Notices sent by hand or overnight courier service, or mailed by certified or registered mail, shall be deemed to have been given when received; notices sent by telecopier shall be deemed to have been given when sent (except that, if not given during normal business hours for the recipient, shall be deemed to have been given at the opening of business on the next business day for the recipient). Each of the Guarantors and the Guaranteed Parties may change its address or telecopier number for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the other parties.
SECTION 14 . No failure by any Guaranteed Party to exercise, and no delay by any such Person in exercising, any right, remedy, power or privilege hereunder or under any other Guarantor Document shall operate as a waiver thereof; nor shall any single or partial exercise of any right, remedy, power or privilege hereunder preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, remedy, power or privilege. The rights, remedies, powers and privileges herein or therein provided are cumulative and not exclusive of any rights, remedies, powers and privileges provided by law.
No Waiver; Cumulative Remedies
SECTION 15 .
Costs and Expenses; Indemnification
(a) . Each Guarantor shall pay (i) all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent and its Affiliates (including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of counsel for the Administrative Agent), in connection with the preparation, negotiation, execution and delivery of this Guaranty and the other Guarantor Documents or any amendments, modifications or waivers of the provisions hereof or thereof (whether or not the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby shall be consummated), and (ii) all out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent or any other Guaranteed Party (including the fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for any Guaranteed Party), and shall pay all fees and time charges for attorneys who may be employees of a Guaranteed Party, in connection with the enforcement or protection of its rights in connection with this Guaranty and the other Guarantor Documents, including its rights under this Section, including all such out-of-pocket expenses incurred during any workout, restructuring or negotiations in respect of the Guaranteed Obligations.
Costs and Expenses
(b) . Each Guarantor shall indemnify the Administrative Agent (and any sub-agent thereof), each other Guaranteed Party, and each Related Party of any of the foregoing Persons (each such Person being called an "") against, and hold each Indemnitee harmless from, any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities and related expenses (including the fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for any Indemnitee), and shall indemnify and hold harmless each Indemnitee from all fees and time charges and disbursements for attorneys who may be employees of any Indemnitee, incurred by any Indemnitee or asserted against any Indemnitee by any third party or by any Guarantor or any other Loan Party arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of (i) the execution or delivery of this Guaranty or any other Guarantor Document or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby or thereby, the performance by the parties hereto or thereto of their respective obligations hereunder or thereunder or the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby, or (ii) any actual or prospective claim, litigation, investigation or proceeding relating to any of the foregoing, whether based on contract, tort or any other theory, whether brought by a third party
Indemnification
Indemnitee
 
or by any Guarantor or any other Loan Party, and regardless of whether any Indemnitee is a party thereto; that such indemnity shall not, as to any Indemnitee, be available to the extent that such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or related expenses (x) are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by final and nonappealable judgment to have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnitee, (y) result from a claim brought by any Guarantor or any other Loan Party against an Indemnitee for breach in bad faith of such Indemnitee's obligations hereunder or under any other Loan Document, if such Guarantor or such other Loan Party has obtained a final and nonappealable judgment in its favor on such claim as determined by a court of competent jurisdiction or (z) result from a claim by an Indemnitee against any other Indemnitee that does not involve an act or omission of any Guarantor or any Loan Party for which an Indemnitee would otherwise be entitled to indemnification under this .
provided
Section 15(b)
(c) . To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, no Guarantor shall assert, and each Guarantor hereby waives, any claim against any Indemnitee, on any theory of liability, for special, indirect, consequential or punitive damages (as opposed to direct or actual damages) arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of, this Guaranty, any other Guarantor Document or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby, the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby, any Loan or Letter of Credit or the use of the proceeds thereof. No Indemnitee referred to in  shall be liable for any damages arising from the use by unintended recipients of any information or other materials distributed by it through telecommunications, electronic or other information transmission systems in connection with this Guaranty or the other Guarantor Documents or the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby.
Waiver of Consequential Damages, Etc
subsection (b)
(d) . Any amounts payable by any Guarantor under this or otherwise under this Guaranty if not paid upon demand shall bear interest from the date of such demand until paid in full, at a fluctuating interest rate per annum at all times equal to the Default Rate applicable to Base Rate Loans to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Law. Any such interest shall be due and payable upon demand and shall be calculated on the basis of a year of 365 or 366 days, as the case may be, and the actual number of days elapsed.
Interest
Section 15
(e) . All amounts due under this shall be payable within ten Business Days after demand therefor.
Payment
Section 15
(f) . The agreements in this shall survive the resignation of the Administrative Agent and the L/C Issuer, the replacement of any Lender, the termination of the Aggregate Commitments and the repayment, satisfaction or discharge of all the other Guaranteed Obligations.
Survival
Section 15
SECTION 16 . If an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, to the extent any Guaranteed Obligations are then due and payable, each Guaranteed Party and each of their respective Affiliates is hereby authorized at any time and from time to time, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, to set off and apply any and all deposits (general or special, time or demand, provisional or final, in whatever currency) at any time held and other obligations (in whatever currency) at any time owing by such Guaranteed Party or any such Affiliate to or for the credit or the account of any Guarantor against any and all of the
Right of Set-Off
 
obligations of such Guarantor now or hereafter existing under this Guaranty or any other Guarantor Document to such Lender or the L/C Issuer, irrespective of whether or not such Guaranteed Party shall have made any demand under this Guaranty or any other Loan Document and although such obligations of such Guarantor may be owed to a branch or office of such Guaranteed Party different from the branch or office holding such deposit or obligated on such indebtedness. The rights of each Guaranteed Party and their respective Affiliates under this Section are in addition to other rights and remedies (including other rights of setoff) that such Guaranteed Party or their respective Affiliates may have. Each Guaranteed Party (by its acceptance hereof) agrees to notify the affected Guarantor and the Administrative Agent promptly after any such setoff and application, that the failure to give such notice shall not affect the validity of such setoff and application.
provided
SECTION 17 . This Guaranty is entered into for the sole protection and benefit of the Administrative Agent and each other Guaranteed Party and their respective successors and permitted assigns, and no other Person (other than any Related Party or Participant specified herein) shall be a direct or indirect beneficiary of, or shall have any direct or indirect cause of action or claim in connection with, this Guaranty. The Guaranteed Parties, by their acceptance of this Guaranty, shall not have any obligations under this Guaranty to any Person other than (i) the Guarantors, and (ii) the Administrative Agent (or any such sub-agent thereof) or any Related Party thereof, and such obligations shall be limited to those expressly stated herein.
Benefits of Guaranty
SECTION 18 .
Binding Effect; Assignment
(a) . This Guaranty shall be binding upon each Guarantor and its successors and assigns, and inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the Administrative Agent and each other Guaranteed Party and their respective successors and permitted assigns under the Credit Agreement.
Binding Effect
(b) . Except to the extent otherwise provided in the Credit Agreement, no Guarantor shall have the right to assign or transfer its rights and obligations hereunder or under any other Guarantor Documents without the prior written consent of the Required Lenders. Each Lender may, without notice to or consent by any Guarantor, sell, assign, transfer or grant participations in all or any portion of such Lender's rights and obligations hereunder and under the other Guarantor Documents in connection with any sale, assignment, transfer or grant of a participation by such Lender in accordance with Section 10.06 of the Credit Agreement of or in its rights and obligations thereunder and under the other Loan Documents. In the event of any grant of a participation, the Participant to the extent permitted by law shall be deemed to have a right of setoff under Section 16 in respect of its participation to the same extent as if it were such "Guaranteed Party.
Assignment
SECTION 19 .
Governing Law and Jurisdiction
(a) THIS GUARANTY SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
 
(b) EACH GUARANTOR IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY SUBMITS, FOR ITSELF AND ITS PROPERTY, TO THE NONEXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION OF THE COURTS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK SITTING IN NEW YORK COUNTY AND OF THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK, AND ANY APPELLATE COURT FROM ANY THEREOF, IN ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS GUARANTY OR ANY OTHER GUARANTOR DOCUMENT, OR FOR RECOGNITION OR ENFORCEMENT OF ANY JUDGMENT, AND EACH GUARANTOR AND EACH GUARANTEED PARTY (BY ITS ACCEPTANCE HEREOF) IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY AGREES THAT ALL CLAIMS IN RESPECT OF ANY SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING MAY BE HEARD AND DETERMINED IN SUCH NEW YORK STATE COURT OR, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, IN SUCH FEDERAL COURT. EACH GUARANTOR AND EACH GUARANTEED PARTY (BY ITS ACCEPTANCE HEREOF) AGREES THAT A FINAL JUDGMENT IN ANY SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING SHALL BE CONCLUSIVE AND MAY BE ENFORCED IN OTHER JURISDICTIONS BY SUIT ON THE JUDGMENT OR IN ANY OTHER MANNER PROVIDED BY LAW. NOTHING IN THIS GUARANTY OR IN ANY OTHER GUARANTOR DOCUMENT SHALL AFFECT ANY RIGHT THAT ANY GUARANTEED PARTY MAY OTHERWISE HAVE TO BRING ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING RELATING TO THIS GUARANTY OR ANY OTHER GUARANTOR DOCUMENT AGAINST SUCH GUARANTOR OR ITS PROPERTIES IN THE COURTS OF ANY JURISDICTION.
(c) EACH GUARANTOR IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY OBJECTION THAT IT MAY NOW OR HEREAFTER HAVE TO THE LAYING OF VENUE OF ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS GUARANTY OR ANY OTHER GUARANTOR DOCUMENT IN ANY COURT REFERRED TO IN OF THIS SECTION. EACH GUARANTOR AND EACH GUARANTEED PARTY (BY ITS ACCEPTANCE HEREOF) HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, THE DEFENSE OF AN INCONVENIENT FORUM TO THE MAINTENANCE OF SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING IN ANY SUCH COURT.
SUBSECTION (B)
(d) EACH GUARANTOR HERETO IRREVOCABLY CONSENTS TO SERVICE OF PROCESS IN THE MANNER PROVIDED FOR NOTICES IN . NOTHING IN THIS GUARANTY WILL AFFECT THE RIGHT OF ANY GUARANTEED PARTY TO SERVE PROCESS IN ANY OTHER MANNER PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW.
SECTION 13
SECTION 20 . EACH GUARANTOR AND EACH GUARANTEED PARTY (BY ITS ACCEPTANCE HEREOF) HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY RIGHT IT MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS GUARANTY OR ANY OTHER GUARANTOR DOCUMENT OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY OR THEREBY (WHETHER BASED ON CONTRACT, TORT OR ANY OTHER THEORY).
Waiver of Jury Trial
 
EACH GUARANTOR AND EACH GUARANTEED PARTY (BY ITS ACCEPTANCE HEREOF) (A) CERTIFIES THAT NO REPRESENTATIVE, AGENT OR ATTORNEY OF ANY OTHER PERSON HAS REPRESENTED, EXPRESSLY OR OTHERWISE, THAT SUCH OTHER PERSON WOULD NOT, IN THE EVENT OF LITIGATION, SEEK TO ENFORCE THE FOREGOING WAIVER AND (B) ACKNOWLEDGES THAT IT HAS BEEN INDUCED TO ENTER INTO OR ACCEPT, AS THE CASE MAY BE, THIS GUARANTY AND THE OTHER GUARANTOR DOCUMENTS BY, AMONG OTHER THINGS, THE MUTUAL WAIVERS AND CERTIFICATIONS IN THIS SECTION.
SECTION 21 . If any action or proceeding is filed in a court of the State of California by or against the parties in connection with any of the transactions contemplated by this Guaranty or the other Guarantor Documents, (a) the court shall, and is hereby directed to, make a general reference pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure 638 to a referee (who shall be a single active or retired judge) to hear and determine all of the issues in such action or proceeding (whether of fact or of law) and to report a statement of decision, that at the option of any party to such proceeding, any such issues pertaining to a "provisional remedy" as defined in California Code of Civil Procedure 1281.8 shall be heard and determined by the court, and (b) without limiting the generality of , each Guarantor shall be solely responsible to pay all fees and expenses of any referee appointed in such action or proceeding.
California Judicial Reference
provided
Section 15
SECTION 22 . In connection with all aspects of each transaction contemplated by the Loan Documents, each Guarantor acknowledges and agrees that: (i) the credit facilities provided for under the Credit Agreement and any related arranging or other services in connection therewith (including in connection with any amendment, waiver or other modification of any Loan Document) are an arm's-length commercial transaction between the Company, any Designated Borrower, the Guarantors and their respective Affiliates, on the one hand, and the Administrative Agent the Arranger, on the other hand, and each Guarantor is capable of evaluating and understanding and understands and accepts the terms, risks and conditions of the transactions contemplated by the Loan Documents (including any amendment, waiver or other modification thereof); (ii) in connection with the process leading to such transaction, the Administrative Agent and the Arrangers each is and has been acting solely as a principal and is not the financial advisor, agent or fiduciary, for the Company or any Designated Borrower, the Guarantors or any of the respective Affiliates, stockholders, creditors or employees or any other Person; (iii) neither the Administrative Agent nor the Arrangers has assumed or will assume an advisory, agency or fiduciary responsibility in favor of the Company or any Designated Borrower or the Guarantors with respect to any of the transactions contemplated hereby or the process leading thereto, including with respect to any amendment, waiver or other modification of any Loan Document (irrespective of whether the Administrative Agent or the Arrangers has advised or is currently advising the Company or any Designated Borrower, the Guarantors or any of their respective Affiliates on other matters) and neither the Administrative Agent nor the Arrangers has any obligation to the Company or any Designated Borrower, the Guarantors or any of their respective Affiliates with respect to the transactions contemplated hereby except those obligations expressly set forth in the Loan Documents; (iv) the Administrative Agent and the Arrangers and their respective Affiliates may be engaged in a broad range of transactions that involve interests that differ from those of the Company or any Designated Borrower, the Guarantors and their respective Affiliates, and neither
No Advisory or Fiduciary Responsibility
 
the Administrative Agent nor the Arrangers has any obligation to disclose any of such interests by virtue of any advisory, agency or fiduciary relationship; and (v) the Administrative Agent and the Arrangers have not provided and will not provide any legal, accounting, regulatory or tax advice with respect to any of the transactions contemplated hereby (including any amendment, waiver or other modification of any Loan Document) and each Guarantor has consulted its own legal, accounting, regulatory and tax advisors to the extent it has deemed appropriate. Each Guarantor hereby waives and releases, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any claims that it may have against the Administrative Agent and the Arrangers with respect to any breach or alleged breach of agency or fiduciary duty.
SECTION 23 . This Guaranty shall not be amended except by written agreement of the Guarantors, the Administrative Agent and the Required Lenders. No waiver of any rights of the Guaranteed Parties under any provision of this Guaranty or consent to any departure by any Guarantor therefrom shall be effective unless in writing and signed by the Administrative Agent and the Required Lenders, or the Administrative Agent (with the written consent of the Required Lenders). Any such amendment, waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the specific purpose for which given.
Amendments and Waivers
SECTION 24 . If any provision of this Guaranty or the other Guarantor Documents is held to be illegal, invalid or unenforceable, (a) to the fullest extent permitted by law, the legality, validity and enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Guaranty and the other Guarantor Documents shall not be affected or impaired thereby and (b) the parties shall endeavor in good faith negotiations to replace the illegal, invalid or unenforceable provisions with valid provisions the economic effect of which comes as close as possible to that of the illegal, invalid or unenforceable provisions. The invalidity of a provision in a particular jurisdiction shall not invalidate or render unenforceable such provision in any other jurisdiction.
Severability
SECTION 25 . By its acceptance hereof, each Guaranteed Party agrees to maintain the confidentiality of the Information (as defined below), except that Information may be disclosed (a) to its Affiliates and to its Affiliates' respective partners, directors, officers, employees, agents, advisors and representatives (it being understood that the Persons to whom such disclosure is made will be informed of the confidential nature of such Information and instructed to keep such Information confidential), (b) to the extent requested by any regulatory authority purporting to have jurisdiction over it (including any self-regulatory authority, such as the National Association of Insurance Commissioners), (c) to the extent required by applicable laws or regulations or by any subpoena or similar legal process, (d) to any other Guaranteed Party, (e) in connection with the exercise of any remedies hereunder or under any other Loan Document or any action or proceeding relating to this Guaranty or any other Loan Document or the enforcement of rights hereunder or thereunder, (f) subject to an agreement containing provisions substantially the same as those of this Section, to (i) any assignee of or Participant in, or any prospective assignee of or Participant in, any of its rights or obligations under the Loan Documents or (ii) any actual or prospective counterparty (or its advisors) to any securitization, swap or derivative transaction relating to the Company or any Guarantor and its obligations, or any Subsidiary of the Company or any Guarantor and its obligations, (g) with the consent of the applicable Guarantor or (h) to the extent such Information (x) becomes publicly available other than as a result of a breach of this Section or (y) becomes available to a
Confidentiality
 
Guaranteed Party on a nonconfidential basis from a source other than the Company or any Guarantor. In the event any Guaranteed Party is required to disclose the Information pursuant to applicable law or regulation or by subpoena or similar legal process, such party shall give prompt written notice to the Company and the relevant Guarantor as soon as practicable in advance of such disclosure (unless such notification is prohibited by applicable law) so that the Company or such Guarantor may seek a protective order or other appropriate remedy and such party will use only that portion of the information that such party is advised by counsel is legally required or otherwise deemed necessary to disclose; , , that such party shall not be required to notify the Company or such Guarantor regarding any disclosure of any Information to a regulatory authority having jurisdiction over such party in the course of such authority's inspection or examination of such party.
provided
however
For purposes of this Section, "" means all information received from the Company or any Guarantor relating to such the Company, such Guarantor, any of their respective Subsidiaries or any of their respective businesses, other than any such information that is available to a Guaranteed Party on a nonconfidential basis prior to disclosure by the Company, such Guarantor or their respective Subsidiaries, that, in the case of information received from the Company, any Guarantor or their respective Subsidiaries after the date hereof, such information is clearly identified at the time of delivery as confidential. Any Person required to maintain the confidentiality of Information as provided in this Section shall be considered to have complied with its obligation to do so if such Person has exercised the same degree of care to maintain the confidentiality of such Information as such Person would accord to its own confidential information. By its acceptance hereof, each Guaranteed Party acknowledges that (a) the Information may include material non-public information concerning the Company, a Guarantor or a Subsidiary of either thereof, as the case may be, (b) such Guaranteed Party has developed compliance procedures regarding the use of material non-public information and (c) it will handle such material non-public information in accordance with applicable Law, including Federal and state securities Laws.
Information
provided
SECTION 26 . If, for the purposes of obtaining judgment in any court, it is necessary to convert a sum due hereunder or any other Guarantor Document in one currency into another currency, the rate of exchange used shall be that at which in accordance with normal banking procedures the Administrative Agent could purchase the first currency with such other currency on the Business Day preceding that on which final judgment is given. The obligation of any Guarantor in respect of any such sum due from it to any Guaranteed Party hereunder or under the other Guarantor Documents shall, notwithstanding any judgment in a currency (the "") other than that in which such sum is denominated in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Credit Agreement (the ""), be discharged only to the extent that on the Business Day following receipt by the Administrative Agent of any sum adjudged to be so due in the Judgment Currency, the Administrative Agent may in accordance with normal banking procedures purchase the Agreement Currency with the Judgment Currency. If the amount of the Agreement Currency so purchased is less than the sum originally due to the Administrative Agent from such Guarantor in the Agreement Currency, such Guarantor agrees, as a separate obligation and notwithstanding any such judgment, to indemnify the Administrative Agent or the Person to whom such obligation was owing against such loss. If the amount of the Agreement Currency so purchased is greater than the sum originally due to the Administrative Agent in such currency, the
Judgment Currency
Judgment Currency
Agreement Currency
 
Administrative Agent (by its acceptance hereof) agrees to return the amount of any excess to such Guarantor (or to any other Person who may be entitled thereto under applicable law). The agreements in this Section 26 shall survive the termination of the Commitments and repayment of all Guaranteed Obligations.
SECTION 27 . At such time following the date hereof as any Subsidiary of the Company (an "") is required to accede hereto pursuant to the terms of of the Credit Agreement, such Acceding Subsidiary shall execute and deliver to the Administrative Agent an accession agreement substantially in the form of (the ""), signifying its agreement to be bound by the provisions of this Guaranty as a Guarantor to the same extent as if such Acceding Subsidiary had originally executed this Guaranty as of the date hereof.
Future Guarantors
Acceding Subsidiary
Section 6.13
Annex 1
Accession Agreement
SECTION 28 . This Guaranty may be executed in counterparts (and by different parties hereto in different counterparts), each of which shall constitute an original, but all of which when taken together shall constitute a single contract. This Guaranty and the other Guarantor Documents constitute the entire contract among the parties relating to the subject matter hereof and supersede any and all previous agreements and understandings, oral or written, relating to the subject matter hereof. Except as provided in of the Credit Agreement, this Guaranty shall become effective when the Administrative Agent shall have received counterparts hereof that, when taken together, bear the signatures of each of the Guarantors. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Guaranty by telecopy shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Guaranty.
Counterparts; Integration; Effectiveness
Section 4.01
SECTION 29 . All representations and warranties made hereunder and in any other Guarantor Document or other document delivered pursuant hereto or thereto or in connection herewith or therewith shall survive the execution and delivery hereof and thereof. Such representations and warranties have been or will be relied upon by the Administrative Agent and each other Guaranteed Party, regardless of any investigation made by the Administrative Agent or any other Guaranteed Party or on their behalf and notwithstanding that the Administrative Agent or any other Guaranteed Party may have had notice or knowledge of any Default at the time of any Credit Extension, and shall continue in full force and effect as long as any Loan or any other Obligation shall remain unpaid or unsatisfied or any Letter of Credit shall remain outstanding.
Survival of Representations and Warranties
SECTION 30 . Each Lender that is subject to the Act (as hereinafter defined) and the Administrative Agent (for itself and not on behalf of any Lender) hereby notifies each Guarantor that pursuant to the requirements of the USA Patriot Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001)) (the ""), it is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies such Guarantor, which information includes the name and address of such Guarantor and other information that will allow such Lender or the Administrative Agent, as applicable, to identify such Guarantor in accordance with the Act.
USA PATRIOT Act Notice
Act
SECTION 31 . Time is of the essence of this Guaranty and the other Guarantor Documents.
Time is of the Essence
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each Guarantor has executed this Guaranty, as of the date first above written.
 
 
 
 
Annex 1
to the Guaranty
 
 
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
This Accession Agreement is made and delivered pursuant to of that certain Guaranty dated as of June 7, 2006 (as amended, modified, renewed or extended from time to time, the ""), made by each Guarantor named in the signature pages thereof (each a ""), in favor of the Lenders party to the Credit Agreement referred to below, the L/C Issuer, the Swing Line Lender and Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent (in such capacity, the ""). All capitalized terms used in this Accession Agreement and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to them in either the Guaranty or the Credit Agreement.
Section 27
Guaranty
Guarantor
Administrative Agent
VeriSign, Inc. (the "") is party to that certain Credit Agreement dated as of June 7, 2006 (the "") by and among the Company, certain Subsidiaries of the Company from time to time party thereto as Designated Borrowers, the Lenders from time to time party thereto (the ""), the L/C Issuer, the Swing Line Lender and the Administrative Agent.
Company
Credit Agreement
Lenders
The undersigned, , a , is a Subsidiary of the Company and hereby acknowledges for the benefit of the Guaranteed Parties that it shall be a "Guarantor" for all purposes of the Guaranty effective from the date hereof. The undersigned confirms that the representations and warranties set forth in of the Guaranty are true and correct as to the undersigned as of the date hereof.
                                                 
[insert name of acceding Guarantor]
                                                 
[corporation, partnership, limited liability company, etc.]
Section 10
Without limiting the foregoing, the undersigned hereby agrees to perform all of the obligations of a Guarantor under, and to be bound in all respects by the terms of, the Guaranty, including and thereof, to the same extent and with the same force and effect as if the undersigned were an original signatory thereto.
Sections 11, 12, 15
16
This Accession Agreement shall constitute a Loan Document under the Credit Agreement.
THIS ACCESSION AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Accession Agreement, as of the date first above written.
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.3
[Execution Copy]
THIS GUARANTY (this ""), dated as of June 7, 2006, is made by VeriSign, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""), in favor of the Lenders party to the Credit Agreement referred to below and Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent (in such capacity, the "").
Guaranty
Guarantor
Administrative Agent
The Guarantor, certain Subsidiaries of the Guarantor from time to time party thereto pursuant to thereof as Designated Borrowers (each a "" and, collectively, the ""), the Lenders from time to time party thereto (each a "" and, collectively, the ""), the L/C Issuer, the Swing Line Lender and the Administrative Agent are parties to a Credit Agreement dated as of June 7, 2006 (as amended, modified, renewed or extended from time to time, the "").
Section 2.15
Designated Borrower
Designated Borrowers
Lender
Lenders
Credit Agreement
It is a condition precedent to the Borrowings and issuances of Letters of Credit under the Credit Agreement that the Guarantor guarantee the indebtedness and other obligations of the Designated Borrowers to the Guaranteed Parties under or in connection with the Credit Agreement as set forth herein. The Guarantor will derive substantial direct and indirect benefits from the making of the Loans to the Designated Borrowers pursuant to the Credit Agreement (which benefits are hereby acknowledged by the Guarantor).
Accordingly, to induce the Administrative Agent and the Lenders to enter into the Credit Agreement and to extend credit thereunder, and in consideration thereof, the Guarantor hereby agrees as follows:
SECTION 1 .
Definitions; Interpretation
(a) . All capitalized terms used in this Guaranty (including in the recitals hereof) and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Credit Agreement.
Terms Defined in Credit Agreement
(b) . As used in this Guaranty (including in the recitals hereof), the following terms shall have the following meanings:
Certain Defined Terms
"" means the Federal Bankruptcy Reform Act of 1978 (11 U.S.C. 101, .).
Bankruptcy Code
et seq
"" means any Cash Collateral provided by the Company pursuant to the Credit Agreement.
Collateral
"" means any agreement pursuant to which the Guarantor or any other Person provides a Lien on any Collateral and all filings, documents and agreements made or delivered pursuant thereto.
Collateral Documents
"" has the meaning set forth in .
Guaranteed Obligations
Section 2
"" means the Administrative Agent and the Lenders.
Guaranteed Parties
 
"" means this Guaranty and all other certificates, documents, agreements and instruments delivered to any Guaranteed Party by the Guarantor under or in connection with this Guaranty.
Guarantor Documents
"" means, with respect to any Person, (a) any case, action or proceeding with respect to such Person before any court or other Governmental Authority relating to bankruptcy, reorganization, insolvency, liquidation, receivership, dissolution, winding-up or relief of debtors, or (b) any general assignment for the benefit of creditors, composition, marshalling of assets for creditors, or other, similar arrangement in respect of its creditors generally or any substantial portion of its creditors; in either case undertaken under Debtor Relief Laws.
Insolvency Proceeding
"" has the meaning set forth in .
Subordinated Debt
Section 7
(c) . The rules of interpretation set forth in of the Credit Agreement shall be applicable to this Guaranty and are incorporated herein by this reference.
Interpretation
Section 1.02
SECTION 2 . The Guarantor hereby unconditionally and irrevocably guarantees to the Guaranteed Parties, and their respective successors and permitted assigns, the full and prompt payment when due (whether at stated maturity, by required prepayment, declaration, acceleration, demand or otherwise) and performance of the indebtedness, liabilities and other obligations of the Designated Borrowers to the Guaranteed Parties under or in connection with the Credit Agreement, the Notes and the other Loan Documents, including all unpaid principal of the Loans, all interest accrued thereon and all other amounts payable by the Designated Borrowers to the Guaranteed Parties thereunder or in connection therewith. The terms "indebtedness," "liabilities" and "obligations" are used herein in their most comprehensive sense and include any and all advances, debts, obligations and liabilities, now existing or hereafter arising, whether voluntary or involuntary and whether due or not due, absolute or contingent, liquidated or unliquidated, determined or undetermined, and whether recovery upon such indebtedness, liabilities and obligations may be or hereafter become unenforceable or shall be an allowed or disallowed claim under any Debtor Relief Law, and including interest that accrues after the commencement by or against any Loan Party of any Insolvency Proceeding naming such Person as the debtor in such proceeding. The foregoing indebtedness, liabilities and other obligations of the Designated Borrowers, and all other indebtedness, liabilities and obligations to be paid or performed by the Guarantor in connection with this Guaranty (including any and all amounts due under ), shall hereinafter be collectively referred to as the "."
Guaranty
Section 13
Guaranteed Obligations
SECTION 3 . The liability of the Guarantor under this Guaranty shall be irrevocable, absolute, independent and unconditional, and shall not be affected by any circumstance which might constitute a discharge of a surety or guarantor other than the indefeasible payment and performance in full of all Guaranteed Obligations. In furtherance of the foregoing and without limiting the generality thereof, the Guarantor agrees as follows:
Liability of Guarantor
(i) the Guarantor's liability hereunder shall be the immediate, direct, and primary obligation of the Guarantor and shall not be contingent upon any Guaranteed Party's
 
exercise or enforcement of any remedy it may have against any other Loan Party or any other Person, or against any Collateral;
(ii) this Guaranty is a guaranty of payment when due and not merely of collectibility;
(iii) the Guaranteed Parties may enforce this Guaranty upon the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default to the extent any Guaranteed Obligations are then due and payable, notwithstanding the existence of any dispute between any of the Guaranteed Parties and any Designated Borrower with respect to the existence of such Event of Default;
(iv) the Guarantor's payment of a portion, but not all, of the Guaranteed Obligations shall in no way limit, affect, modify or abridge the Guarantor's liability for any portion of the Guaranteed Obligations remaining unsatisfied; and
(v) the Guarantor's liability with respect to the Guaranteed Obligations shall remain in full force and effect without regard to, and shall not be impaired or affected by, nor shall the Guarantor be exonerated or discharged by, any of the following events:
(A) any Insolvency Proceeding with respect to any Designated Borrower, the Guarantor, any other Loan Party or any other Person;
(B) any limitation, discharge, or cessation of the liability of any Designated Borrower, the Guarantor, any other Loan Party or any other Person for any Guaranteed Obligations due to any statute, regulation or rule of law, or any invalidity or unenforceability in whole or in part of any of the Guaranteed Obligations or the Loan Documents;
(C) any merger, acquisition, consolidation or change in structure of any Designated Borrower, the Guarantor or any other Loan Party or Person, or any sale, lease, transfer or other disposition of any or all of the assets or shares of any Designated Borrower, the Guarantor, any other Loan Party or other Person;
(D) any assignment or other transfer, in whole or in part, of any Guaranteed Party's interests in and rights under this Guaranty or the other Loan Documents, including any Guaranteed Party's right to receive payment of the Guaranteed Obligations, or any assignment or other transfer, in whole or in part, of any Guaranteed Party's interests in and to any of the Collateral, in each of the foregoing cases to the extent such assignment or other transfer is made pursuant to of this Guaranty;
Section 16(b)
(E) any claim, defense, counterclaim or setoff, other than that of prior performance, that any Designated Borrower, the Guarantor, any other Loan Party or other Person may have or assert, including any defense of incapacity or lack of corporate or other authority to execute any of the Loan Documents;
(F) any Guaranteed Party's amendment, modification, renewal, extension, cancellation or surrender of any Loan Document, any Guaranteed Obligations, or any Collateral, or any Guaranteed Party's exchange, release, or waiver of any Collateral;
 
(G) any Guaranteed Party's exercise or nonexercise of any power, right or remedy with respect to any of the Collateral, including any Guaranteed Party's compromise, release, settlement or waiver with or of any Designated Borrower, any other Loan Party or any other Person;
(H) any Guaranteed Party's vote, claim, distribution, election, acceptance, action or inaction in any Insolvency Proceeding related to the Guaranteed Obligations;
(I) any impairment or invalidity of any of the Collateral or any other collateral securing any of the Guaranteed Obligations or any failure to perfect any of the Liens of the Guaranteed Parties thereon or therein;
(J) any acts of any Governmental Authority of or in any jurisdiction affecting any Designated Borrower, the Guarantor, any other Loan Party or other Person, including any restrictions on the conversion or exchange of currency or repatriation or control of funds, a declaration of banking moratorium or any suspension of payments by banks in any jurisdiction or the imposition by any jurisdiction or any Governmental Authority thereof or therein of any moratorium on, the required rescheduling or restructuring of, or required approval of payments on, any indebtedness in such jurisdiction, or any total or partial expropriation, confiscation, nationalization or requisition of any such Person's property; any war (whether or not declared), insurrection, revolution, hostile act, civil strife or similar events occurring in any jurisdiction; or any economic, political, regulatory or other events in any jurisdiction; and
(K) any other guaranty, whether by the Guarantor or any other Person, of all or any part of the Guaranteed Obligations or any other indebtedness, obligations or liabilities of any Designated Borrower to any Guaranteed Party.
SECTION 4 . The Guarantor hereby unconditionally consents and agrees that, without notice to or further assent from the Guarantor:
Consents of Guarantor
(i) the principal amount of the Guaranteed Obligations may be increased or decreased and additional Obligations of the Loan Parties under the Loan Documents may be incurred, by one or more amendments, modifications, renewals or extensions of any Loan Document or otherwise;
(ii) the time, manner, place or terms of any payment under any Loan Document may be extended or changed, including by an increase or decrease in the interest rate on any Guaranteed Obligation or any fee or other amount payable under such Loan Document, by an amendment, modification or renewal of any Loan Document or otherwise;
(iii) the time for any Designated Borrower's (or any other Person's) performance of or compliance with any term, covenant or agreement on its part to be performed or observed under any Loan Document may be extended, or such performance or compliance waived, or failure in or departure from such performance or compliance consented to, all in such manner and upon such terms as the Guaranteed Parties may deem proper;
(iv) any Guaranteed Party may discharge or release, in whole or in part, any other Loan Party or any other Person liable for the payment and performance of all or any part of the Guaranteed Obligations, and may permit or consent to any such action or any result of such
 
action, and shall not be obligated to demand or enforce payment upon any of the Collateral or any other collateral, nor shall any Guaranteed Party be liable to the Guarantor for any failure to collect or enforce payment or performance of the Guaranteed Obligations from any Person or to realize on the Collateral or other collateral therefor;
(v) in addition to the Collateral, the Guaranteed Parties may take and hold other security (legal or equitable) of any kind, at any time, as collateral for the Guaranteed Obligations, and may, from time to time, in whole or in part, exchange, sell, surrender, release, subordinate, modify, waive, rescind, compromise or extend such security and may permit or consent to any such action or the result of any such action, and may apply such security and direct the order or manner of sale thereof;
(vi) the Guaranteed Parties may request and accept other guaranties of the Guaranteed Obligations and any other indebtedness, obligations or liabilities of any Designated Borrower to any Guaranteed Party and may, from time to time, in whole or in part, surrender, release, subordinate, modify, waive, rescind, compromise or extend any such guaranty and may permit or consent to any such action or the result of any such action; and
(vii) the Guaranteed Parties may exercise, or waive or otherwise refrain from exercising, any other right, remedy, power or privilege (including the right to accelerate the maturity of any Loan and any power of sale) granted by any Loan Document or other security document or agreement, or otherwise available to any Guaranteed Party, with respect to the Guaranteed Obligations or any of the Collateral, even if the exercise of such right, remedy, power or privilege affects or eliminates any right of subrogation or any other right of the Guarantor against any Designated Borrower;
all as the Guaranteed Parties may deem advisable, and all without impairing, abridging, releasing or affecting this Guaranty.
SECTION 5 .
Guarantor Waivers
(a) . The Guarantor waives and agrees not to assert:
Certain Waivers
(i) any right to require any Guaranteed Party to marshal assets in favor of any Designated Borrower, the Guarantor, any other Loan Party or any other Person, to proceed against any Designated Borrower, any other Loan Party or any other Person, to proceed against or exhaust any of the Collateral, to give notice of the terms, time and place of any public or private sale of personal property security constituting the Collateral or other collateral for the Guaranteed Obligations or comply with any other provisions of 9611 of the New York UCC (or any equivalent provision of any other applicable law) or to pursue any other right, remedy, power or privilege of any Guaranteed Party whatsoever;
(ii) the defense of the statute of limitations in any action hereunder or for the collection or performance of the Guaranteed Obligations;
(iii) any defense arising by reason of any lack of corporate or other authority or any other defense of any Designated Borrower, the Guarantor or any other Person;
 
(iv) any defense based upon any Guaranteed Party's errors or omissions in the administration of the Guaranteed Obligations;
(v) any rights to set-offs and counterclaims
(vi) any defense available as the result of any law or regulation of any jurisdiction affecting any term of a Guaranteed Obligation;
(vii) any defense based upon an election of remedies (including, if available, an election to proceed by nonjudicial foreclosure) which destroys or impairs the subrogation rights of the Guarantor or the right of the Guarantor to proceed against any Designated Borrower or any other obligor of the Guaranteed Obligations for reimbursement; and
(viii) without limiting the generality of the foregoing, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any defenses or benefits that may be derived from or afforded by applicable law limiting the liability of or exonerating guarantors or sureties, or which may conflict with the terms of this Guaranty, including any rights and defenses which are or may become available to the Guarantor by reason of California Civil Code 2787 through 2855, 2899 and 3433. As provided below, this Guaranty shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the law of the State of New York. The foregoing references to the California Civil Code are included solely out of an abundance of caution, and shall not be construed to mean that any of the above referenced provisions of California law are in any way applicable to this Guaranty or the Guaranteed Obligations.
(b) . The Guarantor waives any and all notice of the acceptance of this Guaranty, and any and all notice of the creation, renewal, modification, extension or accrual of the Guaranteed Obligations, or the reliance by the Guaranteed Parties upon this Guaranty, or the exercise of any right, power or privilege hereunder. The Guaranteed Obligations shall conclusively be deemed to have been created, contracted, incurred and permitted to exist in reliance upon this Guaranty. The Guarantor waives promptness, diligence, presentment, protest, demand for payment, notice of default, dishonor or nonpayment and all other notices to or upon any Designated Borrower, the Guarantor or any other Person with respect to the Guaranteed Obligations.
Additional Waivers
(c) . The obligations of the Guarantor hereunder are independent of and separate from the obligations of any Designated Borrower and any other Loan Party and upon the occurrence and during the continuance of any Event of Default to the extent any Guaranteed Obligations are then due and payable, a separate action or actions may be brought against the Guarantor, whether or not any Designated Borrower or any such other Loan Party is joined therein or a separate action or actions are brought against any Designated Borrower or any such other Loan Party.
Independent Obligations
(d) . The Guarantor shall not have any right to require any Guaranteed Party to obtain or disclose any information with respect to: (i) the financial condition or character of any Designated Borrower or the ability of any Designated Borrower to pay and perform the Guaranteed Obligations; (ii) the Guaranteed Obligations; (iii) the Collateral; (iv) the existence or nonexistence of any other guarantees of all or any part of the Guaranteed Obligations; (v) any action or inaction on the part of any Guaranteed Party or any other Person; or (vi) any other matter, fact or occurrence whatsoever.
Financial Condition of Designated Borrowers
 
SECTION 6 . Until the Guaranteed Obligations shall be satisfied in full and the Commitments shall be terminated, the Guarantor shall not have, and the Guarantor shall not directly or indirectly exercise, (i) any rights that it may acquire by way of subrogation under this Guaranty, by any payment hereunder or otherwise, (ii) any rights of contribution, indemnification, reimbursement or similar suretyship claims arising out of this Guaranty or (iii) any other right which it might otherwise have or acquire (in any way whatsoever) which could entitle it at any time to share or participate in any right, remedy or security of any Guaranteed Party as against any Designated Borrower or other Loan Parties, whether in connection with this Guaranty, any of the other Loan Documents or otherwise. If any amount shall be paid to the Guarantor on account of the foregoing rights at any time when all the Guaranteed Obligations shall not have been paid in full, such amount shall be held in trust for the benefit of the Guaranteed Parties and shall forthwith be paid to the Administrative Agent to be credited and applied to the Guaranteed Obligations, whether matured or unmatured, in accordance with the terms of the Loan Documents.
Subrogation
SECTION 7 .
Subordination
(a) . All payments on account of all indebtedness, liabilities and other obligations of any Designated Borrower to the Guarantor, whether created under, arising out of or in connection with any documents or instruments evidencing any credit extensions to the Designated Borrowers or otherwise, including all principal on any such credit extensions, all interest accrued thereon, all fees and all other amounts payable by any Designated Borrower to the Guarantor in connection therewith, whether now existing or hereafter arising, and whether due or to become due, absolute or contingent, liquidated or unliquidated, determined or undetermined (the "") shall be subject, subordinate and junior in right of payment and exercise of remedies, to the extent and in the manner set forth herein, to the prior payment in full in cash or cash equivalents of the Guaranteed Obligations.
Subordination to Payment of Guaranteed Obligations
Subordinated Debt
(b) . As long as any of the Guaranteed Obligations shall remain outstanding and unpaid, the Guarantor shall not accept or receive any payment or distribution by or on behalf of any Designated Borrower, directly or indirectly, of assets of any Designated Borrower of any kind or character, whether in cash, property or securities, including on account of the purchase, redemption or other acquisition of Subordinated Debt, as a result of any collection, sale or other disposition of collateral, or by setoff, exchange or in any other manner, for or on account of the Subordinated Debt (""), except that if no Event of Default exists and no Guaranteed Obligations are then due and payable, the Guarantor shall be entitled to accept and receive regularly scheduled payments and other payments in the ordinary course or consistent with past practice of the Guarantor on the Subordinated Debt, in accordance with the terms of the documents and instruments governing the Subordinated Debt and other Subordinated Debt Payments in respect of Subordinated Debt not evidenced by documents or instruments, in each case to the extent not in violation of of the Credit Agreement. During the existence of an Event of Default (or if any Event of Default would exist immediately after the making of a Subordinated Debt Payment), if the Guaranteed Obligations are then due and payable, and until such Event of Default is cured or waived, the Guarantor shall not make, accept or receive any Subordinated Debt Payment. In the event that, notwithstanding the provisions of this , any Subordinated Debt Payments shall be received in contravention of this by the Guarantor before all Guaranteed Obligations are paid in
No Payments
Subordinated Debt Payments
Article VII
Section 7
Section 7
 
full in cash or cash equivalents, such Subordinated Debt Payments shall be held in trust for the benefit of the Guaranteed Parties and shall be paid over or delivered to the Administrative Agent for application to the payment in full in cash or cash equivalents of all Guaranteed Obligations remaining unpaid to the extent necessary to give effect to this , after giving effect to any concurrent payments or distributions to any Guaranteed Party in respect of the Guaranteed Obligations.
Section 7
(c) . As long as any Guaranteed Obligations shall remain outstanding and unpaid, the Guarantor shall not, without the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent:
Subordination of Remedies
(i) accelerate, make demand or otherwise make due and payable prior to the original stated maturity thereof any Subordinated Debt or bring suit or institute any other actions or proceedings to enforce its rights or interests under or in respect of the Subordinated Debt;
(ii) exercise any rights under or with respect to (A) any guaranties of the Subordinated Debt, or (B) any collateral held by it, including causing or compelling the pledge or delivery of any collateral, any attachment of, levy upon, execution against, foreclosure upon or the taking of other action against or institution of other proceedings with respect to any collateral held by it, notifying any account debtors of any Designated Borrower or asserting any claim or interest in any insurance with respect to any collateral, or attempt to do any of the foregoing;
(iii) exercise any rights to set-offs and counterclaims in respect of any indebtedness, liabilities or obligations of the Guarantor to any Designated Borrower against any of the Subordinated Debt; or
(iv) commence, or cause to be commenced, or join with any creditor other than any Guaranteed Party in commencing, any Insolvency Proceeding.
(d) . In the event of any payment or distribution of assets of any Designated Borrower of any kind or character, whether in cash, property or securities, upon any Insolvency Proceeding with respect to or involving any Designated Borrower, (i) all amounts owing on account of the Guaranteed Obligations, including all interest accrued thereon at the contract rate both before and after the initiation of any such proceeding, whether or not an allowed claim in any such proceeding, shall first be paid in full in cash, or payment provided for in cash or in cash equivalents, before any Subordinated Debt Payment is made; and (ii) to the extent permitted by applicable law, any Subordinated Debt Payment to which the Guarantor would be entitled except for the provisions hereof, shall be paid or delivered by the trustee in bankruptcy, receiver, assignee for the benefit of creditors or other liquidating agent making such payment or distribution directly to the Administrative Agent (on behalf of the other Guaranteed Parties) for application to the payment of the Guaranteed Obligations in accordance with clause (i), after giving effect to any concurrent payment or distribution or provision therefor to any Guaranteed Party in respect of such Guaranteed Obligations.
Subordination Upon Any Distribution of Assets of any Designated Borrower
 
(e) . If, while any Subordinated Debt is outstanding, any Insolvency Proceeding is commenced by or against any Designated Borrower or its property:
Authorization to Administrative Agent
(i) the Administrative Agent, when so instructed by the Required Lenders, is hereby irrevocably authorized and empowered (in the name of the Guaranteed Parties or in the name of the Guarantor or otherwise), but shall have no obligation, to demand, sue for, collect and receive every payment or distribution in respect of the Subordinated Debt and give acquittance therefor and to file claims and proofs of claim and take such other action (including voting the Subordinated Debt) as it may deem necessary or advisable for the exercise or enforcement of any of the rights or interests of the Guaranteed Parties; and
(ii) the Guarantor shall promptly take such action as the Administrative Agent (on instruction from the Required Lenders) may reasonably request (A) to collect the Subordinated Debt for the account of the Guaranteed Parties and to file appropriate claims or proofs of claim in respect of the Subordinated Debt, (B) to execute and deliver to the Administrative Agent, such powers of attorney, assignments and other instruments as it may request to enable it to enforce any and all claims with respect to the Subordinated Debt, and (C) to collect and receive any and all Subordinated Debt Payments.
SECTION 8 . This Guaranty is a continuing guaranty and agreement of subordination relating to any Guaranteed Obligations, including Guaranteed Obligations which may exist continuously or which may arise from time to time under successive transactions, and the Guarantor expressly acknowledges that this Guaranty shall remain in full force and effect notwithstanding that there may be periods in which no Guaranteed Obligations exist. This Guaranty shall continue in effect and be binding upon the Guarantor until termination of the Commitments and payment and performance in full of the Guaranteed Obligations.
Continuing Guaranty
SECTION 9 . (a) The Guarantor hereby agrees, in furtherance of the foregoing provisions of this Guaranty and not in limitation of any other right which any Guaranteed Party or any other Person may have against the Guarantor by virtue hereof, upon the failure of any Designated Borrower to pay any of the Guaranteed Obligations when and as the same shall become due, whether at stated maturity, by required prepayment, declaration, acceleration, demand or otherwise (including amounts that would become due but for the operation of the automatic stay under 362(a) of the Bankruptcy Code), the Guarantor shall forthwith pay, or cause to be paid, in cash, to the Administrative Agent an amount equal to the amount of the Guaranteed Obligations then due as aforesaid (including interest which, but for the filing of a petition in any Insolvency Proceeding with respect to any Designated Borrower, would have accrued on such Guaranteed Obligations, whether or not a claim is allowed against any Designated Borrower for such interest in any such Insolvency Proceeding). The Guarantor shall make each payment hereunder, unconditionally in full without set-off, counterclaim or other defense, or (except as required by law) other deductions, on the day when due in the currency in which such Guaranteed Obligations are denominated, in Same Day Funds, to the Administrative Agent at such office of the Administrative Agent and to such account as are specified in the Credit Agreement. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Administrative Agent may require that any payments due under this Guaranty shall be made in the United States.
Payments
 
(b) Any payments by the Guarantor hereunder the application of which is not otherwise provided for herein, shall be applied in the order specified in of the Credit Agreement.
Section 8.03
(c) To the extent that any payment by or on behalf of any Loan Party is made to the Administrative Agent or any other Guaranteed Party, or the Administrative Agent or any other Guaranteed Party exercises its right of setoff, and such payment or the proceeds of such setoff or any part thereof is subsequently invalidated, declared to be fraudulent or preferential, set aside or required (including pursuant to any settlement entered into by the Administrative Agent or any other Guaranteed Party in its discretion) to be repaid to a trustee, receiver or any other party, in connection with any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law or otherwise, then (i) to the extent of such recovery, the obligation or part thereof originally intended to be satisfied shall be revived and continued in full force and effect as if such payment had not been made or such setoff had not occurred, and (ii) each Lender severally (by its acceptance hereof) agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent upon demand its applicable share (without duplication) of any amount so recovered from or repaid by the Administrative Agent, plus interest thereon from the date of such demand to the date such payment is made at a rate per annum equal to the applicable Overnight Rate from time to time in effect. The obligations of the Lenders under clause (ii) of the preceding sentence shall survive the payment in full of the Guaranteed Obligations and the termination of this Guaranty.
(d) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein or in the Guarantor Document, the interest paid or agreed to be paid hereunder and under the other Guarantor Documents shall not exceed the maximum rate of non-usurious interest permitted by applicable Law (the ""). If the Administrative Agent or any other Guaranteed Party shall receive interest in an amount that exceeds the Maximum Rate, the excess interest shall be applied to the principal of the Guaranteed Obligations or, if it exceeds such unpaid principal, refunded to the Guarantor. In determining whether the interest contracted for, charged, or received by the Administrative Agent or any other Guaranteed Party exceeds the Maximum Rate, such Person may, to the extent permitted by applicable Law, (i) characterize any payment that is not principal as an expense, fee, or premium rather than interest, (ii) exclude voluntary prepayments and the effects thereof, and (iii) amortize, prorate, allocate, and spread in equal or unequal parts the total amount of interest throughout the contemplated term of the Obligations hereunder.
Maximum Rate
(d) The agreements in this shall survive the termination of the Aggregate Commitments and the repayment, satisfaction or discharge of all the other Guaranteed Obligations.
Section 9
SECTION 10 . The Guarantor represents and warrants to each Guaranteed Party that:
Representations and Warranties
(a) . The Guarantor is (i) duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the Laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation, (ii) has all requisite power and authority and all governmental licenses, authorizations, consents and approvals to own its assets, carry on its business and to execute, deliver, and perform its obligations under this Guaranty and the other Guarantor Documents which it is a party, (iii) is duly qualified and is licensed and in good standing under the Laws of each jurisdiction where its
Organization and Powers
 
ownership, lease or operation of properties or the conduct of its business requires such qualification or license, and (iv) is in compliance with all Laws, except in each case referred to in clause (iii) or this clause (iv), to the extent that failure to do so individually or in the aggregate could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
(b) . The execution, delivery and performance by the Guarantor of this Guaranty and any other Guarantor Documents have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action, and do not and will not (i) contravene the terms of any of the Guarantor's Organization Documents; (ii) conflict with or result in any breach or contravention of, or the creation of any Lien under, or require any payment to be made under (A) any material Contractual Obligation to which the Guarantor is a party or affecting the Guarantor or the material properties of the Guarantor or any of its Subsidiaries or (B) any material order, injunction, writ or decree of any Governmental Authority or any arbitral award to which the Guarantor or its property is subject; or (iii) violate any Law applicable to the Guarantor. The Guarantor is in compliance with all material Contractual Obligations referred to in clause (ii)(A), except to the extent that failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Authorization; No Conflict
(c) . This Guaranty has been, and the other Guarantor Documents, when delivered hereunder, will have been, duly executed and delivered by each party hereto and thereto. This Guaranty constitutes, and each other Guarantor Document when so delivered will constitute, a legal, valid and binding obligation of the Guarantor, enforceable against the Guarantor in accordance with its terms, subject to the effect of applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, arrangement, moratorium and other similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally and to the application of general principles of equity.
Binding Obligation
(d) . No approval, consent, exemption, authorization, or other action by, or notice to, or filing with, any Governmental Authority or any other Person is necessary or required in connection with the execution, delivery or performance by, or enforcement against, the Guarantor of this Guaranty or any other Guarantor Documents.
Governmental Consents
(e) . The Guarantor has not previously assigned any interest in the Subordinated Debt or any collateral relating thereto, no Person other than the Guarantor owns an interest in any of the Subordinated Debt or any such collateral (whether as joint holders of the Subordinated Debt, participants or otherwise), and the entire Subordinated Debt is owing only to the Guarantor.
No Prior Assignment
(f) . Immediately prior to and after and giving effect to the incurrence of the Guarantor's obligations under this Guaranty the Guarantor is and will be Solvent.
Solvency
(g) . The Guarantor has received "reasonably equivalent value" (within the meaning of 548 of the Bankruptcy Code) for the making of this Guaranty.
Consideration
(h) . The Guarantor hereby acknowledges that it has undertaken its own independent investigation of the financial condition of any Designated Borrower and all other matters pertaining to this Guaranty and further acknowledges that it is not relying in any manner upon any representation or statement of any Guaranteed Party with respect thereto. The Guarantor represents and warrants that it has received and reviewed copies of the Loan Documents and that it is in a position to obtain, and it hereby assumes full responsibility
Independent Investigation
 
for obtaining, any additional information concerning the financial condition of any Designated Borrower and any other matters pertinent hereto that the Guarantor may desire. The Guarantor is not relying upon or expecting any Guaranteed Party to furnish to the Guarantor any information now or hereafter in any Guaranteed Party's possession concerning the financial condition of any Designated Borrower or any other matter.
SECTION 11 . All notices and other communications provided for herein shall be in writing and shall be delivered by hand or overnight courier service, mailed by certified or registered mail or sent by telecopier, to the addresses or telecopier numbers specified in the Credit Agreement. Notices sent by hand or overnight courier service, or mailed by certified or registered mail, shall be deemed to have been given when received; notices sent by telecopier shall be deemed to have been given when sent (except that, if not given during normal business hours for the recipient, shall be deemed to have been given at the opening of business on the next business day for the recipient). Each of the Guarantor and the Guaranteed Parties may change its address or telecopier number for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the other parties.
Notices
SECTION 12 . No failure by any Guaranteed Party to exercise, and no delay by any such Person in exercising, any right, remedy, power or privilege hereunder or under any other Guarantor Document shall operate as a waiver thereof; nor shall any single or partial exercise of any right, remedy, power or privilege hereunder preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, remedy, power or privilege. The rights, remedies, powers and privileges herein or therein provided are cumulative and not exclusive of any rights, remedies, powers and privileges provided by law.
No Waiver; Cumulative Remedies
SECTION 13 Costs and Expenses; Indemnification.
(a) . The Guarantor shall pay (i) all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent and its Affiliates (including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of counsel for the Administrative Agent), in connection with the preparation, negotiation, execution and delivery of this Guaranty and the other Guarantor Documents or any amendments, modifications or waivers of the provisions hereof or thereof (whether or not the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby shall be consummated), and (ii) all out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent or any other Guaranteed Party (including the fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for any Guaranteed Party, and shall pay all fees and time charges for attorneys who may be employees of a Guaranteed Party, in connection with the enforcement or protection of its rights in connection with this Guaranty and the other Guarantor Documents, including its rights under this Section, including all such out-of-pocket expenses incurred during any workout, restructuring or negotiations in respect of the Guaranteed Obligations.
Costs and Expenses
(b) . The Guarantor shall indemnify the Administrative Agent (and any sub-agent thereof), each other Guaranteed Party, and each Related Party of any of the foregoing Persons (each such Person being called an "") against, and hold each Indemnitee harmless from, any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities and related expenses (including the fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for any Indemnitee), and shall indemnify and hold harmless each Indemnitee from all fees and time charges and disbursements for attorneys who may be employees of any Indemnitee, incurred by any Indemnitee or asserted
Indemnification
Indemnitee
 
against any Indemnitee by any third party or by the Guarantor or any other Loan Party arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of (i) the execution or delivery of this Guaranty or any other Guarantor Document or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby or thereby, the performance by the parties hereto or thereto of their respective obligations hereunder or thereunder or the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby, or (ii) any actual or prospective claim, litigation, investigation or proceeding relating to any of the foregoing, whether based on contract, tort or any other theory, whether brought by a third party or by the Guarantor or any other Loan Party, and regardless of whether any Indemnitee is a party thereto; that such indemnity shall not, as to any Indemnitee, be available to the extent that such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or related expenses (x) are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by final and nonappealable judgment to have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnitee, (y) result from a claim brought by the Guarantor or any other Loan Party against an Indemnitee for breach in bad faith of such Indemnitee's obligations hereunder or under any other Loan Document, if the Guarantor or such other Loan Party has obtained a final and nonappealable judgment in its favor on such claim as determined by a court of competent jurisdiction, or (z) result from a claim by an Indemnitee against any other Indemnitee that does not involve an act or omission of any Guarantor or any Loan Party for which an Indemnitee would otherwise be entitled to indemnification under this .
provided
Section 13(b)
(c) . To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the Guarantor shall not assert, and the Guarantor hereby waives, any claim against any Indemnitee, on any theory of liability, for special, indirect, consequential or punitive damages (as opposed to direct or actual damages) arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of, this Guaranty, any other Guarantor Document or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby, the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby, any Loan or Letter of Credit or the use of the proceeds thereof. No Indemnitee referred to in  shall be liable for any damages arising from the use by unintended recipients of any information or other materials distributed by it through telecommunications, electronic or other information transmission systems in connection with this Guaranty or the other Guarantor Documents or the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby.
Waiver of Consequential Damages, Etc.
subsection (b)
(d) . Any amounts payable by the Guarantor under this or otherwise under this Guaranty if not paid upon demand shall bear interest from the date of such demand until paid in full, at a fluctuating interest rate per annum at all times equal to the Default Rate applicable to Base Rate Loans to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Law. Any such interest shall be due and payable upon demand and shall be calculated on the basis of a year of 365 or 366 days, as the case may be, and the actual number of days elapsed.
Interest
Section 13
(e) . All amounts due under this shall be payable within ten Business Days after demand therefor.
Payment
Section 13
(f) . The agreements in this shall survive the resignation of the Administrative Agent, the replacement of any Lender, the termination of the Aggregate Commitments and the repayment, satisfaction or discharge of all the other Guaranteed Obligations.
Survival
Section 13
 
SECTION 14 . If an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, to the extent any Guaranteed Obligations are then due and payable, each Guaranteed Party and each of their respective Affiliates is hereby authorized at any time and from time to time, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, to set off and apply any and all deposits (general or special, time or demand, provisional or final, in whatever currency) at any time held and other obligations (in whatever currency) at any time owing by such Guaranteed Party or any such Affiliate to or for the credit or the account of the Guarantor against any and all of the obligations of the Guarantor now or hereafter existing under this Guaranty or any other Guarantor Document to such Guaranteed Party, irrespective of whether or not such Guaranteed Party shall have made any demand under this Guaranty or any other Guarantor Document and although such obligations of the Guarantor may be owed to a branch or office of such Guaranteed Party different from the branch or office holding such deposit or obligated on such indebtedness. The rights of each Guaranteed Party and their respective Affiliates under this Section are in addition to other rights and remedies (including other rights of setoff) that such Guaranteed Party or their respective Affiliates may have. Each Guaranteed Party (by its acceptance hereof) agrees to notify the Guarantor and the Administrative Agent promptly after any such setoff and application, that the failure to give such notice shall not affect the validity of such setoff and application.
Right of Set-Off
provided
SECTION 15 . This Guaranty is entered into for the sole protection and benefit of the Administrative Agent and each other Guaranteed Party and their respective successors and assigns, and no other Person (other than any Related Party or Participant specified herein) shall be a direct or indirect beneficiary of, or shall have any direct or indirect cause of action or claim in connection with, this Guaranty. The Guaranteed Parties, by their acceptance of this Guaranty, shall not have any obligations under this Guaranty to any Person other than (i) the Guarantor, and (ii) the Administrative Agent (or any such sub-agent thereof) or any Related Party thereof, and such obligations shall be limited to those expressly stated herein.
Benefits of Guaranty
SECTION 16 .
Binding Effect; Assignment
(a) . This Guaranty shall be binding upon the Guarantor and its successors and assigns, and inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the Administrative Agent and each other Guaranteed Party and their respective successors and permitted assigns.
Binding Effect
(b) . Except to the extent otherwise provided in the Credit Agreement, the Guarantor shall not have the right to assign or transfer its rights and obligations hereunder or under any other Guarantor Documents without the prior written consent of the Required Lenders. Each Lender may, without notice to or consent by the Guarantor, sell, assign, transfer or grant participations in all or any portion of such Lender's rights and obligations hereunder and under the other Guarantor Documents in connection with any sale, assignment, transfer or grant of a participation by such Lender in accordance with of the Credit Agreement of or in its rights and obligations thereunder and under the other Loan Documents. In the event of any grant of a participation, the Participant to the extent permitted by law shall be deemed to have a right of setoff under in respect of its participation to the same extent as if it were such "Guaranteed Party."
Assignment
Section 10.06
Section 14
 
SECTION 17 . (a) THIS GUARANTY SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
Governing Law
(b) THE GUARANTOR IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY SUBMITS, FOR ITSELF AND ITS PROPERTY, TO THE NONEXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION OF THE COURTS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK SITTING IN NEW YORK COUNTY, AND OF THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK, AND ANY APPELLATE COURT FROM ANY THEREOF, IN ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS GUARANTY OR ANY OTHER GUARANTOR DOCUMENT, OR FOR RECOGNITION OR ENFORCEMENT OF ANY JUDGMENT, AND EACH OF THE GUARANTOR AND EACH GUARANTEED PARTY (BY ITS ACCEPTANCE HEREOF) IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY AGREES THAT ALL CLAIMS IN RESPECT OF ANY SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING MAY BE HEARD AND DETERMINED IN SUCH NEW YORK STATE COURT OR, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, IN SUCH FEDERAL COURT. EACH OF THE GUARANTOR AND EACH GUARANTEED PARTY (BY ITS ACCEPTANCE HEREOF) AGREES THAT A FINAL JUDGMENT IN ANY SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING SHALL BE CONCLUSIVE AND MAY BE ENFORCED IN OTHER JURISDICTIONS BY SUIT ON THE JUDGMENT OR IN ANY OTHER MANNER PROVIDED BY LAW. NOTHING IN THIS GUARANTY OR IN ANY OTHER GUARANTOR DOCUMENT SHALL AFFECT ANY RIGHT THAT ANY GUARANTEED PARTY MAY OTHERWISE HAVE TO BRING ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING RELATING TO THIS GUARANTY OR ANY OTHER GUARANTOR DOCUMENT AGAINST SUCH GUARANTOR OR ITS PROPERTIES IN THE COURTS OF ANY JURISDICTION.
(c) THE GUARANTOR IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY OBJECTION THAT IT MAY NOW OR HEREAFTER HAVE TO THE LAYING OF VENUE OF ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS GUARANTY OR ANY OTHER GUARANTOR DOCUMENT IN ANY COURT REFERRED TO IN OF THIS SECTION. EACH OF THE GUARANTOR AND EACH GUARANTEED PARTY (BY ITS ACCEPTANCE HEREOF) HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, THE DEFENSE OF AN INCONVENIENT FORUM TO THE MAINTENANCE OF SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING IN ANY SUCH COURT.
SUBSECTION (B)
(d) THE GUARANTOR HERETO IRREVOCABLY CONSENTS TO SERVICE OF PROCESS IN THE MANNER PROVIDED FOR NOTICES IN . NOTHING IN THIS GUARANTY WILL AFFECT THE RIGHT OF ANY GUARANTEED PARTY TO SERVE PROCESS IN ANY OTHER MANNER PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW.
SECTION 13
SECTION 18 . EACH OF THE GUARANTOR AND EACH GUARANTEED PARTY (BY ITS ACCEPTANCE HEREOF) HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY RIGHT IT MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL
Waiver of Jury Trial
 
PROCEEDING DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS GUARANTY OR ANY OTHER GUARANTOR DOCUMENT OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY OR THEREBY (WHETHER BASED ON CONTRACT, TORT OR ANY OTHER THEORY). EACH OF THE GUARANTOR AND EACH GUARANTEED PARTY (BY ITS ACCEPTANCE HEREOF) (A) CERTIFIES THAT NO REPRESENTATIVE, AGENT OR ATTORNEY OF ANY OTHER PERSON HAS REPRESENTED, EXPRESSLY OR OTHERWISE, THAT SUCH OTHER PERSON WOULD NOT, IN THE EVENT OF LITIGATION, SEEK TO ENFORCE THE FOREGOING WAIVER AND (B) ACKNOWLEDGES THAT IT HAS BEEN INDUCED TO ENTER INTO OR ACCEPT, AS THE CASE MAY BE, THIS GUARANTY AND THE OTHER GUARANTOR DOCUMENTS BY, AMONG OTHER THINGS, THE MUTUAL WAIVERS AND CERTIFICATIONS IN THIS SECTION.
SECTION 19 . If any action or proceeding is filed in a court of the State of California by or against the parties in connection with any of the transactions contemplated by this Guaranty or the other Guarantor Documents, (a) the court shall, and is hereby directed to, make a general reference pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure 638 to a referee (who shall be a single active or retired judge) to hear and determine all of the issues in such action or proceeding (whether of fact or of law) and to report a statement of decision, that at the option of any party to such proceeding, any such issues pertaining to a "provisional remedy" as defined in California Code of Civil Procedure 1281.8 shall be heard and determined by the court, and (b) without limiting the generality of , the Guarantor shall be solely responsible to pay all fees and expenses of any referee appointed in such action or proceeding.
California Judicial Reference
provided
Section 15
SECTION 20 . This Guaranty together with the other Guarantor Documents embodies the entire agreement of the Guarantor with respect to the matters set forth herein and supersedes all prior or contemporaneous agreements and understandings of such Persons, verbal or written, relating to the subject matter hereof and thereof and shall not be amended except by written agreement of the Guarantor, the Administrative Agent and the Required Lenders. No waiver of any rights of the Guaranteed Parties under any provision of this Guaranty or consent to any departure by the Guarantor therefrom shall be effective unless in writing and signed by the Administrative Agent and the Required Lenders, or the Administrative Agent (with the written consent of the Required Lenders). Any such amendment, waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the specific purpose for which given.
Entire Agreement; Amendments and Waivers
SECTION 21 . If any provision of this Guaranty or the other Guarantor Documents is held to be illegal, invalid or unenforceable, (a) to the fullest extent permitted by law, the legality, validity and enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Guaranty and the other Guarantor Documents shall not be affected or impaired thereby and (b) the parties shall endeavor in good faith negotiations to replace the illegal, invalid or unenforceable provisions with valid provisions the economic effect of which comes as close as possible to that of the illegal, invalid or unenforceable provisions. The invalidity of a provision in a particular jurisdiction shall not invalidate or render unenforceable such provision in any other jurisdiction.
Severability
 
SECTION 22 . This Guaranty and the other Guarantor Documents constitute the entire contract among the parties relating to the subject matter hereof and supersede any and all previous agreements and understandings, oral or written, relating to the subject matter hereof. Except as provided in of the Credit Agreement, this Guaranty shall become effective when the Administrative Agent shall have received a counterpart hereof bearing the signature of the Guarantor. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Guaranty by telecopy shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Guaranty.
Integration; Effectiveness
Section 4.01
SECTION 23 . All representations and warranties made hereunder and in any other Guarantor Document or other document delivered pursuant hereto or thereto or in connection herewith or therewith shall survive the execution and delivery hereof and thereof. Such representations and warranties have been or will be relied upon by the Administrative Agent and each other Guaranteed Party, regardless of any investigation made by the Administrative Agent or any other Guaranteed Party or on their behalf and notwithstanding that the Administrative Agent or any other Guaranteed Party may have had notice or knowledge of any Default at the time of any Credit Extension, and shall continue in full force and effect as long as any Loan or any other Obligation shall remain unpaid or unsatisfied or any Letter of Credit shall remain outstanding.
Survival of Representations and Warranties
SECTION 24 . Each Lender that is subject to the Act (as hereinafter defined) and the Administrative Agent (for itself and not on behalf of any Lender) hereby notifies the Guarantor that pursuant to the requirements of the USA Patriot Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001)) (the ""), it is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies the Guarantor, which information includes the name and address of the Guarantor and other information that will allow such Lender or the Administrative Agent, as applicable, to identify the Guarantor in accordance with the Act.
USA PATRIOT Act Notice
Act
SECTION 25 . The provisions of Section 10.07 of the Credit Agreement shall be applicable, to each Guaranteed Party as if fully set forth herein.
Confidentiality
mutatis mutandis,
SECTION 26 . Time is of the essence of this Guaranty and the other Guarantor Documents.
Time is of the Essence
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Guarantor has executed this Guaranty, as of the date first above written.
 


