FILE:VRSN/VRSN-8K-20060720163256.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On July 20, 2006, VeriSign, Inc. ("VeriSign" or the "Company") announced its financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2006 and certain other information. A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
The information in this Form 8-K and the Exhibit attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information
VeriSign provides quarterly and annual financial statements that are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Along with this information, we typically disclose and discuss certain non-GAAP financial information in our quarterly earnings releases, on investor conference calls and during investor conferences and related events. This non-GAAP financial information does not include the following types of financial measures that are included in GAAP: amortization and impairment of intangible assets, acquired in-process research and development, stock-based compensation charges, litigation settlements, restructuring and other charges (reversals), the net gain on the sale of investments and income taxes. Management believes that this non-GAAP financial data supplements our GAAP financial by providing investors with additional information which allows them to have a clearer picture of the company's core recurring operations. The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with GAAP. We believe that the non-GAAP information enhances the investors' overall understanding of our financial performance and the comparability of the company's operating results from period to period. In the press release attached hereto to as Exhibit 99.1, we have provided a reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial information that we provide each quarter with the comparable financial information reported in accordance with GAAP for the given period.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Exhibit Index
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
VeriSign, Inc. (Nasdaq: VRSN), the leading provider of intelligent infrastructure services for the Internet and telecommunications networks, today reported its results for the second quarter ended June 30, 2006.
MOUNTAIN VIEW, CA  July 20, 2006 
VeriSign reported total revenue of $392 million for the second quarter of 2006. On a GAAP basis, VeriSign reported net income of $350 million for the second quarter of 2006 and earnings per share of $1.42 per fully-diluted share. Net income on a GAAP basis for the second quarter of 2006 included a non-cash stock-based compensation charge of $13.2 million for stock option expensing and tax benefits totaling $327 million.
On a non-GAAP basis, using a 30% effective tax rate on non-GAAP pre-tax income of $84 million, earnings per share for the second quarter was $0.24 per diluted share. These non-GAAP results exclude the following items which are included under GAAP: amortization and impairment of intangible assets, acquired in-process research and development, non-cash stock-based compensation, litigation settlements, restructuring and other charges (reversals), net gain on the sale of investments, and income taxes. A table reconciling the GAAP to non-GAAP net income reported above is appended to this release.
"We are pleased with our execution in the first half of 2006," said Stratton Sclavos, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of VeriSign. "As our results indicate, demand for our intelligent infrastructure services continues to grow as our customers accelerate their migration to network-based interactions with their business partners, employees and customers."
"Our second quarter results reflect solid performance in the core business and higher than forecasted revenue in the mobile content business, leading to strong operating income for the quarter," said Dana Evan, Chief Financial Officer of VeriSign. "Driven by our recurring revenue model, these results improved our deferred revenue to $560 million and allowed us to deliver solid operating cash flows of over $90 million this quarter."
During the second quarter within the Internet Services Group (ISG), VeriSign Security Services (VSS) announced that Charles Schwab selected VeriSign to provide a full set of security services for their clients. Under the terms of the agreement, Charles Schwab will deploy both the VeriSign Identity Protection (VIP) Fraud Detection Service and VIP Authentication Service to secure client login and transaction information. VSS also signed a definitive agreement to acquire GeoTrust, a leading supplier of SSL and other solutions to secure e-business transactions, for approximately $125 million in cash. The acquisition is expected to close in the second half of this year subject to regulatory approvals and is expected to be accretive to earnings per share in 2007.
VeriSign Communications Services (VCS) announced a number of significant customer wins in the quarter for its core solutions, including providing iRoam services to Metro PCS, network connectivity and database services to US LEC and SMS alerts for eBay and Oracle users. As part of VCS's strategy to expand internationally, VCS signed an agreement to jointly market advance services with IDT Telecom to emerging international markets. In addition, VCS has signed a multi-year deal with SK
Telecom to provide a variety of services including Signaling System 7 (SS7) network connectivity. VCS also completed the acquisition of m-Qube, a leading mobile channel enabler, for $266 million in cash during the quarter.
As previously disclosed on June 27, 2006, VeriSign's Board of Directors has commenced an internal review and analysis of VeriSign's historical stock option grants. This internal review is currently in progress. The Board of Directors is being assisted in its review by independent legal counsel. Facts may come to light once the review is completed that may require us to change our accounting treatment of stock options granted in prior periods which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations for those periods or other periods.
Additional Financial Information
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Internet Services Group
 
 
 
Communications Services Group
 
 
 
 
Today's Conference Call
VeriSign will be hosting a teleconference call today at 2:00 pm (PST) to review the quarter's results. The call will be accessible by direct dial at (800) 263-8506 (US) or (719) 457-2681 (international). A listen-only live webcast of the earnings conference call will also be available at . A replay of this call will be available at (888) 203-1112 (passcode: 4621310) or (719) 457-0820 (international) beginning at 5:00 pm (PST) on July 20 and will run through July 27. This press release and the financial information discussed on today's conference call are available on Investor Relations tab in the company's website at .
http://investor.verisign.com
http://investor.verisign.com
About VeriSign
VeriSign, Inc. (Nasdaq: VRSN), operates intelligent infrastructure services that enable and protect billions of interactions every day across the world's voice and data networks. Additional news and information about the company is available at .
www.verisign.com
VRSNF
Contacts
Media Relations: Brian O'Shaughnessy, , 650-426-5270
boshaughnessy@verisign.com
Investor Relations: Tom McCallum, , 650-426-3744
tmccallum@verisign.com
Statements in this announcement other than historical data and information constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause VeriSign's actual results to differ materially from those stated or implied by such forward-looking statements. The potential risks and uncertainties include, among others, the uncertainty of future revenue and profitability and potential fluctuations in quarterly operating results due to such factors as increasing competition and pricing pressure from competing services offered at prices below our prices and market acceptance of our existing services, the inability of VeriSign to successfully develop and market new services and the uncertainty of whether new services as provided by VeriSign will achieve market acceptance or result in any revenues and the risk acquired businesses will not be integrated successfully and unanticipated costs of such integration. More information about potential factors that could affect the company's business and financial results is included in VeriSign's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005 and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. VeriSign undertakes no obligation to update any of the forward-looking statements after the date of this press release.
 
 
 
 
VeriSign provides quarterly and annual financial statements that are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Along with this information, we typically disclose and discuss certain non-GAAP financial information in our quarterly earnings releases, on investor conference calls and during investor conferences and related events. This non-GAAP financial information does not include the following types of financial measures that are included in GAAP: amortization and impairment of intangible assets, acquired in-process research and development, stock-based compensation, litigation settlements, restructuring and other charges (reversals), net gain on the sale of investments and income taxes. The non-GAAP financial information is also adjusted for a 30% tax rate which differs from the GAAP tax rate.
Management believes that this non-GAAP financial data supplements our GAAP financial data by providing investors with additional information which allows them to have a clearer picture of the company's core operations. The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with GAAP. We believe that the non-GAAP information enhances the investors' overall understanding of our financial performance and the comparability of the company's operating results from period to period. Above, we have provided a reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial information that we provide each quarter with the comparable financial information reported in accordance with GAAP for the given period.
 
 
VeriSign provides quarterly and annual financial statements that are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Along with this information, we typically disclose and discuss certain non-GAAP financial information in our quarterly earnings releases, on investor conference calls and during investor conferences and related events. This non-GAAP financial information does not include the following types of financial measures that are included in GAAP: amortization and impairment of intangible assets, acquired in-process research and development, stock-based compensation, litigation settlements, restructuring and other charges (reversals), net gain on the sale of investments and income taxes. The non-GAAP financial information is also adjusted for a 30% tax rate which differs from the GAAP tax rate.
Management believes that this non-GAAP financial data supplements our GAAP financial data by providing investors with additional information which allows them to have a clearer picture of the company's core operations. The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with GAAP. We believe that the non-GAAP information enhances the investors' overall understanding of our financial performance and the comparability of the company's operating results from period to period. Above, we have provided a reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial information that we provide each quarter with the comparable financial information reported in accordance with GAAP for the given period.
 


