FILE:VRSN/VRSN-8K-20070131162703.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On January 31, 2007, VeriSign, Inc. ("VeriSign" or the "Company") announced its financial results for the quarter and fiscal year ended December 31, 2006 and certain other information. A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
The information in this Form 8-K and the Exhibit attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information
VeriSign provides quarterly and annual financial statements that are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Along with this information, we typically disclose and discuss certain non-GAAP financial information in our quarterly earnings releases, on investor conference calls and during investor conferences and related events. This non-GAAP financial information does not include the following types of financial measures that are included in GAAP: amortization and impairment of intangible assets, acquired in-process research and development, stock-based compensation charges, litigation settlements, restructuring and other charges, release of deferred tax asset valuation allowances, and the net gain on the sale of investments. Management believes that this non-GAAP financial data supplements our GAAP financial by providing investors with additional information which allows them to have a clearer picture of the company's core recurring operations. The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with GAAP. We believe that the non-GAAP information enhances the investors' overall understanding of our financial performance and the comparability of the company's operating results from period to period. In the press release attached hereto to as Exhibit 99.1, we have provided a reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial information that we provide each quarter with the comparable financial information reported in accordance with GAAP for the given period.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Exhibit Index
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
VeriSign, Inc. (Nasdaq: VRSN), the leading provider of intelligent infrastructure for the networked world, today reported financial results for the fourth quarter and year ended December 31, 2006.
MOUNTAIN VIEW, CA - January 31, 200
7
-
Q4 2006 Financial Results
VeriSign reported total revenue of $413 million for the fourth quarter of 2006. VeriSign ended the fourth quarter with Cash, Cash Equivalents, Restricted Cash and Short-term Investments of $749 million and deferred revenue of $614 million.
2006 Financial Results
For the year ended December 31, 2006, VeriSign reported total revenue of $1.58 billion, compared to $1.61 billion for 2005. The year over year decrease reflects a decline in mobile content revenues in the first half of the year.
"We enter 2007 with a strong portfolio of services that advances our mission of being in the center of the world's networked interactions," said Stratton Sclavos, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of VeriSign. "We are now focused on addressing the needs of our global customer base as they transform their businesses to a next generation digital world."
"We faced some challenges to top line growth in 2006, namely the divestiture of the payment gateway business and some instability in the mobile content business in the first half of the year," said Dana Evan, Chief Financial Officer of VeriSign. "Overall, we are pleased with our results and are well-positioned for 2007 with a strong balance sheet, excellent operating cash flows and nearly $750 million in cash and short-term investments."
VeriSign is not providing detailed GAAP or non-GAAP financials for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2006 due to the previously announced review and analysis of VeriSign's historical stock option grants being conducted by an ad hoc group of independent Directors. The ad hoc group's review and analysis has been substantially completed. The review did not find intentional wrongdoing by any current member of the senior management team.
VeriSign has determined that it must restate its historical financial statements for the years and interim periods from 2002-2005 and for the first quarter of 2006 to record additional non-cash, stock-based compensation expense related to past stock option grants. Based on the findings to date, VeriSign believes the non-cash charges to the financial statements for the periods 2002-2005 will be less than $200 million. VeriSign expects to complete its restatement of financial statements for all affected periods in the near future.
During the fourth quarter, VeriSign announced that the Department of Commerce gave final approval to the .com agreement between VeriSign and the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers
(ICANN). The agreement outlines rules and processes for introducing new services while promoting the security and safety of the Internet and providing for continued investment in the infrastructure.
VeriSign also announced the issuance of Extended Validation (EV) SSL Certificates. These new certificates support Microsoft's IE7 and Vista operating system and help to increase consumer confidence when visiting Web sites by providing a visual cue, a green browser bar, that these sites are who they claim to be and that online transactions with these sites are secured by encryption.
In December, VeriSign announced that UK television broadcaster, Channel 4, integrated VeriSign's peer-to-peer solution to power its new Internet video on-demand service, making Channel 4 one of the first major broadcasters and the third large network customer for this solution in the UK. VeriSign's peer-to-peer broadband technology enables the secure delivery of Internet video, reduces the time it takes to download video content and produces a superior user experience.
Additional highlights from the quarter include the acquisition in November of inCode Wireless for approximately $52 million in cash and assumed debt. With a focus on next generation mobility solutions, inCode provides strategy consulting services to major wireless, wire line, cable operator and telecom equipment manufacturers, as well as leading enterprises.
Additional Financial Information
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Internet Services Group
 
 
 
Communications Services Group
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Today's Conference Call
VeriSign will host a live teleconference call today at 2:00 pm (PST) to review the quarter's results. The call will be accessible by direct dial at (800) 289-0544 (US) or (913) 981-5533 (international). A listen-only live web cast of the earnings conference call will also be available at http://investor.verisign.com. A replay of this call will be available at (888) 203-1112 (passcode: 2572145) or (719) 457-0820 (passcode: 2572145 - international) beginning at 5:00 pm (PST) on January 31 and will run through February 6. This press release and the financial information discussed on today's conference call are available on the Investor Relations section of the VeriSign website at http://investor.verisign.com.
About VeriSign
VeriSign, Inc. (Nasdaq: VRSN), operates intelligent infrastructure services that enable and protect billions of interactions every day across the world's voice and data networks. Additional news and information about the company is available at .
www.verisign.com
Contacts
Investor Relations: Nancy Fazioli, , 650-426-5146
ir@verisign.com
Media Relations: Lisa Malloy, , 202-270-7600
pr@verisign.com
Statements in this announcement other than historical data and information constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause VeriSign's actual results to differ materially from those stated or implied by such forward-looking statements. The potential risks and uncertainties include, among others, the uncertainty of future revenue and profitability and potential fluctuations in quarterly operating results due to such factors as increasing competition and pricing pressure from competing services offered at prices below our prices and market acceptance of our existing services, the inability of VeriSign to successfully develop and market new services and the uncertainty of whether new services as provided by VeriSign will achieve market acceptance or result in any revenues and the risk acquired businesses will not be integrated successfully and unanticipated costs of such integration. In addition, the risks include the risk that VeriSign may be unable to complete its restatement of financial results for the affected periods as stated in the press release, the risk that proper accounting of the adjustments to the Company's financial statements as finally determined by the Board, KPMG LLP and/or the SEC may differ from the accounting treatment upon which the assumptions and forward looking statements in this announcement are based; uncertainty regarding the tax treatment of any adjustments to the Company's financial statements; uncertainty that the Nasdaq Listing Qualifications Panel will grant a favorable decision regarding a possible delisting of the Company's common stock, and, if an unfavorable decision is rendered, VeriSign's common stock will no longer continue to remain listed on the Nasdaq Global Market; the risk that the settlement in the shareholder securities class action litigation may not receive final approval from the court; the risk that the matters described in this press release could divert management's attention from operations; and the fact that expenses arising from the independent review and SEC inquiry, the restatement, related litigation and other associated activities are expected to be significant. The Company has obtained an extension of time from the Nasdaq Listing Qualifications Panel up to and including February 12, 2007 to file its Form 10-Q for quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for the third and fourth quarters of 2006. If the Company is unable to file its quarterly reports by that date, it intends to seek an additional extension of time from the Nasdaq Listing and Hearings Review Counsel. More information about potential factors that could affect the company's business and financial results is included in VeriSign's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005 and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. VeriSign undertakes no obligation to update any of the forward-looking statements after the date of this press release.
 
 
 


