FILE:VRSN/VRSN-8K-20071109163658.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
VeriSign, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("VeriSign" or the "Company"), announced that Timothy Tomlinson has been appointed to the Company's Board of Directors, effective November 5, 2007. Mr. Tomlinson will serve on the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors.
Mr. Tomlinson is "Of Counsel" with the law firm Greenberg Traurig, LLP. Mr. Tomlinson was the founder and a named partner of Tomlinson Zisko LLP, a law firm, from 1983 until its acquisition by Greenberg Traurig, LLP in May 2007. Mr. Tomlinson was a member of VeriSign's Board of Directors from 1995 until 2001. Mr. Tomlinson holds a B.A. degree in Economics, a M.A. degree in History, and a J.D. degree from Stanford University.
Mr. Tomlinson will participate in the non-employee director compensation arrangements described in VeriSign's 2007 proxy statement. Under the terms of those arrangements, he will receive an annual cash retainer of $40,000, an additional annual cash retainer of $20,000 as a member of the Compensation Committee, and equity-based awards of approximately $200,000 paid in the form of restricted stock units and non-qualified stock options. The cash retainers payable in 2007 will be prorated to reflect his service for a portion of the year.
 
VeriSign's Board of Directors has appointed William L. Chenevich as Chairman of the Audit Committee, and has appointed D. James Bidzos to the Compensation Committee, effective November 5, 2007. Mr. Chenevich and Mr. Bidzos have each served on the Board of Directors of the Company since 1995.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


