FILE:VRSN/VRSN-8K-20070830161443.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
RSU Agreement
On August 24, 2007, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (the "") of VeriSign, Inc. ("") adopted and approved performance based terms and conditions for restricted stock unit awards ("") granted to VeriSign's executive officers under the VeriSign 2006 Equity Incentive Plan (the "") and also adopted and approved the form of Performance Based Restricted Stock Unit Agreement ("") to be used in connection with such grants.
Compensation Committee
VeriSign
RSU awards
2006 Plan
RSU Agreement
The RSU awards will vest in full on the three year anniversary of the grant date if (i) VeriSign's common stock attains the Stock Price Target described below during the 36 month period following the grant date and (ii) if the executive officer is employed with VeriSign at the end of such period. The Stock Price Target is equal to the average closing price of VeriSign common stock on the 60 consecutive trading days preceding the grant date, with an increase of 10% per year during the three year period following the grant date. If the Stock Price Target is not met during this three year period, then 50% of the RSU award will vest on the fourth year anniversary of the grant date, assuming the executive officer is still employed by VeriSign on that date, and the remaining 50% of the RSU award will be forfeited.
If an executive officer's employment is terminated before the end of the 36 month period due to death or total long-term disability or if the executive officer's employment is voluntarily terminated for Good Reason (defined below) or involuntarily terminated without Cause (defined below) and (i) the Stock Price Target is met as of the executive officer's termination date, then a pro rata portion (based on the executive officer's termination date) of the RSU award vests immediately upon termination or (ii) the Stock Price Target is not met as of the executive officer's termination date but is met within 36 months of the grant date, then vesting of a pro rata portion of the RSU award will occur at the time that the Stock Price Target is met. If the Stock Price Target is not reached by the end of the 36 month period then the RSU award will be forfeited in its entirety.
"Good Reason" under the RSU Agreement means any one of the following: (i) a material and adverse change in the executive officer's authority, duties or responsibilities; (ii) a reduction in base salary, except for an across-the-board reduction of not more than 10% of base salary applicable to all senior executives; (iii) a reduction in bonus opportunity of 5% or more, except for an across-the-board reduction applicable to all senior executives; (iv) a failure to provide the executive officer with long-term incentive opportunities that in the aggregate are at least comparable to the long-term incentives provided to other senior executives; (v) a reduction of at least 5% in aggregate benefits under employee benefit plans; or (vi) a requirement that the executive officer be based at an office location more than 40 miles from the executive officer's principal place of employment if such relocation increases the executive officer's commute by more than 10 miles.
"Cause" under the RSU Agreement means any one of the following: (i) willful and continued failure to substantially perform duties after written notice; (ii) conviction of (or plea of guilty or no contest to) a felony involving moral turpitude; (iii) willful misconduct or gross negligence resulting in material harm to VeriSign; or (iv) willful violation of VeriSign company policies resulting in material harm to VeriSign.
The foregoing summary is subject to, and qualified in its entirety by, the form of RSU Agreement attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1.
Severance Agreement
In connection with the resignation of Dana L. Evan, former Executive Vice President, Finance and Administration and Chief Financial Officer of VeriSign on July 10, 2007, VeriSign has entered into a Severance and General Release Agreement (the "") with Ms. Evan, effective August 22, 2007.
Agreement
Pursuant to the terms of the Agreement, Ms. Evan will provide consulting services to VeriSign from July 11, 2007 to December 31, 2007 and VeriSign will pay Ms. Evan $10,000 per month for such services. Ms. Evan will also receive: (i) $672,000 as a severance payment that will be payable in two installments, with $450,240 of such amount to be paid within 30 days of the effective date of the Agreement and the remaining $221,760 to be paid on the one year anniversary of her resignation date, provided that Ms. Evan is in full compliance of her obligations under the Agreement; (ii) her full target bonus for 2006 in the amount of $252,000 (to be paid within 30 days of the effective date of the Agreement) and her pro rated target bonus for 2007 (to be paid when VeriSign pays bonuses for 2007 to its employees), provided that Ms. Evan is in full compliance of her obligations under the Agreement; (iii) an acceleration of vesting of 49,353 shares subject to outstanding stock options with a weighted average exercise price of approximately $17.43 per share; (iv) an acceleration of vesting with respect to 4,950 shares subject to restricted stock units; and (v) payments equal to 18 months of COBRA and life insurance premiums. Ms. Evan may exercise her vested stock options for up to six months following her resignation date. In addition, Ms. Evan has agreed to execute a release in favor of VeriSign and to not solicit VeriSign's employees, consultants and employees for 12 months after her resignation date, and be bound by a non-competition obligation for 12 months after her resignation date.
 
(e) On August 24, 2007, the Compensation Committee adopted and approved a form of Change-in-Control and Retention Agreement to be entered into with VeriSign's executive officers (the "") and a form of Change-in-Control and Retention Agreement to be entered into with VeriSign's Chief Executive Officer, William A. Roper, Jr. (the ""). The terms and conditions of the CIC Agreement and CEO Agreement are materially consistent with the Change-in-Control Policy (the "") previously adopted by the Compensation Committee on August 7, 2007 and disclosed in Item 5.02 of VeriSign's Current Report on Form 8-K filed August 13, 2007, which is incorporated herein by this reference, with the additional provisions described below.
CIC Agreement
CEO Agreement
Policy
CIC Agreement
In addition to the terms and conditions approved as part of the Policy, the CIC Agreement also contains the following provisions:
 
 
 
The foregoing summary is subject to, and qualified in its entirety by, the form of CIC Agreement attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.2.
CEO Agreement
Under the terms of the CEO Agreement, upon the triggering events described under "CIC Agreement" above, Mr. Roper will be entitled to receive severance benefits of:
 
 
 
 
 
 
The CEO Agreement has the same initial term and renewal and non-solicitation/non-competition provisions as described under "CIC Agreement" above.
The foregoing summary is subject to, and qualified in its entirety by, the form of CEO Agreement attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.3.
RSU Agreement
The foregoing terms and conditions of the RSU Agreement described in Item 1.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K are incorporated herein by reference. In a change-in-control, the RSU awards granted to executive officers accelerate pursuant to the terms and conditions of the CIC Agreement as described above.
Severance Agreement
The foregoing terms and conditions of the Agreement with Dana L. Evan, former Executive Vice President, Finance and Administration and Chief Financial Officer of VeriSign, described in Item 1.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K are incorporated herein by reference.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

E 99.1
XHIBIT
No.
        
The Board of Directors of VeriSign, Inc. has approved a grant to you (the "" named below) of Restricted Stock Units ("") pursuant to the VeriSign, Inc. 2006 Equity Incentive Plan (the ""), as set forth in this RSU Agreement (""). Capitalized terms not defined herein shall have the meaning ascribed to them in the Plan.
Participant
RSUs
Plan
Agreement
 
. The RSUs will vest as determined under the following schedules. Except as provided below, the RSUs shall be forfeited upon Participant's Termination Date.
1.
Vesting Schedules
 One hundred percent (100%) of the RSUs shall vest on the third anniversary of the Date of Grant if all of the following criteria have been satisfied: (i) Participant's Termination Date has not occurred prior to such third anniversary; and (ii) the Stock Price Target (defined below) has been attained at any time during the thirty-six (36) month period beginning on the Date of Grant; and (iii) if required to be deductible under Section 162(m) of the Code, certification of achievement of the Stock Price Target by the Committee. The Stock Price Target will be deemed to have been attained if during any sixty (60) consecutive trading days prior to the third anniversary of the Date of Grant the average closing price of the Company's common stock equals or exceeds the Stock Price Target, as reported by the Nasdaq Global Select Market.
(a) Performance-Based Vesting
 If on the third anniversary of the Date of Grant the conditions for Performance-Based Vesting have not been satisfied, then fifty percent (50%) of the RSUs shall vest on the fourth anniversary of the Date of Grant if Participant's Termination Date has not occurred prior to such fourth anniversary. The remaining fifty percent (50%) shall be forfeited on the third anniversary of the Date of Grant.
(b) Time-Based Vesting
 If Participant's Termination Date occurs prior to the third anniversary of the Date of Grant by reason of
(c) Vesting if Termination is due to Death or Disability
Participant's death or "disability" (as defined in regulations promulgated under Section 409A of the Code), then: (i) if the Stock Price Target has been attained as of such Termination Date, a pro rata portion of the RSUs (calculated by multiplying the number of RSUs by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days from the Date of Grant to the Termination Date and the denominator of which is 1095), shall vest on such Termination Date; or (ii) if the Stock Price Target is attained after such Termination Date, but no later than the third anniversary of the Date of Grant above, then the pro rata portion of the RSUs (calculated consistent with subsection (i) above) shall vest on the date the Stock Price Target is attained.
If at the time of a Change-in-Control Participant is not an officer of the Company who is subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act (a ""), and if this Agreement is not assumed by the Successor on terms and conditions identical to that of the original award, with the exception of the Stock Price Target, which will cease to apply, then one hundred percent (100%) (fifty percent (50%) if the Change-in-Control occurs after the third anniversary of the Date of Grant) of the RSUs shall vest immediately prior to consummation of the Change-in-Control.
(d) Vesting For Non-Section 16 Officers Following a Change-in-Control 
Section 16 Officer
If at the time of a Change-in-Control Participant is not a Section 16 Officer, then if this Agreement is assumed by the Successor on terms and conditions identical to that of the original award, with the exception of the Stock Price Target which shall cease to apply, then one hundred percent (100%) (fifty percent (50%) if the Change-in-Control occurs after the third anniversary of the Date of Grant) of the RSUs shall vest on the earlier to occur of (A) Participant's Termination Date if Participant's Termination Date falls within the twenty-four (24) months following the Change-in-Control and is due to an Involuntary Termination, or (B) the third anniversary of the Date of Grant (fourth anniversary of the Date of Grant if the Change-in-Control occurs after the third anniversary of the Date of Grant), provided that the Participant is still an employee of the Company on such anniversary date.
 If on the Date of Grant, Participant is a Section 16 Officer, then if Participant's Termination Date occurs prior to the third anniversary of the Date of Grant and is due to an Involuntary Termination or a resignation for Good Reason, then: (i) if the Stock Price Target has been met as of such Termination Date, a pro rata portion of the RSUs (calculated by multiplying the number of RSUs by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days from the Date of Grant to the Termination Date and the denominator of which is 1095) shall vest on such Termination Date; or (ii) if the Stock Price Target is met after such Termination Date, but no later than the third anniversary of the Date of Grant above, then the pro rata portion of the RSUs (calculated consistent with subsection (i) above) shall vest on the date the Stock Price Target is met. One hundred percent (100%) of the RSUs will be forfeited if the Stock Price Target is not met by the third anniversary of the Date of Grant.
(e) [SECTION 16 OFFICERS ONLY] Pro Rata Vesting if Termination is due to an Involuntary Termination of a Section 16 Officer
]
2. .
Definitions
"" means:
(a)
Change-in-Control
any "person" (as such term is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act), other than a trustee or other fiduciary holding securities of the Company under an employee benefit plan of the Company or its subsidiaries, becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly (excluding, for purposes hereof, securities acquired directly from the Company), of securities of the Company representing at least thirty percent (30%) of (A) the then-outstanding shares of common stock of the Company or (B) the combined voting power of the Company's then-outstanding securities;
(i)
the consummation of a merger or consolidation, or series of related transactions, which results in the voting securities of the Company outstanding immediately prior thereto failing to continue to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the surviving entity), directly or indirectly, at least fifty (50%) percent of the combined voting power of the voting securities of the Company or such surviving entity outstanding immediately after such merger or consolidation;
(ii)
a change in the composition of the Board occurring within a twenty-four (24) month period, as a result of which fewer than a majority of the members of the Board are Incumbent Directors;
(iii)
the sale or disposition of all or substantially all of the Company's assets (or consummation of any transaction, or series of related transactions, having similar effect); or
(iv)
stockholder approval of the dissolution or liquidation of the Company.
(v)
"" means VeriSign, Inc. or any Successor.
(b)
Company
"" for purposes of this Agreement shall not have the definition provided in the Plan, but shall instead mean Participant's: (i) willful and continued failure to substantially perform duties after written notice providing Participant ninety (90) days from the date of Participant's receipt of such notice in which to cure; (ii) conviction of (or plea of guilty or no contest to) a felony involving moral turpitude; (iii) willful misconduct or gross negligence resulting in material harm to the Company; or (iv) willful violation of the Company's policies resulting in material harm to the Company.
(c)
Cause
"" shall mean a member of the Board.
(d)
Director
"" means the occurrence of any of the following conditions, without Participant's written consent: (i) a material and adverse change in the Participant's authority, duties or responsibilities; (ii) a reduction in Participant's base salary, except for an across-the-board reduction of not more than ten percent (10%) of base salary applicable to all senior executives of the Company; (iii) a reduction in Participant's bonus opportunity of five percent (5%) or more, except for an across-the- board
(e)
Good Reason
reduction applicable to all senior executives of the Company; (iv) a failure to provide Participant with long-term incentive opportunities that in the aggregate are at least comparable to the long-term incentives provided to other senior executives of the Company; (v) a reduction of at least five percent (5%) in aggregate benefits Participant is entitled to receive under all employee benefit plans of the Company; or (vi) a requirement that Participant be based at any office location more than forty (40) miles from Participant's primary office location if such relocation increases the Participant's commute by more than ten (10) miles.
"" shall mean either (a) a person who is a Director on the Date of Grant, or (b) a Director who is elected, or nominated for election, to the Board with the affirmative votes of at least a majority of the Incumbent Directors at the time of such election or nomination (but shall not include an individual whose election or nomination is in connection with an actual or threatened proxy contest relating to the election of members of the Board).
(f)
Incumbent Director
"" shall mean Termination initiated by the Company without Cause.
(g)
Involuntary Termination
"" means the value obtained by annual compounding (at a rate of ten percent (10%) per annum for a period of three years) of the average closing price of a Share, as reported by the Nasdaq Global Select Market, for the sixty (60) consecutive trading days immediately preceding the Date of Grant. The Stock Price Target for the RSU grant covered by this Agreement is [            ].
(h)
Stock Price Target
means any successor to the Company or assignee of substantially all of the Company's business and/or assets whether or not as part of a Change-in-Control.
(i)
"Successor"
"" means the effective date of any termination of Participant's employment with the Company or a Successor.
(j)
Termination Date
. Except as provided above, settlement of vested RSUs shall be made within sixty (60) days following the applicable date of vesting under the above vesting schedule. Notwithstanding any other provision to the contrary, to the extent (i) any payments to which Participant becomes entitled under this Agreement in connection with Participant's Termination constitute deferred compensation subject to Section 409A of the Code, and (ii) Participant is deemed at the time of such Termination to be a "specified employee" under Section 409A of the Code, then such payment shall not be made or commence until the of (i) the expiration of the six (6)-month period measured from the date of Participant's "separation from service" (as defined in regulations promulgated under Section 409A of the Code) with the Company; (ii) the date of Participant's "disability" (as defined in regulations promulgated under Section 409A of the Code); or (iii) the date of Participant's death following such separation from service; , , that such deferral shall only be effected to the extent required to avoid adverse tax treatment to Participant, including (without limitation) the additional twenty percent (20%) tax for which Participant would otherwise be liable under Section
3.
Settlement
earliest
provided
however
409A(a)(1)(B) of the Code in the absence of such deferral. Upon the expiration of the applicable deferral period, any payments which would have otherwise been made during that period (whether in a single sum or in installments) in the absence of this provision shall be paid to Participant or Participant's beneficiary in one lump sum. Settlement of vested RSUs shall be in Shares or cash (or some combination thereof), as determined by the Committee in its discretion at the time of payment. The Participant shall pay to the Company the aggregate par value of the Shares issued prior to their issuance (par value being $0.001 per Share) with such payment deemed to have been made for each Share, by Participant's services from the Date of Grant to the applicable vesting date. Participant agrees that, if necessary due to applicable law, Participant shall pay to the Company each affected Share's par value by making appropriate payroll deductions from funds due the Participant.
. Unless and until such time as Shares are issued in settlement of vested RSUs, the Participant shall have no ownership of the Shares allocated to the RSUs and shall have no right to vote such Shares, subject to the terms, conditions and restrictions described in the Plan and herein.
4.
No Stockholder Rights
. Any dividends paid in cash on Shares of the Company shall be credited to the Participant as additional RSUs as if the RSUs previously held by the Participant were outstanding Shares (in such number as determined by the Committee), as follows: such credit shall be made in whole and/or fractional RSUs and shall be based on the Fair Market Value of the Shares on the date of payment of such dividend. All such additional RSUs shall be subject to the same vesting requirements applicable to the RSUs in respect of which they were credited and shall be settled in accordance with, and at the time of, settlement of the vested RSUs to which they are related.
5.
Dividend Equivalents
. The RSUs and any interest therein shall not be sold, assigned, transferred, pledged, hypothecated, or otherwise disposed of.
6.
No Transfer
The RSUs and any interest therein shall, if the Participant's continuous employment with the Company (including with any Successor) or any of its subsidiaries shall terminate for any reason, be forfeited to the Company forthwith and all rights of the Participant to such RSUs shall immediately terminate, except as otherwise provided in the Plan or in this Agreement.
7. .
Forfeiture
In the event of Termination by the Company or the Participant, the Committee shall settle, in Shares, the value of any vested RSUs (based on the then Fair Market Value of Shares deemed allocated to such vested RSUs on the date of such Termination) as soon as practicable thereafter. In case of any dispute as to whether Termination has occurred, the Committee shall have sole discretion to determine whether such Termination has occurred and the effective date of such Termination.
8. .
Termination
The Company and the Participant agree that the RSUs are granted under and governed by this Agreement and by the provisions of the Plan (incorporated herein by reference). The Participant: (i) acknowledges receipt of a copy of
9. .
Acknowledgement
the Plan and the Plan prospectus, (ii) represents that the Participant has carefully read and is familiar with their provisions, and (iii) hereby accepts the RSUs subject to all of the terms and conditions set forth herein and those set forth in the Plan. In the event of any conflict between the terms of this Agreement and the terms of the Plan, the terms of this Agreement shall govern.
The Participant acknowledges that there may be adverse tax consequences upon settlement of the RSUs or disposition of the Shares, if any, received in connection therewith and that the Company recommends that Participant should consult a tax adviser prior to such settlement or disposition. In particular, Participant must make arrangements, satisfactory to the Company, for satisfaction of any applicable foreign, federal, state or local income tax withholding requirements or social security requirements related to the grant of the RSUs or Participant's receipt of Shares in settlement thereof, including, in either case, any dividend paid in respect thereof. In the event settlement of the RSUs is made in Shares, Participant shall pay the minimum statutory withholding tax obligation by withholding a certain number of Shares otherwise deliverable from the total number of Shares deliverable to the Participant upon settlement in accordance with rules and procedures established by the Committee. The Committee may require, in its discretion, that some portion of vested Shares be retained by (or returned to) the Company to satisfy such withholding requirements. In the absence of such arrangements Participant hereby authorizes the Company to withhold the required minimum amount from Participant's other sources of compensation from the Company or any Parent or Subsidiary.
10. .
Tax Consequences
The issuance of Shares will be subject to and conditioned upon compliance by the Company and Participant with all applicable state and federal laws and regulations and with all applicable requirements of any stock exchange or automated quotation system on which the Company's Common Stock may be listed or quoted at the time of such issuance or transfer.
11. .
Compliance with Laws and Regulations
The Company may assign any of its rights under this Agreement. This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the successors and assigns of the Company. Subject to the restrictions on transfer herein set forth, this Agreement will be binding upon Participant and Participant's heirs, executors, administrators, legal representatives, successors and assigns.
12.
.
Successors and Assigns
This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the internal laws of the State of California as such laws are applied to agreements between California residents entered into and to be performed entirely within California, excluding that body of laws pertaining to conflict of laws. If any provision of this Agreement is determined by a court of law to be illegal or unenforceable, then such provision will be enforced to the maximum extent possible and the other provisions will remain fully effective and enforceable.
13.
.
Governing Law; Severability
Any notice required to be given or delivered to the Company shall be in writing and addressed to the Corporate Secretary of the Company at its principal corporate offices. Any notice required to be given or delivered to Participant shall be in
14.
.
Notices
writing (including email) and addressed to Participant at the participant's Company email address, the address of record or to such other address as Participant may designate in writing from time to time to the Company or may be posted on the Participant's E*Trade VeriSign employee stock plan account at . All notices shall be deemed effectively given upon personal delivery, (i) three (3) days after deposit in the United States mail by certified or registered mail (return receipt requested), (ii) one (1) business day after its deposit with any return receipt express courier (prepaid), (iii) one (1) business day after transmission by fax or telecopier, (iv) upon receipt if sent by the Company to the Participant's email address at the Company, or (v) upon posting on the Participant's E*Trade VeriSign employee stock plan account at .
www.etrade.com
www.etrade.com
. The parties agree to execute such further instruments and to take such further action as may be reasonably necessary to carry out the purposes and intent of this Agreement.
15.
Further Instruments
. The captions and headings of this Agreement are included for ease of reference only and are to be disregarded in interpreting or construing this Agreement.
16.
Headings
. The Plan and this Agreement for these RSUs constitute the entire agreement and understanding of the parties with respect to the subject matter herein and supersede all prior understandings and agreements, whether oral or written, between the parties hereto with respect to the specific subject matter hereof.
17.
Entire Agreement
In Witness Whereof, each of the parties has executed this Agreement, in the case of the Company, by its duly authorized officer, as of , 20.
                    
    
 

E 99.2
XHIBIT
This Change-in-Control and Retention Agreement (the "") is made and entered into as of , 2007, by and between VeriSign, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and (the "").
Agreement
            
                                        
Executive
WHEREAS, the Executive is a key employee of the Company who possesses valuable proprietary knowledge of the Company, its business and operations and the markets in which the Company competes;
WHEREAS, the Company draws upon the knowledge, experience, expertise and advice of the Executive to manage its business for the benefit of the Company's stockholders;
WHEREAS, the Company desires to standardize its executive Change-in-Control arrangements;
WHEREAS, the Company recognizes that if a Change-in-Control were to occur, the resulting uncertainty regarding the consequences of such an event could adversely affect the performance of, and the Company's ability to attract and retain, its key employees, including the Executive;
WHEREAS, the Company believes that the existence of this Agreement will serve as an incentive to Executive to remain in the employ of the Company and to be focused and motivated to work to maximize the value of the Company for the benefit of its stockholders, and would enhance the Company's ability to call on and rely upon Executive if a Change-in-Control were to occur; and
WHEREAS, the Company and the Executive desire to enter into this Agreement to encourage the Executive to continue to devote the Executive's full attention and dedication to the success of the Company, and to provide specified compensation and benefits to the Executive in the event of a Termination Upon Change-in-Control pursuant to the terms of this Agreement.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE PARTIES HEREBY AGREE AS FOLLOWS:
 
The purpose of this Agreement is to provide specified compensation and benefits to the Executive in the event of Termination Upon Change-in-Control of Executive. Subject to the terms of any applicable written employment agreement between Company and the Executive, either the Executive or Company may terminate the Executive's employment at any time for any reason.
 
In the event of the Executive's Termination Upon Change-in-Control, the Executive shall be entitled to the benefits described below in this Section 2. In addition if during the twenty-four (24) months following a Change-in-Control Executive dies, or terminates employment due to Disability, then Executive, or Executive's estate or designated beneficiary, shall receive the benefits provided under Section 2.3 below.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If (i) any amounts payable to the Executive under this Agreement or otherwise are characterized as excess parachute payments pursuant to Section 4999 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the ""), and (ii) the Executive thereby would be subject to any United States federal excise tax due to that characterization, then Executive's termination benefits hereunder will be payable, at Executive's election, either in full or in such lesser amount as would result, after taking into account the applicable federal, state and local income taxes and the excise tax imposed by Section 4999, in Executive's receipt on an after-tax basis of the greatest amount of termination and other benefits. The determination of any reduction required pursuant to this section (including the determination as to which specific payments shall be reduced) shall be made by a neutral party designated by the Company and such determination shall be conclusive and binding upon the Company or any related corporation for all purposes.
Code
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Executive's receipt of payments and benefits under this Agreement is conditioned upon the delivery by Executive of a signed Termination Release Agreement in substantially the form attached hereto as ; provided, however, that the Executive shall not be required to release any rights the Executive may have to be indemnified by the Company.
Exhibit A
 
The Executive shall be entitled to no other termination, severance or change of control compensation, benefits, or other payments from the Company as a result of any Termination Upon a Change-in-Control with respect to which the payments and/or benefits described in Section 2 have been provided to the Executive, except as expressly set forth in this Agreement.
 
 
 
Executive's receipt of the payments and benefits described in this Agreement are conditioned upon the Executive's acknowledgment of Executive's continuing obligation under, and Executive's agreement to abide by the terms and conditions of, the Company's Confidentiality and/or Proprietary Rights Agreement between the Executive and the Company. Accordingly, during the term of this Agreement and following any Termination Upon Change-in-Control, Executive agrees to continue to abide by the terms and conditions of the Company's Confidentiality and/or Proprietary Rights Agreement between the Executive and the Company.
 
For a period of one (1) year following Termination Upon Change-in-Control: (i) the Executive will not solicit the services or business of any employee or consultant of the Company to discontinue that person's or entity's relationship with or to the Company without the written consent of the Company; and (ii) the Executive will not engage (whether as an employee, director, or independent contractor) in a business in which the Company or any subsidiary of the Company is engaged immediately prior to the Change-in-Control.
 
 
 
 
For purposes of this Agreement, notices and all other communications provided for in the Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given when delivered or sent by mail or courier with appropriate evidence of mailing or delivery to the courier:
 
and, (ii) if to the Executive, at the address indicated below or such other address specified by the Executive in writing to the Company. Either party may provide the other with notices of change of address, which shall be effective upon receipt.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I W W, each of the parties has executed this Agreement, in the case of the Company by its duly authorized officer, as of the day and year first above written.
N
ITNESS
HEREOF
 
As required by the Change-in-Control and Retention Agreement, dated , 2007, between you and VeriSign, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "") to which this Termination Release Agreement (the "") is attached as , this Agreement sets forth below your waiver and release of claims in favor of VeriSign, Inc., and its officers, directors, employees, agents, representatives, subsidiaries, divisions, affiliated companies, successors, and assigns (collectively, the "") in exchange for the consideration provided for under the terms of the Change-in-Control and Retention Agreement.
            
Change-in-Control and Retention Agreement
Agreement
Exhibit A
Company
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"A GENERAL RELEASE DOES NOT EXTEND TO CLAIMS WHICH THE CREDITOR DOES NOT KNOW OR SUSPECT TO EXIST IN HIS OR HER FAVOR AT THE TIME OF EXECUTING THE RELEASE, WHICH IF KNOWN BY HIM OR HER MUST HAVE MATERIALLY AFFECTED HIS OR HER SETTLEMENT WITH THE DEBTOR."
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PLEASE SIGN THIS AGREEMENT NO EARLIER THAN YOUR TERMINATION DATE (AS DEFINED IN THE CHANGE-IN-CONTROL AND RETENTION AGREEMENT) AND RETURN IT TO THE GENERAL COUNSEL AT THE COMPANY.
PLEASE REVIEW CAREFULLY. THIS AGREEMENT CONTAINS A RELEASE OF KNOWN AND UNKNOWN CLAIMS.
REVIEWED, UNDERSTOOD AND AGREED:
 
DO NOT SIGN PRIOR TO THE TERMINATION DATE

E 99.3
XHIBIT
This Change-in-Control and Retention Agreement (the "") is made and entered into as of , 2007, by and between VeriSign, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and (the "").
Agreement
            
                                
Executive
WHEREAS, the Executive is a key employee of the Company who possesses valuable proprietary knowledge of the Company, its business and operations and the markets in which the Company competes;
WHEREAS, the Company draws upon the knowledge, experience, expertise and advice of the Executive to manage its business for the benefit of the Company's stockholders;
WHEREAS, the Company desires to standardize its executive Change-in-Control arrangements;
WHEREAS, the Company recognizes that if a Change-in-Control were to occur, the resulting uncertainty regarding the consequences of such an event could adversely affect the performance of, and the Company's ability to attract and retain, its key employees, including the Executive;
WHEREAS, the Company believes that the existence of this Agreement will serve as an incentive to Executive to remain in the employ of the Company and to be focused and motivated to work to maximize the value of the Company for the benefit of its stockholders, and would enhance the Company's ability to call on and rely upon Executive if a Change-in-Control were to occur; and
WHEREAS, the Company and the Executive desire to enter into this Agreement to encourage the Executive to continue to devote the Executive's full attention and dedication to the success of the Company, and to provide specified compensation and benefits to the Executive in the event of a Termination Upon Change-in-Control pursuant to the terms of this Agreement.
NOW, THEREFORE, THE PARTIES HEREBY AGREE AS FOLLOWS:
 
The purpose of this Agreement is to provide specified compensation and benefits to the Executive in the event of Termination Upon Change-in-Control of Executive. Subject to the terms of any applicable written employment agreement between Company and the Executive, either the Executive or Company may terminate the Executive's employment at any time for any reason.
 
In the event of the Executive's Termination Upon Change-in-Control, the Executive shall
be entitled to the benefits described below in this Section 2. In addition if during the twenty-four (24) months following a Change-in-Control Executive dies, or terminates employment due to Disability, then Executive, or Executive's estate or designated beneficiary, shall receive the benefits provided under Section 2.3 below.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If (i) any amounts payable to the Executive under this Agreement or otherwise are characterized as excess parachute payments ("Parachute Payments") pursuant to Section 4999 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the ""), and (ii) the Executive thereby would be subject to any United States federal excise tax due to that characterization, then Executive's termination benefits hereunder will be payable, at Executive's election, either in full or in such lesser amount as would result, after taking into account the applicable federal, state and local income taxes and the excise tax imposed by Section 4999, in Executive's receipt on an after-tax basis of the greatest amount of termination and other benefits. The determination of any reduction required pursuant to this section (including the determination as to which specific payments shall be reduced) shall be made by a neutral party designated by the Company and such determination shall be conclusive and binding upon the Company or any related corporation for all purposes.
Code
If the amounts payable to the Executive under this Agreement are characterized as Parachute Payments and the value of such Parachute Payments equals at least 110% of the threshold amount that would trigger any United States federal excise tax being imposed on such Parachute Payments under Section 280G of the Code, then the Company shall "gross-up" the payment to the Executive under this Agreement so that the net amount that the Executive receives will be the same amount that he/she would have received had such federal excise tax not been imposed.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Executive's receipt of payments and benefits under this Agreement is conditioned upon the delivery by Executive of a signed Termination Release Agreement in substantially the form attached hereto as , provided, however, that the Executive shall not be required to release any rights the Executive may have to be indemnified by the Company.
Exhibit A
The Executive shall be entitled to no other termination, severance or change of control compensation, benefits, or other payments from the Company as a result of any Termination Upon a Change-in-Control with respect to which the payments and/or benefits described in Section 2 have been provided to the Executive, except as expressly set forth in this Agreement.
 
 
 
 
Executive's receipt of the payments and benefits described in this Agreement are conditioned upon the Executive's acknowledgment of Executive's continuing obligation under, and Executive's agreement to abide by the terms and conditions of, the Company's Confidentiality and/or Proprietary Rights Agreement between the Executive and the Company. Accordingly, during the term of this Agreement and following any Termination Upon Change-in-Control, Executive agrees to continue to abide by the terms and conditions of the Company's Confidentiality and/or Proprietary Rights Agreement between the Executive and the Company.
 
For a period of one (1) year following Termination Upon Change-in-Control: (i) the Executive will not solicit the services or business of any employee or consultant of the Company to discontinue that person's or entity's relationship with or to the Company without the written consent of the Company; and (ii) the Executive will not engage (whether as an employee, director, or independent contractor) in a business in which the Company or any subsidiary of the Company is engaged immediately prior to the Change-in-Control.
 
 
 
 
For purposes of this Agreement, notices and all other communications provided for in the Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given when delivered or sent by mail or courier with appropriate evidence of mailing or delivery to the courier:
 
and, (ii) if to the Executive, at the address indicated below or such other address specified by the Executive in writing to the Company. Either party may provide the other with notices of change of address, which shall be effective upon receipt.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
I W W, each of the parties has executed this Agreement, in the case of the Company by its duly authorized officer, as of the day and year first above written.
N
ITNESS
HEREOF
 
As required by the Change-in-Control and Retention Agreement, dated , 2007, between you and VeriSign, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "") to which this Termination Release Agreement (the "") is attached as , this Agreement sets forth below your waiver and release of claims in favor of VeriSign, Inc., and its officers, directors, employees, agents, representatives, subsidiaries, divisions, affiliated companies, successors, and assigns (collectively, the "") in exchange for the consideration provided for under the terms of the Change-in-Control and Retention Agreement.
            
Change-in-Control and Retention Agreement
Agreement
Exhibit A
Company
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"A GENERAL RELEASE DOES NOT EXTEND TO CLAIMS WHICH THE CREDITOR DOES NOT KNOW OR SUSPECT TO EXIST IN HIS OR HER FAVOR AT THE TIME OF EXECUTING THE RELEASE, WHICH IF KNOWN BY HIM OR HER MUST HAVE MATERIALLY AFFECTED HIS OR HER SETTLEMENT WITH THE DEBTOR."
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PLEASE SIGN THIS AGREEMENT NO EARLIER THAN YOUR TERMINATION DATE (AS DEFINED IN THE CHANGE-IN-CONTROL AND RETENTION AGREEMENT) AND RETURN IT TO THE GENERAL COUNSEL AT THE COMPANY.
PLEASE REVIEW CAREFULLY. THIS AGREEMENT CONTAINS A RELEASE OF KNOWN AND UNKNOWN CLAIMS.
REVIEWED, UNDERSTOOD AND AGREED:
 
DO NOT SIGN PRIOR TO THE TERMINATION DATE


