FILE:VRSN/VRSN-8K-20080806164805.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On August 6, 2008, VeriSign, Inc. ("VeriSign" or the "Company") announced its financial results for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2008 and certain other information. A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
The information in this Form 8-K and the Exhibit attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information
VeriSign provides quarterly and annual financial statements that are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Along with this information, we typically disclose and discuss certain non-GAAP financial information in our quarterly earnings releases, on investor conference calls and during investor conferences and related events. This non-GAAP financial information does not include the following types of financial measures that are included in GAAP: income or loss from discontinued operations, loss from non-core businesses, stock-based compensation, amortization of intangible assets, restructuring costs, non-recurring costs, and gains and losses on investments and derivatives. Non-GAAP financial information is also adjusted for a 30% tax rate which differs from the GAAP tax rate.
Management believes that this non-GAAP financial data supplements our GAAP financial data by providing investors with additional information that allows them to have a clearer picture of the company's core operations. The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with GAAP. We believe that the non-GAAP information enhances the investors' overall understanding of our financial performance and the comparability of the company's operating results from period to period. In the press release attached hereto to as Exhibit 99.1, we have provided a reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial information that we provide each quarter with the comparable financial information reported in accordance with GAAP for the given period.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Exhibit Index
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
VeriSign, Inc. (Nasdaq: VRSN), the trusted provider of Internet infrastructure services, today reported financial results for the second quarter ended June 30, 2008.
MOUNTAIN VIEW, CA  August 6, 2008 
VeriSign reported revenue of $303 million for the second quarter of 2008. On a GAAP basis, VeriSign reported a net loss of $68 million and a net loss per share of $0.35. These GAAP results reflect a $92 million non-cash impairment charge on certain long-lived assets and assets held for sale. Also recorded were restructuring charges of $98 million in continuing and discontinued operations.
VeriSign reported segment revenue for Internet Infrastructure and Identity Services (3IS), or the "core businesses" of Naming, SSL and IAS, of $233 million, up 4% from Q1 2008 and up 21% year over year.
On a non-GAAP basis (which excludes items described below) for our core businesses, VeriSign reported net income of $50 million for the second quarter of 2008 and fully-diluted earnings per share of $0.25. A table reconciling the GAAP to the non-GAAP results reported above is appended to this release.
"Our revenue performance and non-GAAP earnings validate our strategy to focus on our core businesses, a strategy to which we are firmly committed," said Jim Bidzos, executive chairman of the board of directors, president and chief executive officer on an interim basis of VeriSign. "As we look toward the future, we will work to identify opportunities that align with our core competencies and extend what we believe to be our leading position as the trusted third party of the Internet."
"We are pleased by our performance during the second quarter," said Brian Robins, acting chief financial officer of VeriSign. "Company-wide disciplined expense management contributed to non-GAAP operating margin improvement for the core services of nearly 400 basis points since last quarter, and the solid performance of our core services coupled with other positive working capital contributions resulted in strong cash flow of $169 million in the quarter."
Business and Corporate Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The financial statements in this press release include an immaterial revision to reduce the income tax expense for the first quarter of 2008.
Non-GAAP Items
Non-GAAP results exclude the following items which are included under GAAP: income or loss from discontinued operations, loss from non-core businesses, stock-based compensation, amortization of intangible assets, restructuring costs, non-recurring costs, and gains and losses on investments and derivatives. Non-GAAP financial information is also adjusted for a 30% tax rate which differs from the GAAP tax rate. A table reconciling the GAAP to non-GAAP net income is appended to this release.
Today's Conference Call
VeriSign will host a live teleconference call today at 2:00 pm (PDT) to review the quarter's results. The call will be accessible by direct dial at (888) 676-VRSN (US) or (913) 312-0976 (international). A listen-only live web cast and accompanying slide presentation of the earnings conference call will also be available at http://investor.verisign.com. A replay of this call will be available at (888) 203-1112 or (719) 457-0820 (passcode: 9794237) beginning at 5:00 pm (PDT) on August 6 and will run through August 12. This press release and the financial information discussed on today's conference call are available on the Investor Relations section of the VeriSign website at http://investor.verisign.com.
About VeriSign
VeriSign, Inc. (NASDAQ: VRSN) is the trusted provider of Internet infrastructure services for the networked world. Billions of times each day, VeriSign helps companies and consumers all over the world engage in communications and commerce with confidence. Additional news and information about the company is available at .
www.verisign.com
VRSNF
Contacts
Investor Relations: Nancy Fazioli, , 650-426-5146
ir@verisign.com
Media Relations: Lisa Malloy, , 202-270-7600
lmalloy@verisign.com
Statements in this announcement other than historical data and information constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause VeriSign's actual results to differ materially from those stated or implied by such forward-looking statements. The potential risks and uncertainties include, among others, the uncertainty of future revenue and profitability and potential fluctuations in quarterly operating results due to such factors as increasing competition and pricing pressure from competing services offered at prices below our prices and market acceptance of our existing services, the inability of VeriSign to successfully develop and market new services, and the uncertainty of whether new services as provided by VeriSign will achieve market acceptance or result in any revenues and the risk that the planned divestitures of certain businesses may be delayed, may generate less proceeds than expected or may incur unanticipated costs or otherwise negatively affect VeriSign's financial condition, results of operations or cash flows, and the uncertainty of whether Project Titan will achieve its stated objectives. More information about potential factors that could affect the company's business and financial results is included in VeriSign's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K. VeriSign undertakes no obligation to update any of the forward-looking statements after the date of this press release.
 
 
 
In presenting the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations for the three and six months ended June 30, 2008, the Company has adjusted its net loss, as reported, for the three months ended March 31, 2008. Penalties and interest related to late payment of federal and state payroll taxes of $7.3 million previously recorded to general and administrative expense for the three months ended March 31, 2008, were revised to the previous periods in which the charges arose. Additionally, the Company reduced its total income tax expense for the three months ended March 31, 2008, by $5.0 million.
 
 
 
 
 
VeriSign provides quarterly and annual financial statements that are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Along with this information, we typically disclose and discuss certain non-GAAP financial information in our quarterly earnings release, on investor conference calls and during investor conferences and related events. This non-GAAP financial information does not include the following types of financial measures that are included in GAAP: income or loss from discontinued operations, loss from non-core businesses, stock-based compensation, amortization of intangible assets, restructuring costs, non-recurring costs, and gains and losses on investments and derivatives. Non-GAAP financial information is also adjusted for a 30% tax rate which differs from the GAAP tax rate.
Management believes that this non-GAAP financial data supplements our GAAP financial data by providing investors with additional information that allows them to have a clearer picture of the company's core operations. The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with GAAP. We believe that the non-GAAP information enhances the investors' overall understanding of our financial performance and the comparability of the company's operating results from period to period. Above, we have provided a reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial information that we provide each quarter with the comparable financial information reported in accordance with GAAP for the given period.
SUPPLEMENTAL FINANCIAL INFORMATION
 


