FILE:VRSN/VRSN-8K-20080506165212.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
VeriSign, Inc. (the "") entered into an acquisition agreement (the ""), effective as of April 30, 2008, to sell its broadband content distribution business, Kontiki, to a new entity, Kontiki, Inc. (the ""), a Delaware corporation and majority-owned subsidiary of MK Capital SBIC, LP and MK Capital, LP. Pursuant to the terms of the Agreement, the Purchaser received specified assets associated with the Kontiki broadband content service business, including delivery, management, reporting and professional services centered around Kontiki's media delivery management system platform and digital content utility. In exchange, the Company received total consideration of $1 million and 3,980,000 shares of the Purchaser's Series A Preferred Stock. This transaction closed on April 30, 2008.
Company
Agreement
Purchaser
 
(b)(1)
Pro forma financial information
The pro forma financial information required by this item is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
On April 30, 2008, VeriSign, Inc. (the "Company") agreed to sell its broadband content distribution business, Kontiki, to a new entity, Kontiki, Inc., a Delaware corporation and majority-owned subsidiary of MK Capital SBIC, LP and MK Capital, LP for cash proceeds of approximately $1.0 million and 3,980,000 shares of Kontiki, Inc. Series A Preferred Stock. The sale was completed on April 30, 2008. The Company will account for its equity interest using the equity method of accounting.
The unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet Information as of December 31, 2007 set forth below has been presented after giving effect to the Kontiki divestiture as if it had occurred on December 31, 2007. The unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations Information for the years ending December 31, 2007 and 2006 set forth below has been presented after giving effect to the divestiture as if it had occurred on March 14, 2006, the date Kontiki was acquired by the Company, and does not assume any interest income on cash proceeds. The Company has not presented unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations Information for any periods prior to December 31, 2006, as the Company's results of operations would have been unchanged.
The unaudited pro forma financial statement information has been derived primarily from the historical audited consolidated financial statements of the Company included in its Annual Reports on Form 10-K for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006. The unaudited pro forma financial statement information is based upon available information and assumptions that the Company believes are reasonable under the circumstances and were prepared to illustrate the estimated effects of the divestiture.
 
 
The unaudited pro forma financial statement information has been provided for informational purposes and should not be considered indicative of the financial condition or results of operations that would have been achieved had the divestiture occurred as of the periods presented. In addition, the unaudited pro forma financial statement information does not purport to indicate balance sheet data or results of operations as of any future date or for any future period. The unaudited pro forma financial statement information, including the notes thereto, should be read in conjunction with the historical financial statements of the Company included in its Annual Reports on Form 10-K for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


