FILE:VRSN/VRSN-8K-20080131165042.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On January 31, 2008, VeriSign, Inc. ("VeriSign" or the "Company") announced its financial results for the fiscal quarter and fiscal year ended December 31, 2007 and certain other information. A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
The information in this Form 8-K and the Exhibit attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information
VeriSign provides quarterly and annual financial statements that are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Along with this information, we typically disclose and discuss certain non-GAAP financial information in our quarterly earnings releases, on investor conference calls and during investor conferences and related events. This non-GAAP financial information does not include the following types of financial measures that are included in GAAP: amortization of intangible assets, impairment of goodwill, acquired in-process R&D, stock-based compensation, former CEO severance, non-recurring costs and settlements, restructuring, impairments and other charges (reversals), net gain or loss on the sale or impairment of investments, gain or loss on the sale of a subsidiary, unrealized gain on Jamba JV call option, realized and unrealized gains and losses on embedded derivative, and stock option investigation costs.
Management believes that this non-GAAP financial data supplements our GAAP financial by providing investors with additional information which allows them to have a clearer picture of the company's core recurring operations. The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with GAAP. We believe that the non-GAAP information enhances the investors' overall understanding of our financial performance and the comparability of the company's operating results from period to period. In the press release attached hereto to as Exhibit 99.1, we have provided a reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial information that we provide each quarter with the comparable financial information reported in accordance with GAAP for the given period.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
99.1 Text of press release of VeriSign, Inc. issued on January 31, 2008.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Exhibit Index
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
VeriSign, Inc. (Nasdaq: VRSN), the leading provider of Internet infrastructure for the networked world, today reported financial results for the fourth quarter and fiscal year ended December 31, 2007.
MOUNTAIN VIEW, CA  January 31, 2008 
Q4 2007 Financial Results
VeriSign reported total revenue of $386 million for the fourth quarter of 2007. On a GAAP basis, VeriSign reported a net loss of $196 million for the fourth quarter of 2007 and a net loss per share of $0.88. These results include our best estimate of a non-cash impairment charge of $210 million associated with the digital content and messaging business.
On a non-GAAP basis (which excludes the items described below), VeriSign reported net income of $70 million for the fourth quarter of 2007 and earnings per share of $0.30 per fully-diluted share. A table reconciling the GAAP to non-GAAP results reported above is appended to this release.
"VeriSign's core businesses and our strong operational execution continue to yield solid growth," said Bill Roper, president and chief executive officer of VeriSign. "Our fourth quarter results support our decision to focus on our core strengths in Internet infrastructure. We are on track to deliver on the business strategy we outlined at our analyst day late last year."
2007 Financial Results
For the year ended December 31, 2007, VeriSign reported total revenue of $1.5 billion, excluding $12 million from discontinued operations.
On a GAAP basis, VeriSign reported a net loss of $120 million for 2007 and loss per share of $0.50.
On a non-GAAP basis (which excludes the items described below), VeriSign reported net income excluding Jamba and Jamba Services of $251 million for 2007 and earnings per share of $1.03 per fully-diluted share.
"We met our financial goals for the fourth quarter, closing out a solid year as non-GAAP operating margin excluding Jamba improved over 650 basis points from year ago results," said Bert Clement, chief financial officer of VeriSign. "The combination of a strong business model and operational rigor resulted in healthy operating cash flow of over $450 million and notable improvements in our balance sheet as we ended the year with strong cash and record deferred revenue."
Non-GAAP results exclude the following items which are included under GAAP: amortization of intangible assets, impairment of goodwill, acquired in-process R&D, stock-based compensation, former CEO severance, non-recurring costs and settlements, restructuring, impairments and other charges (reversals), net gain or loss on the sale or impairment of investments, gain or loss on the sale of a subsidiary, unrealized gain on Jamba JV call option, realized and unrealized gains and losses on embedded derivative, and stock option investigation costs. A table reconciling the GAAP to non-GAAP net income is appended to this release.
Internet Services Group
 
 
 
 
Communications Services Group
 
Additional Financial and Business Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Today's Conference Call
VeriSign will host a live teleconference call today at 2:00 pm (PST) to review the quarter's results. The call will be accessible by direct dial at (888) 676-VRSN (US) or (913) 312-1505 (international). A
listen-only live web cast and accompanying slide presentation of the earnings conference call will also be available at http://investor.verisign.com. A replay of this call will be available at (888) 203-1112 or (719) 457-0820 (passcode: 1256242) beginning at 5:00 pm (PDT) on January 31 and will run through February 6. This press release and the financial information discussed on today's conference call are available on the Investor Relations section of the VeriSign website at http://investor.verisign.com.
About VeriSign
VeriSign, Inc. (Nasdaq: VRSN) operates intelligent infrastructure services that enable and protect billions of interactions every day across the world's voice, video and data networks. Additional news and information about the company is available at .
www.verisign.com
VRSNF
Contacts
Investor Relations: Ken Bond, , 650-426-3744
kbond@verisign.com
Media Relations: Lisa Malloy, , 202-270-7600
lmalloy@verisign.com
Statements in this announcement other than historical data and information constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause VeriSign's actual results to differ materially from those stated or implied by such forward-looking statements. The potential risks and uncertainties include, among others, the uncertainty of future revenue and profitability and potential fluctuations in quarterly operating results due to such factors as increasing competition and pricing pressure from competing services offered at prices below our prices and market acceptance of our existing services, the inability of VeriSign to successfully develop and market new services, and the uncertainty of whether new services as provided by VeriSign will achieve market acceptance or result in any revenues and the risk acquired businesses will not be integrated successfully and unanticipated costs of such integration. More information about potential factors that could affect the company's business and financial results is included in VeriSign's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006 and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K. VeriSign undertakes no obligation to update any of the forward-looking statements after the date of this press release.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
VeriSign provides quarterly and annual financial statements that are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Along with this information, we typically disclose and discuss certain non-GAAP financial information in our quarterly earnings release, on investor conference calls and during investor conferences and related events. This non-GAAP financial information does not include the following types of financial measures that are included in GAAP: amortization of intangible assets, impairment of goodwill, acquired in-process R&D, stock-based compensation, former CEO severance, non-recurring costs and settlements, restructuring, impairments and other charges (reversals), net gain or loss on the sale or impairment of investments, gain or loss on the sale of a subsidiary, unrealized gain on Jamba JV call option, realized and unrealized gains and losses on embedded derivative, and stock option investigation costs. Non-GAAP financial information is also adjusted for a 30% tax rate which differs from the GAAP tax rate.
Management believes that this non-GAAP financial data supplements our GAAP financial data by providing investors with additional information that allows them to have a clearer picture of the company's core operations. The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with GAAP. We believe that the non-GAAP information enhances the investors' overall understanding of our financial performance and the comparability of the company's operating results from period to period. Above, we have provided a reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial information that we provide each quarter with the comparable financial information reported in accordance with GAAP for the given period.


