FILE:VRSN/VRSN-8K-20090114161508.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b) On January 9, 2009, D. James Bidzos informed the Board of Directors (the "Board") of VeriSign, Inc. (the "Company") that he will resign from his position as President on an interim basis on January 14, 2009, which is the date that Mark D. McLaughlin commences employment at the Company as President and Chief Operating Officer. Mr. Bidzos, who was appointed on June 30, 2008 as Executive Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, on an interim basis, will continue to serve as Executive Chairman and Chief Executive Officer on an interim basis.
(c) On January 9, 2009, the Board appointed Mark D. McLaughlin as the Company's President and Chief Operating Officer. Mr. McLaughlin, 43, has been providing consulting services to the Company since November 1, 2008. From January 2007 through November 2007, he served as the Company's Executive Vice President, Products and Marketing. From May 2006 to January 2007, he served as Executive Vice President and General Manager, Information Services. From December 2004 to May 2006, he served as Senior Vice President and General Manager, Information Services. From November 2003 through December 2004, Mr. McLaughlin was Senior Vice President and Deputy General Manager of Information Services. From 2002 to 2003, he served as Vice President, Corporate Business Development and from 2000 to 2001 he was Vice President, General Manager of VeriSign Payment Services. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. McLaughlin was the Vice President, Business Development of Signio, an Internet payment company acquired by the Company in February 2000.
The Compensation Committee of the Company approved the following compensation package for Mr. McLaughlin in his capacity as the Company's President and Chief Operating Officer: (a) a cash salary of $500,000 per annum, (b) eligibility for an annual bonus of 75% of his base salary; (c) a grant of stock options to purchase 152,000 shares of Common Stock of the Company, with 25% of such options becoming exercisable one year from the date of grant and 6.25% of the total options becoming exercisable each quarter thereafter until all options are fully vested, subject to Mr. McLaughlin continuing to be employed by the Company; and (d) a grant of 61,000 restricted stock units, which will vest annually over a four-year period from the date of the grant, subject to Mr. McLaughlin continuing to be employed by the Company. The stock options and restricted stock units were granted pursuant to the Company's 2006 Equity Incentive Plan and have a grant date of January 14, 2009.
Mr. McLaughlin will be eligible to receive severance of (a) 12 months annual base salary; (b) annual bonus at target, prorated to the date of separation; (c) health and life insurance benefits for 12 months; (d) access to outplacement services for six months; (e) acceleration of 25% of any in-the-money unvested stock options; and (f) acceleration of 25% of any unvested restricted stock units if (i) the Company terminates his employment without "cause" (as such term is defined in the Company's Change-in-Control and Retention Agreement for VeriSign Section 16 Executive Officers (the "CIC Agreement")) at any time on or before July 1, 2010; or (ii) if Mr. McLaughlin resigns for "good reason" (as such term is defined in the CIC Agreement) on or before July 1, 2010; or (iii) Mr. McLaughlin resigns as President and Chief Operating Officer and leaves the Company for any reason on July 1, 2010. In return for such severance, Mr. McLaughlin will be subject to certain confidentiality, non-solicitation, non-compete and non-disparagement agreements and will reasonably cooperate on legal matters to which the Company is a party. Mr. McLaughlin also is eligible to enter into the CIC Agreement that was previously approved by the Compensation Committee of the Company in August 2007. The form of CIC Agreement was filed on Current Report on Form 8-K on August 30, 2007 and incorporated by reference as Exhibit 10.49 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007.
Mr. McLaughlin has been providing consulting services to the Company since November 1, 2008 and received cash payments of $60,000 per month. Mr. McLaughlin's consulting arrangements with the Company terminated effective January 13, 2009.
 
In connection with Mr. McLaughlin's resignation on December 1, 2007, VeriSign entered into a Separation and General Release Agreement (the "Agreement") with Mr. McLaughlin, effective December 8, 2007. Pursuant to the terms of the Agreement, Mr. McLaughlin (a) provided consulting services to VeriSign from December 2, 2007 to December 1, 2008 and received an aggregate of $60,000 for such services; (b) received accelerated vesting of 19,811 shares subject to outstanding stock options with a weighted average exercise price of approximately $22.54 per share and (c) was paid a bonus for 2007 of $145,800. Mr. McLaughlin received $234,941 to compensate him for his election as of December 31, 2006 to increase the exercise price of certain of VeriSign stock options ("Affected Options") in order to avoid unfavorable tax consequences under Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code (the "Code") as well as to reimburse him (on a fully grossed-up basis) for the estimated amount of tax owed in connection with his exercise in 2006 of certain Affected Options. In addition, Mr. McLaughlin executed a release in favor of VeriSign and agreed not to solicit VeriSign's employees, consultants and employees for 12 months after his resignation date.
A copy of the press release announcing the changes to the management team is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 10.01
Dear Mark:
On behalf of VeriSign, Inc. ("VeriSign" or "the Company") I am pleased to offer you a regular full-time position of reporting to the Company's Chief Executive Officer.The details of the offer are as follows:
President and Chief Operating Officer
1. Start Date: January 14, 2009
: (Paid in Bi-Weekly installments)
2. Annual Base Salary
$500,000
3. Equity Grants
 VeriSign will recommend to the Board of Directors that you be granted stock options to purchase shares of Common Stock of VeriSign, Inc., such grant to be subject to terms and conditions of the VeriSign, Inc. 2006 Equity Incentive Plan and corresponding Stock Option Agreement in accordance with the Company's Stock Option Guidelines for newly hired employees. The exercise price of the options will be the closing price of the Company's Common Stock as listed on the Nasdaq Global Market on the date of your commencement of employment as President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company (the "Grant Date"), provided that in the event the Nasdaq Global Market is not open for trading on the date of your commencement of employment as President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company the Grant Date shall be the first date the Nasdaq Global Market is open for trading after such employment commences You will be eligible to exercise up to twenty-five percent (25%) of your total shares one year from the Grant Date, provided that you are employed by VeriSign or one of its direct or indirect subsidiaries at that time. Each subsequent quarter (3 months) an additional 6.25% of your total shares will become eligible to exercise provided that you are employed by VeriSign or one of its direct or indirect subsidiaries at that time.
a. Stock Options:
152,000
VeriSign will recommend to the Board of Directors that you be granted restricted stock units of VeriSign, Inc., such grant to be subject to the terms and conditions of the VeriSign, Inc. 2006 Equity Incentive Plan and the corresponding Restricted Stock Unit Agreement. This Restricted Stock Unit award will be made on the Grant Date (as defined above) and will fully vest over a period of four years from the Grant Date with 25% vesting on each annual anniversary of the Grant Date provided that you are employed by VeriSign or one of its direct or indirect subsidiaries at that time.
b. Restricted Stock Units:
61,000
We recommend that you consult with your tax advisor regarding tax treatment of stock options and restricted stock units.
You are eligible to participate in the 2009 VeriSign Performance Plan bonus program (the "2009 Bonus Plan"). Your targeted bonus percentage for the 2009 Bonus Plan is of your annual base salary. Eligibility for payment under this plan will be governed by the terms and conditions of the 2009 VeriSign Performance Plan policy, which is subject to change.
4. Annual Bonus:
75%
Your medical and insurance benefits will be commensurate with those of other employees. New employees receive 18 days of paid time off per year. VeriSign also observes 11 paid holidays per year.
5. Benefits:
Please note: Your benefits information for 2009 will be mailed to your home shortly after your date of hire.
You are eligible to enter into the Change-In-Control Agreement for VeriSign Section 16 Executive Officers as approved in August 2007. The Term Sheet for the Change-in-Control Agreement is attached hereto as . The Change-in-Control Agreement will be in the form approved by the Compensation Committee in August 2007 for Section 16 Officers.
6. Change-In-Control Agreement:
Exhibit A
In exchange for signing the Company's general release agreement, you shall be eligible for severance as described in the document attached to this offer letter as , which is entitled "Term Sheet for Section 16 Officer Severance," if: (i) the Company terminates your employment without Cause (as defined in Exhibit A) at any time on or before July 1, 2010; or (ii) you resign for Good Reason (as defined in Exhibit A) at any time on or before July 1, 2010; or (iii) you resign as President and Chief Operating Officer and leave the Company for any reason on July 1, 2010. In any and all cases, this severance benefit will expire at 11:59 P.M. on July 1, 2010.
7. Severance:
Exhibit B
This offer is contingent upon your signing the Company's Confidentiality Agreement and upon successful clearance of your background check. To the extent permitted by applicable law, such background check may include, among other things, an investigation of your educational background, previous employment, previous addresses, department of motor vehicle records, a criminal records check, a credit check, a Social Security check, drug testing, finger printing, and an investigation to determine whether you have been "statutorily disqualified", as such term is defined in Section 3(a)(39) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (as amended). It is also contingent upon providing evidence of your legal right to work in the United States as required by the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services.
8. Confidentiality & Background Check:
This offer is for employment on an at-will basis, which means that the employment relationship can be terminated at any time by either party, with or without cause. The at-will nature of your employment can only be changed by a written amendment to this offer letter, approved by the VeriSign Board of Directors, which expressly states that your employment is no longer at-will. Notwithstanding the at-will nature of your employment, severance will be provided in accordance with Section 7.
9.
At-Will Employment:
This offer letter and its accompanying Exhibits A and B, once accepted by you and VeriSign, will constitute the entire agreement between you and VeriSign concerning their subject matter and will supersede any prior or contemporaneous agreements, promises, representations, or understandings. The agreement may not be modified in any material respect absent a writing signed by you and an authorized representative of the VeriSign Board of Directors.
10.
Integrated Agreement:
To accept this offer, please sign below and return the original offer letter plus the additional enclosed documents in the return envelope and keep a copy of the offer letter for your records. This offer will expire one week after it is provided to you.Please contact Kathryn Cross, Vice President, Compensation and Benefits Design, at (650) 426-4816 if you have any questions.
Sincerely,
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6.1 Cash Severance.
 
 
 
6.2 Other Severance Benefits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Term Sheet for Section 16 Officer Severance
In exchange for the Section 16 Officer's signing VeriSign's general release agreement and provided that: (i) termination is not for Cause (as defined in Exhibit A) and occurs at any time on or before July 1, 2010; or (ii) employee resigns for Good Reason (as defined in Exhibit A) on or before July 1, 2010; or (iii) employee resigns as President and Chief Operating Officer and leaves the Company for any reason on July 1, 2010; then VeriSign, Inc. will offer the Section 16 Officer a severance package which will contain the following material terms:
1. : Not more than 30 days prior to Termination Date
Notice Period
2: $500,000 (12 months Annual Base Salary) to be paid in 2 installments: 2/3 to be paid within 30 days after the effective date of the separation agreement and 1/3 to be paid on the date of the last regularly-scheduled payroll date for the active senior executives of VeriSign that occurs on or before March 15 of the year following the Termination Date, subject to the Section 16 Officer having remained in compliance with the terms of the separation agreement; provided, however, that a 6 month delay in payment may be imposed if required to comply with IRC 409A deferred compensation rules.
. Severance Payment
3 An Annual Bonus for 2009 in the amount of $375,000, which is the Annual Bonus in full at the Target of 75%. If separation occurs in 2010, then the Annual Bonus for 2010 will also be paid pro rated as of the Termination Date and at Target. The Annual Bonus payment to be paid within 30 days of the effective date of the separation agreement.
. Annual Bonus:
4 12 months of COBRA premiums based on the Section 16 Officer's current coverage levels paid in a lump-sum within 30 days of the effective date of the separation agreement.
. COBRA:
5: 12 months of life insurance premiums based on the Section 16 Officer's current coverage levels paid in a lump-sum within 30 days of the effective date of the separation agreement.
. Life Insurance
6. 6 months access to executive outplacement will be provided to the Section 16 Officer at the Company's expense.
Outplacement:
7: 25% acceleration of in-the-money unvested options as of the Section 16 Officer's Termination Date. Of the unvested options, the 25% that will be subject to accelerated vesting will be those with the lowest exercise price. Except as may be modified by the separation agreement with the general release agreement and the amendment to options and RSUs attached thereto, the terms and conditions of the plans and agreements under which the Section 16 Officer's stock options and RSUs, if any, were granted shall continue to control, including, for example, the limitations on the period within which the stock options may be exercised following the Section 16 Officer's termination date.
. Option Acceleration
8: 25% acceleration of unvested restricted stock units.
. RSU Acceleration
9: The Section 16 Officer will be obligated to maintain the confidentiality of all VeriSign confidential information.
. Ongoing Confidentiality
10: The Section 16 Officer will not solicit any VeriSign employees for at least 12 months from the Termination Date.
. Nonsolicitation
11: To the extent permitted by applicable law, the Section 16 Officer will not compete with VeriSign for at least 12 months from the Termination Date.
. Noncompete
12. : The Section 16 Officer will not disparage VeriSign, its products, services, employees, officers or directors.
Nondisparagement
13: VeriSign may in its sole discretion issue a press release that will communicate the Section 16 Officer's departure from the company. The Section 16 Officer will not make any public statements about VeriSign, any of its subsidiaries or their respective officers, directors or employees, without the advance written approval of VeriSign's Chief Executive Officer.
. Press Release
 
14: If requested, the Section 16 Officer will reasonably cooperate with VeriSign on legal matters as may be necessary for VeriSign to defend itself in litigation, legal investigations or other legal matters. VeriSign will reimburse the Section 16 Officer for reasonable expenses he or she incurs in connection with any such legal cooperation.
. Cooperation
15. The Indemnification Agreement between the Company and the Section 16 Officer (the "Indemnity Agreement") will not be superseded or modified by the separation agreement implementing this severance plan. The Indemnity Agreement will remain in full force and effect in accordance with its specific terms and conditions.
. Indemnification Agreement
 

Exhibit 99.1
VeriSign, Inc. (NASDAQ: VRSN) today announced that the company has named Mark McLaughlin as president and chief operating officer. Company founder Jim Bidzos continues to serve as executive chairman of the board of directors and chief executive officer, on an interim basis.
Mountain View, Calif.  January 14, 2009 
McLaughlin, 43, previously held a number of key positions at VeriSign from 2000 to 2007, ultimately serving as executive vice president of products and marketing. In that capacity, McLaughlin played a key architectural role in developing VeriSign's strategy to focus the company on its core Internet infrastructure services, while divesting several non-core businesses. McLaughlin's earlier contributions also include having run the company's Naming Services business, where he led the successful negotiation of the current agreements for the management of the .com and .net registries, as well as a number of key strategic alliances with major partners such as eBay and Microsoft.
Prior to joining VeriSign, McLaughlin served in executive management capacities at both Signio, acquired by VeriSign in 2000, and Gemplus. McLaughlin also served as general counsel of Caere Corporation and practiced law as an attorney with Cooley Godward Kronish LLP. McLaughlin is a graduate of the United States Military Academy at West Point.
As president and chief operating officer, McLaughlin will report to Bidzos and have full responsibility for the company's operations, including the Naming and Authentication (SSL and IAS) business units, as well as the Technology and Strategy organizations. Staff functions of Finance, Legal and Corporate Development, as well as VeriSign Japan, will continue to report to Bidzos.
Bidzos said that the VeriSign board selected McLaughlin because he is uniquely qualified to help the company move forward in executing its strategy given McLaughlin's role in developing that strategy and his deep understanding of the Internet and security markets.
"I'm very excited to welcome Mark back to VeriSign," said Bidzos. "He's one of the most capable, high-energy leaders I've had the pleasure to work with, and we work extremely well together. Mark's knowledge of the company and our industry were very important factors in today's announcement. For the time being I will continue as interim CEO."
"VeriSign has tremendous strengths and is executing on the right strategy at the right time," said McLaughlin. "It's great to be back and I'm looking forward to seeing the company move to the next level."
About VeriSign
VeriSign, Inc. (NASDAQ: VRSN) is the trusted provider of Internet infrastructure services for the networked world. Billions of times each day, VeriSign helps companies and consumers all over the world engage in communications and commerce with confidence. Additional news and information about the company is available at .
www.verisign.com
Contacts
Investor Relations: Ken Bond, , 650-426-3744
kbond@verisign.com
Public Relations: Christina Rohall, , 650-426-5219
crohall@verisign.com
VRSNF
Statements in this announcement other than historical data and information constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 as amended and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as amended. These statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause VeriSign's actual results to differ materially from those stated or implied by such forward-looking statements. The potential risks and uncertainties include, among others, the uncertainty of future revenue and profitability and potential fluctuations in quarterly operating results due to such factors as increasing competition and pricing pressure from competing services offered at prices below our prices, market acceptance of our existing services and the current global economic downturn, the inability of VeriSign to successfully develop and market new services, and the uncertainty of whether new services as provided by VeriSign will achieve market acceptance or result in any revenues and the risk that the planned divestitures of certain businesses may be delayed, may generate less proceeds than expected or may incur unanticipated costs or otherwise negatively affect VeriSign's financial condition, results of operations or cash flows, and the uncertainty of whether Project Titan will achieve its stated objectives. More information about potential factors that could affect the company's business and financial results is included in VeriSign's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K. VeriSign undertakes no obligation to update any of the forward-looking statements after the date of this press release.
2009 VeriSign, Inc. All rights reserved. VeriSign, the VeriSign logo, the checkmark circle, and other trademarks, service marks, and designs are registered or unregistered trademarks of VeriSign, Inc., and its subsidiaries in the United States and in foreign countries. All other trademarks are property of their respective owners.


