FILE:VRSN/VRSN-8K-20090807064619.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On August 6, 2009, VeriSign, Inc. ("VeriSign" or the "Company") announced its financial results and certain other information for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2009 on a press release (the "Earnings Release"). The Earnings Release was included as Exhibit 99.1 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission on August 6, 2009.
The Earnings Release disclosed "Achieves 29% Core Earnings Per Share Growth Year-Over-Year." This statement is inaccurate and investors should not rely upon it in evaluating the Company's performance for the period ended June 30, 2009. The Company is hereby amending and restating this statement in the Earnings Release to disclose "Achieves 19% Non-GAAP Earnings Per Share Growth Year-Over-Year." The most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States ("GAAP") is year-over-year GAAP earnings per share growth of 151%. Except as described in this paragraph, no other revisions are being made to the Earnings Release pursuant to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
The tables presenting the reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP net income for the three and six months ended June 30, 2009 and June 30, 2008, are set forth below. The non-GAAP presentation for 2008 has been conformed to the non-GAAP presentation for 2009 by excluding the same items under GAAP for both periods. In addition to the change from "core" to "non-GAAP" earnings per share growth, the difference between the statement in the Earnings Release and the revised statement in this Current Report on Form 8-K is due to the fact that our 2009 non-GAAP presentation no longer includes other non-recurring items, which consisted of litigation reserves of $6.4 million previously included in our 2008 non-GAAP presentation.
 
 
 
 
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information
VeriSign provides quarterly and annual financial statements that are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Along with this information, we typically disclose and discuss certain non-GAAP financial information in our quarterly earnings releases, on investor conference calls and during investor conferences and related events. This non-GAAP financial information does not include the following types of financial measures that are included in GAAP: discontinued operations, non-core businesses in continuing operations, stock-based compensation, amortization of other intangible assets, impairments of goodwill and other intangible assets, and restructuring costs. Non-GAAP financial information is also adjusted for a 30% tax rate, which differs from the GAAP tax rate.
Management believes that this non-GAAP financial data supplements our GAAP financial data by providing investors with additional information that allows them to have a clearer picture of the company's core operations. The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with GAAP. We believe that the non-GAAP information enhances the investors' overall understanding of our financial performance and the comparability of the company's operating results from period to period.
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 


