FILE:VRSN/VRSN-8K-20091029152110.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On August 24, 2009, VeriSign, Inc. (the "") and certain of its foreign subsidiaries entered into an acquisition agreement (the "") with Syniverse Holdings, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "") for the sale of the Company's Inter-Carrier Gateway, Premium Messaging Gateway, PictureMail/Integrated Multimedia Message Service ("") and Mobile Enterprise Solutions businesses (collectively, the "," and referred to in previous Current Report on Form 8-K filings as the VM3 Business) for a purchase price of $175.0 million, subject to fluctuations in working capital.
Company
Agreement
Purchaser
MMS
MMM Business
On October 23, 2009 (the ""), the Company completed the sale of the MMM Business to the Purchaser pursuant to the Agreement for cash proceeds of $174.5 million, after preliminary adjustments to reflect the parties' current estimate of working capital associated with the MMM Business as of the Closing Date. The transaction will be subject to a final adjustment to reflect the actual working capital balance as of the Closing Date.
Closing Date
The MMM Business provides short message service and MMS delivery across various networks, managed infrastructure services for wireless service providers, end-to-end MMS infrastructure and applications to Tier-1 and Tier-2 mobile operators and messaging services through a standard rated messaging aggregation platform.
Pursuant to the Agreement, the Purchaser acquired (a) all of the equity interests owned by the Company in VeriSign ICX Corporation, a Delaware corporation and wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company (""), which owns a substantial portion of the MMM Business assets, and (b) certain other assets related to ICX and the MMM Business, including (i) certain contracts, (ii) certain accounts receivable and prepaid expenses, (iii) certain office furniture, computers, servers and other equipment, (iv) ownership of or the right to use certain intellectual property, (v) certain claims, causes of action and rights accruing after the closing of the sale and (vi) all of the Company's and ICX's goodwill in the MMM Business as a going concern. Certain employees of the MMM Business became employees of ICX upon the Closing Date.
ICX
The Purchaser has not acquired the right to use "VeriSign" or any other trademarks, trade names, logos or other service marks of VeriSign, Inc. or its retained subsidiaries, other than for temporary limited uses. In general, the Purchaser assumed only those liabilities associated with the MMM Business that may arise after the Closing Date, and the Company retained certain liabilities.
The Company has previously disclosed additional information concerning the Agreement on the Current Reports on Form 8-K, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on August 26, 2009 and October 26, 2009.
 
 
The pro forma financial information required by this item is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
On August 24, 2009, VeriSign, Inc. (the "") and certain of its foreign subsidiaries entered into an acquisition agreement (the "") with Syniverse Holdings, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "") for the sale of the Company's Inter-Carrier Gateway, Premium Messaging Gateway, PictureMail/Integrated Multimedia Message Service ("") and Mobile Enterprise Solutions businesses (collectively, the "," and referred to in previous Current Report on Form 8-K filings as the VM3 Business) for a purchase price of $175.0 million, subject to fluctuations in working capital. On October 23, 2009 (the ""), the Company completed the sale of the MMM Business to the Purchaser pursuant to the Agreement for cash proceeds of $174.5 million, after preliminary adjustments to reflect the parties' current estimate of working capital associated with the MMM Business as of the Closing Date. The transaction will be subject to a final adjustment to reflect the actual working capital balance as of the Closing Date.
Company
Agreement
Purchaser
MMS
MMM Business
Closing Date
The unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet Information as of December 31, 2008, set forth below has been presented after giving effect to the MMM Business divestiture transaction as if it had occurred on December 31, 2008. The Company has not presented the unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations information as the MMM Business was reported as discontinued operations in the Company's fiscal 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 3, 2009.
The Company's consolidated balances for the year ended December 31, 2008, were derived from the audited consolidated financial statements of the Company included in its fiscal 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K, adjusted for retroactive adoption of FASB Staff Position ("FSP") No. Accounting Principles Board ("APB") 14-1 ("FSP APB 14-1"), "," codified into FASB ASC Subtopic 470-20, and Statement of Financial Accounting Standard ("SFAS") No. 160 ("SFAS 160"), "," codified into FASB Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") 810, which were adopted effective January 1, 2009.
Accounting for Convertible Debt Instruments That May be Settled in Cash upon Conversion (Including Partial Cash Settlement)
Debt with Conversion and Other Options
Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements, an amendment of Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51
Consolidation,
 
 
The unaudited pro forma financial statement information has been provided for informational purposes and should not be considered indicative of the financial condition or results of operations that would have been achieved had the divestiture occurred as of the periods presented. In addition, the unaudited pro forma financial statement information does not purport to indicate balance sheet data or results of operations as of any future date or for any future period. The unaudited pro forma financial statement information, including the notes thereto, should be read in conjunction with the historical financial statements of the Company included in its fiscal 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K and its Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2009 and June 30, 2009.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following table presents the effects of the retroactive adjustments to the Company's Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2008, upon the adoption of FSP APB 14-1 codified into FASB ASC Subtopic 470-20 and SFAS 160, codified into ASC 810.
 
 
 
 


