FILE:VRSN/VRSN-8K-20091113163339.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On November 9, 2009, VeriSign, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "") entered into a share purchase agreement (the "") to sell all of the issued and outstanding shares of capital stock (the "") of m-Qube, Inc., a Delaware corporation (""), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company and provider of the Mobile Delivery Gateway ("") Services, to Mobile Messenger Global, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""). MDG Services offer solutions to manage the complex operator interfaces, relationships, distribution, reporting and customer service for the delivery of standard and commercial messaging services and premium mobile content to customers. The MDG messaging aggregation services enable short messaging and multimedia messaging service connectivity for content providers, aggregators and others to all wireless subscribers of certain carriers and/or countries and regions. MDG Services enable content providers to more rapidly expand their global reach. Pursuant to the terms of the Agreement, the Purchaser received all of the Company's right, title and interest in the Shares, and in exchange, the Company received cash consideration of $1,786,449 on the closing date, consisting of $1,000,000 for the purchase of the Shares and $786,449 in connection with severance payments to be made to certain employees. Pursuant to the terms of the Agreement, the Company will also receive an amount equal to m-Qube's working capital as of the closing date, which the parties have preliminarily estimated to be approximately $17.5 million and which will be subject to a final adjustment to reflect the actual working capital balance as of the closing date. The Company will indemnify the Purchaser for, among other things, certain liabilities associated with the MDG business that have arisen or may arise from the conduct of the MDG business prior to the closing date. The Company generally will be responsible for existing liabilities associated with the MDG business. Prior to the transaction, an affiliate of the Purchaser was the largest customer of the MDG business. This transaction closed on November 9, 2009.
Company
Agreement
Shares
m-Qube
MDG
Purchaser
 
(b)(1)
Pro forma financial information
The pro forma financial information required by this item is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
(d)
Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
On November 9, 2009, VeriSign, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "") entered into a share purchase agreement (the "") to sell all of the issued and outstanding shares of capital stock (the "") of m-Qube, Inc. ("), a Delaware corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company and provider of the Company's Mobile Delivery Gateway ("") Services, to Mobile Messenger Global, Inc., a Delaware Corporation (the ""), for cash consideration of $1,786,449 on the closing date, consisting of $1,000,000 for the purchase of the Shares and $786,449 in connection with severance payments to be made to certain employees. The Company will also receive an amount equal to m-Qube's working capital as of the closing date, which the parties have preliminarily estimated to be approximately $17.5 million and which will be subject to a final adjustment to reflect the actual working capital as of the closing date. The Company will indemnify the Purchaser for, among other things, certain liabilities associated with the MDG business that have arisen or may arise from the conduct of the MDG business prior to the closing date. The Company generally will be responsible for existing liabilities associated with the MDG business. This transaction closed on November 9, 2009.
Company
Agreement
Shares
m-Qube"
MDG
Purchaser
The unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet Information as of December 31, 2008, set forth below has been presented after giving effect to the disposition of m-Qube as if it had occurred on December 31, 2008. The Company has not presented the unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations information as the MDG business as operated by m-Qube was reported as discontinued operations in the Company's fiscal 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 3, 2009.
The Company's consolidated balances for the year ended December 31, 2008, were derived from the audited consolidated financial statements of the Company included in its fiscal 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K, adjusted for retroactive adoption of FASB Staff Position ("FSP") No. Accounting Principles Board ("APB") 14-1 ("FSP APB 14-1). "," codified into FASB ASC Subtopic 470-20, and Statement of Financial Accounting Standard ("SFAS") No. 160 ("SFAS 160"), "" codified into FASB Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") 810, which were adopted effective January 1, 2009.
Accounting for Convertible Debt Instruments That May be Settled in Cash upon Conversion (Including Partial Cash Settlement)
Debt with Conversion and Other Options
Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements, an amendment of Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51,
Consolidation,
 
 
The unaudited pro forma financial statement information has been provided for informational purposes and should not be considered indicative of the financial condition or results of operations that would have been achieved had the divestiture occurred as of the periods presented. In addition, the unaudited pro forma financial statement information does not purport to indicate balance sheet data or results of operations as of any future date or for any future period. The unaudited pro forma financial statement information, including the notes thereto, should be read in conjunction with the historical financial statements of the Company included in its fiscal 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K and its Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2009, June 30, 2009 and September 30, 2009.
 
 
 
The following table presents the effects of the retroactive adjustments to the Company's Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2008, upon the adoption of FSP APB 14-1 codified into FASB ASC Subtopic 470-20 and SFAS 160, codified into ASC 810:
 
 


