FILE:VRSN/VRSN-8K-20090205162217.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On February 5, 2009, VeriSign, Inc. ("VeriSign" or the "Company") announced its financial results for the fiscal quarter and year ended December 31, 2008 and certain other information. A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Because VeriSign has not fully completed the tax provision calculation process, tax provisions for both the fourth quarter and fiscal year 2008 contained in this Current Report on Form 8-K are still preliminary and therefore GAAP net income/loss and GAAP earnings/loss per share for these periods are also preliminary. Final tax provisions, GAAP net income/loss, and GAAP earnings/loss per share will be updated in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008 to be filed with the SEC and may differ materially from the amounts reported in this Current Report on Form 8-K.
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT:
The information in this Form 8-K and the Exhibit attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information
VeriSign provides quarterly and annual financial statements that are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Along with this information, we typically disclose and discuss certain non-GAAP financial information in our quarterly and annual earnings releases, on investor conference calls and during investor conferences and related events. This non-GAAP financial information does not include the following types of financial measures that are included in GAAP: discontinued operations, non-core businesses in continuing operations, stock-based compensation, amortization of other intangible assets, restructuring costs, impairment of long-lived assets, gains and losses on derivatives and equity investments, and non-recurring costs. Non-GAAP financial information is also adjusted for a 30% tax rate which differs from the GAAP tax rate.
Management believes that this non-GAAP financial data supplements our GAAP financial data by providing investors with additional information that allows them to have a clearer picture of the company's core operations. The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with GAAP. We believe that the non-GAAP information enhances the investors' overall understanding of our financial performance and the comparability of the Company's operating results from period to period. In the press release attached hereto to as Exhibit 99.1, we have provided a reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial information that we provide each quarter with the comparable financial information reported in accordance with GAAP for the given period.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Exhibit Index
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
VeriSign, Inc. (NASDAQ: VRSN), the trusted provider of Internet infrastructure services, today reported financial results for the fourth quarter and fiscal year ended December 31, 2008.
MOUNTAIN VIEW, CA  February 5, 2009 
Q4 2008 Financial Results
On a GAAP basis, VeriSign reported revenue of $247 million from continuing operations for the fourth quarter of 2008. On a GAAP basis, VeriSign reported consolidated net income of $39 million and earnings per share of $0.20 on a fully-diluted basis. These GAAP results reflect a $91 million non-cash impairment charge on certain long-lived assets, loss on sale of discontinued operations, and estimated losses on certain assets held for sale, $32 million of which was recorded in discontinued operations. Also recorded were restructuring charges of $12 million, $8 million of which was recorded in discontinued operations related to assets held for sale. In light of ongoing economic developments, we continue to review the level of impairment charge on long-lived assets, loss on sale of discontinued operations, and estimated losses on certain assets held for sale, including those carried as discontinued operations.
Because the company has not fully completed the tax provision calculation process, tax provisions for both the fourth quarter and fiscal year 2008 are still preliminary and therefore GAAP net income/loss and GAAP earnings/loss per share for these periods are also preliminary. Final tax provisions, GAAP net income/loss, and GAAP earnings/loss per share will be updated in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008 to be filed with the SEC and may differ materially from the amounts reported above.
On a GAAP basis, VeriSign reported segment revenue for Internet Infrastructure and Identity Services (3IS), or the "core businesses" of Naming, SSL and IAS, of $245 million, up 3% from Q3 2008 and up 16% year-over-year. GAAP operating margin for the fourth quarter was -3.7%.
On a non-GAAP basis (which excludes items described below) for its core businesses, VeriSign reported net income of $54 million for the fourth quarter of 2008 and fully-diluted earnings per share of $0.28. Non-GAAP operating margins for the fourth quarter were 35.1%. A table reconciling the GAAP to the non-GAAP results reported above is appended to this release.
"VeriSign again demonstrated solid performance in extremely difficult economic conditions, with 16% year-over-year revenue growth and greater than 35% non-GAAP operating margin for the fourth quarter," said Jim Bidzos, executive chairman of the board of directors and chief executive officer on an interim basis of VeriSign. "We believe our growth and financial performance reflect that our strategy of divesting non-core businesses and focusing on our strong core units is the right one. While we have not achieved all of our divestiture goals, we did sell seven of 12 non-core businesses since late 2007, and we remain very focused, despite the challenging environment, on completing sales of the remaining larger businesses."
2008 Financial Results
On a GAAP basis, for the year ended December 31, 2008, VeriSign reported revenue of $962 million from continuing operations. On a GAAP basis, VeriSign reported a consolidated net loss of $240 million for 2008
and a loss per share of $1.20 on a fully-diluted basis. These full-year GAAP results reflect a $413 million non-cash impairment charge for certain long-lived assets, loss on sale of discontinued operations, and estimated losses on certain assets held for sale, of which $355 million is recorded in discontinued operations. Also recorded were restructuring charges of $150 million, $39 million of which is recorded in discontinued operations related to assets held for sale. As noted above, our tax provision for fiscal year 2008 is preliminary, and therefore GAAP net income/loss and GAAP earnings/loss per share are also preliminary.
On a GAAP basis, for 2008, VeriSign reported segment revenue for Internet Infrastructure and Identity Services (3IS), or the "core businesses," of $936 million, up 20% year-over-year.
On a non-GAAP basis for its core businesses, VeriSign reported net income of $193 million for 2008 and fully-diluted earnings per share of $0.96. A table reconciling the GAAP to the non-GAAP results reported above is appended to this release.
"We're very pleased with our performance this year, especially in light of the weakening economy," said Brian Robins, acting chief financial officer of VeriSign. "In addition to reporting solid revenue and earnings for the year, we generated approximately $475 million in cash flow from operations in 2008, ending the year with nearly $800 million in cash and equivalents. Furthermore, we believe that our divide and focus approach to managing our businesses has paid off as our execution this quarter continued to be strong."
Business and Corporate Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
Q4 Financial Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Items
Non-GAAP results exclude the following items that are included under GAAP: discontinued operations, non-core businesses in continuing operations, stock-based compensation, amortization of other intangible assets, restructuring costs, impairment of long-lived assets, gains and losses on derivatives and equity investments, and non-recurring costs. Non-GAAP financial information is also adjusted for a 30% tax rate which differs from the GAAP tax rate. A table reconciling the GAAP to non-GAAP net income is appended to this release.
Today's Conference Call
VeriSign will host a live teleconference call today at 2:00 p.m. (PST) to review the fourth quarter and fiscal year results. The call will be accessible by direct dial at (888) 676-VRSN (US) or (913) 312-1457 (international). A listen-only live web cast and accompanying slide presentation of the earnings conference call will also be available at http://investor.verisign.com. A replay of this call will be available at (888) 203-1112 or (719) 457-0820 (passcode: 6496729) beginning at 5:00 p.m. (PST) on February 5 and will run through February 11. This press release and the financial information discussed on today's conference call are available on the Investor Relations section of the VeriSign website at http://investor.verisign.com.
About VeriSign
VeriSign, Inc. (NASDAQ: VRSN) is the trusted provider of Internet infrastructure services for the networked world. Billions of times each day, VeriSign helps companies and consumers all over the world engage in communications and commerce with confidence. Additional news and information about the company is available at .
www.verisign.com
VRSNF
Statements in this announcement other than historical data and information constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 as amended and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as amended. These statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause VeriSign's actual results to differ materially from those stated or implied by such forward-looking statements. The potential risks and uncertainties include, among others, the uncertainty of future revenue and profitability and potential fluctuations in quarterly operating results due to such factors as increasing competition and pricing pressure from competing services offered at prices below our prices, market acceptance of our existing services and the current global economic downturn, the inability of VeriSign to successfully develop and market new services, the uncertainty of whether new services as provided by VeriSign will achieve market acceptance or result in any revenues, the risk that pending acquisitions will not be completed, will not be integrated successfully or will not be integrated successfully without incurring unanticipated costs, the risk that the planned divestitures of certain businesses may be delayed, may generate less proceeds than expected or may incur unanticipated costs or otherwise negatively affect VeriSign's financial condition, results of operations or cash flows, and the uncertainty of whether Project Titan will achieve its stated objectives. More information about potential factors that could affect the company's business and financial results is included in VeriSign's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K. VeriSign undertakes no obligation to update any of the forward-looking statements after the date of this press release.
Contacts
Investor Relations: Nancy Fazioli, , 650-426-5146
ir@verisign.com
Media Relations: Christina Rohall, , 650-336-4663
crohall@verisign.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
VeriSign provides quarterly and annual financial statements that are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Along with this information, we typically disclose and discuss certain non-GAAP financial information in our quarterly earnings release, on investor conference calls and during investor conferences and related events. This non-GAAP financial information does not include the following types of financial measures that are included in GAAP: discontinued operations, non-core businesses in continuing operations, stock-based compensation, amortization of other intangible assets, restructuring costs, impairment of long-lived assets, gains and losses on derivatives and equity investments, and non-recurring costs. Non-GAAP financial information is also adjusted for a 30% tax rate which differs from the GAAP tax rate.
Management believes that this non-GAAP financial data supplements our GAAP financial data by providing investors with additional information that allows them to have a clearer picture of the company's core operations. The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with GAAP. We believe that the non-GAAP information enhances the investors' overall understanding of our financial performance and the comparability of the company's operating results from period to period. Above, we have provided a reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial information that we provide each quarter with the comparable financial information reported in accordance with GAAP for the given period
SUPPLEMENTAL FINANCIAL INFORMATION
 


