FILE:VRSN/VRSN-8K-20090507162952.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On May 7, 2009, VeriSign, Inc. ("VeriSign" or the "Company") announced its financial results for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2009 and certain other information. A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
The information in this Form 8-K and the Exhibit attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information
VeriSign provides quarterly and annual financial statements that are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Along with this information, we typically disclose and discuss certain non-GAAP financial information in our quarterly earnings releases, on investor conference calls and during investor conferences and related events. This non-GAAP financial information does not include the following types of financial measures that are included in GAAP: discontinued operations, non-core businesses in continuing operations, stock-based compensation, amortization of other intangible assets, restructuring costs, and impairments of goodwill and other intangible assets. Non-GAAP financial information is also adjusted for a 30% tax rate which differs from the GAAP tax rate.
Management believes that this non-GAAP financial data supplements our GAAP financial data by providing investors with additional information that allows them to have a clearer picture of the company's core operations. The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with GAAP. We believe that the non-GAAP information enhances the investors' overall understanding of our financial performance and the comparability of the company's operating results from period to period. In the press release attached hereto to as Exhibit 99.1, we have provided a reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial information that we provide each quarter with the comparable financial information reported in accordance with GAAP for the given period.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Exhibit Index
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
VeriSign, Inc. (NASDAQ: VRSN), the trusted provider of Internet infrastructure services, today reported financial results for the first quarter ended March 31, 2009.
MOUNTAIN VIEW, CA  May 7, 2009 
On a GAAP basis, VeriSign reported revenue of $255 million from continuing operations for the first quarter of 2009. On a GAAP basis, VeriSign reported net income attributable to VeriSign, Inc. and subsidiaries of $65 million and earnings per share attributable to VeriSign, Inc. and subsidiaries of $0.34 on a fully-diluted basis.
On a GAAP basis, VeriSign reported segment revenue for Internet Infrastructure and Identity Services (3IS), or the "core businesses" of Naming Services and Authentication Services, of $252 million, up 2% from Q4 2008 and up 13% year-over-year. This includes $3 million from iDefense that was previously classified as a discontinued operation. GAAP operating margin for the first quarter was 29.3%.
On a non-GAAP basis (which excludes items described below) for its core businesses, VeriSign reported net income attributable to VeriSign, Inc. and subsidiaries of $61 million for the first quarter of 2009 and fully-diluted earnings per share of $0.32. Non-GAAP operating margins for the first quarter were 36.9%. A table reconciling the GAAP to the non-GAAP results reported above is appended to this release.
"In the face of a tough economy, solid execution has delivered solid results," said Jim Bidzos, VeriSign's executive chairman and chief executive officer on an interim basis. "Our core businesses did well, and our divestiture efforts have shown great progress."
"During the past several quarters when the global economy has contracted, worldwide Internet usage has continued to rise," said Mark McLaughlin, president and chief operating officer of VeriSign. "VeriSign's services are important to the Internet economy. We remain confident in our ability to make continued progress in the business in the short term and grow in a disciplined manner over the long term."
"We are very pleased with the progress that we made in Q1, having delivered top and bottom line results that were in-line with or exceeded expectations while continuing to execute on our strategy to divest of non-core businesses," said Brian Robins, acting chief financial officer of VeriSign. "Furthermore, our balance sheet remains strong with nearly $950 million in cash and cash equivalents, and our deferred revenue for continuing operations grew 3% quarter-over quarter."
Business and Corporate Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Items
Non-GAAP results exclude the following items that are included under GAAP: discontinued operations, non-core businesses in continuing operations, stock-based compensation, amortization of other intangible assets, restructuring costs, and impairments of goodwill and other intangible assets. Non-GAAP financial information is also adjusted for a 30% tax rate which differs from the GAAP tax rate. A table reconciling the GAAP to non-GAAP net income is appended to this release.
Today's Conference Call
VeriSign will host a live teleconference call today at 2:00 p.m. (PDT) to review the first quarter results. The call will be accessible by direct dial at (888) 676-VRSN (U.S.) or (913) 312-1457 (international). A listen-only live web cast and accompanying slide presentation of the earnings conference call will also be available at
http://investor.verisign.com. A replay of this call will be available at (888) 203-1112 or (719) 457-0820 (passcode: 8466229) beginning at 5:00 p.m. (PDT) on May 7 and will run through May 13. This press release and the financial information discussed on today's conference call are available on the Investor Relations section of the VeriSign website at http://investor.verisign.com.
About VeriSign
VeriSign, Inc. (NASDAQ: VRSN) is the trusted provider of Internet infrastructure services for the networked world. Billions of times each day, VeriSign helps companies and consumers all over the world engage in communications and commerce with confidence. Additional news and information about the company is available at .
www.verisign.com
VRSNF
Statements in this announcement other than historical data and information constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 as amended and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as amended. These statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause VeriSign's actual results to differ materially from those stated or implied by such forward-looking statements. The potential risks and uncertainties include, among others, the uncertainty of future revenue and profitability and potential fluctuations in quarterly operating results due to such factors as increasing competition and pricing pressure from competing services offered at prices below our prices, market acceptance of our existing services and the current global economic downturn, the inability of VeriSign to successfully develop and market new services, the uncertainty of whether new services as provided by VeriSign will achieve market acceptance or result in any revenues, the risk that planned divestitures of certain businesses may be delayed or pending dispositions may not be completed, may generate less proceeds than expected or may incur unanticipated costs or otherwise negatively affect VeriSign's financial condition, results of operations or cash flows, and the uncertainty of whether Project Titan will achieve its stated objectives. More information about potential factors that could affect the company's business and financial results is included in VeriSign's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K. VeriSign undertakes no obligation to update any of the forward-looking statements after the date of this press release.
Contacts
Investor Relations: Nancy Fazioli, , 650-426-5146
ir@verisign.com
Media Relations: Christina Rohall, , 650-336-4663
crohall@verisign.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
VeriSign provides quarterly and annual financial statements that are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Along with this information, we typically disclose and discuss certain non-GAAP financial information in our quarterly earnings release, on investor conference calls and during investor conferences and related events. This non-GAAP financial information does not include the following types of financial measures that are included in GAAP: discontinued operations, non-core businesses in continuing operations, stock-based compensation, amortization of other intangible assets, restructuring costs, and impairments of goodwill and other intangible assets. Non-GAAP financial information is also adjusted for a 30% tax rate which differs from the GAAP tax rate.
Management believes that this non-GAAP financial data supplements our GAAP financial data by providing investors with additional information that allows them to have a clearer picture of the company's core operations. The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with GAAP. We believe that the non-GAAP information enhances the investors' overall understanding of our financial performance and the comparability of the company's operating results from period to period. Above, we have provided a reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial information that we provide each quarter with the comparable financial information reported in accordance with GAAP for the given period.
SUPPLEMENTAL FINANCIAL INFORMATION
 


