FILE:VRSN/VRSN-8K-20100907151105.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On September 1, 2010, VeriSign, Inc. ("VeriSign" or the "Company") announced that Mark McLaughlin, President and Chief Executive Officer, and Brian Robins, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, will speak at the Citi Global Technology Conference in New York, New York, on Wednesday, September 8, 2010 at 8:35 a.m. (EDT)). A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
The information in this Form 8-K and the Exhibit attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
VeriSign, Inc. (NASDAQ: VRSN), the trusted provider of Internet infrastructure services for the networked world, announced that Mark McLaughlin, president and chief executive officer, and Brian Robins, executive vice president and chief financial officer, will speak at the Citi Global Technology Conference in New York, New York on Wednesday, September 8 at 8:35 a.m. (EDT). During the presentation, recent company performance and business initiatives will be discussed. The presentation will be available via live webcast at . A replay of the webcast will also be available at after the event for a limited period of time.
DULLES, VA  September 1, 2010 
http://investor.verisign.com
http://investor.verisign.com
About VeriSign
VeriSign, Inc. (NASDAQ: VRSN) is the trusted provider of Internet infrastructure services for the networked world. Billions of times each day, VeriSign enables companies and consumers all over the world to connect online with confidence. Additional news and information about the company is available at .
www.verisign.com
VRSNF
Contacts:
Investor Relations: Nancy Fazioli, , 650-316-6569
ir@verisign.com
Media Relations: Brad Williams, , 650-316-6557
brwilliams@verisign.com


