FILE:VRSN/VRSN-8K-20100202164446.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On February 2, 2010, VeriSign, Inc. ("VeriSign" or the "Company") announced its financial results for the fiscal quarter and year ended December 31, 2009 and certain other information. A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
The information in this Form 8-K and the Exhibit attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information
VeriSign provides quarterly and annual financial statements that are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Along with this information, we typically disclose and discuss certain non-GAAP financial information in our quarterly and annual earnings releases, on investor conference calls and during investor conferences and related events. This non-GAAP financial information does not include the following types of financial measures that are included in GAAP: discontinued operations, non-core businesses in continuing operations, stock-based compensation, amortization of other intangible assets, impairments of goodwill and other intangible assets, restructuring costs and non-cash interest expense. Non-GAAP financial information is also adjusted for a 30% tax rate which differs from the GAAP tax rate. All non-GAAP figures for each period presented in Exhibit 99.1 have been conformed to exclude the foregoing items under GAAP. Prior disclosures of non-GAAP figures may not exclude these same items and as such should not be used for comparison purposes.
Management believes that this non-GAAP financial data supplements our GAAP financial data by providing investors with additional information that allows them to have a clearer picture of the company's core operations. The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation nor as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with GAAP. We believe that the non-GAAP information enhances the investors' overall understanding of our financial performance and the comparability of the company's operating results from period to period. In the press release attached hereto to as Exhibit 99.1, we have provided a reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial information that we provide each quarter with the comparable financial information reported in accordance with GAAP for the given period.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Exhibit Index
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
VeriSign, Inc. (NASDAQ: VRSN), the leading provider of trusted Internet infrastructure services, today reported financial results for the fourth quarter of 2009 and year ended December 31, 2009.
MOUNTAIN VIEW, CA  February 2, 2010 
Fourth Quarter GAAP Financial Results
VeriSign reported revenue of $263 million from continuing operations for the fourth quarter of 2009, compared to $249 million in the same quarter in 2008. VeriSign reported net income attributable to VeriSign, Inc. and subsidiaries of $92 million and earnings per share attributable to VeriSign, Inc. and subsidiaries of $0.48 on a diluted basis for the fourth quarter of 2009, compared to net loss attributable to VeriSign, Inc. and subsidiaries of $(96) million and net loss per share attributable to VeriSign, Inc. and subsidiaries of $(0.50) on a diluted basis in the same quarter in 2008. The operating margin for the fourth quarter of 2009, which includes a $4 million out of period VeriSign Japan related depreciation adjustment, was 31.4% compared to (2.0)% in the same quarter in 2008.
VeriSign reported segment revenue for Internet Infrastructure and Identity Services ("3IS"), or the "core" businesses of Naming Services and Authentication Services, of $262 million for the fourth quarter of 2009, up 2% from the prior quarter and up 5% from the same quarter in 2008.
Fourth Quarter Non-GAAP Financial Results
For its core businesses, VeriSign reported net income attributable to VeriSign, Inc. and subsidiaries of $59 million and earnings per share attributable to VeriSign, Inc. and subsidiaries of $0.31 on a diluted basis for the fourth quarter of 2009, compared to net income attributable to VeriSign, Inc. and subsidiaries of $54 million and earnings per share attributable to VeriSign, Inc. and subsidiaries of $0.28 on a diluted basis in the same quarter in 2008. The operating margin for the fourth quarter of 2009, which includes a $4 million out of period VeriSign Japan related depreciation adjustment, was 36.8% compared to 33.7% in the same quarter in 2008. A table reconciling the GAAP to the non-GAAP results (which excludes items described below) is appended to this release.
"We had a good year in 2009 in which we delivered solid top line revenue growth while increasing the operating leverage in our core businesses and completing the divestitures of our non-core businesses," said Mark McLaughlin, president and chief executive officer of VeriSign. "I believe we're well positioned for 2010 and beyond."
2009 GAAP Financial Results
For the year ended December 31, 2009, VeriSign reported revenue of $1.031 billion from continuing operations, compared to $965 million in 2008. VeriSign reported net income attributable to VeriSign, Inc. and subsidiaries of $246 million and earnings per share attributable to VeriSign, Inc. and subsidiaries of $1.28 on a diluted basis, compared to net loss attributable to VeriSign, Inc. and subsidiaries of $(374) million and net loss per share attributable to VeriSign, Inc. and subsidiaries of $(1.87) on a diluted basis in 2008. The operating margin for 2009 was 30.4% compared to 6.6% in 2008.
VeriSign reported segment revenue for 3IS of $1.026 billion, up 8% year-over-year.
2009 Non-GAAP Financial Results
For its core businesses, VeriSign reported net income attributable to VeriSign, Inc. and subsidiaries of $247 million and earnings per share attributable to VeriSign, Inc. and subsidiaries of $1.28 on a diluted basis, compared to net income attributable to VeriSign, Inc. and subsidiaries of $201 million and earnings per share attributable to VeriSign, Inc. and subsidiaries of $1.00 on a diluted basis in 2008. The operating margin for 2009 was 37.7% compared to 33.5% in 2008. A table reconciling the GAAP to the non-GAAP results (which excludes items described below) is appended to this release.
"In 2009, VeriSign increased revenue, improved productivity and maintained a healthy balance sheet," said Brian Robins, chief financial officer of VeriSign. "In 2010, we will remain focused on our two key long-term financial priorities: growth and increased operating leverage."
Business and Corporate Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Items
Non-GAAP financial results exclude the following items that are included under GAAP: discontinued operations, non-core businesses in continuing operations, stock-based compensation, amortization of other intangible assets, impairments of goodwill and other intangible assets, restructuring costs and non-cash interest expense. Non-GAAP financial information is also adjusted for a 30% tax rate which differs from the GAAP tax rate. A table reconciling the GAAP to non-GAAP net income is appended to this release. All non-GAAP figures for each period presented herein have been conformed to exclude the foregoing items under GAAP. Prior disclosures of non-GAAP figures may not exclude these same items and as such should not be used for comparison purposes.
Today's Conference Call
VeriSign will host a live teleconference call today at 2:00 p.m. (PST) to review the fourth quarter and fiscal year results. The call will be accessible by direct dial at (888) 676-VRSN (US) or (913) 312-0724 (international). A listen-only live web cast and accompanying slide presentation of the earnings conference call will also be available at http://investor.verisign.com. A replay of this call will be available at (888) 203-1112 or (719) 457-0820 (passcode: 7324216) beginning at 5:00 p.m. (PST) on February 2 and will run through February 9. This press release and the financial information discussed on today's conference call are available on the Investor Relations section of the VeriSign website at http://investor.verisign.com.
About VeriSign
VeriSign, Inc. (NASDAQ: VRSN) is the trusted provider of Internet infrastructure services for the networked world. Billions of times each day, VeriSign helps companies and consumers all over the world engage in communications and commerce with confidence. Additional news and information about the company is available at .
www.verisign.com
VRSNF
Statements in this announcement other than historical data and information constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 as amended and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as amended. These statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause VeriSign's actual results to differ materially from those stated or implied by such forward-looking statements. The potential risks and uncertainties include, among others, the uncertainty of future revenue and profitability and potential fluctuations in quarterly operating results due to such factors as increasing competition and pricing pressure from competing services offered at prices below our prices, the current global economic downturn, market acceptance of our existing services, the inability of VeriSign to successfully develop and market new services, the uncertainty of whether new services as provided by VeriSign will achieve market acceptance or result in any revenues and the uncertainty of the expense and duration of transition services and requests for indemnification relating to completed divestitures. More information about potential factors that could affect the company's business and financial results is included in VeriSign's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K. VeriSign undertakes no obligation to update any of the forward-looking statements after the date of this press release.
Contacts
Investor Relations: Nancy Fazioli, , 650-426-5146
ir@verisign.com
Media Relations: Brad Williams, , 650-426-5298
brwilliams@verisign.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
VeriSign provides quarterly and annual financial statements that are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Along with this information, we typically disclose and discuss certain non-GAAP financial information in our quarterly and annual earnings release, on investor conference calls and during investor conferences and related events. This non-GAAP financial information does not include the following types of financial measures that are included in GAAP: discontinued operations, non-core businesses in continuing operations, stock-based compensation, amortization of other intangible assets, impairments of goodwill and other intangible assets, restructuring costs and non-cash interest expense. Non-GAAP financial information is also adjusted for a 30% tax rate which differs from the GAAP tax rate.
Management believes that this non-GAAP financial data supplements our GAAP financial data by providing investors with additional information that allows them to have a clearer picture of the company's core operations. The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation nor as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with GAAP. We believe that the non-GAAP information enhances the investors' overall understanding of our financial performance and the comparability of the company's operating results from period to period. Above, we have provided a reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial information that we provide each quarter with the comparable financial information reported in accordance with GAAP for the given period.
 
 
 
 
 
VeriSign provides quarterly and annual financial statements that are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Along with this information, we typically disclose and discuss certain non-GAAP financial information in our quarterly and annual earnings release, on investor conference calls and during investor conferences and related events. This non-GAAP financial information does not include the following types of financial measures that are included in GAAP: discontinued operations, non-core businesses in continuing operations, stock-based compensation, amortization of other intangible assets, impairments of goodwill and other intangible assets, restructuring costs and non-cash interest expense. Non-GAAP financial information is also adjusted for a 30% tax rate which differs from the GAAP tax rate. All non-GAAP figures for each period presented herein have been conformed to exclude the foregoing items under GAAP. Prior disclosures of non-GAAP figures may not exclude these same items, and as such should not be used for comparison purposes.
Management believes that this non-GAAP financial data supplements our GAAP financial data by providing investors with additional information that allows them to have a clearer picture of the company's core operations. The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation nor as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with GAAP. We believe that the non-GAAP information enhances the investors' overall understanding of our financial performance and the comparability of the company's operating results from period to period. Above, we have provided a reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial information that we provide each quarter with the comparable financial information reported in accordance with GAAP for the given period.
SUPPLEMENTAL FINANCIAL INFORMATION
 


