FILE:VRSN/VRSN-8K-20101201161328.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On December 1, 2010, VeriSign, Inc. ("VeriSign" or the "Company") announced that Brian Robins, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, will speak at the Barclays Capital 2010 Technology Conference in San Francisco, California, on Wednesday, December 8, 2010 at 10:30 a.m. (PST) and Ben Petro, Senior Vice President, Network Intelligence and Availability Services, will speak at the Lazard Capital Markets Cloud Computing Investor Forum in New York, New York, on Thursday, December 9, 2010 at 1:30 p.m. (EST). A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
The information in this Form 8-K and the Exhibit attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
VeriSign, Inc. (NASDAQ: VRSN), the trusted provider of Internet infrastructure services for the networked world, announced that Brian Robins, executive vice president and chief financial officer, will speak at the Barclays Capital 2010 Technology Conference in San Francisco on Wednesday, December 8 at 10:30 a.m. (PST). During Mr. Robins' presentation, recent company performance and business initiatives will be discussed. Ben Petro, senior vice president, Network Intelligence and Availability Services, will speak at the Lazard Capital Markets Cloud Computing Investor Forum in New York City on Thursday, December 9 at 1:30 p.m. (EST). During Mr. Petro's presentation, Network Intelligence and Availability Services will be discussed. The presentations will be available via live webcast at . Replays of the webcasts will also be available at after the events for a limited period of time.
DULLES, VA  December 1, 2010 
http://investor.verisign.com
http://investor.verisign.com
About VeriSign
VeriSign, Inc. (NASDAQ: VRSN) is the trusted provider of Internet infrastructure services for the networked world. Billions of times each day, VeriSign helps companies and consumers all over the world connect online with confidence. Additional news and information about the company is available at .
www.verisign.com
VRSNF
Contacts:
Investor Relations: Nancy Fazioli, , 650-316-6569
nfazioli@verisign.com
Media Relations: Deana Alvy, , 703-948-4179
dalvy@verisign.com


