FILE:VRSN/VRSN-8K-20110511170946.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01. Other Events.
On May 11, 2011, VeriSign, Inc. ("Verisign" or the "Company") entered into a Settlement Agreement and Mutual Release (the "Agreement") with the Coalition for ICANN Transparency, Inc. ("CFIT"), CFIT's members, iRegistry Corp., Name Administration, Inc., Linkz Internet Services Corp., World Association for Domain Name Developers, Inc., Targeted Traffic Domains, Inc., Bret Fausett, Howard Neu and Frank Schilling (collectively "the CFIT Parties") (the "Parties"), that resolves the litigation initiated by CFIT against the Company. Under the terms of the Agreement, the Company will not make any payment and the Parties will immediately file a dismissal with prejudice of all claims in the litigation. The Agreement includes mutual releases whereby the CFIT Parties have released the Company from all claims that were or could have been asserted in the litigation, or that are related to the facts giving rise to the litigation, the .com or .net registry agreements, or conduct pursuant to those agreements, including price increases by the Company. Under the release provisions, the Company has conditionally released the CFIT Parties from claims having a similar subject matter or relation to the prosecution of the litigation by CFIT. Further, the parties have agreed to mutual covenants not to sue and mutual non-disparagement provisions. CFIT has agreed to issue a press release within 5 business days of the execution of the Agreement stating that CFIT dismissed its claims in their entirety with prejudice in view of the Amended Opinion of the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit in . 611 F.3d 495 (9
Coal. for ICANN Transparency, Inc. v. Verisign, Inc
th
Cir., 2010), the subsequent orders of the United States District Court for the Northern District of California, San Jose Division dismissing CFIT's claims with respect to the 2005 .net Registry Agreement and for disgorgement, and VeriSign's motion for summary judgment.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
VeriSign, Inc. (NASDAQ: VRSN), the trusted provider of Internet infrastructure services for the networked world, announced today that it has entered into a Settlement Agreement and Mutual Release with the Coalition for ICANN Transparency, Inc. ("CFIT"), CFIT's members, and specified related parties that resolves the over five-year long CFIT litigation. Under the terms of the Agreement, no payment will be made and the parties immediately will file a dismissal with prejudice of all claims in the litigation. Further, the parties executed mutual releases from all claims now and in the future related to the litigation.
DULLES, VA  May 11, 2011 
CFIT voluntarily agreed to dismiss its claims in their entirety with prejudice in view of recent developments in the case, including the Amended Opinion of the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, the subsequent orders of the United States District Court for the Northern District of California, San Jose Division dismissing the claims regarding .Net and for disgorgement, and Verisign's motion for summary judgment.
About Verisign
VeriSign, Inc. (NASDAQ: VRSN) is the trusted provider of Internet infrastructure services for the networked world. Billions of times each day, Verisign helps companies and consumers all over the world connect online with confidence. Additional news and information about the company is available at .
www.verisigninc.com
VRSNF
Statements in this announcement other than historical data and information constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 as amended and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as amended. These statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause Verisign's actual results to differ materially from those stated or implied by such forward-looking statements. The potential risks and uncertainties include, among others, the uncertainty of future revenue and profitability and potential fluctuations in quarterly operating results due to such factors as increasing competition, pricing pressure from competing services offered at prices below our prices and changes in marketing practices including those of third-party registrars; the sluggish economic recovery; challenges to ongoing privatization of Internet administration; the outcome of legal or other challenges resulting from our activities or the activities of registrars or registrants; new or existing governmental laws and regulations; changes in customer behavior, Internet platforms and web-browsing patterns; the inability of Verisign to successfully develop and market new services; the uncertainty of whether our new services will achieve market acceptance or result in any revenues; system interruptions; security breaches; attacks on the Internet by hackers, viruses, or intentional acts of vandalism; the uncertainty of the expense and duration of transition services and requests for indemnification relating to completed divestitures; and the uncertainty of whether Project Apollo will achieve its stated objectives. More information about potential factors that could affect the company's business and financial results is included in Verisign's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K. Verisign undertakes no obligation to update any of the forward-looking statements after the date of this announcement.
Contacts:
Investor Relations: Nancy Fazioli, , 650-316-6569
nfazioli@verisign.com
Media Relations: Deana Alvy, , 703-948-4179
dalvy@verisign.com


