FILE:VRSN/VRSN-8K-20110428162307.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On April 28, 2011, VeriSign, Inc. ("VeriSign" or the "Company") announced its financial results for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2011 and certain other information. A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
The information in this Form 8-K and the Exhibit attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information
VeriSign provides quarterly and annual financial statements that are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Along with this information, we typically disclose and discuss certain non-GAAP financial information in our quarterly earnings releases, on investor conference calls and during investor conferences and related events. This non-GAAP financial information does not include the following types of financial measures that are included in GAAP: discontinued operations, stock-based compensation, amortization of other intangible assets, impairments of goodwill and other intangible assets, restructuring charges, contingent interest payment to holders of our Convertible Debentures, and non-cash interest expense. Non-GAAP financial information is also adjusted for a 30% tax rate which differs from the GAAP tax rate. All non-GAAP figures for each period presented in Exhibit 99.1 have been conformed to exclude the foregoing items under GAAP. Prior disclosures of non-GAAP figures do not exclude these same items and as such should not be used for comparison purposes.
Management believes that this non-GAAP financial data supplements our GAAP financial data by providing investors with additional information that allows them to have a clearer picture of the company's operations. The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation nor as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with GAAP. We believe that the non-GAAP information enhances the investors' overall understanding of our financial performance and the comparability of the company's operating results from period to period. In the press release attached hereto to as Exhibit 99.1, we have provided a reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial information that we provide each quarter with the comparable financial information reported in accordance with GAAP for the given period.
 
On April 28, 2011, VeriSign, Inc. (the "Company") announced that on April 27, 2011, its Board of Directors declared a special dividend (the "Dividend") of $2.75 per share of its common stock, par value $0.001 per share (the "Common Stock"). The Dividend will be paid on May 18, 2011 (the "Payment Date") to shareholders of record at the close of business on May 9, 2011 (the "Record Date"). The Common Stock will start trading on an ex-dividend basis beginning May 5, 2011, in accordance with NASDAQ rules.
On April 28, 2011, the Company also announced that its Board of Directors has designated the Dividend as an Extraordinary Dividend pursuant to the Section 4.02(a)(ii) of the Indenture between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association, dated as of August 20, 2007. As a result, contingent interest ("Contingent Interest") will be paid on the Payment Date to holders as of the Record Date of the Company's 3.25% Junior Subordinated Convertible Debentures due 2037. The Contingent Interest will be calculated based on a dividend of $2.75 per share of the Common Stock.
The aggregate amount of payments to be made in connection with the Dividend and the Contingent Interest will be approximately $563 million. A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
(d)
Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
VeriSign, Inc. (NASDAQ: VRSN), the trusted provider of Internet infrastructure services for the networked world, today reported financial results for the first quarter ended March 31, 2011.
DULLES, VA  April 28, 2011 
First Quarter GAAP Financial Results
VeriSign, Inc. and subsidiaries ("Verisign") reported revenue of $182 million for the first quarter of 2011, up 2% from the prior quarter and up 12% from the same quarter in 2010. Verisign reported net income attributable to Verisign stockholders of $41 million and earnings per share attributable to Verisign stockholders of $0.24 on a diluted basis for the first quarter of 2011, compared to net income attributable to Verisign stockholders of $51 million and earnings per share attributable to Verisign stockholders of $0.28 on a diluted basis in the same quarter in 2010. The operating margin was 36.1% for the first quarter of 2011 compared to 33.5% for the same quarter in 2010.
First Quarter Non-GAAP Financial Results
Verisign reported net income attributable to Verisign stockholders of $55 million and earnings per share attributable to Verisign stockholders of $0.32 on a diluted basis for the first quarter of 2011, compared to net income attributable to Verisign stockholders of $40 million and earnings per share attributable to Verisign stockholders of $0.22 on a diluted basis in the same quarter in 2010. The operating margin was 45.9% for the first quarter of 2011 compared to 39.0% for the same quarter in 2010. A table reconciling the GAAP to the non-GAAP results (which excludes items described below) is appended to this release.
"We are pleased to report another record quarter for Verisign in new domain name registrations and strong performance overall in the Naming Services business," said Mark McLaughlin, president and chief executive officer of Verisign. "Our commitment to the continued availability and reliability of the Internet is core to our strategy, and we plan to leverage our extensive expertise and leadership in DNS management to help our customers improve the effectiveness and integrity of Internet communications."
In addition, Verisign announced that its Board of Directors declared a special dividend of $2.75 per share of its common stock. The special dividend will be paid on May 18, 2011 to shareholders of record as of the close of business on May 9, 2011. The ex-dividend date will be May 5, 2011.
"Given the strength of our capital position following the restructuring of the business over the past several years, particularly as a result of the sale of the Authentication Services business last August, the Board voted at a regularly scheduled meeting to return approximately $463 million to the shareholders in the form of a special dividend," said Jim Bidzos, chairman of the board.
Verisign's Board of Directors has designated the special dividend as an extraordinary dividend for purposes of the indenture governing the company's 3.25% Junior Subordinated Convertible Debentures due 2037 (the "Convertible Debentures"). As a result, contingent interest of approximately $100 million will also be paid on May 18, 2011 to holders of record of the Convertible Debentures at the close of business on May 9, 2011. Verisign expects that the aggregate amount of payments to be made in connection with the special dividend and the contingent interest will be approximately $563 million.
"We are committed to delivering value to our shareholders through disciplined operations and investment in growth opportunities for the company," said Brian Robins, chief financial officer of Verisign. "During the first quarter, we utilized approximately $200 million to repurchase shares and we have share repurchase authorization of approximately $1.2 billion remaining under the current program."
Financial Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
Business and Corporate Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Items
Non-GAAP financial results exclude the following items that are included under GAAP: discontinued operations, stock-based compensation, amortization of other intangible assets, impairments of goodwill and other intangible assets, restructuring charges, contingent interest payment to holders of our Convertible Debentures, and non-cash interest expense. Non-GAAP financial information is also adjusted for a 30% tax rate which differs from the GAAP tax rate. A table reconciling the GAAP to non-GAAP operating income and net income attributable to Verisign stockholders is appended to this release. All non-GAAP figures for each period presented herein have been conformed to exclude the foregoing items under GAAP. Prior disclosures of non-GAAP figures do not exclude the same items and as such should not be used for comparison purposes.
Today's Conference Call
Verisign will host a live teleconference call today at 4:30 p.m. (EDT) to review the first quarter results. The call will be accessible by direct dial at (888) 676-VRSN (US) or (913) 312-1479 (international). A listen-only live web cast and accompanying slide presentation of the earnings conference call will also be available on the Investor Relations section of the Verisign website at www.verisigninc.com. A telephone replay of this call will remain available at (888) 203-1112 or (719) 457-0820 (passcode: 9939898) for one week after the conference call. This press release and the financial information discussed on today's conference call are available on the Investor Relations section of the Verisign website at www.verisigninc.com.
About Verisign
VeriSign, Inc. (NASDAQ: VRSN) is the trusted provider of Internet infrastructure services for the networked world. Billions of times each day, Verisign helps companies and consumers all over the world connect online with confidence. Additional news and information about the company is available at .
www.verisigninc.com
VRSNF
Statements in this announcement other than historical data and information constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 as amended and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as amended. These statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause Verisign's actual results to differ materially from those stated or implied by such forward-looking statements. The potential risks and uncertainties include, among others, the uncertainty of future revenue and profitability and potential fluctuations in quarterly operating results due to such factors as increasing competition, pricing pressure from competing services offered at prices below our prices and changes in marketing practices including those of third-party registrars; the sluggish economic recovery; challenges to ongoing privatization of Internet administration; the outcome of legal or other challenges resulting from our activities or the activities of registrars or registrants; new or existing governmental laws and regulations; changes in customer behavior, Internet platforms and web-browsing patterns; the inability of Verisign to successfully develop and market new services; the uncertainty of whether our new services will achieve market acceptance or result in any revenues; system interruptions; security breaches; attacks on the Internet by hackers, viruses, or intentional acts of vandalism; the uncertainty of the expense and duration of transition services and requests for indemnification relating to completed divestitures; and the uncertainty of whether Project Apollo will achieve its stated objectives. More information about potential factors that could affect the company's business and financial results is included in Verisign's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K. Verisign undertakes no obligation to update any of the forward-looking statements after the date of this announcement.
Contacts
Investor Relations: Nancy Fazioli, , 650-316-6569
nfazioli@verisign.com
Media Relations: Deana Alvy, , 703-948-4179
dalvy@verisign.com
 
 
 
 
Verisign provides quarterly and annual financial statements that are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Along with this information, we typically disclose and discuss certain non-GAAP financial information in our quarterly earnings release, on investor conference calls and during investor conferences and related events. This non-GAAP financial information does not include the following types of financial measures that are included in GAAP: discontinued operations, stock-based compensation, amortization of other intangible assets, impairments of goodwill and other intangible assets, restructuring charges, contingent interest payments to holders of our Convertible Debentures, and non-cash interest expense. Non-GAAP financial information is also adjusted for a 30% tax rate which differs from the GAAP tax rate. All non-GAAP figures for each period presented above have been conformed to exclude the foregoing items under GAAP. Prior disclosures of non-GAAP figures do not exclude the same items and as such should not be used for comparison purposes.
Management believes that this non-GAAP financial data supplements our GAAP financial data by providing investors with additional information that allows them to have a clearer picture of the Company's operations. The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation nor as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with GAAP. We believe that the non-GAAP information enhances the investors' overall understanding of our financial performance and the comparability of the company's operating results from period to period. Above, we have provided a reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial information that we provide each quarter with the comparable financial information reported in accordance with GAAP for the given period.
SUPPLEMENTAL FINANCIAL INFORMATION
 


