FILE:VRSN/VRSN-8K-20110127161202.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On January 27, 2011, VeriSign, Inc. ("VeriSign" or the "Company") announced its financial results for the fiscal quarter and year ended December 31, 2010 and certain other information. A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
The information in this Form 8-K and the Exhibit attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information
VeriSign provides quarterly and annual financial statements that are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Along with this information, we typically disclose and discuss certain non-GAAP financial information in our quarterly earnings release, on investor conference calls and during investor conferences and related events. This non-GAAP financial information does not include the following types of financial measures that are included in GAAP: discontinued operations, stock-based compensation, amortization of other intangible assets, impairments of goodwill and other intangible assets, restructuring costs, contingent interest payment to holders of our convertible debentures and non-cash interest expense. Non-GAAP financial information is also adjusted for a 30% tax rate which differs from the GAAP tax rate. All non-GAAP figures for each period presented in Exhibit 99.1 have been conformed to exclude the foregoing items under GAAP. Prior disclosures of non-GAAP figures do not exclude the same items and as such should not be used for comparison purposes.
Management believes that this non-GAAP financial data supplements our GAAP financial data by providing investors with additional information that allows them to have a clearer picture of the Company's operations. The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation nor as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with GAAP. We believe that the non-GAAP information enhances the investors' overall understanding of our financial performance and the comparability of the Company's operating results from period to period. In the press release attached hereto to as Exhibit 99.1, we have provided a reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial information that we provide each quarter with the comparable financial information reported in accordance with GAAP for the given period.
 
(d) Exhibits.
99.1     Text of press release of VeriSign, Inc. issued on January 27, 2011.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Exhibit Index
 

Exhibit 99.1
VeriSign, Inc. (NASDAQ: VRSN), the trusted provider of Internet infrastructure services for the networked world, today reported financial results for the fourth quarter of 2010 and year ended December 31, 2010.
DULLES, VA  January 27, 2011 
Fourth Quarter GAAP Financial Results
VeriSign, Inc. and subsidiaries ("Verisign") reported revenue of $179 million for the fourth quarter of 2010, up 4% from the prior quarter and up 13% from the same quarter in 2009. Verisign reported net loss attributable to Verisign stockholders of $(41) million and net loss per share attributable to Verisign stockholders of $(0.23) on a diluted basis for the fourth quarter of 2010, reflecting a $109 million payment of contingent interest to holders of the 3.25% Junior Subordinated Convertible Debentures due 2037 ("Convertible Debentures") in connection with a special dividend in December. This compared to net income attributable to Verisign stockholders of $92 million and earnings per share attributable to Verisign stockholders of $0.48 on a diluted basis in the same quarter in 2009. The operating margin was 37.7% for the fourth quarter of 2010 compared to 29.9% for the same quarter in 2009.
Because the company has not fully completed the tax provision calculation process, tax provisions for both the fourth quarter and full year 2010 are still preliminary and therefore GAAP net income/loss and GAAP earnings/loss per share for these periods are also preliminary. Final tax provisions, GAAP net income/loss, and GAAP earnings/loss per share will be updated in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010 to be filed with the SEC and may differ materially from the amounts reported above.
Fourth Quarter Non-GAAP Financial Results
Verisign reported net income attributable to Verisign stockholders of $54 million and earnings per share attributable to Verisign stockholders of $0.31 on a diluted basis for the fourth quarter of 2010, compared to net income attributable to Verisign stockholders of $33 million and earnings per share attributable to Verisign stockholders of $0.17 on a diluted basis in the same quarter in 2009. The operating margin was 44.3% for the fourth quarter of 2010 compared to 35.4% for the same quarter in 2009. A table reconciling the GAAP to the non-GAAP results (which excludes items described below) is appended to this release.
"We are pleased with our performance this quarter, capping a strong year of execution in which the business continued to benefit from favorable Internet trends," said Mark McLaughlin, president and chief executive officer of Verisign. "In 2011, we will continue to provide exceptional service to our customers and help them grow by providing services that address the reliability and availability demands of increased Internet usage and cloud computing."
2010 GAAP Financial Results
For the year ended December 31, 2010, Verisign reported revenue of $681 million, up 10% from $616 million in 2009. Verisign reported net income attributable to Verisign stockholders of $831 million and earnings per share attributable to Verisign stockholders of $4.64 on a diluted basis, reflecting a net gain of
$726 million, net of tax of $254 million, on the sale of the Authentication Services business. This compared to net income attributable to Verisign stockholders of $246 million and earnings per share attributable to Verisign stockholders of $1.28 on a diluted basis in 2009. The operating margin for 2010 was 34.1% compared to 26.0% in 2009.
2010 Non-GAAP Financial Results
Verisign reported net income attributable to Verisign stockholders of $185 million and earnings per share attributable to Verisign stockholders of $1.03 on a diluted basis, compared to net income attributable to Verisign stockholders of $124 million and earnings per share attributable to Verisign stockholders of $0.64 on a diluted basis in 2009. The operating margin for 2010 was 41.8% compared to 33.3% in 2009. A table reconciling the GAAP to the non-GAAP results (which excludes items described below) is appended to this release.
"Our key long-term financial priorities have been growth and increased operating leverage, and we made substantial progress on both in 2010 due to our continued strategic focus, execution and operating discipline," said Brian Robins, chief financial officer of Verisign.
Financial Highlights
 
Business and Corporate Highlights
 
Non-GAAP Items
Non-GAAP financial results exclude the following items that are included under GAAP: discontinued operations, stock-based compensation, amortization of other intangible assets, impairments of goodwill and other intangible assets, restructuring costs, contingent interest payment to holders of our Convertible Debentures, and non-cash interest expense. Non-GAAP financial information is also adjusted for a 30% tax rate which differs from the GAAP tax rate. A table reconciling the GAAP to non-GAAP operating income and net income attributable to Verisign stockholders is appended to this release. All non-GAAP figures for each period presented herein have been conformed to exclude the foregoing items under GAAP. Prior disclosures of non-GAAP figures do not exclude the same items and as such should not be used for comparison purposes.
Today's Conference Call
Verisign will host a live teleconference call today at 4:30 p.m. (EST) to review the fourth quarter and full year results. The call will be accessible by direct dial at (888) 676-VRSN (US) or (913) 312-0821 (international). A listen-only live web cast and accompanying slide presentation of the earnings conference call will also be available on the Investor Relations section of the Verisign website at www.verisigninc.com. A telephone replay of this call will remain available at (888) 203-1112 or (719) 457-0820 (passcode: 1564139) for one week after the conference call. This press release and the financial information discussed on today's conference call are available on the Investor Relations section of the Verisign website at www.verisigninc.com.
About Verisign
VeriSign, Inc. (NASDAQ: VRSN) is the trusted provider of Internet infrastructure services for the networked world. Billions of times each day, Verisign helps companies and consumers all over the world connect online with confidence. Additional news and information about the company is available at .
www.verisigninc.com
VRSNF
Statements in this announcement other than historical data and information constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 as amended and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as amended. These statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause Verisign's actual results to differ materially from those stated or implied by such forward-looking statements. The potential risks and uncertainties include, among others, the uncertainty of future revenue and profitability and potential fluctuations in quarterly operating results due to such factors as increasing competition, pricing pressure from competing services offered at prices below our prices and changes in marketing practices including those of third-party registrars; the sluggish economic recovery; challenges to ongoing privatization of Internet administration; the outcome of legal or other challenges resulting from our activities or the activities of registrars or registrants; new or existing governmental laws and regulations; changes in customer behavior, Internet platforms and web-browsing patterns; the inability of Verisign to successfully develop and market new services; the uncertainty of whether our new services will achieve
market acceptance or result in any revenues; system interruptions; security breaches; attacks on the Internet by hackers, viruses, or intentional acts of vandalism; the uncertainty of the expense and duration of transition services and requests for indemnification relating to completed divestitures; and the uncertainty of whether Project Apollo will achieve its stated objectives. More information about potential factors that could affect the company's business and financial results is included in Verisign's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K. Verisign undertakes no obligation to update any of the forward-looking statements after the date of this announcement.
Contacts
Investor Relations: Nancy Fazioli, , 650-316-6569
nfazioli@verisign.com
Media Relations: Deana Alvy, , 703-948-4179
dalvy@verisign.com
 
 
 
 
The following table presents stock-based compensation:
 
 
 
 
 
VeriSign provides quarterly and annual financial statements that are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Along with this information, we typically disclose and discuss certain non-GAAP financial information in our quarterly earnings release, on investor conference calls and during investor conferences and related events. This non-GAAP financial information does not include the following types of financial measures that are included in GAAP: discontinued operations, stock-based compensation, amortization of other intangible assets, impairments of goodwill and other intangible assets, restructuring costs, contingent interest payment to holders of our Convertible Debentures, and non-cash interest expense. Non-GAAP financial information is also adjusted for a 30% tax rate which differs from the GAAP tax rate. All non-GAAP figures for each period presented above have been conformed to exclude the foregoing items under GAAP. Prior disclosures of non-GAAP figures do not exclude the same items and as such should not be used for comparison purposes.
Management believes that this non-GAAP financial data supplements our GAAP financial data by providing investors with additional information that allows them to have a clearer picture of the Company's operations. The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation nor as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with GAAP. We believe that the non-GAAP information enhances the investors' overall understanding of our financial performance and the comparability of the company's operating results from period to period. Above, we have provided a reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial information that we provide each quarter with the comparable financial information reported in accordance with GAAP for the given period.
 
 
VeriSign provides quarterly and annual financial statements that are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Along with this information, we typically disclose and discuss certain non-GAAP financial information in our quarterly earnings release, on investor conference calls and during investor conferences and related events. This non-GAAP financial information does not include the following types of financial measures that are included in GAAP: discontinued operations, stock-based compensation, amortization of other intangible assets, impairments of goodwill and other intangible assets, restructuring costs, contingent interest payment to holders of our Convertible Debentures and non-cash interest expense. Non-GAAP financial information is also adjusted for a 30% tax rate which differs from the GAAP tax rate. All non-GAAP figures for each period presented above have been conformed to exclude the foregoing items under GAAP. Prior disclosures of non-GAAP figures do not exclude the same items and as such should not be used for comparison purposes.
Management believes that this non-GAAP financial data supplements our GAAP financial data by providing investors with additional information that allows them to have a clearer picture of the Company's operations. The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation nor as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with GAAP. We believe that the non-GAAP information enhances the investors' overall understanding of our financial performance and the comparability of the company's operating results from period to period. Above, we have provided a reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial information that we provide each quarter with the comparable financial information reported in accordance with GAAP for the given period.
 


