FILE:VRSN/VRSN-8K-20121025161912.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): October 25, 2012
VERISIGN, INC.
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter)
 
Delaware
(State or Other Jurisdiction of
Incorporation)
 
 
(703) 948-3200
(Registrants Telephone Number, Including Area Code)
 
(Former Name or Former Address, if Changed Since Last Report)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
On October 25, 2012, VeriSign, Inc. (VeriSign or the Company) announced its financial results for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2012 and certain other information. A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
The information in this Item 2.02 of Form 8-K and the Exhibit attached hereto shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information
VeriSign provides quarterly and annual financial statements that are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Along with this information, we typically disclose and discuss certain non-GAAP financial information in our quarterly earnings releases, on investor conference calls and during investor conferences and related events. This non-GAAP financial information does not include the following types of financial measures that are included in GAAP: discontinued operations, stock-based compensation, amortization of other intangible assets, impairments of goodwill and other intangible assets, restructuring charges, contingent interest payments to holders of our Convertible Debentures, unrealized gain/loss on contingent interest derivative on Convertible Debentures, and non-cash interest expense. Non-GAAP financial information is also adjusted for a 28 percent tax rate starting from the third quarter of 2012 and 30 percent for all other periods presented herein, both of which differ from the GAAP tax rate. All non-GAAP figures for each period presented in Exhibit 99.1 have been conformed to exclude the foregoing items under GAAP.  
Management believes that this non-GAAP financial data supplements our GAAP financial data by providing investors with additional information that allows them to have a clearer picture of the Company's operations. The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation nor as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with GAAP. We believe that the non-GAAP information enhances the investors' overall understanding of our financial performance and the comparability of the Company's operating results from period to period. In the press release attached hereto to as Exhibit 99.1, we have provided a reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial information that we provide each quarter with the comparable financial information reported in accordance with GAAP for the given period.
 
(d)
Exhibits
 
1
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
2
Exhibit Index
 
3

Exhibit 99.1
        
Verisign Reports 13 Percent Year-Over-Year Revenue Growth in Third Quarter 2012
RESTON, VA - Oct. 25, 2012 -
VeriSign, Inc. (NASDAQ: VRSN), the trusted provider of Internet infrastructure services for the networked world, today reported financial results for the third quarter ended Sept. 30, 2012.
Third Quarter GAAP Financial Results
VeriSign, Inc. and subsidiaries (Verisign) reported revenue of $224 million for the third quarter of 2012, up 13 percent from the same quarter in 2011. Verisign reported net income of $78 million and diluted earnings per shares (EPS) of $0.47 for the third quarter of 2012, compared to net income of $59 million and diluted EPS of $0.36 for the same quarter in 2011. The operating margin was 51.9 percent for the third quarter of 2012 compared to 45.2 percent for the same quarter in 2011.
Third Quarter Non-GAAP Financial Results
Verisign reported, on a non-GAAP basis, net income of $84 million and diluted EPS of $0.50 for the third quarter of 2012, compared to net income of $64 million and diluted EPS of $0.39 for the same quarter in 2011. The non-GAAP operating margin was 56.4 percent for the third quarter of 2012 compared to 50.1 percent for the same quarter in 2011. A table reconciling the GAAP to the non-GAAP results (that excludes items described below) is appended to this release.
We continue to see benefits in our results from our restructuring, focus, and continued operational discipline, commented Jim Bidzos, executive chairman, president and chief executive officer.
 
Verisign's .com Registry Agreement renewal with Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN) to serve as the authoritative registry operator for the .com registry was approved by Verisign's Board of Directors on June 16, 2012, and ICANN's Board of Directors on June 23, 2012. In accordance with the Cooperative Agreement between the Department of Commerce and Verisign, Verisign submitted the .com Registry Agreement to the Commerce Department for its review on June 26, 2012.
As a result of communications beginning in October 2012 with the Commerce Department, we have concluded that the Commerce Department may not complete its review and approve the renewal of the .com Registry Agreement prior to its expiration on Nov. 30, 2012, and that the Commerce Department, together with the Department of Justice, is reviewing the .com Registry Agreement's pricing terms.
Pursuant to the terms of the Cooperative Agreement, if the .com
Registry Agreement is not approved by the Commerce Department prior to its expiration, the Commerce Department is required to agree to the extension of the .com
Registry Agreement for six months, or such other reasonable period of time as the Commerce Department and Verisign may mutually agree.
We remain committed to providing unparalleled network and registry services performance as we work with the Commerce Department to renew the .com Registry Agreement. Additionally, an area of emphasis for us is further enhancing our infrastructure to strengthen security and stability for both our customers and our own operations, in the face of new and ever-increasing cyber threats, said Bidzos.
Financial Highlights
Business Highlights
Non-GAAP Items
Non-GAAP financial results exclude the following items that are included under GAAP: Discontinued operations, stock-based compensation, amortization of other intangible assets, impairments of goodwill and other intangible assets, restructuring charges, contingent interest payments to holders of our Convertible Debentures, unrealized gain/loss on contingent interest derivative on Convertible Debentures, and non-cash interest expense. Non-GAAP financial information is also adjusted for a 28 percent tax rate starting from the third quarter of 2012, and 30 percent for the other periods presented herein, both of which differ from the GAAP tax rate. A table reconciling the GAAP to non-GAAP operating income and net income attributable to Verisign stockholders is appended to this release.
Today's Conference Call
Verisign will host a live conference call today at 4:30 p.m. (EDT) to review the third quarter 2012 results. The call will be accessible by direct dial at (888) 676-VRSN (U.S.) or (913) 981-5540 (international). A listen-only live webcast and accompanying slide presentation of the third quarter 2012 earnings conference call will also be available at
http://investor.verisign.com
. A replay of this call will be available at (888) 203-1112 or (719) 457-0820 (passcode:
4720678
) beginning at 8:00 p.m. (EDT) on Oct. 25, 2012, and will run through Nov. 2, 2012, at 7:00 p.m. (EDT). An audio archive of the call will be available at
https://investor.verisign.com/events.cfm
. This press release and the financial information discussed on today's conference call are available at
http://investor.verisign.com
.
About VeriSign
VeriSign, Inc. (NASDAQ: VRSN) is the trusted provider of Internet infrastructure services for the networked world. Billions of times each day, Verisign helps companies and consumers all over the world connect between the dots. Additional news and information about the company is available at
www.verisigninc.com
.
VRSNF
###
Statements in this announcement other than historical data and information constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 as amended and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as amended. These statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause Verisign's actual results to differ materially from those stated or implied by such forward-looking statements. The potential risks and uncertainties include, among others, the uncertainty of whether the .com Registry Agreement renewal will occur on or before November 30, 2012, if at all, and if the .com Registry Agreement is renewed, whether it will be renewed on the terms previously approved by ICANN and Verisign's Board of Directors; the uncertainty of future revenue and profitability and potential fluctuations in quarterly operating results due to such factors as increasing competition, pricing pressure from competing services offered at prices below our prices and changes in marketing and advertising practices, including those of third-party registrars; changes in search engine algorithms and advertising payment practices; challenging global economic conditions; challenges to ongoing privatization of Internet administration; the outcome of legal or other challenges resulting from our activities or the activities of registrars or registrants, or litigation generally; new or existing governmental laws and regulations; changes in customer
behavior, Internet platforms and web-browsing patterns; the uncertainty of whether Verisign will successfully develop and market new services; the uncertainty of whether our new services will achieve market acceptance or result in any revenues; system interruptions; security breaches; attacks on the Internet by hackers, viruses, or intentional acts of vandalism; whether Verisign will be able to continue to expand its infrastructure to meet demand; the uncertainty of the expense and timing of requests for indemnification, if any, relating to completed divestitures; and the impact of the introduction of new gTLDs, any delays in their introduction and whether our gTLD applications or the applicants' gTLD applications for which we have contracted to provide back-end registry services will be successful. More information about potential factors that could affect the Company's business and financial results is included in Verisign's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K. Verisign undertakes no obligation to update any of the forward-looking statements after the date of this announcement.
Contacts:
Investor Relations: David Atchley,
datchley@verisign.com
, 703-948-4643
Media Relations: Jeannie McPherson,
jmcpherson@verisign.com
, 571-420-1753
2012 VeriSign, Inc. All rights reserved. VERISIGN, the VERISIGN logo, and other trademarks, service marks, and designs are registered or unregistered trademarks of VeriSign, Inc. and its subsidiaries in the United States and in foreign countries. All other trademarks are property of their respective owners.
VERISIGN, INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(In thousands, except par value)
(Unaudited)
VERISIGN, INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
(In thousands, except per share data)
(Unaudited)
VERISIGN, INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(In thousands)
(Unaudited)
 
VERISIGN, INC.
STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS RECONCILIATION
(In thousands, except per share data)
(Unaudited)
Verisign provides quarterly and annual financial statements that are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Along with this information, we typically disclose and discuss certain non-GAAP financial information in our quarterly earnings release, on investor conference calls and during investor conferences and related events. This non-GAAP financial information does not include the following types of financial measures that are included in GAAP: discontinued operations, stock-based compensation, amortization of other intangible assets, impairments of goodwill and other intangible assets, restructuring charges, contingent interest payments to holders of our Convertible Debentures, unrealized gain/loss on contingent interest derivative on Convertible Debentures, and non-cash interest expense. Non-GAAP financial information is also adjusted for a 28 percent tax rate starting from the third quarter of 2012 and 30 percent for all other periods presented herein, both of which differ from the GAAP tax rate. All non-GAAP figures for each period presented above have been conformed to exclude the foregoing items under GAAP.
Management believes that this non-GAAP financial data supplements our GAAP financial data by providing investors with additional information that allows them to have a clearer picture of the Company's operations. The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation nor as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with GAAP. We believe that the non-GAAP information enhances the investors' overall understanding of our financial performance and the comparability of the company's operating results from period to period. Above, we have provided a reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial information that we provide each quarter with the comparable financial information reported in accordance with GAAP for the given period.
SUPPLEMENTAL FINANCIAL INFORMATION
The following table presents the classification of stock-based compensation:
VERISIGN, INC.
STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS RECONCILIATION
(In thousands, except per share data)
(Unaudited)
Verisign provides quarterly and annual financial statements that are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Along with this information, we typically disclose and discuss certain non-GAAP financial information in our quarterly earnings release, on investor conference calls and during investor conferences and related events. This non-GAAP financial information does not include the following types of financial measures that are included in GAAP: discontinued operations, stock-based compensation, amortization of other intangible assets, impairments of goodwill and other intangible assets, restructuring charges, contingent interest payments to holders of our Convertible Debentures, unrealized gain/loss on contingent interest derivative on Convertible Debentures, and non-cash interest expense. Non-GAAP financial information is also adjusted for a 28 percent tax rate starting from the third quarter of 2012 and 30 percent for all other periods presented herein, both of which differ from the GAAP tax rate. All non-GAAP figures for each period presented above have been conformed to exclude the foregoing items under GAAP.
Management believes that this non-GAAP financial data supplements our GAAP financial data by providing investors with additional information that allows them to have a clearer picture of the Company's operations. The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation nor as a substitute for results prepared in accordance with GAAP. We believe that the non-GAAP information enhances the investors' overall understanding of our financial performance and the comparability of the company's operating results from period to period. Above, we have provided a reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial information that we provide each quarter with the comparable financial information reported in accordance with GAAP for the given period.
SUPPLEMENTAL FINANCIAL INFORMATION
The following table presents the classification of stock-based compensation:


