FILE:VRSN/VRSN-8K-20120829162639.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): August 29, 2012
VERISIGN, INC.
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter)
 
Delaware
(State or Other Jurisdiction of
Incorporation)
 
 
(703) 948-3200
(Registrants Telephone Number, Including Area Code)
 
(Former Name or Former Address, if Changed Since Last Report)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
On August 29, 2012, VeriSign, Inc. (VeriSign or the Company) announced that Jim Bidzos, Executive Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer and George E. Kilguss, III, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, will speak at the Citi Technology conference in New York City, New York on Wednesday, September 5, 2012 at 1:30 p.m. (ET). A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
The information in this Form 8-K and the Exhibit attached hereto shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
(d)
Exhibits
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Exhibit Index
 

Exhibit 99.1
Verisign to Present at the Citi Technology Conference
RESTON, VA  Aug. 29, 2012 
VeriSign, Inc. (NASDAQ: VRSN), the trusted provider of Internet infrastructure services for the networked world, today announced that Jim Bidzos, executive chairman, president and chief executive officer and George E. Kilguss, III, senior vice president and chief financial officer for Verisign will speak at the Citi Technology conference in New York City on Wednesday, Sept. 5, at 1:30 p.m. (EDT). During the discussion, recent company performance and business initiatives will be highlighted. A live audio webcast of the event will be available at
http://investor.verisign.com
. A replay of the webcast will also be available at
http://investor.verisign.com
after the event for a limited period of time.
About VeriSign
VeriSign, Inc. (NASDAQ: VRSN) is the trusted provider of Internet infrastructure services for the networked world. Billions of times each day, Verisign helps companies and consumers all over the world connect between the dots. Additional news and information about the company is available at
www.verisigninc.com
.
VRSNF
Contacts:
Investor Relations: David Atchley,
datchley@verisign.com
, 703-948-4643
Media Relations: Deana Alvy,
dalvy@verisign.com
, 703-948-4179
2012 VeriSign, Inc. All rights reserved. VERISIGN, the VERISIGN logo, and other trademarks, service marks, and designs are registered or unregistered trademarks of VeriSign, Inc. and its subsidiaries in the United States and in foreign countries. All other trademarks are property of their respective owners.


