FILE:VRSN/VRSN-8K-20120508161524.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On May 8, 2012, VeriSign, Inc. ("VeriSign" or the "Company") announced that Jim Bidzos, Executive Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, will speak at the JP Morgan Global Technology, Media and Telecom conference in Boston, Massachusetts on Tuesday, May 15, 2012 at 2:10 p.m. (ET). A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
The information in this Form 8-K and the Exhibit attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Exhibit Index
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
VeriSign, Inc. (NASDAQ: VRSN), the trusted provider of Internet infrastructure services for the networked world, today announced that Jim Bidzos, executive chairman, president and chief executive officer, will speak at the JP Morgan Global Technology, Media and Telecom conference in Boston, Massachusetts on Tuesday, May 15, at 2:10 p.m. (ET). Attending the conference with Bidzos will be newly named chief financial officer, George E. Kilguss, III and John Calys, vice president, controller. During the discussion, recent company performance and business initiatives will be highlighted. It will be possible to listen to the discussion via live audio webcast at . A replay of the webcast will also be available at after the event for a limited period of time.
RESTON, VA  May 8, 2012 
http://investor.verisign.com
http://investor.verisign.com
About Verisign
VeriSign, Inc. (NASDAQ: VRSN) is the trusted provider of Internet infrastructure services for the networked world. Billions of times each day, Verisign helps companies and consumers all over the world connect between the dots. Additional news and information about the company is available at .
www.verisigninc.com
VRSNF
Contacts:
Investor Relations: David Atchley, , 703-948-4643
datchley@verisign.com
Media Relations: Deana Alvy, , 703-948-4179
dalvy@verisign.com
2012 VeriSign, Inc. All rights reserved. VERISIGN, the VERISIGN logo, and other trademarks, service marks, and designs are registered or unregistered trademarks of VeriSign, Inc. and its subsidiaries in the United States and in foreign countries. All other trademarks are property of their respective owners.


