FILE:VRSN/VRSN-8K-20120227161441.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(e) Executive officers of VeriSign, Inc. are eligible to receive an annual performance bonus payment for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 ("Fiscal 2011") under the VeriSign, Inc. Annual Incentive Compensation Plan ("AICP") based on performance against goals established by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (the "Committee") for Fiscal 2011. At a meeting held on February 21, 2012, the Committee determined, subject to and conditional upon receipt of an unqualified signed opinion from our independent registered public accounting firm regarding the financial statements contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 (which occurred on February 24, 2012), the amounts of annual performance bonuses to be paid under the AICP based on the Committee's review with management of the performance of each eligible executive officer.
The Fiscal 2011 AICP bonuses approved for our chief executive officer, chief financial officer and each of the persons designated as a "Named Executive Officer" in our 2011 Annual Proxy Statement were as follows:
 
In connection with Mr. Bidzos' ongoing service as the Company's President and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Bidzos will relocate from California to Virginia. On February 21, 2012, in connection with Mr. Bidzos' relocation, the Committee approved the reimbursement of up to $300,000 in reasonable and legitimate relocation expenses, which amount shall not include tax gross-ups but shall include real estate agent fees and other fees related to the sale of his home in California and the purchase of a new home in Virginia, moving expenses for household goods and automobiles, and other reasonable and legitimate expenses related to his relocation.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 


