ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The information required by Part II, Item 7 is incorporated by reference to the information under the caption "Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in the Companys Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2002. 29 ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The Securities and Exchange Commission requires that registrants include information about potential effects of changes in interest rates and currency exchange rates in their financial statements. The qualitative information required by Part II, Item 7A is incorporated by reference to the information under the captions "Interest Rate Sensitivity" and "Foreign Currency" in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 13 "Derivatives" in the Companys Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2002. Interest Rate Risk The Company has used interest rate swaps to convert the interest rate on a majority of its borrowings from fixed rates to variable rates. Including the impact of the swaps, about 22% of the Companys borrowings were on a fixed rate basis as of June 30, 2002; the remaining balance is subject to changes in U.S short term interest rates. In addition, the Company had $86 million in equipment operating leases that are subject to fluctuations in U.S. short term interest rates. To assess exposure to interest rate changes, the Company has performed a sensitivity analysis assuming a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in interest rates across all maturities. This analysis indicates that such market movements would reduce fiscal 2002 net income, based on June 2002 positions, by approximately $2.3 million. Based on June 2001 positions, the effect on fiscal 2001 net income of such an increase in interest rates was estimated to be $1.4 million. Foreign Currency Risk The Company is exposed to market risks arising from changes in foreign exchange rates, principally the change in the value of the euro versus the U.S. dollar. The Company estimates the effect on projected 2003 net income, based upon a recent estimate of foreign exchange transactional exposure, of a uniform strengthening or uniform weakening of the transaction currency pairs of 10 percent will decrease net income by $9 million or will increase net income by $9 million. As of June 30, 2002, the Company 30 had hedged a portion of its estimated foreign currency transactions using forward exchange contracts. The Company estimates the effect on projected 2003 net income, based upon a recent estimate of foreign exchange translation exposure (translating the operating performance of our foreign subsidiaries into U.S. dollars), of a uniform strengthening or weakening of the U.S. dollar by 10 percent to decrease net income $5.9 million or to increase net income $5.9 million. The Company and its subsidiaries net unhedged exposure in assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than their relevant functional currencies as of June 30, 2002 and 2001 was not material to the consolidated financial position of the Company. Actual gains and losses in the future may differ materially from the hypothetical gains and losses discussed above based on changes in the timing and amount of interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate movements and the Companys actual exposure and hedging transactions. 
 
