Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The information required by Part II, Item 7 is incorporated by reference to the information under the caption Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2003. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk The Securities and Exchange Commission requires that registrants include information about potential effects of changes in interest rates and currency exchange rates in their financial statements. The qualitative information required by Part II, Item 7A is incorporated by reference to the information under the captions Interest Rate Sensitivity and Foreign Currency in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 15 of the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements, each contained in our Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2003. Interest Rate Risk. We use interest rate swaps to convert the interest rate on a majority of our borrowings from fixed rates to variable rates. Including the impact of the swaps, about 20% of our borrowings were on a fixed rate basis as of June 30, 2003; the remaining balance is subject to changes in U.S. short term interest rates. In addition, payments on $54 million aggregate amount of our equipment operating leases are subject to fluctuations in U.S. short term interest rates. To assess exposure to interest rate changes, we have performed a sensitivity analysis assuming a hypothetical 100 basis point increase or decrease in interest rates across all maturities. Our analysis indicates that such market movements would reduce fiscal 2003 net income, based on June 2003 positions, by approximately $2.0 million. Based on June 2002 positions, the effect on fiscal 2002 net income of such an increase and decrease in interest rates was estimated to be $2.3 million. Foreign Currency Risk. Our business is subject to market risks arising from changes in foreign currency exchange rates, principally the change in the value of the euro versus the U.S. dollar. We presently estimate the effect on projected 2004 net income, based upon a recent estimate of foreign exchange transactional exposure, of a uniform strengthening or uniform weakening of the transaction currency pairs of 10 percent will decrease net income by $17.9 million or will increase net income by $17.9 million. As of June 30, 2003, we had hedged a portion of our estimated foreign currency transactions using forward exchange contracts. We presently estimate the effect on projected 2004 net income, based upon a recent estimate of foreign exchange translation exposure (translating the operating performance of our foreign subsidiaries into U.S. dollars), of a uniform strengthening or weakening of the U.S. dollar by 10 percent would increase or decrease net income $9.4 million. Actual gains and losses in the future may differ materially from the hypothetical gains and losses discussed above based on changes in the timing and amount of interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate movements and our actual exposure and hedging transactions. 
 
