Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 13 Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 26 Item 8 Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 28 Item 9 Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 54 Item 9A Controls and Procedures 54 Part III Item 10 Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant 55 Item 11 Executive Compensation 55 Item 12 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management 56 Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions 56 Item 14 Principal Accountant Fees and Services 56 Part IV Item 15 Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8 K 56 Signatures 60 References to "the Company," "we," "us," and "our" in this Form 10 K refer to Harman International Industries, Incorporated and its subsidiaries unless the context requires otherwise. 2 &n bsp; Part I Item 1. Business Harman International Industries, Incorporated is a Delaware corporation incorporated in 1980. We believe we are a worldwide leader in the manufacture of high quality, high fidelity audio and electronic systems for consumer and professional use. We have developed a broad range of product offerings sold under renowned brand names in our principal markets. We believe that we are a leader in digitally integrated infotainment systems for the automotive industry. We believe our JBL, Infinity, Harman/Kardon, Mark Levinson and Becker brand names are well known worldwide for premium quality and performance. We have built these brands by developing our world class engineering, manufacturing and marketing competences and have employed those resources to establish worldwide leadership with our brands. We organize our businesses into reporting segments by the end user markets we serve. Our Consumer Systems Group designs, manufactures and markets loudspeakers and audio, video and electronic systems for vehicle, home and computer applications. Our Professional Group designs, manufactures and markets loudspeakers and electronics used by audio professionals in concert halls, stadiums, airports and other buildings and for recording, broadcast, cinema and music reproduction applications. For additional information about these segments, see Note 13 to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of Part II and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in Item 7 of Part II of this report. Our Consumer Systems Group designs, manufactures and markets loudspeakers and audio, video and electronic systems for vehicle, home and computer applications. These products and systems are marketed under brand names including JBL, Infinity, Harman/Kardon, Lexicon, Becker, Logic7, Mark Levinson and Revel. We offer premium, branded car audio, video, navigation and infotainment systems to automobile purchasers through engineering and supply agreements with automobile manufacturers, including DaimlerChrysler, BMW, Toyota, Lexus, Mitsubishi, Land Rover, Saab, Hyundai and the PSA Group, complemented by non branded loudspeaker supply agreements with other automakers including DaimlerChrysler, Audi, Porsche, Volvo and Fiat. Our home and automotive aftermarket audio and electronic products are offered primarily through audio/video specialty stores and audio/video chain stores, such as Circuit City and Best Buy in North America and MediaMarkt in Europe. Our branded audio products for personal computer users are primarily focused on retail customers with new products being geared towards enhanced sound for PC, MP 3 and iPods&Ograve;, which improves the appeal and capability of these products as entertainment systems. We continue to receive purchase commitments for our infotainment systems. In June 2004 the Company announced new awards from the Chrysler Corporation for navigation/infotainment systems that will be used across the range of Chrysler vehicles. Beginning in fiscal 2007, we anticipate that our applications will serve virtually every Chrysler platform. In fiscal 2004, we supplied infotainment systems that were installed in vehicles manufactured by Mercedes Benz, Porsche, Audi, Landrover and BMW. Our business objective is to maintain our leadership position in the navigation/infotainment business. Our Professional Group designs, manufactures and markets loudspeakers and electronics used by audio professionals in concert halls, stadiums, airports and other buildings and for recording, broadcast, cinema and music reproduction applications. We provide high quality products to the sound reinforcement, music instrument support and broadcast and recording segments of the professional audio market. We offer complete systems solutions for professional installations and users around the world. 3 &n bsp; The professional group includes the JBL Professional, Soundcraft, Crown, DigiTech, dbx, AKG, Lexicon, BSS, and Studer brands. We believe that we are uniquely equipped to provide turnkey systems solutions for professional audio applications that offer the customer improved performance, reliability, ease of installation and reduced cost. With our HiQNet software, all of our Harman professional brand products can communicate and operate together. Our results of operations depend on the sales of audio products and electronic systems in the consumer and professional markets. We experience seasonal fluctuations in sales and earnings. The first quarter is generally the weakest due to the automotive model changeovers and the summer holidays in Europe. Our sales and earnings may also vary due to customer acceptance of our products, product offerings by our competitors and general economic conditions. Our products are sold worldwide, with the largest markets being the United States and Germany. We believe significant growth opportunities continue to exist with our automotive manufacturer customers through higher penetration levels within existing models, increases in the number of models offering our audio, navigation and infotainment systems, supply agreements with additional automakers and increases in per vehicle content through the provision of integrated infotainment systems with premium branded audio systems. Products Consumer Products We believe that we are a leading global manufacturer of premium branded loudspeakers and audio, video and electronic systems for vehicle, home and computer applications. We have developed the technical competencies to offer highly integrated multimedia systems to automobile manufacturers. Our infotainment systems integrate and manage audio, radio, video, navigation, telephone, climate control and Internet. We continue to leverage our expertise in the design and manufacture of high quality loudspeakers, radios and electronics, as well as the reputation for quality associated with our JBL, Infinity, Harman/Kardon, Mark Levinson, Lexicon, Logic7 and Becker brand names. As a result of our well established relationship with automobile manufacturers, our engineers are engaged early in the vehicle design process to develop systems that optimize acoustic performance and minimize weight and space requirements. Our Infinity and Harman/Kardon branded car audio systems are offered by DaimlerChryslers Mercedes Benz, Chrysler, Dodge and Jeep lines as well as by Mitsubishi. Toyota, the PSA Group and Hyundai offer JBL branded audio systems in their cars. BMW, Saab, Land Rover and Mercedes Benz offer our Harman/Kardon branded audio systems. Our premium Mark Levinson branded audio systems are offered by Lexus and the new Rolls Royce comes standard with a Lexicon branded audio system. We also supply navigation systems, head units and other automotive electronics to numerous vehicle manufacturers worldwide. We manufacture loudspeakers under the JBL, Infinity, Harman/Kardon and Revel brand names for the consumer home audio market. These loudspeaker lines include models designed for two channel stereo and multi channel surround sound applications in the home and in a wide range of performance choices, including floorstanding, bookshelf, powered, low frequency, in wall, wireless and all weather as well as in styles and finishes ranging from high gloss lacquers to genuine wood veneers. The JBL and Infinity product lines also include car loudspeakers, amplifiers and crossover products sold in the aftermarket. 4 &n bsp; We offer a broad range of consumer audio electronics under the Harman/Kardon, Mark Levinson and Lexicon brand names. Our Harman/Kardon home electronics line includes audio/video receivers featuring Dolby Digital&Ograve;and DTS&Ograve; surround sound processing capabilities and multi channel amplifiers, multi disc DVD players and CD recorders. We design and manufacture high end electronics, including amplifiers, pre amplifiers, digital signal processors, compact disc players and transports, DVD transports, amplifiers and surround sound processors that we market under the renowned Mark Levinson brand. Our Becker automobile aftermarket line includes navigation systems and Becker On Line Pro systems, which provide radio, navigation, CD, MP3, telephone and Internet access. We believe that we are a leader in the design and manufacture of high quality home theater surround sound processors and amplifiers under the Lexicon name. Lexicon was a pioneer in the development of digital signal processors for the professional audio market and has successfully transferred its professional audio expertise to produce excellent consumer products. In the personal computer audio market, we offer Harman/Kardon, JBL and Infinity branded audio products, such as desktop speakers and subwoofers, to retail outlets. We also provide branded audio products to computer manufacturers including Hewlett Packard, Toshiba, Compaq and IBM for inclusion in their computers. We also supply Apple with speaker systems through their online and retail outlets. Professional Products Our professional products include loudspeaker and electronics equipment that is marketed under what we believe are some of the most respected brand names in the industry, including JBL Professional, Soundcraft, Crown, Lexicon, DigiTech, AKG, BSS, dbx and Studer. The professional market is increasingly moving to digital technology. We believe that we are a leader in this market. Our Professional Group derives value from its ability to share research and development, engineering talent and other digital resources among its business units. Soundcraft, Studer, Crown, Lexicon and Harman Music Group each have substantial digital engineering resources and work together to achieve common goals by sharing resources and technical expertise. Our professional loudspeakers are well known for high quality and superior sound. JBL Professional branded products includes studio monitors, loudspeaker systems, powered loudspeakers, sound reinforcement systems, bi radial horns, theater systems, surround sound systems and industrial loudspeakers. Our professional electronic products are recognized for high quality and reliability. We market these products on a worldwide basis under various trade names, including Soundcraft, Crown, JBL, Lexicon, DigiTech, AKG, BSS, dbx and Studer. These products are often sold in conjunction with our professional loudspeakers. We produce sound mixing consoles which range from automated multi track consoles for professional recording studios to compact professional mixers for personal recording and home studios. Our consoles are sold to four main market areas: sound reinforcement, recording studios, broadcast studios and musical instrument dealers. Our mixing consoles are sold under the Soundcraft, Spirit and Studer brands. We produce many types of signal processing products, equalizers, special effects devices that are used in live sound applications and in recording studios to produce sound effects and refine final mixes. These products are sold under the Lexicon, DigiTech, dbx and BSS brand names. We produce microphones, audio headphones, surround sound headphones and other professional audio products marketed under the AKG brand name. We have leveraged our engineering and manufacturing expertise in producing high quality microphone arrays for DaimlerChrysler and General Motors. 5 &n bsp; We also produce professional amplifiers under the Crown and JBL brand names. We believe the integration of loudspeakers and electronics enhances our ability to provide complete systems solutions to the professional audio market. Our other professional products include switching systems, digital audio workstations and turnkey broadcasting studio installations marketed primarily under the Studer brand name. Manufacturing We believe that our manufacturing capabilities are essential to maintaining and improving product quality and performance. Other than certain Harman/Kardon electronic components, we manufacture most of the products we sell. We believe that our facilities in Germany, California, Indiana, Kentucky, Mexico and Hungary that manufacture loudspeakers, electronics, navigation and infotainment systems for automobile manufacturers are world class. In each of these facilities, we have shifted from traditional manual assembly lines to highly automated assembly lines designed to provide improved efficiency and flexibility. Our loudspeaker manufacturing capabilities include the production of high gloss lacquer and wooden veneer loudspeaker enclosures, wire milling, voice coil winding and the use of computer controlled lathes and other machine tools to produce precision components. Our high degree of manufacturing integration enables us to maintain consistent quality levels, resulting in reliable, high performance products. We capitalize on opportunities to transfer technology and material developments across product lines to maximize the utility of engineering, design, development and procurement resources. We have a strong manufacturing presence in Europe. We manufacture infotainment systems, car radios, navigation systems, amplifiers and other electronics, primarily in Germany, for automotive customers. We produce loudspeakers and amplifiers in the United Kingdom, Germany, Sweden, France and Hungary. European professional electronics manufacturing includes mixing consoles in the United Kingdom and Switzerland, professional recording and broadcast equipment in Switzerland and microphones and headphones in Austria. In Asia, we have a manufacturing facility in China that produces loudspeakers for our multimedia business. We also have engineering and design facilities in the United States, Germany, Austria and Japan. At our principal North American manufacturing facility in Northridge, California, we manufacture automotive, home and professional loudspeakers and audio electronics for vehicle, home and professional applications. We manufacture loudspeakers and electronics and assemble sound systems for the automotive market in Indiana, Kentucky and Mexico. In addition, we manufacture professional electronics products in Utah and Indiana. Suppliers We use externally sourced microchips in many of our products. A significant disruption in our microchip supply chain and an inability to obtain alternative sources would have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations. Several independent suppliers manufacture electronic products designed by Harman/Kardon. We do not believe the loss of any one of these suppliers would have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or consolidated financial position. 6 &n bsp; Trademarks and Patents We market our products under numerous brand names that are protected by both pending and registered trademarks around the world. Samples of our brands include JBL&Ograve;, Infinity&Ograve;, Harman/Kardon&Ograve;, Lexicon&Ograve;, Mark Levinson&Ograve;, Revel&Ograve;, Crown&Ograve;, Becker&Ograve;, Soundcraft&Ograve;, Spirit&Ograve;, DigiTech&Ograve;, AKG&Ograve;, Studer&Ograve;, BSS&Ograve; and dbx&Ograve;. Our trademark registrations cover use of trademark rights in connection with various products, such as loudspeakers, speaker systems, speaker system components and other electrical and electronic devices. We have registered or taken other protective measures for many of these trademarks in substantially all major industrialized countries. As of June 30, 2004 we had approximately 547 pending and 1,676 issued trademark registrations around the world. As of June 30, 2004, we also had approximately 1,585 pending and 1,121 issued United States and foreign patents covering various audio and infotainment products. Seasonality Our sales and earnings fluctuate seasonally. The first fiscal quarter is generally the weakest due to automotive model changeovers and the summer holidays in Europe. Variations in seasonal demand among end user markets may cause our operating results to vary from quarter to quarter. Customers/Industry Concentration Sales to DaimlerChrysler and BMW accounted for 29 percent and 13 percent, respectively, of our consolidated net sales for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2004. Accounts receivable due from DaimlerChrysler and BMW were 22 percent and 8 percent, respectively, of consolidated accounts receivable at June 30, 2004. The loss of sales to DaimlerChrysler or BMW would have a material adverse effect on our consolidated sales, earnings and financial position. For the fiscal year ended June 30, 2004, approximately 63 percent of our sales were to automobile manufacturers. Backlog Orders Because our practice is to produce automotive products and systems on a just in time basis and maintain sufficient inventories of finished goods to fill orders promptly, we do not consider the level of backlog to be an important index of our future performance. Our order backlog was approximately $28.7 million at June 30, 2004 and $17.5 million at June 30, 2003. Warranty Liabilities We warrant our products to be free from defects in materials and workmanship for periods ranging from 90 days to five years from the date of purchase, depending on the product. The warranty is a limited warranty, and it imposes certain shipping costs on the customer and excludes deficiencies in appearance except for those evident when the product is delivered. Our dealers normally perform warranty service for loudspeakers in the field, using parts supplied on an exchange basis. Warranties in international markets are generally similar to those in the U.S. market. Estimated warranty liabilities are based upon past experience with similar types of products, the technological sophistication of certain products, replacement cost and other factors. Competition The audio industry is fragmented and competitive and includes numerous manufacturers offering audio products that vary widely in price, quality and distribution channels. Consumer home, computer and automotive aftermarket products are offered through channels including audio specialty stores, discount stores, department stores, mail order firms and Internet merchants. Automotive and computer manufacturers also offer branded audio products as options. Music instrument retailers, professional audio dealers, 7 &n bsp; contractors and installers offer professional products and customers can also purchase these products on a contract bid basis. We concentrate primarily on the higher quality, higher priced segments of the audio market and compete based upon the strength of our brand names, the quality of our products, our ability to prove integrated systems and our comprehensive marketing, engineering and manufacturing resources. We believe that we currently have a significant share of the consumer market for home loudspeakers, primarily as a result of the strength of our brand names and our technology. We believe JBL and Infinity are two of the most recognized loudspeaker brands in the world. By developing our high end loudspeaker brand, Revel, over the past several years, we have extended our market position. Our principal competitors in the consumer loudspeaker market include Bose, Boston Acoustics, B&W, KEF, Celestion, Paradigm, Klipsch, Cambridge SoundWorks and Polk Audio. Competition in the consumer home electronics market remains intense, dominated by large Asian competitors. This market is characterized by the short life cycle of products and a need for continuous design and development efforts. Our competitive strategy is to compete in the higher quality segments of this market and to continue to emphasize our ability to provide system solutions to customers, including a combination of loudspeakers and electronics products and integrated surround sound and home theater systems. Our principal electronic competitors include Marantz, Kenwood, Sony, Denon, Onkyo, Nakamichi, Pioneer and Yamaha. We also compete in the luxury consumer electronics market with our Mark Levinson and Lexicon brands. Our principal competitors in this high end market include Krell, McIntosh, Audio Research, Meridian, Linn and Accuphase. In the personal computer audio market, we offer Harman/Kardon, JBL and Infinity branded products to retail outlets and computer manufacturers. Harman/Kardon provides desktop speakers and laptop audio for Hewlett Packard, and laptop audio for Toshiba. JBL provides desktop speakers and laptop audio for Compaq. Infinity offers desktop speakers for IBM. We also supply Apple with speaker systems through their online and retail outlets. Our principal competitors in this segment include Creative Labs, Altec Lansing, LabTec/Logitich, Klipsch and Cyber Acoustics. This market is highly competitive and characterized by low prices and frequent product changes. In the automotive audio market, we compete against Bose, Pioneer ASK, Foster Electric and Panasonic in the sale of loudspeaker systems to automotive manufacturers and Alpine, Bosch, Panasonic, Siemens VDO, Delphi, Aisin Seiki and Denso in the sale of electronics and infotainment systems to automotive manufacturers. We compete based upon the strength of our brand names and the quality of our products. We believe our competitive position is enhanced by our technical expertise in designing and integrating acoustics, navigation, speech recognition and man machine interfaces into complete infotainment systems uniquely adapted to the specific requirements of each automobile model. The market for professional sound systems is highly competitive. We believe that we have historically held a leading market position in the professional loudspeaker market and have complemented our professional loudspeaker line by adding digital professional electronic products and broadcast and recording equipment. We compete by utilizing our ability to provide systems solutions to meet the complete audio requirements of our professional customers. We offer products for most professional audio applications. We compete in the sound reinforcement market using many of our brand names, including JBL Professional, AKG, Crown, Soundcraft and BSS. Our principal competitors in the sound reinforcement market include the Electro Voice division of Telex, Eastern Acoustic Works/Mackie, QSC, Sennheiser, Tannoy, Peavey, Shure, Audio Technica, Fender, Marshall, Sony and Yamaha. We compete in the broadcast and recording markets with our Studer, AKG, Soundcraft and Lexicon brands. Principal recording and broadcast competitors include Sony, Yamaha, Neve, Sennheiser, Denon, SSL, Shure, Tascam, Alesis and Audio Technica. In the music instrument market, competitors for our JBL, DigiTech, dbx, Lexicon and Spirit products include Yamaha, Peavey, Rane, Roland, Alesis, Marshall, Fender, Sony, Mackie and T.C. 8 &n bsp; Electronics. We also compete in the industrial and architectural sound market. Competitors within this market include Siemens, Peavey and Tannoy. Environmental Matters We are subject to various Federal, state, local and international environmental laws and regulations, including those governing the use, discharge and disposal of hazardous materials. We believe that our facilities are in substantial compliance with current laws and regulations. The cost of compliance with current environmental laws and regulations has not been, and is not expected to be, material. Research and Development Expenditures for research and development were $216.9 million, $143.1 million and $109.9 million for the fiscal years ending June 30, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Number of Employees At June 30, 2004, we had 10,606 full time employees, including 4,076 employees located in North America and 6,530 located outside of North America. Website Access to Information We provide access through our website, www.harman.com, to our Annual Report on Form 10 K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10 Q, Current Reports on Form 8 K, reports filed by our directors, executive officers and certain significant shareholders pursuant to Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after the reports are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Also available on our website is information regarding our Corporate Governance Guidelines. The information on our website is not incorporated by reference into this report. 9 &n bsp; Item 2. Properties Our corporate headquarters are located at 1101 Pennsylvania Avenue, Washington, D.C. 20004. Our principal manufacturing facilities are located in Germany, California, Indiana, Utah, Kentucky, the United Kingdom, Switzerland, Mexico, Hungary, France and Austria. Certain information regarding our principal manufacturing facilities are described in the table below. Location Size (Sq. Ft.) Owned/Lease Percentage Utilization Principal Market Northridge, California 569,000 Leased 94% Consumer and Professional Ittersbach, Germany 507,000 54,000 16,000 Owned Owned Leased 100% 100% 100% Consumer Straubing, Germany 233,000 41,000 Owned Leased 100% 100% Consumer Worth Schaitt, Germany 200,000 Owned 100% Consumer Chateau du Loir, France 201,000 Owned 100% Consumer Elkhart, Indiana 223,000 Owned 86% Professional Rancho Cucamoga, CA 212,000 Leased 100% Professional Martinsville, Indiana 206,000 Owned 100% Consumer Tijuana, Mexico 198,000 Leased 97% Consumer Vienna, Austria 193,000 Leased 100% Professional Potters Bar, UK 160,000 Leased 100% Professional Bridgend, UK 125,000 Leased 100% Consumer Szekesfehervar, Hungary 117,000 Owned 100% Consumer Franklin, KY 152,000 Owned 100% Consumer Regensdorf, Switzerland 108,000 Leased 100% Professional Juarez, Mexico 105,000 Leased 80% Consumer Sandy, Utah 100,000 Leased 100% Professional We believe that our facilities meet current capacity requirements and that suitable additional or substitute facilities will be available, if required. Item 3. Legal Proceedings We are involved in various legal proceedings in the normal course of business. In our opinion, liabilities arising from these claims would not have a material effect on our financial position or results of operations. Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders and Executive Officers of the Registrant Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders None. 10 &n bsp; Executive Officers of the Registrant Executive officers are elected annually by our Board of Directors and hold office at the pleasure of the Board until the next annual election of officers or until their successors are elected and qualified. The current executive officers of Harman International, their ages and their business experience during the past five years are set forth below. Sidney Harman, Ph.D. &ndash; 86 Executive Chairman, July 2000 &ndash; present Chairman of the Board of Directors, Chief Executive Officer and Director, 1980 &ndash; July 2000 Bernard A. Girod &ndash; 62 Vice Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, July 2000 &ndash; present Chief Executive Officer, November 1998 &ndash; present President, March 1994 &ndash; November 1998 Director, July 1993 &ndash; present Gregory P. Stapleton &ndash; 57 [ 1 ] President and Chief Operating Officer, July 2000 &ndash; present Chief Operating Officer, November 1998 &ndash; present President of the Harman OEM Group, October 1987 &ndash; November 1998 Director, November 1987 &ndash; present Erich Geiger &ndash; 56 Chief Technology Officer, July 2003 &ndash; present Chief Technical Officer, July 1998 &ndash; July 2003 Chief Executive Officer, Harman Becker Automotive Systems, January 1996 &ndash; July 2003 Frank Meredith &ndash; 47 Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Secretary, July 2000 &ndash; present Chief Financial Officer, February 1997 &ndash; present Secretary, November 1998 &ndash; present William S. Palin &ndash; 62 Vice President &ndash; Controller, March 1994 &ndash; present Sandra B. Robinson &ndash; 45 Vice President &ndash; Financial Operations, November 1992 &ndash; present Edwin C. Summers &ndash; 57 Vice President, General Counsel and Assistant Secretary, July 1998 &ndash; present Floyd E. Toole, Ph.D., 66 Vice President &ndash; Acoustics, November 1991 &ndash; present [ 1 ] Mr. Gregory Stapleton has notified the Company of his intent to retire on December 31, 2004. 11 &n bsp; Part II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters The Common Stock of the Company is listed on the New York Stock Exchange and is reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Tape under the symbol HAR. As of August 31, 2004, there were approximately 166 record holders of the Companys Common Stock. Market Price Fiscal 2004 Fiscal 2003 High Low High Low First quarter ended September 30 $ 50.505 39.320 27.290 19.135 Second quarter ended December 31 74.250 50.995 31.370 23.490 Third quarter ended March 31 80.150 68.310 31.825 26.920 Fourth quarter ended June 30 91.000 71.440 39.790 29.080 All figures have been adjusted to reflect the two for one stock split in November 2003. The table above sets forth the reported high and low sales prices at the market close of the Companys Common Stock, as reported on the New York Stock Exchange, for each quarterly period for fiscal years ended June 30, 2004 and 2003. The Company paid cash dividends during fiscal years 2004 and 2003 of $.05 per share, with a dividend of $.0125 per share paid in each of the four quarters, adjusted for the stock split in November 2003. Item 6. Selected Financial Data The following table summarizes certain selected financial data that should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes thereto for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2004. Years Ended June 30, (In thousands except per share data) 2004 2003 2002 2001 2000 Net sales $ 2,711,374 2,228,519 1,826,188 1,716,547 1,677,939 Operating income $ 254,465 166,894 103,221 71,228 121,722 Income before income taxes $ 227,520 142,471 80,177 45,099 102,829 Net income $ 157,883 105,428 57,513 32,364 72,838 Diluted EPS (a) $ 2.27 1.55 0.85 0.48 1.03 Weighted average shares outstanding &ndash; diluted (a) 69,487 68,048 67,806 67,474 70,600 Total assets $ 1,988,810 1,703,658 1,480,280 1,159,385 1,137,505 Total debt $ 394,925 503,068 474,679 368,760 277,324 Shareholders equity $ 874,996 655,785 526,629 422,942 486,333 Dividends per share (a) $ 0.05 0.05 0.05 0.05 0.05 (a) Share and per share data has been adjusted to reflect the two for one stock splits in each of November 2003 and August 2000. 12 &n bsp; Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This discussion should be read in conjunction with the information presented in other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10 K, including Item 1. Business, Item 6. Selected Financial Data, and 
 
