FILE:OI/OI-8K-20041026080301.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Owens-Illinois to Present at JPMorgan Conference
 
TOLEDO, Ohio, Oct. 25, 2004  Owens-Illinois, Inc., (NYSE: OI) today announced that the Company will participate in the JPMorgan Small Cap Conference "Think Big, Buy Small 4.0" tomorrow, Oct. 26, in Boston.
 
The Company's Chairman & CEO Steven R. McCracken and Executive Vice President & CFO Thomas L. Young will give a formal presentation starting at 9:10 a.m. Eastern time.
 
The event will be simulcast online and will be available on the Company's Web site, http://www.o-i.com , or at the URL below.
 
Instructions to access webcast:
 
Log on to http://equityconferences.jpmorgan.com and select JPMorgan Small Cap "Think Big, Buy Small 4.0" Conference webcast link. (Viewers are encouraged to log on approximately five minutes prior to the presentation to register and download any software.)
1.
              
 
Upon registering, click "on-demand".  This will launch the "On-Demand Webcasts" page. (Only those companies who are presenting at that time will be listed.)
2.
              
 
Click on "Owens-Illinois"
3.
              
 
If you have any difficulties with the webcast, please e-mail help@mapdigital.com . A replay of the presentation will be available 24 hours after its conclusion until November 16.
 
Slides from the presentation will also be available on the Owens-Illinois Web site in the Investor Relations section under "Annual Reports and Presentations."
 
About O-I
Owens-Illinois is the largest manufacturer of glass containers in the world, with leading positions in Europe, North America, Asia Pacific and South America. O-I is also a leading manufacturer of health care packaging and specialty closure systems.
 
CONTACT: OWENS-ILLINOIS, Sara Theis, 419-247-1297
 
Copies of Owens-Illinois news releases are available at the Owens-Illinois web site at www.o-i.com; or at www.prnewswire.com.
 
-0-
 


