FILE:OI/OI-8K-20120221162512.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Owens-Illinois, Inc. (the "Company") announced today that it has elected to change its method of accounting for its U.S. inventories from last-in, first-out ("LIFO") to average costs effective January 1, 2012. With this change, all of the Company's inventories will now be valued at average costs. This change in accounting is required to be applied retrospectively to all periods presented in future quarterly and annual reports.
 
The Company has also elected to change the allocation of pension costs to its segments. The Company's segments will now reflect only the service cost component of pension expense.  All non-service pension costs will be retained at the corporate level. This change will increase consistency between all segments and ensure that each segment reflects only the costs associated with employee benefits earned during the current period.
 
 
 
Pro forma financial information for Owens-Illinois, Inc. is being furnished in Exhibit 99.1, Exhibit 99.2 and Exhibit 99.3.  Pro forma financial information for Owens-Illinois Group, Inc. is being furnished in Exhibit 99.4.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements set forth below for Owens-Illinois, Inc. give effect to the change in the method for accounting for U.S. inventories from LIFO to average costs as if the change had occurred on December 31, 2011 for balance sheet purposes and January 1, 2010 for income statement purposes. In the opinion of management, all adjustments necessary to present fairly the unaudited pro forma financial information have been made. The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the historical financial statements of Owens-Illinois, Inc.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
The information presented below regarding adjusted net earnings, giving effect to the change in the method for accounting for U.S. inventories from LIFO to average costs as if the change had occurred on January 1, 2010, relates to earnings attributable to the Company exclusive of items management considers not representative of ongoing operations and does not conform to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). It should not be construed as an alternative to the reported results determined in accordance with GAAP. Management has included this non-GAAP information to assist in understanding the comparability of results of ongoing operations. Management uses this non-GAAP information principally for internal reporting, forecasting, budgeting and calculating bonus payments. Management believes that the non-GAAP presentation allows the board of directors, management, investors and analysts to better understand the Company's financial performance in relationship to continuing operating results.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.3
The information below presents the Company's Segment Operating Profit, giving effect to the change in the method for accounting for U.S. inventories from LIFO to average costs and the change in the allocation of pension costs to the reportable segments as if the changes had occurred on January 1, 2010. The Company's measure of profit for its reportable segments is Segment Operating Profit, which consists of consolidated earnings from continuing operations before interest income, interest expense and provision for income taxes and excludes amounts related to certain items that management considers not representative of ongoing operations as well as certain retained corporate costs. The segment data presented below is prepared in accordance with general accounting principles for segment reporting. The line titled "Reportable segment totals", however, is a non-GAAP measure when presented outside of the financial statement footnotes. Management has included this non-GAAP information to assist in understanding the comparability of results of ongoing operations. Management uses Segment Operating Profit, in combination with net sales and selected cash flow information, to evaluate performance and to allocate resources.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.4
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements set forth below for Owens-Illinois Group, Inc. give effect to the change in the method for accounting for U.S. inventories from LIFO to average costs as if the change had occurred on December 31, 2011 for balance sheet purposes and January 1, 2010 for income statement purposes. In the opinion of management, all adjustments necessary to present fairly the unaudited pro forma financial information have been made. The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the historical financial statements of Owens-Illinois Group, Inc.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


