FILE:FRX/FRX-8K-20050701112959.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
[ ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [ ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [ ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [ ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Item 5.02.                  
Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of
Principal Officers
    Effective June 30, 2005, Phillip M. Satow resigned from the Board of Directors. A press release relating to Mr. Satow's resignation as director is attached as hereto and is incorporated by reference herein.
Exhibit 99
Item 9.01.
Financial Statements and Exhibits
    (c) . Press release of Forest Laboratories, Inc. dated July 1, 2005.
Exhibit 99
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Date: July 1, 2005
(Registrant)
Forest Laboratories, Inc.
Howard Solomon, Chairman of the Board
/s/ Howard Solomon       
 
 

Exhibit 99
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CHARLES E. TRIANO                                                                                                                  
Company Contact:
Vice President-Investor Relations                                                                                                                  Forest Laboratories, Inc.                                                                                                                  909 Third Avenue                                                                                                                  New York, NY 10022                                                                                                                  (212) 224-6714                                                                                                                  charles.triano@frx.com
New York, New York, July 1, 2005. Forest Laboratories, Inc. (NYSE: FRX) today announced that Phillip M. Satow, a member of the Company's Board of Directors and former Executive Vice President of the Company, has resigned from the Board of Directors. Mr. Satow, who serves as the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of JDS Pharmaceuticals, LLC, a privately-held pharmaceutical company, indicated that he was reluctantly resigning from Forest, with which he has been happily associated for more than 20 years, to avoid any potential conflict of interest between the business of JDS as it may develop in the future and his Board service for Forest. Although Mr. Satow thought it advisable to step aside from his Board membership, he indicated that he would remain available to provide advice and guidance to the Company.
Howard Solomon, Forest's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer stated: "All of us at Forest greatly appreciate the creativity and talent Phil brought to Forest during his many years as an executive officer, as well as during his years as a non-employee member of our Board. Phil was a leading force in the development and expansion of Forest's sales and marketing capabilities, including the extraordinary launch of Celexa and Forest's antidepressant franchise. His knowledge of our industry, expertise and personal warmth and integrity made him an invaluable member of our Board."
Following Mr. Satow's resignation, the Forest Board is now comprised of six members, four of whom are classified as independent in accordance with New York Stock Exchange criteria. Forest intends to seek an additional independent member of the Board of Directors during the course of the current fiscal year.
Except for the historical information contained herein, this release contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Reform Act of 1995. These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that affect our business, including risk factors listed from time to time in the Company's SEC reports, including the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2005.
 
Source: Forest Laboratories, Inc.
 


