FILE:FRX/FRX-8K-20051011084606.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
[ ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [ ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [ ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [ ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
Item
1
       On October 4, 2005, Forest Laboratories, Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiary, Forest Laboratories Holdings Limited (collectively, "Forest"), entered into a Settlement Agreement with Alphapharm Pty Limited ("Alphapharm") regarding the pending patent litigation between Forest, H. Lundbeck A/S ("Lundbeck"), Forest's licensor of the patent at issue, and Alphapharm arising from the filing by Alphapharm of an ANDA application to market a generic version of Forest's Lexapro brand escitalopram oxalate product. Pursuant to the terms of the settlement, and subject to the filing of a consent judgment with the Court, Alphapharm will acknowledge the validity and enforceability of US Patent Re. No. 34,712 (the "'712 Patent"), licensed by Forest from Lundbeck on an exclusive basis in the United States, will modify its ANDA filing accordingly, and will not assert the invalidity or unenforceability of the '712 Patent or non-infringement thereof with respect to any generic equivalent to Lexapro in any proceeding or forum.
       As consideration for the settlement, Forest will agree to appoint Alphapharm as its exclusive distributor of generic versions of Lexapro, provided that no such generic may be launched by Alphapharm until the earlier of the date on which a third party commercially introduces a generic version of Lexapro in the United States after obtaining a final court decision (including affirmation by an appellate court) that the '712 Patent is invalid or unenforceable, or two weeks prior to the expiration of the '712 Patent. Under the terms of the distributorship arrangement, Alphapharm will agree to pay Forest a portion of its profits from the sale of such Lexapro generic. The distributorship arrangement will have a term of five (5) years subject to Alphapharm's right to renew for successive one-year periods. In addition, Forest will agree to reimburse certain of Alphapharm's legal costs in connection with the patent infringement litigation.
       The Settlement Agreement does not settle pending patent litigation by Forest and Lundbeck against Ivax Pharmaceuticals, Inc., a generic distributor which has also filed for FDA approval of a generic version of Lexapro. A trial in that litigation is currently scheduled for December 2005.
       The terms of the Settlement Agreement are subject to review by the Federal Trade Commission.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) . Press release of Forest Laboratories, Inc. dated October 6, 2005.
Exhibit 99
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Date: October 10, 2005
(Registrant)
Forest Laboratories, Inc.
Howard Solomon Chairman of the Board
/s/ Howard Solomon              
 
 

Exhibit 99
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CHARLES E. TRIANO                                                                                                                  
Company Contact:
Vice President-Investor Relations                                                                                                                  Forest Laboratories, Inc.                                                                                                                  909 Third Avenue                                                                                                                  New York, NY 10022                                                                                                                  (212) 224-6714                                                                                                                  charles.triano@frx.com
 
NEW YORK, Oct. 6 -- Forest Laboratories, Inc. (NYSE: FRX) and its wholly-owned subsidiary, Forest Laboratories Holdings Limited, announced today that it and its licensing partner H. Lundbeck A/S have entered into a settlement agreement with defendant Alphapharm Pty Ltd., a subsidiary of Merck KGaA of Germany, regarding its pending patent infringement dispute regarding U.S. Patent Re. No. 34,712, (the '712 patent), which was licensed to Forest by H. Lundbeck A/S on an exclusive basis in the United States and relates to Forest's Lexapro (escitalopram oxalate) product. The Settlement Agreement with Alphapharm does not settle the pending patent litigation by Forest and Lundbeck against Ivax Pharmaceuticals, Inc. jointly with Cipla Ltd, ("IVAX") and does not affect the status of Ivax as an ongoing defendant in the pending litigation. A trial in that litigation is currently scheduled for December 2005.
Pursuant to the terms of the settlement agreement with Alphapharm, and subject to review of the settlement terms by the Federal Trade Commission:
     1. Alphapharm will acknowledge that the '712 Patent is valid,         enforceable and infringed by Alphapharm's proposed product and         will agree to modify its ANDA filing accordingly, and will agree that         it will neither assert the invalidity nor the non-infringement of the         '712 Patent with respect to any generic equivalent (tablet, capsule or         other version) to Lexapro in any proceeding or forum.
     2. Forest and Lundbeck will agree to appoint Alphapharm as the exclusive         distributor of generic versions of Lexapro, which may be launched         under the scenarios outlined below. The distributorship arrangement         will have a term of five (5) years subject to Alphapharm's right to         renew for successive one-year periods.
        (a) In the event that Forest and Lundbeck are successful in their         infringement action against IVAX regarding the '712 patent, the         distribution arrangement with Alphapharm will only commence two         weeks prior to the expiration of the '712 patent.
        (b) In the event Forest and Lundbeck are unsuccessful in their         infringement action against IVAX regarding the '712 patent, and         such determination that the '712 Patent is invalid or         unenforceable is affirmed by the appellate court, or a third party         launches at risk, the distribution arrangement with Alphapharm         would commence upon the introduction of the generic version of         Lexapro.
Under either scenario Forest will receive from Alphapharm a portion of the profit from such generic sales in consideration of the license.
Forest and Lundbeck will agree to reimburse certain of Alphapharm's legal costs in connection with the patent litigation.
Howard Solomon, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Forest, stated: "We are pleased to have concluded this settlement with Alphapharm. We continue to have confidence in the validity of our Lexapro patent and the terms of the settlement with Alphapharm are clearly consistent with that view of our patent's validity. We therefore expect that the litigation which continues with IVAX and is scheduled to be tried in December this year will uphold the patent's validity."
Except for the historical information contained herein, this release contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Reform Act of 1995. These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that affect our business, including risk factors listed from time to time in the Company's SEC reports, including the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2005 and quarterly report filed on Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2005. Actual results may differ materially from those projected.
SOURCE: Forest Laboratories, Inc.


