FILE:FRX/FRX-8K-20060519172514.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
[ ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [ ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [ ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [ ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Item 5.02.                  
Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of
Principal Officers
                On May 18, 2006, Forests Board of Directors voted to increase the size of the Board from six members to seven members and Nesli Basgoz, M.D. to fill the newly created vacancy.
appointed
                Dr. Basgoz is currently a Physician in Medicine at Massachusetts General Hospital and Associate Chief for Clinical Affairs in its Division of Infectious Disease. She is also Director, Infectious Disease Outpatient Services and Director, HIV Clinical Services. Dr. Basgoz is also an Associate Professor of Medicine at Harvard Medical School.
                 A press release relating to Dr. Basgozs appointment as director is attached as hereto and is incorporated by reference herein.
Exhibit 99
Item 9.01.
Financial Statements and Exhibits
    (c) . Press release of Forest Laboratories, Inc. dated May 18, 2006.
Exhibit 99
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Date: May 19, 2006
(Registrant)
Forest Laboratories, Inc.
Howard Solomon, Chairman of the Board
/s/ Howard Solomon       
 
 

Exhibit 99
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CHARLES E. TRIANO                                                                                                                  
Company Contact:
Vice President-Investor Relations                                                                                                                  Forest Laboratories, Inc.                                                                                                                  909 Third Avenue                                                                                                                  New York, NY 10022                                                                                                                  (212) 224-6714                                                                                                                  charles.triano@frx.com
NEW YORK, May 18, 2006 -- Forest Laboratories, Inc. (NYSE:FRX) announced today Nesli Basgoz, M.D., has been named to the Board of Directors. Dr. Basgoz was elected to serve unanimously by board members at the Company's regularly scheduled board of directors meeting held today in New York.
Howard Solomon, Chairman and CEO of Forest commented: "Dr. Basgoz is a brilliant and dedicated physician and researcher, primarily in the field of infectious disease. She has received significant academic appointments early in her career at the Harvard Medical School and Massachusetts General Hospital.
"Medical science is essentially the basis for all that we do and we expect Dr. Basgoz's insights, experience and extraordinary intelligence to be valuable as we go forward in developing and acquiring new product opportunities."
Dr. Basgoz is currently a Physician in Medicine at Massachusetts General Hospital and Associate Chief for Clinical Affairs in its Division of Infectious Disease. She is also Director, Infectious Disease Outpatient Services and Director, HIV Clinical Services. Dr. Basgoz is also an Associate Professor of Medicine at Harvard Medical School.
Dr. Basgoz holds a M.D. from Northwestern University in Chicago, Illinois and is Board Certified in both Internal Medicine and a subspecialty of Infections Disease.
About Forest Laboratories
Forest Laboratories (www.frx.com) is a US-based pharmaceutical company dedicated to identifying, developing and delivering products that make a positive difference in peoples' lives. Forest Laboratories' growing product line includes Lexapro (escitalopram oxalate), an SSRI indicated for adults for the initial and maintenance treatment of major depressive disorder and for generalized anxiety disorder; Namenda (memantine HCl), an N-methyl-D- aspartate (NMDA)-receptor antagonist indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe Alzheimer's disease; Benicar* (olmesartan medoxomil), an angiotensin receptor blocker, and Benicar* HCT (olmesartan medoxomil- hydrochlorothiazide), an angiotensin receptor blocker and diuretic combination product, each indicated for the treatment of hypertension; and Campral* (acamprosate calcium), indicated in combination with psychosocial support for the maintenance of abstinence from alcohol in patients with alcohol dependence who are abstinent at treatment initiation.
*Benicar is a registered trademark of Sankyo Pharma, Inc., and Campral is a registered trademark of Merck Sante s.a.s., subsidiary of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany.
Except for the historical information contained herein, this release contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Reform Act of 1995. These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties, including the difficulty of predicting FDA approvals, the acceptance and demand for new pharmaceutical products, the impact of competitive products and pricing, the timely development and launch of new products, and the risk factors listed from time to time in the Forest Laboratories' SEC reports, including the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2005, and on form 10-Q for the periods ended June 30 ,2005, September 30, 2005 and December 31, 2005.
Source: Forest Laboratories, Inc.
 


