FILE:FRX/FRX-8K-20060907172746.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [ ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [ ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [ ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Item 1.01  
Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
         As reported below in Item 5.02, on September 5, 2006 Lawrence S. Olanoff, M.D., Ph.D. was appointed as the new President and Chief Operating Officer of Forest Laboratories, Inc. (the "Company") effective October 30, 2006. In connection with such appointment, on September 5, 2006 the Company entered into an agreement with Dr. Olanoff that provides for an annual base salary of $750,000, and eligibility to receive an annual bonus based on performance (targeted at 40%-50% of annual base salary). In addition, the agreement provides for a stock option grant as of October 30, 2006 covering 250,000 shares of the Companys Common Stock at an exercise price per share equal to the average of the high and low price of the common stock on October 30, 2006, with options vesting pursuant to a vesting schedule over a period of 5 years from the date of grant. The agreement provides for a three year compensation guarantee, limited to the payment of the agreed compensation and benefits for the three year period commencing with the date of Dr. Olanoffs employment, but in no event less than one years compensation and benefits, and also provides for other benefits to be made available to Dr. Olanoff to the extent generally made available by the Company to its senior executive officers.
         In addition, as of September 5, 2006 the Company and Dr. Olanoff entered into a "Change of Control" Employment Agreement which becomes effective only upon the occurrence of a "change of control" and continues in effect for a three year period thereafter. Following a Change in Control, Dr. Olanoff is guaranteed his annual base salary in effect immediately preceding the Change in Control, an annual bonus at least equal to the highest bonus paid during the preceding three years, continued participation in the Companys benefit plans and fringe benefits of the type offered to comparable executives prior to the change in control. In the event Dr. Olanoffs employment is terminated during such period by the Company without cause or by Dr. Olanoff for good reason, each as defined in the agreement, the Company will pay Dr. Olanoff any base salary accrued and unpaid through the date of termination plus a pro-rated annual bonus through the date of termination. The Company will also provide him with welfare benefits of the type offered by the Company to its executives for three years following the termination and will pay for outplacement services. In addition, the Company will pay Dr. Olanoff a lump sum severance payment equal to three times the sum of his highest base salary plus his highest annual bonus during the preceding three year period. Dr. Olanoff will also be paid the amount equal to his actuarial benefit under the Companys retirement plan and any supplemental retirement plan calculated as if Dr. Olanoffs employment had continued for three years after the date of termination. Subject to certain exceptions, a "change of control" is (i) an acquisition of 20% or more of the Common Stock or voting securities of the Company by a person or group not acquiring their shares directly from the Company, (ii) a change in the majority of the current Board of Directors or their designated successors not consented to by such current Board of Directors or designated successors, and (iii) a liquidation or dissolution of the Company or merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of the Companys assets which involves a greater than 50% change in the stockholders of the Company or the replacement of a majority of the current Board of Directors or their designated successors.
         These agreements will be filed as exhibits to the Companys Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ending September 30, 2006.
Item 5.02  Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election                              
of Directors, Appointment of Principal Officers
         On September 5, 2006, at a joint meeting of the Companys Board of Directors and Compensation Committee, the Board approved the appointment of Lawrence S. Olanoff, M.D., Ph.D. (age 54) as the Companys President and Chief Operating Officer effective October 30, 2006 and the Committee approved the terms of Dr. Olanoffs employment arrangements, described above under Item 1.01. Dr. Olanoff is returning to take on this position at the Company after his departure in July 2005 to become the Chief Executive Officer of Celsion, Inc. For the ten years preceding his departure from the Company, Dr. Olanoff had served as the Executive Vice President- Scientific Affairs and the Chief Scientific Officer of the Company. A press release with respect to Dr. Olanoffs appointment is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and is incorporated by reference herein.
         The Board of Directors also increased the number of members constituting the Board from seven to eight and appointed Dr. Olanoff to serve as a Director commencing with the effective date of his employment.
         Dr. Olanoff will succeed Kenneth E. Goodman, who notified the Company of his retirement and resignation as President and Chief Operating Officer on September 5, 2006 with an effective date of October 30, 2006. Following the effective date of his resignation, Mr. Goodman will continue to be employed by the Company at his current compensation until December 31, 2006 and will assist Dr. Olanoff in the transition to his duties as President and Chief Operating Officer. Mr. Goodman will also continue to serve as a Director of the Corporation.
Item 9.01  
Financial Statements and Exhibits
Exhibit 99. Press release of Forest Laboratories, Inc. dated September 7, 2006.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Date: September 7, 2006
(Registrant)
Forest Laboratories, Inc.
Howard Solomon Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and Director
/s/ Howard Solomon              
 
 

Exhibit 99
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   CHARLES E. TRIANO                                                                                                                  
Company Contact:
Vice President-Investor Relations                                                                                                                  Forest Laboratories, Inc.                                                                                                                  909 Third Avenue                                                                                                                  New York, NY 10022                                                                                                                  (212) 224-6714                                                                                                                  charles.triano@frx.com
- September 7, 2006. Forest Laboratories, Inc. (NYSE: FRX) today announced that its Board of Directors has appointed Lawrence S. Olanoff, M.D., Ph.D. as its President and Chief Operating Officer and as a Director of the Company effective October 30, 2006. Dr. Olanoff will succeed Kenneth E. Goodman, who has announced his retirement after more than 26 years with Forest but who will remain a member of the Companys Board of Directors. Dr. Olanoff, who served as Forests Executive Vice President and Chief Scientific Officer for ten years ending July 2005 will be returning to Forest from Celsion Corporation where he served as President and Chief Executive Officer after leaving Forest. Prior to joining Forest in 1995, Dr. Olanoff served as Senior Vice President - Clinical Research and Development at Sandoz Pharmaceutical Corporation and prior thereto served as Corporate Vice President - Clinical Development and Medical Affairs at The Upjohn Company. Dr. Olanoff, 54, holds a Ph.D. in biomedical engineering and an M.D. degree from Case Western Reserve University.
NEW YORK
Howard Solomon, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Forest, stated: "We are delighted with the return of Larry Olanoff to Forest and his assuming the position of President and Chief Operating Officer. During Larrys tenure as Chief Scientific Officer at Forest he created and built the Forest Research Institute from a fledgling group to an eight hundred person organization of distinguished scientists, researchers, and support personnel which has produced our successful marketed products, including Celexa, Lexapro and Namenda, as well as our robust development pipeline. Larry has proven his excellent management skills, creativity and extraordinary leadership capabilities and we welcome him back to Forest in his new leadership role.
On the other hand, we understand Kens desire to have more time to spend with his family and to use for his not-for-profit activities. Ken has been a fundamental force in Forests growth and success for more than 26 years as well as a warm friend and mentor to many at Forest. Although we will miss his day to day guidance and contributions, we are pleased that Ken, who will continue his employment with Forest through the end of the year, will continue to serve on our Board of Directors and to make his wealth of experience and talents available to us in that capacity for many years to come."
Dr. Olanoff noted, "I am pleased to be able to rejoin Forest at this exciting time in the Companys history and to assume a leadership role to guide Forest into its future. Forests product development pipeline has never been more exciting and the quality of its executive leadership and organizational strength presents a solid foundation for future achievements. It is particularly gratifying to take on a new leadership role at Forest where so many of my central career achievements were accomplished."
Ken Goodman commented, "I have spent 26 wonderful years at Forest working side by side with Howard Solomon. Over that time, Forest has grown from virtually a start-up to a successful, mid-size, fully integrated pharmaceutical company. With the recent upholding of our Lexapro patent, the strong performance of our currently marketed products, an exciting pipeline of new product opportunities and a strong experienced senior management team in place in all areas, I felt as though this was the opportune time to retire and pursue personal interests. I know that I will be leaving the Company with an extraordinarily bright future."
About Forest Laboratories and Its Products
Forest Laboratories (www.frx.com) is a US-based pharmaceutical company dedicated to identifying, developing, and delivering products that make a positive difference in peoples lives. Forest Laboratories growing product line includes Lexapro (escitalopram oxalate), an SSRI indicated for adults for the initial and maintenance treatment of major depressive disorder and for generalized anxiety disorder; Namenda (memantine HCl), an N-methyl- D-aspartate (NMDA)-receptor antagonist indicated for the treatment of moderate to severe Alzheimers disease; Benicar* (olmesartan medoxomil), an angiotensin receptor blocker, and Benicar* HCT (olmesartan medoxomil- hydrochlorothiazide), an angiotensin receptor blocker and diuretic combination product, each indicated for the treatment of hypertension; and Campral* (acamprosate calcium), indicated in combination with psychosocial support for the maintenance of abstinence from alcohol in patients with alcohol dependence who are abstinent at treatment initiation.
*Benicar is a registered trademark of Daiichi Sankyo, and Campral is a registered trademark of Merck Sante s.a.s., subsidiary of Merck KGaA, Darmstadt, Germany.
Except for the historical information contained herein, this release contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Reform Act of 1995. These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties, including the difficulty of predicting FDA approvals, acceptance and demand for new pharmaceutical products, the impact of competitive products and pricing, the timely development and launch of new products and the risk factors listed from time to time in the Companys SEC reports, including the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2006 and on Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2006.
Source: Forest Laboratories, Inc.


