FILE:FRX/FRX-8K-20090715173242.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 1.01   Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
On July 10, 2009, Forest Laboratories, Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiary, Forest Laboratories Holdings Limited (collectively, "Forest"), entered into a Settlement Agreement with H. Lundbeck A/S ("Lundbeck"), Forest's licensor of the patent at issue, Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Limited and its affiliates ("Sun Pharma") and Caraco Pharmaceutical Laboratories, Ltd. ("Caraco"), regarding pending patent infringement disputes regarding U.S. Patent Re. No. 34,712, U.S. Patent No. 6,916,941, and U.S. Patent No. 7,420,069, which were licensed by Forest from Lundbeck on an exclusive basis in the United States.  These patents are listed in the U.S. Food and Drug Administration's Orange Book for Forest's LEXAPRO brand escitalopram oxalate tablet products.
As consideration for the settlement,
 
 
 
 
 
 
In addition, Forest and Lundbeck will reimburse certain of Caraco's legal costs in connection with these patent litigations.
The settlement terms are subject to review by the U.S. Federal Trade Commission.
The foregoing description of the settlement does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the text of the Settlement Agreement, a copy of which Forest intends to file with its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ending September 30, 2009, requesting confidential treatment for certain portions.
Item 9.01   Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)  Press release of Forest Laboratories, Inc. dated July 10, 2009.
Exhibit 99
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Date:  July 15, 2009
Forest Laboratories, Inc.
(Registrant)
/s/ Francis I. Perier, Jr.                     
Francis I. Perier, Jr.
Senior Vice President - Finance and
Chief Financial Officer

 
NEW YORK, July 10, 2009 - Forest Laboratories, Inc. (NYSE: FRX) and its wholly-owned subsidiary, Forest Laboratories Holdings, Ltd. (collectively, "Forest"), and H. Lundbeck A/S ("Lundbeck") announced today that they have entered into  a settlement agreement with Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. ("Sun Pharma", a reference that includes its 100% subsidiaries) and Caraco Pharmaceutical Laboratories, Ltd. ("Caraco"), regarding pending patent infringement disputes regarding U.S. Patent Re. No. 34,712, U.S. Patent No. 6,916,941, and U.S. Patent No. 7,420,069, which were licensed to Forest by H. Lundbeck A/S on an exclusive basis in the United States.  These patents are listed in the U.S. Food and Drug Administration's Orange Book for Forest's LEXAPRO brand escitalopram oxalate tablet products.
 
Pursuant to the terms of the settlement agreement with Sun Pharma and Caraco, and subject to review of the settlement terms by the U.S. Federal Trade Commission:
 
1.           Forest and Lundbeck will provide licenses to Caraco for any patents related to LEXAPRO with respect to the marketing of Caraco's generic version of the product as of the date that any third party generic that has properly received final approval from the FDA enters the market, other than an authorized generic or the first filer with Hatch-Waxman related exclusivity.
 
2.           Caraco will take over the commercialization and sale of several products from Forest's Inwood business.  Caraco will pay Forest an undisclosed advance against royalties and royalties on net sales of these products.
 
3.           In exchange for an upfront payment (and royalties but only if the technology is used), Sun Pharma will license to Lundbeck on a worldwide basis certain patent applications related to the synthesis of escitalopram and citalopram.
 
Forest and Lundbeck will reimburse certain of Caraco's legal costs in connection with these patent litigations.
 
About Forest Laboratories
Forest Laboratories (NYSE: FRX) is a U.S.-based pharmaceutical company with a long track record of building partnerships and developing and marketing products that make a positive difference in people's lives. In addition to its well-established franchises in therapeutic areas of the central nervous and cardiovascular systems, Forest's current pipeline includes product candidates in all stages of development and across a wide range of therapeutic areas. The company is headquartered in New York, NY. To learn more about Forest Laboratories, visit .
www.FRX.com
 
Except for the historical information contained herein, this release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties, including the difficulty of predicting FDA approvals, the acceptance and demand for new pharmaceutical products, the impact of competitive products and pricing, the timely development and launch of new products, and the risk factors listed from time to time in Forest Laboratories' Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, and any subsequent SEC filings.
 
SOU
RCE:  Forest Laboratories, Inc.
 
 


