FILE:FRX/FRX-8K-20091209151928.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
1
 
 
Item 5.02.
Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
On December 7, 2009, the Board of Directors of Forest Laboratories, Inc. increased the number of members constituting the Board from eight to nine and appointed Peter J. Zimetbaum, M.D. to serve as a Director.  Dr. Zimetbaum is currently Director of Clinical Cardiology at the Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center in Boston and an Associate Professor of Medicine at the Harvard School of Medicine in Boston.
Item 9.01.
Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c)   Press release of Forest Laboratories, Inc. dated December 9, 2009.
Exhibit 99
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Date:  December 9, 2009
Forest Laboratories, Inc.
(Registrant)
/s/ Francis I. Perier, Jr.              
Francis I. Perier, Jr.
Senior Vice President - Finance and
Chief Financial Officer
 
 
2
 

NEW YORK, December 9, 2009 -- Forest Laboratories, Inc. (NYSE: FRX) announced today Peter J. Zimetbaum, M.D., has been named to the Board of Directors.  Dr. Zimetbaum was elected to serve unanimously by the Board at the Company's last regularly scheduled Board of Directors meeting held in New York.  With Dr. Zimetbaums appointment Forests Board of Directors is increased from eight to nine members.
Howard Solomon, Chairman and CEO of Forest commented: "Dr. Zimetbaum is a nationally recognized and dedicated physician in the field of cardiology and also has a research focus in the clinical management of atrial fibrillation and the qualitative and quantitative evaluation of the electrocardiogram.  He has received significant academic appointments early in his career at the Harvard Medical School.  Medical science is essentially the basis for all that we do and we expect Dr. Zimetbaums insights, experience and extraordinary intelligence to be of great value as we go forward in developing and acquiring new product opportunities.  We are pleased to have a Board that includes highly qualified medical experts in the fields of diabetes, infectious diseases and now cardiovascular disease."
Dr. Zimetbaum is currently Director of Clinical Cardiology at the Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center in Boston and an Associate Professor of Medicine at the Harvard Medical School in Boston.
Dr. Zimetbaum received his M.D. degree from Albert Einstein College of Medicine in 1990 and is Board Certified in both Cardiovascular Medicine and Cardiovascular Electrophysiology.
About
Forest Laboratories
Forest Laboratories (NYSE: FRX) is a U.S.-based pharmaceutical company with a long track record of building partnerships and developing and marketing products that make a positive difference in peoples lives.  In addition to its well-established franchises in therapeutic areas of the central nervous and cardiovascular systems, Forests current pipeline includes product candidates in all stages of development and across a wide range of therapeutic areas.  The company is headquartered in New York, NY.  To learn more about Forest Laboratories, visit .
www.FRX.com
Except for the historical information contained herein, this release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties, including the difficulty of predicting FDA approvals, the acceptance and demand for new pharmaceutical products, the impact of competitive products and pricing, the timely development and launch of new products, and the risk factors listed from time to time in Forest Laboratories Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, and any subsequent SEC filings.
SOURCE:  Forest Laboratories, Inc.


