FILE:FRX/FRX-8K-20100920113126.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
On September 15, 2010, Forest Laboratories, Inc. (the ) announced that it has finalized a previously reported agreement-in-principle to resolve all aspects of the investigations led by the United States Department of Justice () and the United States Attorneys Office for the District of Massachusetts that began in January 2004 relating to past marketing, sales, and other activities in connection with Celexa, Lexapro, and a formulation of Levothroid that the Company ceased distributing in 2003.  As part of this resolution, the Company and its wholly-owned subsidiary Forest Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (
Company
DOJ
FPI) have entered into a Settlement Agreement, and FPI entered into a Plea Agreement.  The Company also entered into a Corporate Integrity Agreement that applies to the operations of the Company, FPI and other Company subsidiaries.  Each of these agreements is described below. The Settlement Agreement and Plea Agreement are subject to approval by the U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts, and the required payments described below are covered by the previously disclosed $313 million plus interest in reserves that the Company had set aside in connection with the investigations.
 
1. Plea Agreement
 
FPI has agreed to plead guilty to a single felony charge of obstructing an agency proceeding, which relates to misstatements by certain Company plant employees to FDA inspectors during a November 2003 plant inspection, pursuant to a plea agreement (the ).  In addition, pursuant to the Plea Agreement, FPI has also agreed to plead guilty to two strict liability, no-intent misdemeanor violations of the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act relating to (1) the distribution of an unapproved new drug, Levothroid, between August 2001 and August 2003 (following an FDA determination that the levothyroxine supplement drug class required NDA registration) and (2) the off-label promotion of Celexa as a treatment for pediatric patients (for which Celexa 4; had not been approved) between 1998 and 2002.  Neither misdemeanor charge includes as an element false or deceptive conduct.  As part of the resolution of the criminal investigation, the Company has agreed to pay to the United States a fine of approximately $150 million and a forfeiture payment of $14 million.
Plea Agreement
 
2. Settlement Agreement
 
The Company and FPI also entered into a settlement agreement (the ) to resolve civil claims asserted by DOJ under the False Claims Act and in lawsuits relating to allegations concerning (1) the distribution of Levothroid without an NDA between August 2001 and August 2003, (2) off-label promotion of Celexa and Lexapro for pediatric use between 1998 and 2005 (prior to the FDA approval of Lexapro for the treatment of major depressive disorder in adolescents in March 2009), and (3) alleged payments of kickbacks to physicians.  While the Settlement Agreement calls for the Company to make payments to the federal government and state Medicaid programs totaling appro ximately $149 million plus interest, the Company expressly denies the allegations made in connection with the civil claims being settled.  The Settlement Agreement will resolve the allegations contained in the civil complaint filed by the United States in February 2009, as well as the complaints filed by relators, and those complaints all will be dismissed.
Settlement Agreement
qui tam
qui tam
 
 
 
 
 
3. Corporate Integrity Agreement
 
Also in connection with the Settlement Agreement, the Company has entered into a Corporate Integrity Agreement () with the Office of Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.  The CIA requires the Company to maintain its current compliance program and to undertake a set of defined corporate integrity obligations (which apply to the Company, FPI, and certain other operating subsidiaries) for a period of five years.  The CIA also provides for an independent third-party review organization to assess and report on the Companys compliance program.
CIA
 
 
 
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(a) Not Applicable.
(b) Not Applicable.
(c) Not Applicable.
(d) Exhibits:
The following exhibits are furnished herewith:
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99
 Forest Laboratories, Inc. (NYSE: FRX) today announced that it has finalized a previously reported agreement-in-principle to resolve all aspects of the investigations led by the United States Department of Justice (DOJ) and the United States Attorneys Office for the District of Massachusetts that began in January 2004 relating to past marketing, sales, and other activities in connection with Celexa, Lexapro, and a formulation of Levothroid that Forest ceased distributing in 2003.  Forest previously disclosed reserves totaling $313 million plus interest in connection with these investigations.  All of the payments described below are covered by such reserves and no additional charge to the company& #8217;s earnings will be recorded in connection with the final settlement.
NEW YORK, September 15, 2010
As one part of the resolution, Forest Pharmaceuticals, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Forest Laboratories, Inc., has agreed pursuant to a plea agreement to plead guilty to a single felony charge of obstructing an agency proceeding, which relates to misstatements by certain Forest plant employees to FDA inspectors during a November 2003 plant inspection.  In addition, Forest Pharmaceuticals, Inc. has agreed to plead guilty to two strict liability, no-intent misdemeanor violations of the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act:  the first misdemeanor involves the distribution of an unapproved new drug, Levothroid, between August 2001 and August 2003 (following an FDA determination that the levothyroxine supplement drug class required NDA registration); and the second misdemeanor involves the off-label promotion of Celexa&# 174; as a treatment for pediatric patients (for which Celexa had not been approved) between 1998 and 2002.  Neither misdemeanor charge includes as an element false or deceptive conduct.  As part of the resolution of the criminal investigation, Forest has agreed to pay to the United States a fine of approximately $150 million and a forfeiture payment of $14 million.
In addition, as previously disclosed, Forest has agreed to resolve civil claims asserted by DOJ under the False Claims Act and in lawsuits relating to allegations concerning the distribution of Levothroid without an NDA between August 2001 and August 2003, and off-label promotion of Celexa and Lexapro for pediatric use between 1998 and 2005 (prior to the FDA approval of Lexapro for the treatment of major depressive disorder in adolescents, in March 2009).  The resolution calls for Forest to make payments to the federal government and state Medicaid programs totaling approximately $149 million plus interest.  Forest expressly denies the allegations made in connection with the civil claims being settled.  The civil settlement wil l resolve the allegations contained in the civil complaint filed by the United States in February 2009, as well as the complaints filed by relators, and those complaints all will be dismissed.
qui tam
qui tam
 
 
 
Also as part of the settlement, Forest has entered into a Corporate Integrity Agreement (CIA) with the Office of Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.  The CIA requires Forest to maintain its current compliance program and to undertake a set of defined corporate integrity obligations for a period of five years.  The CIA also provides for an independent third-party review organization to assess and report on Forests compliance program.
We are pleased to bring closure to this long-running investigation.  We remain dedicated to ensuring that we operate in full compliance with all laws and regulations, and that our employees uphold the highest principles of integrity, honesty, and ethics.  We have continued to enhance our compliance program since the events at issue in this investigation which occurred a number of years ago.  We will continue to fulfill our corporate mission of developing and delivering pharmaceutical products for the treatment of a variety of serious and life-threatening conditions, and to meet our responsibilities to the patients and healthcare professionals we serve, said Howard Solomon, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Forest.
The settlement and guilty pleas are subject to approval by the U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts.
About
Forest Laboratories
Forest Laboratories (NYSE: FRX) is a U.S.-based pharmaceutical company with a long track record of building partnerships and developing and marketing products that make a positive difference in peoples lives. In addition to its well-established franchises in therapeutic areas of the central nervous and cardiovascular systems, Forests current pipeline includes product candidates in all stages of development and across a wide range of therapeutic areas. The Company is headquartered in New York, NY. To learn more about Forest Laboratories, visit .
www.FRX.com
Except for the historical information contained herein, this release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties, including the difficulty of predicting FDA approvals, the acceptance and demand for new pharmaceutical products, the impact of competitive products and pricing, the timely development and launch of new products, and the risk factors listed from time to time in Forest Laboratories Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and any subsequent SEC filings.
SOURCE:  Forest Laboratories, Inc.
CONTACT: Frank J. Murdolo
Vice President - Investor Relations, Forest Laboratories, Inc.
1-212-224-6714
Frank.Murdolo@frx.com
 


