FILE:FRX/FRX-8K-20100614135332.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 1.01   Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
After market close on June 8, 2010, Forest Laboratories, Inc. () entered into a fixed dollar collared accelerated share repurchase agreement (the ) with Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated () under which Forest will repurchase approximately $500 million of its common shares.  Forest will acquire these common shares under the 50 million share repurchase program authorized by its Board of Directors that was previously announced on May 18, 2010.
Forest
ASR Contract
Morgan Stanley
 
 
Pursuant to the ASR Contract, Forest paid $500 million to Morgan Stanley on June 9, 2010, and 14,367,816 shares were delivered to Forest on the same day.  Additional shares are expected to be delivered over the term of the ASR Contract which is expected to end no later than the fourth quarter of the fiscal year ending March 31, 2011.  The exact number of shares to be repurchased generally will be determined by the discounted average of the daily volume weighted average prices of shares traded during the term of the agreement, subject to collar provisions that will establish minimum and maximum numbers of shares to be repurchased.  The minimum and maximum share numbers will be fixed based on per share prices of 110% and 96%, respectively, of the average of the daily volume weighted average prices of shares tra ded during an initial valuation period.
 
 
The ASR Contract contains the principal terms and provisions governing the accelerated share repurchase, including, but not limited to, the mechanism used to determine the number of shares that will be delivered, the required timing of delivery of the shares, the circumstances under which Morgan Stanley is permitted to make adjustments to valuation periods, the circumstances under which the ASR Contract may be terminated early, circumstances under which Morgan Stanley could be entitled to deliver fewer than the minimum number of shares specified by the collar provisions (or Forest could be required to deliver shares or cash (at Forests option) to Morgan Stanley) and various acknowledgements, representations and warranties made by Forest and Morgan Stanley to one another.
 
 
The foregoing description of the ASR Contract is a summary and is qualified in its entirety by the terms of the ASR Contract, a copy of which will be filed as an exhibit to Forests Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2010.
 
 
Item 2.03 Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
 
 
The disclosure provided under Item 1.01 above is hereby incorporated by reference.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(a) Not Applicable.
(b) Not Applicable.
(c) Not Applicable.
(d) Exhibits:
The following exhibits are furnished herewith:
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:  June 14, 2010
Forest Laboratories, Inc.
(Registrant
)
/s/ Francis I. Perier, Jr.              
Francis I. Perier, Jr.
Senior Vice President - Finance and
Chief Financial Officer

 
Forest Laboratories, Inc. Announces Accelerated Share Repurchase
 
 
NEW YORK, Jun 09, 2010 (BUSINESS WIRE) --Forest Laboratories, Inc. (NYSE: FRX) announced today that it has entered into an agreement with Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated to repurchase approximately $500 million of its common shares under an accelerated share repurchase program. Forest will acquire these common shares under the Board authorized 50 million share repurchase program announced on May 18, 2010.
 
 
The specific number of shares to be repurchased will be determined by the discounted volume-weighted average price of the stock during the term of the agreement, subject to collar provisions that establish the minimum and maximum price. The transaction is expected to be completed no later than the fourth quarter of the fiscal year ending March 31, 2011. All of the purchased shares will be retired. Prior to issuance of this press release, no trading activity has occurred in the public market related to this share repurchase program.
 
 
"We ended fiscal year 2010 with a strong cash position of approximately $4 billion, which enables us to embrace a capital deployment strategy that increases per share earnings by reducing outstanding shares, while enabling us to continue and expand our commitment to new business development opportunities," said Howard Solomon, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Forest. "Today's announcement reflects our commitment to continue to create value for our shareholders."
 
 
About Forest Laboratories
 
 
Forest Laboratories (NYSE: FRX) is a U.S.-based pharmaceutical company with a long track record of building partnerships and developing and marketing products that make a positive difference in people's lives. In addition to its well-established franchises in therapeutic areas of the central nervous and cardiovascular systems, Forest's current pipeline includes product candidates in all stages of development and across a wide range of therapeutic areas. The Company is headquartered in New York, NY. To learn more about Forest Laboratories, visit .
http://www.FRX.com
 
 
Except for the historical information contained herein, this release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties, including the difficulty of predicting FDA approvals, the acceptance and demand for new pharmaceutical products, the impact of competitive products and pricing, the timely development and launch of new products, and the risk factors listed from time to time in Forest Laboratories' Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, and any subsequent SEC filings.
 
 
SOURCE: Forest Laboratories, Inc.
 
  


