FILE:FRX/FRX-8K-20110819101343.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01   Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
A. August 15, 2011 Fixed Dollar Collared Accelerated Share Repurchase Agreement
 
On August 15, 2011, Forest Laboratories, Inc. () entered into a fixed dollar collared accelerated share repurchase agreement (the ) with Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC () under which Forest will repurchase $350 million of its common shares.  Forest will acquire these common shares under the 50 million share repurchase program authorized by its Board of Directors that was previously announced on May 18, 2010.
Forest
August 2011 ASR Contract
Morgan Stanley
 
Pursuant to the August 2011 ASR Contract, Forest paid $350 million to Morgan Stanley on August 15, 2011, and Forest received 7,103,508 shares.  Additional shares are expected to be delivered over the term of the August 2011 ASR Contract which is expected to end no later than the quarter ending September 30, 2012.  The exact number of shares to be repurchased generally will be determined by the discounted average of the daily volume weighted average prices of shares traded during  a forward price calculation period, subject to collar provisions that will establish minimum and maximum numbers of shares to be repurchased.  The minimum and maximum share numbers will be fixed based on per share prices of 110% and 97.7%, respectively, of the average of the daily volume weighted average prices of shares traded during an initial valuation period.
 
The August 2011 ASR Contract contains the principal terms and provisions governing the accelerated share repurchase, including, but not limited to, the mechanism used to determine the number of shares that will be delivered, the required timing of delivery of the shares, the circumstances under which Morgan Stanley is permitted to make adjustments to valuation periods, the circumstances under which the August 2011 ASR Contract may be terminated early, circumstances under which Morgan Stanley could be entitled to deliver fewer than the minimum number of shares specified by the collar provisions (or Forest could be required to deliver shares or cash (at Forests option) to Morgan Stanley) and various acknowledgements, representations and warranties made by Forest and Morgan Stanley to one another.
 
The foregoing description of the August 2011 ASR Contract is a summary and is qualified in its entirety by the terms of the August 2011 ASR Contract, a copy of which will be filed as an exhibit to Forests Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ending September 30, 2011.
 
B. June 3, 2011 Fixed Dollar Collared Accelerated Share Repurchase Agreement
 
On August 15, 2011, Forest and Morgan Stanley amended and restated the fixed dollar collared accelerated share repurchase agreement that they previously entered into (and which Forest previously disclosed under the cover of the Current Report on Form 8-K that it filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on June 9, 2011) on June 3, 2011 (as amended to date, the ) to, among other things, extend the potential term of the June 2011 ASR Contract.  As amended and restated, the term of the June 2011 ASR Contract is expected to end no later than the quarter ending September 30, 2012.
June 2011 ASR Contract
 
The foregoing description of the amended terms of the June 2011 ASR Contract is a summary and is qualified in its entirety by the terms of the amended and restated June 2011 ASR Contract, a copy of which will be filed as an exhibit to Forests Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ending September 30, 2011.
 
Item 2.03 Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
 
The disclosure provided under Item 1.01 above is hereby incorporated by reference.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(a) Not Applicable.
(b) Not Applicable.
(c) Not Applicable.
(d) Exhibits:
The following exhibits are furnished herewith:
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:  August 19, 2011
Forest Laboratories, Inc.
(Registrant)
/s/ Francis I. Perier, Jr.              
Francis I. Perier, Jr.
Executive Vice President - Finance and Administration and
Chief Financial Officer
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
NEW YORK, August 15, 2011 -- Forest Laboratories, Inc. (NYSE: FRX) announced today that it has entered into an agreement with Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated to repurchase an additional $350 million of its common shares under an accelerated share repurchase program. Forest will acquire these common shares under the Board authorized fifty million share repurchase program announced on May 18, 2010.
 
The specific number of shares to be repurchased will be determined by the discounted volume-weighted average price of the stock during the term of the agreement, subject to collar provisions that establish the minimum and maximum price. The transaction is expected to be completed no later than the quarter ending September 30, 2012.  All of the purchased shares will be retired. Prior to issuance of this press release, no trading activity occurred in the public market related to this accelerated share repurchase transaction.
 
We are pleased to announce this additional share repurchase transaction.  We believe this is an opportune time for such a purchase based on market conditions and our cash balances in the United States, which enable us to return capital to shareholders while maintaining our commitment to new business development activities, said Howard Solomon, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President of Forest.  This purchase is in addition to the $500 million stock repurchase transaction that we executed in June, and the $4.4 billion of capital that we already have returned to shareholders through repurchases over the past five years.
 
 
About Forest Laboratories
 
Forest Laboratories' (NYSE: FRX) longstanding global partnerships and track record developing and marketing pharmaceutical products in the United States have yielded its well-established central nervous system and cardiovascular franchises and innovations in anti-infective and respiratory medicine. The Company's pipeline, the most robust in its history, includes product candidates in all stages of development across a wide range of therapeutic areas. The Company is headquartered in New York, NY. To learn more, visit .
www.FRX.com
 
Except for the historical information contained herein, this release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties, including the difficulty of predicting FDA approvals, the acceptance and demand for new pharmaceutical products, the impact of competitive products and pricing, the timely development and launch of new products, and the risk factors listed from time to time in Forest Laboratories' Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and any subsequent SEC filings.
 
SOURCE: Forest Laboratories, Inc.
 
Forest Laboratories, Inc.
Frank J. Murdolo, 212-224-6714
Vice President - Investor Relations
Frank.Murdolo@frx.com
 
 


