FILE:FRX/FRX-8K-20110922113609.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
TEXT:
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This Current Report on Form 8-K/A is being filed as an amendment to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed on August 24, 2011 (the ), by Forest Laboratories, Inc. (the ), in order to supplement the information disclosed under Item 5.07. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders regarding the results of voting at the Companys Annual Meeting of Stockholders held on August 18, 2011 (the ). Except for the foregoing, this amendment does not amend, modify or update the disclosures contained in the Original Report.
Original Report
Company
2011 Annual Meeting
 
Item 5.07. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
 
(d)
 
At the Companys 2011 Annual Meeting, the Companys stockholders voted on, among other matters, a non-binding proposal regarding the frequency of the Companys stockholder advisory vote on the compensation of the Companys named executive officers. As previously reported in the Original Report, the stockholders recommended, by non-binding advisory vote, an annual advisory vote on compensation for the Companys named executive officers.
 
In light of these results, the Board of Directors (the ) determined at a meeting held on September 19, 2011, that the Company will hold an advisory vote on executive compensation every year until the next required stockholder advisory vote on this matter, which, in accordance with applicable law, will occur no later than the Companys Annual Meeting of Stockholders in 2017, unless the Board otherwise determines that a different frequency for such advisory votes is in the best interests of the stockholders of the Company.
Board
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date September 22, 2011
Forest Laboratories, Inc.
(Registrant)
/s/ Francis I. Perier, Jr.              
Francis I. Perier, Jr.
Executive Vice President Finance & Administration and
Chief Financial Officer
 


