FILE:FRX/FRX-8K-20110712172842.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Notice of Delisting or Failure to Satisfy a Continued Listing Rule or Standard; Transfer of Listing	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Notice of Delisting or Failure to Satisfy a Continued Listing Rule or Standard; Transfer of Listing
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 3.01 Notice of Delisting or Failure to Satisfy a Continued Listing Rule or Standard; Transfer of Listing
On July 6, 2011, Forest Laboratories, Inc. ("") received a letter (the "") from NYSE Regulation indicating that the New York Stock Exchange (the "") was of the view that Forest had failed to comply with NYSE Listed Company Manual Sections 204.21 and 401.02 with respect to providing the Exchange with at least ten days prior notice of the June 24, 2011 record date for its upcoming 2011 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. The NYSE Letter states that it constitutes a public reprimand from the Exchange to Forest.
Forest
NYSE Letter
Exchange
A brief summary of the NYSE letter is set forth below. The description of the NYSE Letter contained herein is a summary and is qualified in its entirety by the full contents of the letter itself, a copy of which is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated herein by reference.
According to the NYSE Letter, the Exchange understands that Forest has set a record date of June 24, 2011 for its 2011 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. However, due to the Exchange having no record of receiving a copy of Forest's May 19, 2011 letter regarding the record date at least ten days before the record date (the Exchange noted that Forest asserted it had sent such letter to the Exchange but did not have a record of a successful fax transmission) and having received a copy of such May 2011 letter on June 17, 2011, the Exchange is of the view that sufficient advance notice to the Exchange was not provided. The NYSE Letter sets forth, among other factors, the following reasons as the basis for the Exchange determining that suspending trading in or delisting Forest's securities is not warranted: (1) that Forest appears to have made good faith efforts to comply with notice requirements and any failure to comply was unintentional; and (2) that Forest did give notice of the record date to the Depositary Trust and Clearing Corporation (the "") and Broadridge Financial Solutions ("") more than ten days before the record date and that it does appear that such notice was thus generally communicated to investors and the markets by DTCC and Broadridge more than ten days before the record date.
DTCC
Broadridge
Forest respectfully disagrees with the Exchange's conclusion and believes that it did comply with the requisite notice requirement. Forest also confirms that the record date for Forest's 2011 Annual Meeting continues to be June 24, 2011.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(a) Not Applicable. (b) Not Applicable. (c) Not Applicable. (d) Exhibits:
The following exhibits are furnished herewith:
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: July 11, 2011
Table of Contents

Exhibit 99.1
Theodore R. Lazo
General Counsel
NYSE Regulation, Inc
.
801 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W., Suite 630 Washington, D.C. 20004 202.661.8949 tlazo@nyx.com
BY FEDERAL EXPRESS AND EMAIL
Howard Solomon Chairman, CEO & President Forest Laboratories, Inc. 909 Third Avenue Corporate Headquarters New York, New York 10022
     Re:
Annual Meeting of Forest Laboratories, Inc.
Dear Mr. Solomon:
          Pursuant to Section 303A.13 of the Listed Company Manual of the New York Stock Exchange LLC ("" or the ""), this letter constitutes a public reprimand by the Exchange to Forest Laboratories, Inc. (the "") as a result of its failure to provide timely notification to the Exchange of the record date for the Company's upcoming annual meeting scheduled for August 15, 2011.
NYSE
Exchange
Company
          Sections 204.21 and 401.02 of the Listed Company Manual require that the Exchange receive notice of a company's record date "not later than the tenth day prior to the record date." The Exchange understands that the Company has set a record date of June 24, 2011 for its annual meeting to be held on August 15, 2011. The Exchange does not believe that the Company timely gave notice to the Exchange about the setting of that record date for the following reasons:
 
Howard Solomon July 6, 2011 Page 2
          The Exchange has thus determined that the Company has violated one of the Exchange's listing standards by setting a record date without proper notice to the Exchange. In this regard, Section 303A.13 of the Exchange's Listed Company Manual allows the Exchange to issue a public reprimand letter to a listed company that has violated a listing standard as an alternative to suspending trading in or delisting the listed company.
          Taking into account the following reasons, among other factors, the Exchange has determined that suspending trading in or delisting the Company's securities is not warranted by the Company's failure to provide the notice of its record date as required by the Exchange's Listed Company Manual:
          In issuing this public reprimand letter, the Exchange does not take any position regarding whether the Company has complied with any state or federal law that might be applicable to the conduct of its annual meeting or the effectiveness of any votes solicited or taken at that meeting. The Exchange also takes no position on the effect, if any, of the Company's failure to comply with the provisions of the Listed Company Manual on the
 
 
Howard Solomon July 6, 2011 Page 3
conduct of the Company's annual meeting or the effectiveness of any votes solicited or taken at that meeting.
          The Exchange reminds the Company that this letter is a mandatory disclosure event pursuant to Item 3.01 of Form 8-K. The Company is therefore required to file a current report on Form 8-K disclosing receipt of this letter within the normal time period required for such disclosures.
          If you have questions about this letter, please do not hesitate to contact me directly.
Sincerely,


