FILE:FRX/FRX-8K-20110822165026.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01 Other Events.
 
As previously reported in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended March 31, 2011, Forest Laboratories, Inc. () entered into a Stipulation of Settlement (the ) to resolve two derivative actions brought in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York (the ) against Forests directors and certain of its officers and consolidated under the caption (the )  The Stipulation also would resolve a derivative action brought in New York State Supreme Court, captioned .
Forest
Stipulation
Court
In re Forest Laboratories, Inc. Derivative Litigation
Federal Derivative Action
.
Arnold Wandel, derivatively, Plaintiff vs. Howard Solomon, Lawrence Olanoff, et al., Defendants and Forest Laboratories, Inc. and Forest Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Nominal Defendants
 
On August 8, 2011, the Court entered an order preliminarily approving the settlement of the derivative actions, providing for notice of the proposed settlement to Forests stockholders, and scheduling a hearing for February 3, 2012 at 2:00 p.m. Eastern time to consider whether to (i) approve the proposed settlement contemplated by the Stipulation, (ii) enter a judgment dismissing the Federal Derivative Action with prejudice, and (iii) approve the award of fees and expenses requested by plaintiffs counsel.
 
The in the form approved by the Court is furnished herewith as .
Notice of Pendency and Proposed Settlement of Shareholder Derivative Actions
Exhibit 99.1
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(a) Not Applicable.
(b) Not Applicable.
(c) Not Applicable.
(d) Exhibits:
The following exhibits are furnished herewith:
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:  August 22, 2011
Forest Laboratories, Inc.
(Registrant
)
/s/ Francis I. Perier, Jr.              
Francis I. Perier, Jr.
Executive Vice President - Finance and Administration and
Chief Financial Officer
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK
 
 
 
PLEASE READ THIS NOTICE CAREFULLY AND IN ITS ENTIRETY.  YOUR RIGHTS MAY BE AFFECTED.
This notice has been to you pursuant to an Order of the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York (the Court).  The purpose of the notice is to advise you of the proposed settlement , as set forth in a Stipulation of Settlement dated 11, (the Stipulation), of the consolidated shareholder derivative litigation pending before the Court and captioned-above, as well as the shareholder derivative litigation pending in New York Supreme Court, County of New York, captioned , Index No. 09/601154 (the State Derivative Action), (collectively, the  Derivative Actions), and of the Settlement Hearing.  The will fully resolve the Derivative Actions on the terms set forth in the Stipulation and summarized in this notice, including the dismissal of the Derivative Actions with prejudice.  For a more detailed statement of the matters involved in the Derivative Actions, the and the terms discussed in this notice, the Stipulation may be viewed on the websites of Faruqi & Faruqi, LLP at www.faruqilaw.com, Robbins Umeda LLP at http://www.robbinsumeda.com/notices.html, and Rigrodsky & Long, P.A. at www.rigrodskylong.com.  The may also be inspected at the Office of the Clerk of the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York located at 500 Pearl Street, New York, New York 10007-1312, during regular business hours of each business day.
provided
(the Settlement)
March
2011
Wandel v. Solomon, et al.
Settlement
Settlement
Stipulation
 
You may have the right to object to the , including any award of attorneys fees and expenses to Derivative Plaintiffs Counsel, in the manner provided herein.  If you fail to object in the manner provided herein at least ten (10) business days prior to the Settlement Hearing, you will be deemed to have waived your objections and will be bound by the Judgment to be entered and the releases to be given, unless otherwise ordered by the Court.
Settlement
 
 
- 1 -
 
This notice is not intended to be an expression of any opinion by the Court with respect to the merits of the claims made in the Derivative Actions, but is merely to advise you of the pendency and settlement of the Derivative Actions.
 
 
1.
 
"Co-Lead Counsel" means collectively, Faruqi & Faruqi, LLP, 369 Lexington Avenue, 10th Floor, New York, NY 10017 and Robbins Umeda LLP, 600 B Street, Suite 1900, San Diego, 92101.
CA
 
2.
 
Court means the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York.
 
3.
 
Current Forest Shareholders means all persons who are record or beneficial owners of Forest common stock as of the date of the execution of this Stipulation, together with their respective representatives, trustees, executors, heirs, administrators, transferees, agents, successors, or assigns, but excluding the Individual Defendants, the officers and directors of Forest, members of their immediate families, and their legal representatives, heirs, successors, or assigns, and any entity in which Individual Defendants have or had a controlling interest.
 
4.
 
Defendants Counsel means Debevoise & Plimpton LLP, 919 Third Avenue, New York, 10022.
NY
 
5.
 
Derivative Actions means collectively, the Federal Derivative Action and the State Derivative Action.
 
6.
 
Derivative Plaintiffs means collectively, Federal Derivative Plaintiffs and State Derivative Plaintiff.
 
7.
 
Derivative Plaintiffs Counsel means collectively, Co-Lead Counsel and State Derivative Plaintiffs Counsel.
 
- 2 -
 
8.
 
Effective Date means the first date by which all of the events and conditions specified in 5.1 of the Stipulation have been met and have occurred.
 
9.
 
Federal Derivative Action means , No. 05-CV-3489 (Lead).
In re Forest Laboratories, Inc. Derivative Litigation
 
10.
 
Federal Derivative Plaintiffs means collectively Eleanor Turburg and Jeff Michelson.
 
11.
 
Final means (i) appeal any appeal () if no appeal is filed, the time for filing or noticing any appeal .  For purposes of this paragraph, an appeal shall include any petition for a writ of certiorari, petition for review, or other writ that may be filed in connection with approval or disapproval of the , but shall not include any appeal which concerns only the issue of attorneys fees and reimbursement of expenses.
having been finally affirmed on
or
having been dismissed; or (ii
having expired
Settlement
Derivative Plaintiffs Counsels
 
12.
 
Forest or the Company means nominal party Forest Laboratories, Inc.
 
13.
 
Individual Defendants means collectively, Howard Solomon, Kenneth E. Goodman, John E. Eggers, Elaine Hochberg, Lawrence S. Olanoff, William J. Candee, George S. Cohan, Dan L. Goldwasser, Lester B. Salans, Phillip M. , Nesli Basgoz, Mary E. Prehn, Raymond Stafford, and Charles E. Triano.
Satow
 
14.
 
Judgment means the proposed to be by the Court, substantially in the form attached as Exhibit A.
Final Judgment and Order of Dismissal with Prejudice
entered
to the Stipulation
 
15.
 
Person means an individual, corporation, limited liability corporation, professional corporation, partnership, limited partnership, limited liability partnership, association, joint stock company, estate, legal representative, trust, unincorporated association, government or
 
- 3 -
 
any political subdivision or agency thereof, and any business or legal entity and their spouses, heirs, predecessors, successors, representatives, or assignees.
respective 
 
16.
 
Related Persons means past or present directors, officers, employees, partners, members, principals, agents, insurers, co-insurers, reinsurers, controlling shareholders, attorneys, accountants or auditors, personal or legal representatives, predecessors, successors, parents, subsidiaries, divisions, joint ventures, assigns, spouses, heirs and related or affiliated entities, entity in which any of the Released Parties has a controlling interest, any members of any Individual Defendants immediate family, or any trust of which any Individual Defendant or Forest is the , or which is for the benefit of Forest or any Individual Defendant and/or member(s) of any Individual Defendants family.
the
 of each of the Released Parties (as defined in 18), any
settlor
 
17.
 
Released Claims shall collectively mean any and all claims , rights, and causes of action, whether based on federal, state, local, statutory, or common law or any other law, rule, or regulation, including Unknown Claims as defined in  below), have been asserted by Derivative Plaintiffs or shareholders of Forest derivatively on behalf of Forest against the Released Persons (as defined in  in the Derivative Actions
for relief, debts, demands
or liabilities whatsoever (including, but not limited to, any claims for compensatory damages, punitive damages, interest, attorneys fees, expert or consulting fees, and any other costs, expenses, liability or relief, monetary, injunctive, or otherwise)
foreign,
whether fixed or contingent, matured or unmatured, pleaded or unpleaded, known or unknown, suspected or unsuspected (
(
25
arising out of or relating to any claims that have been or could
19 below) concerning or arising out of the facts, allegations, transactions, events, matters, occurrences, acts, disclosures, statements, representations, omissions or failures to act that were alleged or could have been alleged
, including, but not limited to, clinical trials, tests, and alleged off label promotional activities for Celexa or Lexapro; payments to health care providers; the manufacturing and distribution of Levothroid; the efficacy and
 
- 4 -
 
.
likelihood of FDA approval of Namenda and Milnacipran; product warnings for SSRIs, including but not limited to Celexa or Lexapro; and Forests officers and directors sales of personally held stock of Forest
 
18.
 
Released Parties means collectively, Forest and each of the Individual Defendants.
 
19.
 
Released Persons means collectively, each and all of the Released Parties and each of their Related Persons.
 
20.
 
Settlement Hearing means the hearing on final approval of the proposed contemplated by the Stipulation, made upon noticed motion and at which the Derivative Plaintiffs will seek entry of the Judgment.
Settlement
 
21.
 
Settling Parties means collectively, Forest, the Individual Defendants, Federal Derivative Plaintiffs and State Derivative Plaintiff, individually and derivatively on behalf of Forest.
,
 
22.
 
State Derivative Action means ., Index No. 09/601154 (Supr. Ct., New York Cty).
Wandel v. Solomon, et al
 
23.
 
State Derivative Plaintiff means Arnold Wandel, individually and derivatively on behalf of Forest.
 
24.
 
State Derivative Plaintiffs Counsel means Rigrodsky & Long, P.A., 585 Stewart Avenue, Suite 304, Garden City, 11530.
NY
 
25.
 
Unknown Claims means any Released Claims that any Settling Party or Related Person does not know or suspect to exist in his, her, or its favor at the time of the including, without limitation, those claims which, if known, might have affected the decision to enter into, or not object to, this Settlement.  The Settling Parties expressly waive, relinquish, and release any and all provisions, rights, and benefits conferred by or under California Civil Code
Settlement
 
- 5 -
 
Section 1542 ("1542") or any other law of the United States or any state or territory of the United States, or principle of common law, which is similar, comparable, or equivalent to 1542, which provides:
 
A general release does not extend to claims which the creditor does not know or suspect to exist in his or her favor at the time of executing the release, which if known by him or her must have materially affected his or her settlement with the debtor.
The Settling Parties acknowledge that they may hereafter discover facts in addition to or different from those now known or believed to be true by them, with respect to the subject matter of the Released Claims, but it is the intention of the Settling Parties to completely, fully, finally, and forever compromise, settle, release, discharge, and extinguish any and all Released Claims known or unknown, suspect or unsuspected, contingent or absolute, accrued or unaccrued, apparent or unapparent, which do exist, or heretofore existed, or may hereafter exist, and without regard to the subsequent discovery of additional or different facts.  The Settling Parties each acknowledge that the foregoing waiver was separately bargained for and a key element of the of which this release is a part.
,
now
Settlement
 
 
The Derivative Plaintiffs bring suit against the Individual Defendants solely on behalf of Forest and solely for the benefit of Forest and not for any recovery for the direct benefit of any shareholders.  The Derivative Plaintiffs generally allege that the Individual Defendants breached their fiduciary duties, by, , causing or allowing the Company to: adverse clinical trials or tests regarding two anti-depression drugs, Celexa and Lexapro, as to their efficacy in the treatment of adolescent and pediatric depression; (ii) in unlawful off-label promotional activities for Celexa and Lexapro; (iii) misleading statements or omissions in its public filings
among other things
engage in acts that gave rise to a securities class action filed against the Company and certain of its officers in 2005 and investigations by various agencies of the U.S. government and the New York Attorney General that involved various matters including: (i) concealing
engaging
making
 
- 6 -
 
regarding the timing and chances of success of Forests application with the U.S. Drug Administration (FDA) for approval of its Alzheimers drug, Memantine/Namenda, in the treatment of mild to moderate cases of the disease.  Derivative Plaintiffs allege that certain of the Individual Defendants sold more than 6 million shares of personally held Forest stock for proceeds in excess of $407 million.  Derivative Plaintiffs sought, among other things, damages, disgorgement by the Individual Defendants, and corporate governance reforms to be implemented by Forest.
; (iv) paying illegal kickbacks to doctors in an effort to induce them to prescribe Forests drugs; and (v) illegally manufacturing and distributing levothroid
$
while in possession of material, undisclosed adverse information regarding Forests business and operations
 
 
Each Individual Defendant, has denied and continues to deny each and all of the claims and contentions alleged in the Derivative Actions.  Each Individual Defendant has expressly denied and continues to deny all charges of wrongdoing or liability against each of them arising out of any of the conduct, statements, acts or omissions alleged, or that could have been alleged, in the Derivative Actions.  The Individual Defendants also have denied and continue to deny,the allegations that Forest, the Derivative Plaintiffs, or the Current Forest Shareholders have suffered damages or were harmed by the conduct alleged in the Derivative Actions.
 against each of them
,
 
Nonetheless, the Individual Defendants and Forest have concluded that further conduct of the Derivative Actions would be protracted and expensive, and that it is desirable that the Derivative Actions be fully and finally settled in the manner and upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Stipulation.  The Individual Defendants and Forest also have taken into account the uncertainty and risks inherent in any litigation, especially in complex cases like the Derivative Actions.  Further, Forest the is in the best interests of Forest and its shareholders.  The Individual Defendants and Forest have, therefore, determined that it is desirable
believes that
Settlement
 
- 7 -
 
and beneficial to them that the Derivative Actions be settled in the manner and upon the terms and conditions set forth in the Stipulation.
 
For the avoidance of doubt, none of the Individual Defendants or Forest intends or understands the denials set forth in this Section or elsewhere in this Agreement to be inconsistent with the admissions of guilt referenced in (a) the September 15, 2010 Plea Agreement entered into between the United States and Forest Pharmaceuticals, Inc., and (b) the September 15, 2010 Side Letter Agreement entered into between the United States and Forest Laboratories, Inc.
 
Stipulation shall be deemed an admission of the validity or infirmity of any claim against any Individual Defendant or the liability or non-liability of any Individual Defendant, or an admission of insurance coverage under any policy, and may not be used in any proceeding for any purpose except to enforce the terms of the Stipulation.
Neither the
nor the Settlement
to be or be used as
or evidence
of the existence or lack
 
 
Derivative Plaintiffs believe that the claims alleged in the Derivative Actions have merit.  Derivative Plaintiffs and Derivative Plaintiffs Counsel recognize and acknowledge, however, the significant risk, expense, and length of continued proceedings necessary to prosecute the Derivative Actions against the Individual Defendants through trial and through appeal.  Derivative Plaintiffs Counsel also have taken into account the uncertain outcome and the risk of any litigation, especially in complex actions such as the Derivative Actions, as well as the difficulties and delays inherent in such litigation.  Derivative Plaintiffs Counsel also mindful of the inherent problems of proof and possible defenses to the claims asserted in such actions.  Derivative Plaintiffs' Counsel have conducted a thorough review and analysis of the relevant facts, allegations, defenses, and controlling legal principles, and believe that the Settlement set forth in the Stipulation is fair, reasonable, and adequate, and confers substantial benefits upon Forest and its
are 
 
- 8 -
 
shareholders.  Based upon Derivative Plaintiffs' Counsel's evaluation, Derivative Plaintiffs believe that the Settlement is in the best interests of Forest and Current Forest Shareholders and have agreed to settle the Derivative Actions upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth herein.
 
 
The Settlement Hearing will be held before the Honorable on February 3, at 2:00 p.m. at the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York for the purpose of determining: (i) whether the is fair, reasonable, and adequate, and should be finally approved by the Court; (ii) whether a Judgment should be entered dismissing the Federal Derivative Action with prejudice; and (iii) whether the Fee and Expense Award should be approved.  The Settlement Hearing may be continued by the Court at the Settlement Hearing or at any adjourned session thereof without further notice.
Richard J. Holwell
201
2
Settlement
 
 
The was reached by the Settling Parties after engaging in arms-length negotiations conducted in good faith.  The terms and conditions of the proposed are set forth fully in the Stipulation described above.  The Stipulation has been filed with the Court and is also available for viewing on the websites of Faruqi & Faruqi, LLP at www.faruqilaw.com, Robbins Umeda LLP at http://www.robbinsumeda.com/notices.html, and Rigrodsky & Long, P.A. at www.rigrodskylong.com.  The following is only a summary of its terms.
Settlement
Settlement
 
Forest implemented a number of corporate governance measures fully set forth in Exhibit B to the Stipulation.  In summary, these corporate governance measures enhance Board level oversight of the Companys sales and compliance by requiring periodic reports to the Board by the Chief of Compliance and by requiring the Board, or a committee of the Board so delegated, to the effectiveness of Forests
has 
 or will implement
promotional
oversee
implementation and
 
- 9 -
 
internal controls over the marketing of Forests products in compliance with, ,FDA regulations and the Companys Code of Business Conduct.  The corporate governance measures adopted by Forest also require annual training Board members regarding Forests compliance program and its Code of Conduct to general compliance issues, FDA regulations governing the marketing of prescription drugs, best practices for marketing prescription drugs and the reporting of clinical studies.  Training will also be provided to all Forest employees who promote its drugs or supervise other employees promotion of Forest drugs Forests policy prohibiting the promotion of Forests products for purposes outside the scope of the FDA-approved package insert mechanisms for reporting suspected instances of improper practices.  Moreover, the corporate governance measures include the conduct of surveys of health care professionals to discern the content and subject matter of interactions between Forests sales representatives and healthcare professionals for no fewer than three of Forests products and the maintenance of a database tracking .
inter alia
 
of its
and Policies and Procedures as they pertain
on the products for which Forest has obtained FDA approval,
 the consequences of violating that policy, and the
 promotional
annual 
requests for information about Forests products
 
Forest and the Individual Defendants acknowledge and agree that the pendency and prosecution of the Derivative Actions were a material cause of the agreement to implement or maintain the corporate governance measures described in Exhibit B attached to the Stipulation.  Further, Forest believes that the institution of the corporate governance measures will be effective in preventing the of wrongdoing alleged in the complaints in the Derivative Actions.
types
 
 
If the Court approves the , the Settling Parties will ask the Court at the Settlement Hearing to enter the Judgment dismissing the Federal Derivative Action with prejudice in accordance with the terms of the Stipulation.  Promptly thereafter, State Derivative Plaintiff shall
Settlement
 
- 10 -
 
file a dismissal with prejudice of all claims asserted by him against the Individual Defendants in the State Derivative Action.
 
Upon the Effective Date, Forest, Derivative Plaintiffs (individually and derivatively on behalf of Forest), and each of Forest (solely in their capacity as Forest shareholders) shall be deemed to have, and by operation of the Judgment shall have, fully, finally, and forever released, relinquished and discharged the Released Claims against the Released Persons.  Further, upon the Effective Date, Forest, each of the Individual Defendants and the Related Persons shall be deemed to have, and by operation of the Judgment shall have, fully, finally, and forever released, relinquished and discharged Derivative Plaintiffs and Derivative Plaintiffs Counsel from all claims arising out of, relating to, or in connection with their institution, prosecution, assertion, settlement, or resolution of the Derivative Actions or the Released Claims.
the Current
Shareholders
 and shall be forever enjoined from prosecuting the Released Claims
,
 
 
      In recognition of the substantial benefits conferred on Forest by the corporate governance measures instituted by Forest, the Settling Parties reached an agreement as to a fair and reasonable amount of attorneys fees and reimbursement of expenses for Derivative Plaintiffs Counsel.  Accordingly,  Forest's Board of Directors has agreed to cause Forest or the Individual Defendants insurers to pay to Derivative Plaintiffs Counsel the agreed-to amount of $ (the Fee and Expense Award) for Derivative Plaintiffs Counsels attorneys fees and reimbursement of expenses.
Forests and 
2,175,000
, subject to approval of the Court
 
Derivative Plaintiffs Counsel shall request approval of the Fee and Expense Award at the Settlement Hearing.  To date, Derivative Plaintiffs Counsel have neither received any payment for their services in conducting the Derivative Actions, nor have they been reimbursed for their out-of-pocket expenses incurred.  Derivative Plaintiffs Counsel believe that the Fee and Expense
 
- 11 -
 
Award requested is within the range of fees and expenses awarded to Derivative Plaintiffs Counsel under similar circumstances in litigation of this type.  Forest shareholders are not personally liable for the Fee and Expense Award.
 
 
Any Current Forest Shareholder may object and/or appear and show cause, if he, she, or it has any concern why the should not be approved as fair, reasonable, and adequate, or why should not be entered thereon, or why the Fee and Expense Award should not be awarded to Derivative Plaintiffs Counsel; provided, however, unless otherwise ordered by the Court, no Current Forest Shareholder shall be heard or entitled to contest the approval of the terms and conditions of the Settlement, or, if approved, the to be entered thereon approving the same, or the attorneys fees and expenses to be awarded to Derivative Plaintiffs Counsel unless that shareholder has, :  (1) filed with the Clerk of the Court, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York, 500 Pearl Street, New York, NY 10007-1312, a written objection to the setting forth:  (a)  the nature of the objection; (b) proof of ownership of Forest common stock through the date of the Settlement Hearing, including the number of shares of Forest common stock and the date of purchase; and (c) any documentation in support of such objection; and (2) if a Current Forest Shareholder intends to appear and requests to be heard at the Settlement Hearing, such shareholder must have, in addition to the requirements of (1) above, filed with the Clerk of the Court:  (a) a written notice of such shareholders intention to appear; (b)  a statement that indicates the basis for such appearance; and (c) the identities of any witnesses  the shareholder intends to call at the Settlement Hearing and the subjects of their testimony.  If a Current Forest Shareholder files a written objection and/or written notice of intent to appear, such shareholder must also simultaneously
who continues to hold shares of Forest common stock as of the date of the Settlement Hearing 
Settlement
the Judgment
Judgment
at least ten (10) business days prior to the Settlement Hearing
Settlement
 held
 
- 12 -
 
serve copies of such notice, proof, statement and documentation, together with copies of any other papers or briefs such shareholder files with the Court (either by hand delivery or by first class mail) upon each of the following:
 
Any Current Forest Shareholder who does not make his, her, or its objection in the manner provided herein shall be deemed to have waived such objection and shall forever be foreclosed from making any objection to the fairness, reasonableness, or adequacy of the as incorporated in the Stipulation and the Fee and Expense Award to Derivative Plaintiffs Counsel, unless otherwise ordered by the Court, but shall otherwise be bound by the to be entered and the releases to be given.
Settlement
Judgment
 
 
The is conditioned upon the occurrence of certain events described in the Stipulation.  Those events include the occurrence of the Effective Date, which requires, among other things: (1) entry of the requested Judgment by the Court; and (2) expiration of the time to appeal from or alter or amend the Judgment
Settlement
 or affirmance of the Judgment after any appeal that
 
- 13 -
 
.  If, for any reason, anyof the conditions described in the Stipulation is not met and the Effective Date does not occur, the Stipulation might be terminated and, if terminated, will become null and void, and the parties to the Stipulation will be restored to their respective positions as of
may be taken
 
March 11, 2011.
 
XI.           EXAMINATION OF PAPERS AND INQUIRIES
 
This notice contains only a summary of the terms of the .  For a more detailed statement of the matters involved in the Derivative Actions, the and the terms discussed in this notice, the Stipulation may be viewed on the websites of Faruqi & Faruqi, LLP at www.faruqilaw.com, Robbins Umeda LLP at http://www.robbinsumeda.com/notices.html, and Rigrodsky & Long, P.A. at www.rigrodskylong.com.  The Stipulation may also be inspected at the Office of the Clerk of the United States District Court for the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, 500 Pearl Street, New York, New York 10007-1312, during business hours of each business day.
Settlement
Settlement
 
Any inquiries regarding the or the Derivative Actions should be addressed to one of the following:
Settlement
 
 
 
 
 
- 14 -
 


