FILE:FRX/FRX-8K-20110413171825.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of February 22, 2011, as amended by Amendment No. 1, dated as of April 4, 2011 (as amended, the "Merger Agreement"), by and among Forest Laboratories, Inc. ("Forest"), FL Holding CV, an entity organized under the laws of the Netherlands and an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Forest ("Parent"), Magnolia Acquisition Corp., a Delaware corporation and an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Parent (the "Purchaser") and Clinical Data, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Clinical Data"), Forest completed its acquisition of Clinical Data.
The transaction was consummated through a tender offer (the "Offer") by the Purchaser to acquire (i) all of the outstanding shares of common stock, $0.01 par value per share, of Clinical Data (the "Shares") for (A) $30.00 per Share (the "Upfront Consideration"), net to the holder thereof in cash and less any withholding taxes, and (B) contingent consideration of up to $6.00 per share (the "Contingent Consideration") that may be paid pursuant to the terms of a Contingent Value Rights Agreement, dated as of April 12, 2011, by and among Forest, Parent and American Stock Transfer & Trust Company, LLC, as rights agent, for the benefit of Clinical Data's security holders based upon achievement of certain milestones related to Viibryd, (ii) all of the outstanding warrants to purchase Shares that have exercise prices of $36.00 per Share or less (the "In-the-Money Warrants") for the consideration set forth in the Merger Agreement, and (iii) all of the outstanding convertible promissory notes (the "Company Notes," and together with the Shares and the In-the-Money Warrants, the "Securities") issued by Clinical Data on February 25, 2009 in the aggregate principal amount of $50,000,000, for the consideration set forth in the Merger Agreement.
The Offer expired at 12:00 midnight, New York City time, on Monday April 11, 2011. On April 12, 2011 (the "Acceptance Time"), the Purchaser accepted for purchase all Securities that were validly tendered and not validly withdrawn in accordance with the terms of the Offer. American Stock Transfer & Trust Company, LLC, the depositary for the Offer, has advised Forest that as of the expiration of the Offer, approximately 27,868,256 Shares; 93,556 2005 Warrants; 113,817 2006 Warrants; 757,461 2008 Warrants; 1,527,650 Series A 2009 Warrants; 1,527,650 Series B 2009 Warrants; and $50,000,000 aggregate principal amount of Company Notes, which are convertible into 6,110,599 Shares, were validly tendered and not validly withdrawn prior to the expiration of the Offer. The Securities validly tendered and not validly withdrawn represented approximately 82.8% of the Shares on a fully-diluted basis.
Immediately following the Purchaser's acquisition of the Company Notes, they were converted into 6,110,599 Shares. Subsequent to the conversion of the Company Notes, the Purchaser had an aggregate ownership of over 90% of the outstanding Shares on a fully-diluted basis.
On April 13, 2011, following the conversion of the Company Notes, Forest completed its acquisition of Clinical Data by effecting a short-form merger, pursuant to Section 253 of the Delaware General Corporation Law (the "DGCL"), of the Purchaser with and into Clinical Data (the "Merger"), with Clinical Data surviving as a direct wholly-owned subsidiary of Dogwood Holding Corp., a Delaware corporation and a wholly-owned subsidiary of Parent and, prior to the consummation of the Merger, the direct parent of the Purchaser ("Dogwood"). As a result of the Merger, any Shares not tendered in the Offer (other than Shares held by the Purchaser or Clinical Data, or Shares held by Clinical Data stockholders who have and validly exercise appraisal rights under Delaware law) were canceled and converted into the right to receive the same consideration that was paid for such Shares in the Offer. Additionally, as a result of the merger, all outstanding In-the-Money Warrants issued by Clinical Data and exercisable for the common stock of Clinical Data were, as permitted by the terms thereof, canceled and converted into the right to receive the same consideration per In-the-Money Warrant that would have been paid in the Offer.
The aggregate consideration payable to the former security holders of Clinical Data in the Offer and the Merger in respect of their securities, and to cash out Clinical Data options, is approximately $1.27 billion, which Forest will finance with existing cash.
The description of the Merger and the Merger Agreement as set forth above does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of (i) the Merger Agreement, a copy of which was filed by Forest with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") as Exhibit 2.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed on February 25, 2011, and (ii) Amendment No. 1 to the Merger Agreement, a copy of which was filed by Forest with the SEC as Exhibit 2.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed on April 4,
2011. A copy of the press release announcing the completion of the Offer was filed by Forest with the SEC as Exhibit (a)(5)(D) to the Schedule TO-T/A filed on April 12, 2011 and is incorporated herein by reference. A copy of the press release issued by Forest on April 13, 2011, announcing the consummation of the Merger is attached as Exhibit 99.2 hereto and is incorporated by reference herein.
 
(a) . The audited consolidated financial statements of Clinical Data for the year ended March 31, 2011 will be filed by amendment to this Current Report on Form 8-K not later than 71 days after the date on which this Current Report on Form 8-K is required to be filed.
Financial Statements of Business Acquired
(b) . The pro forma financial information as of and for the year ended March 31, 2011 will be filed by amendment to this Current Report on Form 8-K not later than 71 days after the date on which this Current Report on Form 8-K is required to be filed.
Pro Forma Financial Information
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
NEW YORK, NY, April 13, 2011  Forest Laboratories, Inc. (NYSE: FRX) ("Forest") today announced that it has successfully completed its acquisition of Clinical Data, Inc. (NASDAQ: CLDA) ("Clinical Data") by means of what is known as a short-form merger under Delaware law.
On April 12, 2011, Forest announced the successful completion of the tender offer by its indirect wholly-owned subsidiary Magnolia Acquisition Corp. ("Magnolia") for all outstanding shares of common stock of, and certain outstanding notes and warrants convertible into the common stock of, Clinical Data. On April 13, 2011, Forest effected the short-form merger of Magnolia with and into Clinical Data, with Clinical Data continuing as the surviving corporation and a wholly-owned subsidiary of Dogwood Holding Corp., an indirect subsidiary of Forest, in accordance with the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of February 22, 2011, by and among Forest, FL Holding CV, an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Forest, Magnolia and Clinical Data (the "Merger Agreement"). As a result of the purchase of the shares, warrants and convertible notes in the tender offer, and the conversion of the convertible notes into shares of Clinical Data common stock, Forest and Magnolia had sufficient voting power to approve the merger without the affirmative vote of any other stockholder of Clinical Data. Due to the completion of the merger, April 13, 2011 was the last day shares of Clinical Data common stock traded on Nasdaq.
In the merger, all outstanding shares of Clinical Data common stock (other than shares held by Magnolia or Clinical Data, or shares held by Clinical Data stockholders who have and validly exercise appraisal rights under Delaware law) were canceled and converted into the right to receive the same $30.00 per share in cash plus contingent consideration of up to $6.00 per share that was offered in the tender offer. Payment of any contingent consideration will be governed by the terms of a Contingent Value Rights Agreement, dated as of April 12, 2011, by and among Forest, FL Holding CV and Magnolia for the benefit of tendering securityholders based upon achievement of certain milestones related to Viibryd. Additionally, in the merger, all outstanding warrants issued by Clinical Data and exercisable for the common stock of Clinical Data were converted into the right to receive amounts set forth in the Merger Agreement. Information regarding the merger is being mailed to Clinical Data stockholders who did not tender their shares in the tender offer and instructions will be mailed to those stockholders outlining the steps to be taken to obtain the merger consideration.
About Forest Laboratories
Forest Laboratories' (NYSE: FRX) longstanding global partnerships and track record developing and marketing pharmaceutical products in the United States have yielded its well-established central nervous system and cardiovascular franchises and innovations in anti-infective and respiratory medicine. The Company's pipeline, the most robust in its history, includes product candidates in all stages of development across a wide range of therapeutic areas. The Company is headquartered in New York, NY. To learn more, visit .
www.FRX.com
A Caution Concerning Forward Looking Statements
Certain statements in this press release may be forward-looking statements. Forest cautions that these forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ from those set forth in the forward looking statements, including the timing and the benefits of the business combination transaction involving Forest and Clinical Data; the risk that the businesses will not be integrated successfully; uncertainties regarding the timing of launch of Viibryd and future sales of Viibryd; the risk that the cost savings and any other synergies from the transaction may not be fully realized or may take longer to realize than expected; the difficulty of predicting FDA approvals; the acceptance and demand for new pharmaceutical products; the impact of competitive products and pricing; the timely development and launch of new products; and the risk factors listed from time to time in Forest Laboratories' Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, and any
subsequent filings with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") and Clinical Data's Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, and any subsequent filings with the SEC.
Notice to Investors
This press release is neither an offer to purchase nor a solicitation of an offer to sell any securities. On March 8, 2011, Forest and Magnolia filed a tender offer statement on Schedule TO with the SEC, and have mailed an offer to purchase, forms of letter of transmittal and related documents to Clinical Data securityholders. Clinical Data has filed with the SEC and mailed to Clinical Data securityholders, a solicitation/recommendation statement on Schedule 14D-9 with respect to the offer. The materials, in each case as amended, contain important information that should be read carefully. These materials (and all other materials filed by Clinical Data with the SEC) will be available at no charge from the SEC through its website at www.sec.gov. Free copies of the offer to purchase, the related letters of transmittal and certain other offering documents may be obtained by directing a request to Forest at .
www.frx.com
The Depositary for the tender offer is American Stock Transfer & Trust Company, LLC, Operations Center, Attn: Reorganization Department, P.O. Box 2042, New York, NY 10272-2042. The Dealer Manager for the tender offer is Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated, 1585 Broadway, New York, NY 10036. The Information Agent for the tender offer is MacKenzie Partners, Inc., 105 Madison Avenue, New York, NY 10016. The tender offer materials may be obtained at no charge by directing a request by mail to MacKenzie Partners, Inc. or by calling toll-free at (800) 322-2885 or collect at (212) 929-5500. Additionally, any questions related to the tender offer may be directed to MacKenzie Partners, Inc. at the mailing address or telephone numbers provided above.
 


