FILE:FRX/FRX-8K-20110404103048.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On April 4, 2011, Forest Laboratories, Inc. ("Forest") issued a press release announcing that it has entered into Amendment No. 1, dated April 4, 2011 ("Amendment No. 1"), to the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of February 22, 2011 (the "Merger Agreement"), by and among FL Holding CV, an entity organized under the laws of the Netherlands and a wholly-owned subsidiary of Forest ("Parent"), Magnolia Acquisition Corp., a Delaware corporation and a wholly-owned subsidiary of Parent (the "Purchaser"), Forest and Clinical Data, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Clinical Data").
Pursuant to the terms and subject to the conditions of the Merger Agreement, the Purchaser has commenced a tender offer (the "Offer") to acquire (i) all of the outstanding shares of common stock, $0.01 par value per share, of Clinical Data ("Clinical Data Common Stock") for (A) $30.00 per share of Clinical Data Common Stock (the "Upfront Payment"), net to the holder thereof in cash and less any withholding taxes, and (B) contingent consideration of up to $6.00 per share (the "Contingent Consideration") that may be paid pursuant to the terms of a Contingent Value Right Agreement to be entered into by Forest, FL Holding CV and Magnolia for the benefit of Clinical Data's security holders based upon achievement of certain milestones related to Viibryd, (ii) all of the outstanding warrants to purchase shares of Clinical Data Common Stock that have exercise prices of $36.00 per share of Clinical Data Common Stock or less ("Clinical Data Warrants") for the consideration set forth in the Merger Agreement, and (iii) all of the outstanding convertible promissory notes ("Clinical Data Notes") issued by Clinical Data on February 25, 2009 in the aggregate principal amount of $50,000,000, for the consideration set forth in the Merger Agreement.
As soon as practicable after the consummation of the Offer and subject to the satisfaction or waiver of certain conditions set forth in the Merger Agreement, Magnolia will merge with and into Clinical Data (the "Merger") and Clinical Data will become a wholly-owned subsidiary of FL Holding. The Merger Agreement also provides that if the Offer is not completed, the Merger may be able to be consummated if the stockholders of Clinical Data adopt the Merger Agreement at a meeting of such stockholders (the "One-Step Merger"). In the Merger, each outstanding share of Clinical Data Common Stock, other than shares of Clinical Data Common Stock owned by Clinical Data, FL Holding, Magnolia or any of their respective subsidiaries or by Clinical Data stockholders who have validly exercised their appraisal rights under Delaware law, will be converted into the right to receive the consideration per share of Clinical Data Common Stock that would have been payable in the Offer. In addition, in the Merger, Clinical Data Warrants and Clinical Data Notes will be cancelled and converted into the right to receive the consideration that would have been paid for them in the Offer.
Amendment No. 1 provides that the Offer will be extended until April 11, 2011, but not to any subsequent date unless required by any rule, regulation or position of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") or its staff applicable to the Offer. Amendment No. 1 further provides that if the conditions to the Offer are satisfied as of the expiration of the Offer, the Purchaser will promptly accept and pay for the securities tendered. If the conditions to the Offer are not satisfied at that expiration, the Purchaser will allow the Offer to expire and terminate and will direct the depositary to promptly return all tendered securities to the holders. In such case, promptly following the expiration of the Offer it is anticipated that Clinical Data will file its definitive proxy statement and mail such definitive proxy statement to its stockholders in connection with a special meeting of Clinical Data stockholders to be called in accordance with Delaware law and the rules and regulations of the SEC.
Amendment No. 1 is filed as Exhibit 2.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. The foregoing description of Amendment No. 1 and the transactions contemplated thereby does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to such document, and by the full text of the Merger Agreement, which was included as Exhibit 2.1 to Forest's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on February 25, 2010. A copy of the press release of Forest announcing the execution of Amendment No. 1 is included herein as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Notice to Investors
The description contained herein and in the exhibits attached hereto is not an offer to buy or the solicitation of an offer to sell securities. At the time the tender offer commenced, Forest, FL Holding CV and Magnolia filed a tender offer statement on Schedule TO with the SEC, and Clinical Data filed a solicitation/recommendation statement on Schedule 14D-9 with respect to the tender offer. The tender offer
statement (including an offer to purchase, related letters of transmittal and other tender offer documents) and the solicitation/recommendation statement, in each case as amended, contain important information that should be read carefully before making any decision to tender securities in the tender offer. Those materials have been and will be made available to Clinical Data's stockholders at no expense to them. In addition, all of those materials (and all other tender offer documents filed with the SEC) are available at no charge on the SEC's website: .
www.sec.gov
INVESTORS AND SECURITY HOLDERS OF CLINICAL DATA ARE URGED TO READ THE SCHEDULE TO, THE SCHEDULE 14D-9 AND THE OTHER RELEVANT MATERIALS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT DECISION WITH RESPECT TO THE TENDER OFFER
Additional Information about the Merger and Where to Find It
In connection with the potential One-Step Merger, Clinical Data has filed a preliminary proxy statement with the SEC. Additionally, Clinical Data has filed and will file other relevant materials with the SEC in connection with the proposed acquisition of Clinical Data by the Company pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement. The materials filed and to be filed by Clinical Data with the SEC may be obtained free of charge at the SEC web site at . Investors and stockholders also may obtain free copies of the proxy statement from Clinical Data by contacting Clinical Data Investor Relations at . Investors and security holders of Clinical Data are urged to read the proxy statement and the other relevant materials before making any voting or investment decision with respect to the proposed merger because they contain important information about the merger and the parties to the merger.
www.sec.gov
ir@clda.com
A Caution Concerning Forward Looking Statements
Except for the historical information contained herein, this release may contain forward-looking statements. These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ from those set forth in the forward looking statements, including that the transaction may not be timely completed, if at all; that, prior to the completion of the transactions, if at all, Clinical Data's business may experience significant disruptions due to transaction-related uncertainty or other factors; the timing and the benefits of the business combination transaction involving Forest and Clinical Data, the ability to obtain regulatory approvals of the transaction on the proposed terms and schedule; the requirement that Clinical Data stockholders approve the transaction under certain circumstances; the risk that the businesses will not be integrated successfully; uncertainties regarding the timing of launch of Viibryd and future sales of Viibryd; the risk that the cost savings and any other synergies from the transaction may not be fully realized or may take longer to realize than expected; the difficulty of predicting approvals by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, the acceptance and demand for new pharmaceutical products, the impact of competitive products and pricing, the timely development and launch of new products, and the risk factors listed from time to time in Forest's Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, and any subsequent SEC filings and Clinical Data's Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, and any subsequent SEC filings.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 2.1
 
AMENDMENT No. 1, dated as of April 4, 2011 (this ""), to the Merger Agreement referred to below, among FL HOLDING CV, an entity organized under the laws of the Netherlands (""), MAGNOLIA ACQUISITION CORP., a Delaware corporation and an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Parent (""), FOREST LABORATORIES, INC., a Delaware corporation and the indirect parent of Parent (the "") and CLINICAL DATA, INC., a Delaware corporation (the "").
Amendment
Parent
Purchaser
Guarantor
Company
WHEREAS, Parent, Purchaser, the Guarantor and the Company have entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of February 22, 2011 (the ""), providing for the acquisition of the Company upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth therein. Capitalized terms used in this Amendment without definition shall have the meanings assigned thereto in the Merger Agreement;
Merger Agreement
WHEREAS, the parties desire to amend certain provisions of the Merger Agreement as provided in this Amendment;
WHEREAS, the Company Board has duly authorized the execution and delivery of this Amendment by the Company and the respective boards of directors of Parent and Purchaser have each approved the execution and delivery of this Amendment by Parent and Purchaser.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, Parent, Purchaser, the Guarantor and the Company hereby agree as follows:
 
1.1. Amendment and Restatement of Section 2.1(d). Section 2.1(d) is hereby amended and restated to read in its entirety as follows:
"The Offer shall initially expire at midnight, New York City Time, on the date (the "") that is 20 business days (calculated as set forth in Rule 14d-1(g)(3) and Rule 14e-1(a) under the Exchange Act) after the Offer Commencement Date. On the date of this Amendment, Purchaser shall extend the expiration date of the Offer to April 11, 2011 (the ""). Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, Purchaser may, without the consent of the Company, extend the Offer for any period required by any rule, regulation, interpretation or position of the SEC or its staff applicable to the Offer."
Initial Expiration Date
Offer End Date
1.2. Amendment and Restatement of Section 2.1(e). Section 2.1(e) is hereby amended and restated to read in its entirety as follows:
"From and after the Offer End Date, Purchaser shall be entitled to allow the Offer to expire and thereby terminate if the Offer Conditions shall not be satisfied as of the date of the Offer End Date. The termination of the Offer pursuant to this Section 2.1(e) is referred to in this Agreement as the "." The parties hereto acknowledge and agree that the Offer Termination shall not give rise to a right of termination of this Agreement unless to the extent expressly provided for in Section 9.1 and that, absent any such termination of this Agreement, the obligations of the parties hereunder other than those related to the Offer shall continue to remain in effect, including those obligations with respect to the Merger."
Offer Termination
1.3. A new Section 7.1(d) is hereby added, to read as follows:
"(d) Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the Company will not file the definitive Proxy Statement, convene the Stockholders' Meeting to vote upon the adoption of the Agreement or solicit any proxies in favor of the adoption of this Agreement until after the Offer Termination. Without limiting the obligations of the Company under Sections 7.1(a), (b) or (c), the Company shall duly file and commence the dissemination of the definitive Proxy Statement to the Company's stockholders on the first business day following the Offer Termination, unless required by any rule, regulation, interpretation or position of the SEC or its staff to delay the filing or dissemination of the definitive Proxy Statement beyond such day."
 
2.1. Effect of Amendment. Except as expressly set forth herein: (i) the Merger Agreement shall remain in full force and effect and is hereby ratified and confirmed; and (ii) this Amendment shall not by implication or otherwise limit, impair, constitute a waiver or amendment of, or otherwise affect the rights and remedies of the parties hereto under the Merger Agreement.
2.2. Miscellaneous Items. The provisions of Sections 10.5, 10.7, 10.8, 10.9, 10.10, 10.11, 10.12 and 10.13 of the Merger Agreement shall apply to this Amendment as if set forth herein.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Parent, Purchaser and the Company have caused this Amendment to be executed as of the date first written above by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
NEW YORK, NY, April 4, 2011  Forest Laboratories, Inc. (NYSE: FRX) ("Forest") today announced that its indirect wholly-owned subsidiary, Magnolia Acquisition Corp. ("Magnolia"), has extended the expiration date of its tender offer for all outstanding shares of common stock of, and certain outstanding notes and warrants convertible into the common stock of, Clinical Data, Inc. (NASDAQ: CLDA) ("Clinical Data") to expire at 12:00 midnight, New York City time on Monday, April 11, 2011 (which is the end of the day on April 11, 2011). Forest also today announced that it has agreed with Clinical Data to amend the Merger Agreement, dated as of February 22, 2011, among Forest, Clinical Data, FL Holding C.V., an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Forest, and Magnolia.
The amended merger agreement provides that the tender offer will be extended until April 11, 2011, but not to any subsequent date unless required by any rule, regulation or position of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") or its staff applicable to the tender offer. If the conditions to the tender offer are not satisfied at that expiration, Magnolia will allow the tender offer to expire and terminate and will direct the depositary to promptly return all tendered securities to the holders. In such case, promptly following the expiration of the tender offer it is anticipated that Clinical Data will file its definitive proxy statement and mail such definitive proxy statement to its stockholders in connection with a special meeting of Clinical Data stockholders to be called in accordance with Delaware law and the rules and regulations of the SEC. All other terms and conditions of the tender offer remain unchanged. The tender offer was previously scheduled to expire at 12:00 midnight, New York City time, on Monday April 4, 2011. The Depositary has indicated that, as of the close of business on April 1, 2011, approximately 11,904,709 Shares; 32,019 2005 Warrants; 757,461 2008 Warrants; 1,527,650 Series A 2009 Warrants; 1,527,650 Series B 2009 Warrants; and 6,110,599 Company Notes had been validly tendered and not withdrawn pursuant to the tender offer, representing approximately 47.6% of the outstanding shares of Clinical Data common stock on a fully-diluted basis. In order to satisfy the minimum tender condition to the tender offer, Magnolia must acquire at least approximately 78.2% of the issued and outstanding shares of Clinical Data common stock on a fully-diluted basis. The tender offer is being extended because certain conditions to the tender offer are not yet satisfied and to permit the tender offer to remain open for at least five business days after the amendments announced herein.
The Depositary for the tender offer is American Stock Transfer & Trust Company, LLC, Operations Center, Attn: Reorganization Department, P.O. Box 2042, New York, NY 10272-2042. The Dealer Manager for the tender offer is Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated, 1585 Broadway, New York, NY 10036. The Information Agent for the tender offer is MacKenzie Partners, Inc., 105 Madison Avenue, New York, NY 10016. The tender offer materials may be obtained at no charge by directing a request by mail to MacKenzie Partners, Inc. or by calling toll-free at (800) 322-2885 or collect at (212) 929-5500, and may also be obtained at no charge at the website maintained by the SEC at www.sec.gov. Additionally, any questions related to the tender offer may be directed to MacKenzie Partners, Inc. at the mailing address or telephone numbers provided above.
About Forest Laboratories
Forest Laboratories' (NYSE: FRX) longstanding global partnerships and track record developing and marketing pharmaceutical products in the United States have yielded its well-established central nervous system and cardiovascular franchises and innovations in anti-infective and respiratory medicine. The Company's pipeline, the most robust in its history, includes product candidates in all stages of development across a wide range of therapeutic areas. The Company is headquartered in New York, NY. To learn more, visit .
www.FRX.com
A Caution Concerning Forward Looking Statements
Certain statements in this press release may be forward-looking statements. Forest cautions that these forward-looking statements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ from
those set forth in the forward looking statements, including that the transaction may not be timely completed, if at all; that, prior to the completion of the transactions, if at all, Clinical Data's business may experience significant disruptions due to transaction-related uncertainty or other factors; the timing and the benefits of the business combination transaction involving Forest and Clinical Data, the ability to obtain regulatory approvals of the transaction on the proposed terms and schedule; the requirement that Clinical Data stockholders approve the transaction; the risk that the businesses will not be integrated successfully; uncertainties regarding the timing of launch of Viibryd and future sales of Viibryd; the risk that the cost savings and any other synergies from the transaction may not be fully realized or may take longer to realize than expected; the difficulty of predicting FDA approvals, the acceptance and demand for new pharmaceutical products, the impact of competitive products and pricing, the timely development and launch of new products, and the risk factors listed from time to time in Forest Laboratories' Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, and any subsequent SEC filings and Clinical Data's Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, and any subsequent SEC filings.
Notice to Investors
This press release is neither an offer to purchase nor a solicitation of an offer to sell any securities. The solicitation and the offer to buy shares of Clinical Data common stock and certain outstanding notes and warrants issued by Clinical Data is being made pursuant to an offer to purchase and related materials that Forest and Magnolia filed with the SEC. On March 8, 2011, Forest and Magnolia filed a tender offer statement on Schedule TO with the SEC, and Clinical Data filed a solicitation/recommendation statement on Schedule 14D-9 with respect to the offer. The tender offer statement (including an offer to purchase, related letters of transmittal and other offer documents) and the solicitation/recommendation statement, in each case as amended, contain important information that should be read carefully and considered before any decision is made with respect to the tender offer. Additionally, Clinical Data and Forest have filed and will file other relevant materials in connection with the proposed transaction of Clinical Data by Forest pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement. These materials have been or will be sent free of charge to all stockholders of Clinical Data when available. In addition, all of these materials (and all other materials filed by Clinical Data with the SEC) will be available at no charge from the SEC through its website at www.sec.gov. Free copies of the offer to purchase, the related letters of transmittal and certain other offering documents may be obtained by directing a request to Forest at . Investors and security holders may also obtain free copies of the documents filed with the SEC by Clinical Data by contacting Clinical Data Investor Relations at .
www.frx.com
ir@clda.com
INVESTORS AND SHAREHOLDERS OF CLINICAL DATA ARE ADVISED TO READ THE SCHEDULE TO, THE SCHEDULE 14D-9, AND THE PROXY STATEMENT, AS EACH MAY BE AMENDED OR SUPPLEMENTED FROM TIME TO TIME, AND ANY OTHER RELEVANT DOCUMENTS FILED WITH THE SEC WHEN THEY BECOME AVAILABLE BEFORE THEY MAKE ANY DECISION WITH RESPECT TO THE TENDER OFFER OR MERGER, BECAUSE THEY WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT THE PROPOSED TRANSACTION AND THE PARTIES THERETO.
Additional Information about the Merger and Where to Find It
In connection with the potential one-step merger, Clinical Data filed a proxy statement with the SEC on March 8, 2011. Additionally, Clinical Data will file other relevant materials with the SEC in connection with the proposed acquisition of Clinical Data by Forest pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement. The materials that have been and will be filed by Clinical Data with the SEC may be obtained free of charge at the SEC's web site at . Investors and stockholders also may obtain free copies of the proxy statement from Clinical Data by contacting Clinical Data Investor Relations at . Investors and security holders of Clinical Data are urged to read the proxy statement and the other relevant materials when they become available before making any voting or investment decision with respect to the proposed merger because they will contain important information about the merger and the parties to the merger.
www.sec.gov
ir@clda.com
Clinical Data and its respective directors, executive officers and other members of their management and employees, under the SEC rules, may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies of Clinical Data stockholders in connection with the proposed merger. Further, such persons may have direct or indirect interests in the proposed transaction due to, among other things, securities holdings, pre-existing or future indemnification arrangements, vesting of equity awards, or rights to severance payments or bonuses in connection with the proposed transaction. Information concerning the interests of these persons has been set forth in the Schedule 14D-9 and proxy statement
 
relating to the proposed transaction, and any other materials which may be filed with the SEC in connection with the merger when and if they become available. Information concerning the interests of Clinical Data's participants in the solicitation, which may, in some cases, be different than those of Clinical Data's stockholders generally, have been set forth in the proxy statement relating to the merger.
 


