FILE:FRX/FRX-8K-20121210142339.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01 Other Events.
 
As previously reported in its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2012 (), Forest Laboratories, Inc. () entered into a Stipulation of Compromise and Settlement dated October 8, 2012 (the ) to resolve shareholder derivative actions against Forests directors and certain of its officers filed in New York State Supreme Court (the  ) under the caption  (the ) and in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York (the ) under the caption (the  and collectively with the Hawley Action, the ).
Form 10-Q
Forest
Stipulation
State
Court
John Hawley Trust, by John M. Hawley Jr., Trustee, on behalf of himself and all others similarly situated and derivatively on behalf of Nominal Defendant Forest Laboratories, Inc., vs. Howard Solomon et al., Defendants and Forest Laboratories, Inc., Nominal Defendant
Hawley Action
Federal Court
In Re: Forest Laboratories, Inc. Derivative Litigation
Federal Action
Derivative Actions
 
On November 30, 2012, the State Court entered an order preliminarily approving the settlement of the Derivative Actions on the terms set forth in the Stipulation previously reported in the Form 10-Q, providing for notice of the proposed settlement to Forests stockholders, and scheduling a hearing for January 9, 2013, at 10:00 a.m. Eastern time to consider whether to:  (i) approve the proposed settlement contemplated by the Stipulation, (ii) approve the award of fees and expenses requested by plaintiffs counsel, and (iii) enter a judgment dismissing the Hawley Action with prejudice as set forth in the Stipulation filed with the State Court.   In accordance with the Stipulation, if the State Court approves such matters and the Hawley Action is dismissed, the parties will take such action as necessary to dismiss the Federal Action.
 
The in the form approved by the Court is furnished herewith as .
Notice of Proposed Settlement of Derivative Actions, Hearing Thereon, and Right to Appear
Exhibit 99.1
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(a) Not Applicable.
(b) Not Applicable.
(c) Not Applicable.
(d) Exhibits:
The following exhibits are furnished herewith:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: December 10, 2012
 
Forest Laboratories, Inc.
(Registrant)
 
 
/s/ Francis I. Perier, Jr.
Francis I. Perier, Jr.
Executive Vice President Finance & Administration and
Chief Financial Officer
 

 
 
 
Exhibit 99.1
 
SUPREME COURT OF STATE OF NEW YORK
COUNTY OF NEW YORK
 
UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK
IMPORTANT NOTICE TO ALL HOLDERS OF FOREST LABORATORIES, INC. (FOREST OR THE COMPANY) COMMON STOCK AS OF OCTOBER 8, 2012 (FOREST SHAREHOLDERS) (EXCLUDING DEFENDANTS) AND THEIR SUCCESSORS-IN-INTEREST.  PLEASE NOTE THAT THE ABOVE-CAPTIONED ACTIONS ARE NOT CLASS ACTIONS AND NO INDIVIDUAL SHAREHOLDER HAS THE RIGHT TO BE COMPENSATED AS A RESULT OF THE SETTLEMENT DESCRIBED BELOW.
PLEASE READ THIS NOTICE CAREFULLY AND COMPLETELY.  IF YOU ARE A FOREST SHAREHOLDER, YOUR RIGHTS MAY BE AFFECTED BY PROCEEDINGS IN THE ACTIONS.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE that the above-captioned shareholder derivative actions (the Actions) are being settled. The terms of the proposed settlement of the Actions (the Settlement) are set forth in a Stipulation of Compromise and Settlement dated October 8, 2012 (the Stipulation).  On January 9, 2013, at 10:00am, a hearing (the Settlement Hearing) will be held before the Supreme Court of the State of New York, County of New York (the Court), 60 Centre Street, New York, New York 10007, before the Honorable Justice Shirley Werner Kornreich, to determine:  (i) whether the terms of the Settlement should be approved as fair, reasonable and adequate; (ii) whether to award Plaintiffs Counsel fees and expenses in the amount of $1,000,000 (the Fee and Expense Award); and (iii) whether the Actions should be dismissed with prejudice against the Defendants as set forth in the Stipulation filed with the Court.
This summary should be read in conjunction with, and is qualified in its entirety by reference to, the text of the Stipulation, which has been filed with the Court.  Unless stated otherwise, all capitalized terms here have the same meaning as set forth in the Stipulation.
The Actions were brought derivatively on behalf of Forest against certain officers and directors of the Company for allegedly violating their fiduciary duties in connection with certain proceedings before the Department of Health and Human Services  Office of Inspector General (the HHS-OIG), wherein the Board of Directors of Forest (the Board) resolved to support Company CEO and Board Chairman Howard Solomon despite the HHS-OIGs threats to bar Mr. Solomon  and by extension, Forest  from participation in federally funded health insurance programs such as Medicaid and Medicare.  The Actions also allege that the Defendants breached their fiduciary duties to the Company in connection with the compensation paid to Mr. Solomon and their public statements and representations regarding the same.  The Actions also challenge the Boards decision to increase the size of the Board from nine to ten directors in advance of the 2011 annual meeting of shareholders.  Last, one of the Actions challenged, directly on behalf of one shareholder plaintiff as a putative representative of a class of Forest shareholders, various alleged deficiencies in the Companys annual proxy filing issued in advance of Forests annual shareholder meeting in 2011 (the Class Claim).
On or around August 8, 2011, plaintiff John Hawley Trust (Hawley) settled the Class Claim prior to the 2011 annual meeting of Forest shareholders.  As a result of that settlement, the Company made additional disclosures with regard to the HHS-OIG proceedings, the Boards executive compensation decisions, and the Boards decision to increase its size from nine to ten directors.  The Settlement described here resolves all remaining claims that were raised, or could have been raised, in the Actions.
The terms of the Settlement set forth in the Stipulation include:  (i) the use of additional objective, performance-based criteria in setting executive compensation; (ii) the retention of a compensation consultant to advise the Compensation Committee of the Board with regard to executive compensation decisions; (iii) certain changes to the composition and leadership of the Boards Compensation Committee and Nominating and Governance Committee, calling for increased participation by the outside directors newly elected to the Board during the 2011 annual shareholder meeting; and (iv) enhancements to the Companys governance protocols regarding the exclusion of any director and/or officer of the Company from any decision in which such director or officer might be deemed to have a conflict of interest.  Defendants have denied and continue to deny each and all of the claims and contentions alleged by Plaintiffs in the Actions and all charges of wrongdoing or liability against them.
Any Forest Shareholder that objects to the Settlement of the Actions and/or the Fee and Expense Award shall have a right to appear and to be heard at the Settlement Hearing, and may enter an appearance of counsel of such shareholders own choosing at such shareholders own expense, or may appear on his or her own.  However, no Person other than Plaintiffs counsel and Defendants counsel in the Actions shall be heard at the Settlement Hearing unless, no later than fourteen (14) calendar days prior to the date of the Settlement Hearing, such shareholder has filed with the Court and delivered to counsel for the Parties a written notice of objection, signed as authorized by the objecting shareholder, setting forth the ground(s) for the objection and proof of the shareholders status as a Forest Shareholder.  Any objecting shareholder must also file with the Court and deliver to all counsel in the Action (listed below) copies of any documents, exhibits, affidavits, or other evidence the shareholder will rely upon in support of his or her objection.  Only Forest Shareholders who have filed and delivered valid and timely written notices of objection will be entitled to be heard at the Settlement Hearing unless the Court orders otherwise.
If you wish to object to the Settlement and/or the Fee and Expense Award, you must file with the Court and serve on the counsel listed below a written objection setting forth the ground(s) for such objection and providing proof of your ownership of Forest stock no later than fourteen (14) calendar days prior to the Settlement Hearing:
 
 
Any person who fails to object in the manner described above shall be deemed to have waived the right to object (including any right of appeal) and shall be forever barred from raising such objection in this or any other action or proceeding, unless the Court orders otherwise.
Forest Shareholders who have no objection to the Settlement or the Fee and Expense Award do not need to appear at the Settlement Hearing or take any other action.  If you are a Forest Shareholder, you will be bound by the Order and Final Judgment of the Court, and you will be deemed to have released any and all claims that have or could have been brought in the Actions.
This Notice is being published as a Company Current Report via a Form 8-K and filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC).  You may obtain a copy of this Notice by referring to the SECs website at http://www.sec.gov.
Inquiries may be made to counsel for Plaintiff Hawley:  Eric L. Zagar, Kessler Topaz Meltzer & Check, LLP, 280 King of Prussia Road, Radnor, PA 19087; telephone (610) 667-7706.


