FILE:FRX/FRX-8K-20120404164418.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
A. Entry Into Sale and Transfer Agreement
 
On April 2, 2012, Forest Laboratories, Inc. (the Company) announced that Forest Laboratories Holdings Limited (FLHL), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, and Janssen Pharmaceutica NV (Janssen) entered into a Sale and Transfer Agreement dated March 30, 2012 (the Sale and Transfer Agreement), pursuant to which FLHL acquired all of Janssens U.S. patents and other U.S. and Canadian intellectual property covering nebivolol (Bystolic).  On March 30, 2012, FLHL, Janssen and Mylan Inc. (Mylan) also entered into a termination agreement pursuant to which, among other things, FLHLs obligation to make future royalty payments to Janssen on its sales of nebivolol pursuant to a sublicense under a License Agreement between Janssen and Mylan dated as of February 21, 2001 were eliminated as of the closing of the Sale and Transfer Agreement.
 
Under the terms of the Sale and Transfer Agreement, FLHL made a one-time cash payment of $357 million to Janssen, and Janssen assigned to FLHL its and its affiliates U.S. patents and U.S. and Canadian know-how covering nebivolol, including the nebivolol composition of matter patent in the U.S., and granted FLHL and its affiliates a worldwide license to manufacture the finished product for purposes of commercialization in the U.S. and Canada.  In connection with the Sale and Transfer Agreement, Janssen also agreed to continue to supply Forest Laboratories Ireland Ltd., a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company (), with the active pharmaceutical ingredient for Bystolic, for which FLIL will pay a customary manufacturing fee.  FLHL will amortize the one-time cash payment over the remaining patent life of nebivolol. In addition, upon the closing of the Sale and Transfer Agreement, certain rights to commercialize Bystolic and Savella in Canada previously granted by Forest to Janssen and its affiliate terminated.
FLIL
 
The description of the Sale and Transfer Agreement does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Sale and Transfer Agreement, which will be filed as an exhibit to the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended March 31, 2012 and is hereby incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 1.02 Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
In connection with the Sale and Transfer Agreement, on March 30, 2012, FLHL, Janssen and Mylan entered into a termination agreement pursuant to which, among other things, FLHL and Mylan terminated the Nebivolol Development and Commercialization Agreement (the ) effective as of the closing of the Sale and Transfer Agreement.  Under the Sublicense, in exchange for certain upfront, milestone and royalty payments, FLHL was granted an exclusive license in the U.S. and Canada to the intellectual property that FLHL is acquiring in connection with the Sale and Transfer Agreement. Neither FLHL nor the Company incurred any material termination penalties in connection with the termination of the Sublicense.
Sublicense
 
On April 2, 2012, the Company issued a press release announcing the closing of the acquisition under the Sale and Transfer Agreement on March 30, 2012 and the termination of the Bystolic and Savella Canadian sublicenses. A copy of the press release is furnished as hereto.
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(a) Not Applicable.
(b) Not Applicable.
(c) Not Applicable.
(d) Exhibits:
 
The following exhibits are furnished herewith:
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:  April 4, 2012
Forest Laboratories, Inc.
(Registrant)
/s/ Francis I. Perier, Jr.              
Francis I. Perier, Jr.
Executive Vice President - Finance and Administration and
Chief Financial Officer

- - Forest Laboratories, Inc. (NYSE: FRX) today announced that Forest Laboratories Holdings Limited (Forest), its wholly owned subsidiary, and Janssen Pharmaceutica NV (Janssen) entered into an agreement under which Forest acquired all U.S. patents and other U.S. and Canadian intellectual property for Bystolic (nebivolol), which is currently approved in the United States for the treatment of hypertension, thereby eliminating all future royalties.  The acquisition was completed simultaneously with the execution of the agreement on March 30.
New York, April 2, 2012
Under the terms of this agreement, Forest made a one-time cash payment of $357 million to Janssen, and Janssen assigned to Forest all U.S. patents and other U.S. and Canadian know-how covering Bystolic, including the nebivolol composition of matter patent in the U.S.  Forest will amortize the one-time cash payment over the remaining patent life of Bystolic.
In addition, contemporaneously with the closing of the acquisition, Forest and Janssen terminated the licenses in Canada for both Bystolic and Savella (milnacipran) with Janssen Pharmaceutica NV and Janssen Pharmaceutical, respectively.  Forest has now established its Canadian subsidiary, which will take over the registration and commercialization of both products. 
Howard Solomon, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Forest Laboratories said, We are pleased with the success of Bystolic and we look forward to the products continued growth.  Though it is the only branded beta-blocker in the U.S. market, Bystolic now represents over 4% of this very large class and it continues to grow.  Sales in the quarter ending December 31, 2011 grew 33% over the same quarter last year.  Forest will enjoy the fruits of its further investment in the commercialization of Bystolic, as well as in available lifecycle strategies.
About Bystolic
Bystolic (nebivolol) was approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration in 2007 for the treatment of hypertension (chronic high blood pressure). Bystolic is a once-daily medication effective at lowering blood pressure when taken alone or in combination with other high blood pressure medications. It is available in 2.5 mg, 5 mg, 10 mg and 20 mg tablets. In clinical trials, the discontinuation rate due to adverse events was 2.8% for Bystolic versus 2.2% for placebo. Nebivolol is approved and marketed in 60 countries outside of North America.
 
About Forest Laboratories
Forest Laboratories (NYSE: FRX) longstanding global partnerships and track record developing and marketing pharmaceutical products in the United States have yielded its well-established central nervous system and cardiovascular franchises and innovations in anti-infective and respiratory medicine. The Companys pipeline, the most robust in its history, includes product candidates in all stages of development across a wide range of therapeutic areas. The Company is headquartered in New York, NY. To learn more, visit www.FRX.com.
 
Except for the historical information contained herein, this release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties, including the difficulty of predicting FDA approvals, the acceptance and demand for new pharmaceutical products, the impact of competitive products and pricing, the timely development and launch of new products, and the risk factors listed from time to time in Forest Laboratories Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and any subsequent SEC filings
SOURCE: Forest Laboratories, Inc.
CONTACT:  Frank J. Murdolo
 
Vice President - Investor Relations, Forest Laboratories, Inc.
 
1-212-224-6714
 
Frank.Murdolo@frx.com
 


