FILE:MSFT/MSFT-8K-20041115170754.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
 
On November 9, 2004, at the Microsoft Corporation annual meeting of shareholders, shareholders approved two proposals relating to amendments to the Company's 2001 Stock Plan, 1991 Stock Option Plan, 1999 Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors, Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors and Stock Option Plan for Consultants and Advisors (collectively, the "Plans"). The amendments proposed at the meeting therefore became effective on November 9, 2004. The amended and restated Plans are attached hereto as Exhibits 10.1 through 10.5.
 
Each of the Plans have been amended in similar ways to permit the Board to adjust awards, the numeric grant limitations in the plan, and the number of shares covered by the plan in the event of any distribution to shareholders other than a normal cash dividend. The first paragraph of Section 14 of the 2001 Stock Plan has been restated to read as follows:
 
14. Adjustments to Shares Subject to the Plan.
 
If any change is made to the Shares by reason of any stock split, stock dividend, recapitalization, combination of shares, exchange of shares or other change affecting the outstanding Shares as a class without the Company's receipt of consideration, appropriate adjustments shall be made to (i) the maximum number and/or class of securities issuable under the Plan, (ii) the number and/or class of securities and/or the price per Share covered by outstanding Awards under the Plan, (iii) the Maximum Annual Participant Award, (iv) the maximum aggregate number of Shares underlying all Nonqualified Stock Options and SARs with a per Share exercise price of less than fair market value on any grant date that may be granted under the Plan, and (v) the maximum aggregate number of Shares underlying all Awards with a vesting period of less than three years. The Board may also make adjustments described in (i)-(v) of the previous sentence in the event of any distribution of assets to shareholders other than a normal cash dividend. In determining adjustments to be made under this Section 14, the Board may take into account such factors as it deems appropriate, including (i) the restrictions of applicable law, (ii) the potential tax consequences of an adjustment and (iii) the possibility that some Awardees might receive an adjustment and a distribution or other unintended benefit, and in light of such factors or circumstances may make adjustments that are not uniform or proportionate among outstanding Awards, modify vesting dates, defer the delivery of stock certificates or make other equitable adjustments. Any such adjustments to outstanding Awards will be effected in a manner that precludes the enlargement of rights and benefits under such Awards. Adjustments, if any, and any determinations or interpretations, including any determination of whether a distribution is other than a normal cash dividend, made by the Board shall be final, binding and conclusive. For purposes of this Section 14, conversion of any convertible securities of the Company shall not be deemed to have been effected without receipt of consideration. Except as expressly provided herein, no issuance by the Company of shares of any class, or securities convertible into shares of any class, shall affect, and no adjustment by reason thereof shall be made with respect to, the number or price of Shares subject to an Award.
 
The adjustment provisions of the 1991 Stock Option Plan, the 1999 Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors, the Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors and the Consultants and Advisors Plan have been similarly revised. Each amended Plan also includes related changes to implement the effect of the revisions to the adjustment provisions. The adjustment provisions of the Plans previously allowed for adjustments to awards for a capital event. Those provisions have been revised to provide express authority to make adjustments for distributions to shareholders other than a normal cash dividend.
 
As a result of the approval of the amendments to the 2001 Stock Plan and the 1991 Stock Option Plan, the special dividend of $3.00 per share conditionally declared July 20, 2004 has become unconditional. The adjustments to the employee awards approved by the Board under the stock plans and the increase in the maximum number of shares issuable under each plan by the additional number of shares covered by awards under the plans as a result of the adjustments occurred on November 15, 2004, the ex-dividend date for the special dividend.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(c) The following items are filed as exhibits to this report:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
 
1. . The purposes of this Stock Plan are to attract and retain the best available individuals for positions of substantial responsibility, to provide additional incentive to such individuals, and to promote the success of the Company's business by aligning the financial interests of Employees and Consultants providing personal services to the Company or to any Parent or Subsidiary of the Company with long-term shareholder value.
Purpose of the Plan
 
Awards granted hereunder may be Incentive Stock Options, Nonqualified Stock Options, Stock Awards, or SARs, at the discretion of the Board and as reflected in the terms of the Award Agreement.
 
2. . As used herein, the following definitions shall apply:
Definitions
 
(a) "" shall mean any award or benefits granted under the Plan, including Options, Stock Awards, and SARs.
Award
 
(b) "" shall mean a written or electronic agreement between the Company and the Awardee setting forth the terms of the Award.
Award Agreement
 
(c) "" shall mean the holder of an outstanding Award.
Awardee
 
(d) "" shall mean (i) the Board of Directors of the Company or (ii) both the Board and the Committee, if a Committee has been appointed in accordance with Section 4(a) of the Plan.
Board
 
(e) "" shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
 
(f) "" shall mean the Compensation Committee appointed by the Board of Directors in accordance with Section 4(a) of the Plan, if one is appointed; provided, however, if the Board of Directors appoints more than one Committee pursuant to Section 4(a), then "Committee" shall refer to the appropriate Committee, as indicated by the context of the reference.
Committee
 
(g) "" shall mean the common shares of Microsoft Corporation.
Common Shares
 
(h) "" shall mean Microsoft Corporation, a Washington corporation and any successor thereto.
Company
 
(i) "" shall mean any person, except an Employee, engaged by the Company or any Parent or Subsidiary of the Company, to render personal services to such entity, including as an advisor.
Consultant
 
(j) "" shall mean (1) for Employees, the absence of any interruption or termination of service as an Employee, and (2) for Consultants, the absence of any interruption, expiration, or termination of such person's consulting or advisory relationship with the Company or the occurrence of any termination event as set forth in such person's Award Agreement. Continuous Status as a Participant shall not be considered interrupted (i) for an Employee in the case of sick leave, maternity leave, infant care leave, medical emergency leave, military leave, or any other leave of absence for which Continuous Status is not considered interrupted in accordance with the Company's policies on such matters, and (ii) for a Consultant, in the case of any temporary interruption in such person's availability to provide services to the Company which has been authorized in writing by a Vice President of the Company prior to its commencement.
Continuous Status as a Participant
 
(k) "" shall mean the Options described in Section 6(c) of the Plan.
Conversion Options
 
(l) "" shall mean any person, including an officer, who is a common law employee of, receives remuneration for personal services to, is reflected on the official human resources database as an employee of, and is on the payroll of the Company or any Parent or Subsidiary of the Company. A person is on the payroll if he or she is paid from the payroll department of the Company, or any Parent or Subsidiary of the Company. Persons providing services to the Company, or to any Parent or Subsidiary of the Company, pursuant to an agreement with a staff leasing organization, temporary workers engaged through or employed by temporary or leasing agencies, and workers who hold themselves out to the Company, Parent, or Subsidiary to which they are providing services as being independent contractors, or as being employed by or engaged through another company while providing the services are not Employees for purposes of this Plan, whether or not such persons are, or may be reclassified by the courts, the Internal Revenue Service, the U. S. Department of Labor, or other person or entity as, common law employees of the Company, Parent, or Subsidiary, either solely or jointly with another person or entity.
Employee
 
(m) "" shall mean January 1, 2001.
Effective Date
 
(n) "" shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
 
(o) "" shall mean any Option intended to qualify as an incentive stock option within the meaning of Section 422 of the Code.
Incentive Stock Option
 
(p) "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5(b).
Maximum Annual Participant Award
 
(q) "" shall mean an Option not intended to qualify as an Incentive Stock Option.
Nonqualified Stock Option
 
(r) "" shall mean a stock option granted pursuant to Section 6 of the Plan.
Option
 
(s) "" shall mean a "parent corporation," whether now or hereafter existing, as defined in Section 424(e) of the Code.
Parent
 
(t) "" shall mean an Employee or Consultant.
Participant
 
(u) "" shall mean this 2001 Stock Plan, including any amendments thereto.
Plan
 
(v) "" shall mean one Common Share, as adjusted in accordance with Section 14 of the Plan.
Share
 
(w) "" shall mean a stock appreciation right awarded pursuant to Section 8 of the Plan.
SAR
 
(x) "" shall mean a grant of Shares or of a right to receive Shares or their cash equivalent (or both) pursuant to Section 7 of the Plan.
Stock Award
 
(y) "" shall mean (i) in the case of an Incentive Stock Option a "subsidiary corporation," whether now or hereafter existing, as defined in Section 424(f) of the Code, and (ii) in the case of a Nonqualified Stock Option, a Stock Award or an SAR, in addition to a subsidiary corporation as defined in (i), a limited liability company, partnership or other entity in which the Company controls 50 percent or more of the voting power or equity interests.
Subsidiary
 
3. . Subject to the provisions of Sections 14 and 16 of the Plan, the maximum aggregate number of Shares (increased, proportionately, in the event of any stock split, stock dividend or similar event with respect to the Shares) which may be awarded and delivered under the Plan shall not exceed the sum of (a) any Shares available for future awards, as of the Effective Date, under the Microsoft Corporation 1991 Stock Option Plan, as amended ("1991 Stock Plan") and (b) any Shares that are represented by awards under the 1991 Stock Plan which, after the Effective Date, are forfeited, expire, are cancelled without delivery of Shares, or otherwise result in the return of Shares to the Company, minus (c) 100,000,000 Shares (unadjusted for any stock split or stock dividend with respect to the Shares). The Shares may be authorized, but unissued, or reacquired Common Shares.
Shares Subject to the Plan
 
Subject to the provisions of the following sentence, if an Award should expire or become unexercisable for any reason without having been exercised in full, the undelivered Shares which were subject thereto shall, unless the Plan shall have been terminated, become available for future Awards under the Plan. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, any Awards of Options that are transferred to a third party pursuant to a program under which the holder of certain Options may transfer such Options to such third party in exchange for cash or other consideration, shall be removed from the Plan and the Shares subject to such Awards shall not be available for regrant under the Plan regardless of whether the transferred Options are exercised or expire without exercise.
 
4. .
Administration of the Plan
 
(a) . The Plan shall be administered by the Board of Directors of the Company.
Procedure
 
(i) The Board of Directors may appoint one or more Committees each consisting of not less than two members of the Board of Directors to administer the Plan on behalf of the Board of Directors, subject to such terms and conditions as the Board of Directors may prescribe. Once appointed, such Committees shall continue to serve until otherwise directed by the Board of Directors.
 
(ii) From time to time the Board of Directors may increase the size of the Committee(s) and appoint additional members thereof, remove members (with or without cause) and appoint new members in substitution therefor, or fill vacancies however caused.
 
(b) . Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Board shall have the authority, in its discretion: (i) to grant Incentive Stock Options, Nonqualified Stock Options, Stock Awards, and SARs; (ii) to determine, in accordance with Section 11(b) of the Plan, the fair market value of the Shares; (iii) to determine, in accordance with Section 11(a) of the Plan, the exercise price per share of Awards to be granted; (iv) to determine the Participants to whom, and the time or times at which, Awards shall be granted and the number of Shares to be represented by each Award; (v) to interpret the Plan and the terms of Awards; (vi) to prescribe, amend, and rescind rules and regulations relating to the Plan; including the form of Award Agreement, and manner of acceptance of an Award, (vii) to determine the terms and provisions of each Award to be granted (which need not be identical) and, with the consent of the Awardee, modify or amend any Award; (viii) to authorize conversion or substitution under the Plan of any or all Conversion Options; (ix) to accelerate or defer (with the consent of the Awardee) the vesting or exercise date of any Award; (x) to authorize any person to execute on behalf of the Company any instrument required to effectuate the grant of an Award previously granted by the Board; and (xi) to make all other determinations deemed necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan; no consent of an Awardee is necessary under clauses (vii) or (ix) if the modification, amendment, acceleration, or deferral, in the reasonable judgment of the Board confers a benefit on the Awardee, or is made pursuant to an adjustment in accordance with Section 14.
Powers of the Board
provided that,
 
The Board may, but need not, determine that an award shall vest or be granted subject to the satisfaction of one or more performance goals. Performance goals for awards will be determined by the Compensation Committee of the Board and will be designed to support the business strategy, and align executives' interests with customer and shareholder interests. For awards that are intended to qualify as performance-based compensation under Section 162(m), performance goals will be based on one or more of the following business criteria: sales or licensing volume, revenues, customer satisfaction, expenses, organizational health/productivity, earnings (which includes similar measurements such as net profits, operating profits and net income, and which may be calculated before or after taxes, interest, depreciation, amortization or taxes), margins, cash flow, shareholder return, return on equity, return on assets or return on investments, working capital, product shipments or releases, brand or product recognition or acceptance and/or stock price. These criteria may be measured: individually, alternatively or in any combination; with respect to the Company, a subsidiary, division, business unit, product line, product or any combination of the foregoing; on an absolute basis, or relative to a target, to a designated comparison group, to results in other periods or to other external measures; and including or excluding items that could affect the measurement, such as extraordinary or unusual and nonrecurring gains or losses, litigation or claim judgments or settlements, material changes in tax laws, acquisitions or divestitures, the cumulative effect of accounting changes, asset write-downs, restructuring charges, or the results of discontinued operations.
 
(c) . All decisions, determinations, and interpretations of the Board shall be final and binding on all Participants and Awardees.
Effect of Board's Decision
 
5. .
Eligibility
 
(a) Awards may be granted to Participants and to persons to whom offers of employment as an Employee have been extended; provided that Incentive Stock Options may only be granted to Employees. For avoidance of doubt, directors are not eligible to participate in the Plan unless they are Employees or Consultants.
 
(b) The maximum number of Shares with respect to which an Award or Awards may be granted to any Participant in any one taxable year of the Company (the "Maximum Annual Participant Award") shall not exceed 20,000,000 Common Shares for Options or SARs, or 5,000,000 shares for Stock Awards (increased, in both cases proportionately, in the event of any stock split, stock dividend or similar event with respect to the Shares). If an Option is in tandem with an SAR, such that the exercise of the Option or SAR with respect to a Share cancels the tandem SAR or Option right, respectively, with respect to each Share, the tandem Option and SAR rights with respect to each Share shall be counted as covering but one Share for purposes of the Maximum Annual Participant Award.
 
6. .
Options
 
(a) Each Option shall be designated in the written or electronic option agreement as either an Incentive Stock Option or a Nonqualified Stock Option. However, notwithstanding such designations, to the extent that the aggregate fair market value of the Shares with respect to which Options designated as Incentive Stock Options are exercisable for the first time by any Employee during any calendar year (under all plans of the Company) exceeds $100,000, such Options shall be treated as Nonqualified Stock Options.
 
(b) For purposes of Section 6(a), Options shall be taken into account in the order in which they were granted, and the fair market value of the Shares shall be determined as of the time the Option with respect to such Shares is granted.
 
(c) Options converted or substituted under the Plan for any or all outstanding stock options and stock appreciation rights held by employees, consultants, advisors or other option holders granted by entities subsequently acquired by the Company or a subsidiary or affiliate of the Company ("Conversion Options") shall be effective as of the close of the respective mergers and acquisitions of such entities by the Company. The Conversion Options may be Incentive Stock Options or Nonqualified Stock Options, as determined by the Committee; provided, however, that stock appreciation rights in the acquired entity shall only be converted to or substituted with Nonqualified Stock Options. The Conversion Options shall be options to purchase the number of Common Shares determined by multiplying the number of shares of the acquired entity's common stock underlying each such stock option or stock appreciation right immediately prior to the closing of such merger or acquisition by the number specified in the applicable merger or acquisition agreement for conversion of each share of such entity's common stock to a Common Share (the "Merger Ratio"). Such Conversion Options shall be exercisable at an exercise price per Common Share (increased to the nearest whole cent) equal to the exercise price per share of the acquired entity's common stock under each such stock option or stock appreciation right immediately prior to closing divided by the Merger Ratio. No fractional Common Shares will be issued upon exercise of Conversion Options. In lieu of such issuance, the Common Shares issued pursuant to each such exercise shall be rounded to the closest whole Share. All other terms and conditions applicable to such stock options and stock appreciation rights prior to closing of the acquisition, including vesting, shall remain unchanged under the Conversion Options.
 
7. .
Stock Awards
 
(a) Stock Awards may be granted either alone, in addition to, or in tandem with other Awards granted under the Plan. After the Committee determines that it will offer a Stock Award, it will advise the Awardee in writing or electronically, by means of an Award Agreement, of the terms, conditions and restrictions, including vesting, if any, related to the offer, including the number of Shares that the Awardee shall be entitled to receive or purchase, the price to be paid, if any, and, if applicable, the time within which the Awardee must accept the offer. The offer shall be accepted by execution of an Award Agreement in the manner determined by the Committee.
 
(b) Unless the Committee determines otherwise, the Award Agreement shall provide for the forfeiture of the non-vested Common Shares underlying such Stock Award upon the Awardee ceasing to be a Participant. To the extent that the Awardee purchased the Shares granted under such Stock Award and any such Shares remain non-vested at the time the Awardee ceases to be a Participant, the cessation of Participant status shall cause an immediate sale of such non-vested Shares to the Company at the original price per Common Share paid by the Awardee.
 
8. .
SARs
 
(a) The Committee shall have the full power and authority, exercisable in its sole discretion, to grant SARs to selected Awardees. The Committee is authorized to grant both tandem stock appreciation rights ("Tandem SARs") and stand-alone stock appreciation rights ("Stand-Alone SARs") as described below.
 
(b) .
Tandem SARs
 
(i) Awardees may be granted a Tandem SAR, exercisable upon such terms and conditions as the Committee shall establish, to elect between the exercise of the underlying Section 6 Option for Common Shares or the surrender of the Option in exchange for a distribution from the Company in an amount equal to the excess of (A) the fair market value (on the Option surrender date) of the number of Shares in which the Awardee is at the time vested under the surrendered Option (or surrendered portion thereof) over (B) the aggregate exercise price payable for such vested Shares.
 
(ii) No such Option surrender shall be effective unless it is approved by the Committee, either at the time of the actual Option surrender or at any earlier time. If the surrender is so approved, then the distributions to which the Awardee shall become entitled under this Section 8(b) may be made in Common Shares valued at fair market value on the Option surrender date, in cash, or partly in Shares and partly in cash, as the Committee shall deem appropriate.
 
(iii) If the surrender of an Option is not approved by the Committee, then the Awardee shall retain whatever rights he or she had under the surrendered Option (or surrendered portion thereof) on the Option surrender date and may exercise such rights at any time prior to the later of (A) five (5) business days after the receipt of the rejection notice or (B) the last day on which the Option is otherwise exercisable in accordance with the terms of the instrument evidencing such Option, but in no event may such rights be exercised more than ten (10) years after the date of the Option grant.
 
(c) .
Stand-Alone SARs
 
(i) An Awardee may be granted a Stand-Alone SAR not tied to any underlying Option under Section 6 of the Plan. The Stand-Alone SAR shall cover a specified number of Common Shares and shall be exercisable upon such terms and conditions as the Committee shall establish. Upon exercise of the Stand-Alone SAR, the holder shall be entitled to receive a distribution from the Company in an amount equal to the excess of (A) the aggregate fair market value (on the exercise date) of the Common Shares underlying the exercised right over (B) the aggregate base price in effect for those Shares.
 
(ii) The number of Common Shares underlying each Stand-Alone SAR and the base price in effect for those Shares shall be determined by the Committee at the time the Stand-Alone SAR is granted. In no event, however, may the base price per Share be less than the fair market value per underlying Common Share on the grant date.
 
(iii) The distribution with respect to an exercised Stand-Alone SAR may be made in Common Shares valued at fair market value on the exercise date, in cash, or partly in Shares and partly in cash, as the Committee shall deem appropriate.
 
(d) The Common Shares underlying any SARs exercised under this Section 8 shall not be available for subsequent issuance under the Plan.
 
9. . The Plan shall become effective as of the Effective Date. It shall continue in effect until terminated under Section 17 of the Plan.
Term of Plan
 
10. .
Term of Award; Limitations on Vesting and Repricing
 
(a) The term of each Award shall be no more than ten (10) years from the date of grant. However, in the case of an Incentive Stock Option granted to a Participant who, at the time the Option is granted, owns Shares representing more than ten percent (10%) of the voting power of all classes of shares of the Company or any Parent or Subsidiary, the term of the Option shall be no more than five (5) years from the date of grant.
 
(b) Each award shall vest over a period of not less than three (3) years from the date of grant, provided that awards covering up to 50,000,000 shares (increased, proportionately, in the event of any stock split, stock dividend or similar event) may be granted without regard to the 3-year vesting restriction; provided further, that Conversion Options and awards that are granted or vest based on performance goals shall not count toward the limit of this Section 10(b).
 
(c) No Award may be repriced, replaced, regranted through cancellation, or modified without approval of the shareholders of the Company (except in connection with an adjustment pursuant to Section 14) if the effect would be to reduce the exercise price for the Shares underlying such Award.
 
11. .
Exercise Price and Consideration
 
(a) The per Share exercise price under each Award shall be such price as is determined by the Board, subject to the following:
 
(i) In the case of an Incentive Stock Option
 
(A) granted to an Employee who, at the time of the grant of such Incentive Stock Option, owns shares representing more than ten percent (10%) of the voting power of all classes of shares of the Company or any Parent or Subsidiary, the per Share exercise price shall be no less than 110% of the fair market value per Share on the date of grant.
 
(B) granted to any other Employee, the per Share exercise price shall be no less than 100% of the fair market value per Share on the date of grant.
 
(ii) Except for Conversion Options under Section 6(c), the per Share exercise price under a Nonqualified Stock Option or SAR shall be no less than seventy-five percent (75%) of the fair market value per Share on the date of grant. Notwithstanding the foregoing (or any other provision of the Plan), Options and SARs that are granted to Employees who are non-exempt for purposes of the FLSA, shall satisfy the requirements for exclusion from regular rate of pay for purposes of the FLSA and shall have an exercise price that is at least eighty-five percent (85%) of the fair market value of the underlying Shares at the time of grant; furthermore, such Options or SARs shall not be exercisable within the six (6) month period immediately following the date of grant, except, if so provided in the Award Agreement, in the event of the Awardee's death, disability, or retirement, upon a change in corporate control of the Company, or under such other circumstances as are permitted under the FLSA or rules and regulations thereunder.
 
(iii) The maximum aggregate number of Shares underlying all Nonqualified Stock Options and SARs with a per Share exercise price of less than fair market value on any grant date that may be granted under this Plan is 50,000,000 Shares (increased, proportionately, in the event of any stock split, or stock dividend or similar event with respect to the Shares); provided that Conversion Options shall not count against the limit of this Section 11(a)(iii).
 
(b) The fair market value per Share shall be the closing price per share of the Common Share on the Nasdaq Stock Market ("Nasdaq") on the date of grant. If the Shares cease to be listed on Nasdaq, the Board shall designate an alternative method of determining the fair market value of the Shares.
 
(c) The consideration to be paid for the Shares to be issued upon exercise of an Award, including the method of payment, shall be determined by the Board at the time of grant and may consist of cash and/or check. Payment may also be made by delivering a properly executed exercise notice together with irrevocable instructions to a broker to promptly deliver to the Company the amount of sale proceeds necessary to pay the exercise price. If the Awardee is an officer of the Company within the meaning of Section 16 of the Exchange Act, the officer may, in addition, be allowed to pay all or part of the purchase price with Shares which, as of the exercise date, the officer has owned for six (6) months or more. If the Awardee is a participant in the 1998 Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Gain And Bonus Deferral Program, he may in addition be allowed to pay all or part of the purchase price of any deferred Option with Shares. Shares used by officers to pay the exercise price shall be valued at their fair market value on the exercise date.
 
(d) Prior to issuance of the Shares upon exercise of an Award, the Awardee shall pay any federal, state, and local income and employment tax withholding obligations applicable to such Award. If an Awardee is an officer of the Company within the meaning of Section 16 of the Exchange Act, he may elect to pay such withholding tax obligations by having the Company withhold Shares having a value equal to the amount required to be withheld, and any Award under the Plan may permit or require that such withholding tax obligations be paid by having the Company withhold Shares having a value equal to the amount required to be withheld. The value of the Shares to be withheld shall equal the fair market value of the Shares on the day the Award is exercised. The right of an officer to dispose of Shares to the Company in satisfaction of withholding tax obligations shall be deemed to be approved as part of the initial grant of an Award, unless thereafter rescinded, and shall otherwise be made in compliance with Rule 16b-3 and other applicable regulations, and any Award under the Plan may permit or require that such withholding tax obligations be paid by having the Company withhold Shares having a value equal to the amount required to be withheld.
 
12. .
Exercise of Award
 
(a) . Any Award granted hereunder shall be exercisable at such times and under such conditions as determined by the Board at the time of grant, and as shall be permissible under the terms of the Plan.
Procedure for Exercise; Rights as a Shareholder
 
An Award may not be exercised for a fraction of a Share.
 
An Award shall be deemed to be exercised when written or electronic notice of such exercise has been given to the Company in accordance with the terms of the Award by the person entitled to exercise the Award and full payment for the Shares with respect to which the Award is exercised has been received by the Company. Full payment may, as authorized by the Board, consist of any consideration and method of payment allowable under Section 11(c) of the Plan. Until the issuance (as evidenced by the appropriate entry on the books of the Company or of a duly authorized transfer agent of the Company) of the share certificate evidencing such Shares, no right to vote or receive dividends or any other rights as a shareholder shall exist with respect to the Shares subject to the Award, notwithstanding the exercise of the Award. The Company shall issue (or cause to be issued) such share certificate promptly upon exercise of the Award. In the event that the exercise of an Award is treated in part as the exercise of an Incentive Stock Option and in part as the exercise of a Nonqualified Stock Option pursuant to Section 6(a), the Company shall issue a share certificate evidencing the Shares treated as acquired upon the exercise of an Incentive Stock Option and a separate share certificate evidencing the Shares treated as acquired upon the exercise of a Nonqualified Stock Option, and shall identify each such certificate accordingly in its share transfer records. No adjustment will be made for a dividend or other right for which the record date is prior to the date the share certificate is issued, except as provided in Section 14 of the Plan.
 
Exercise of an Award in any manner and delivery of the Shares subject to such Award shall result in a decrease in the number of Shares which thereafter may be available, both for purposes of the Plan and for sale under the Award, by the number of Shares as to which the Award is exercised.
 
(b) . In the event of termination of an Awardee's Continuous Status as a Participant, such Awardee may exercise his or her rights under any outstanding Awards to the extent exercisable on the date of termination (but in no event later than the date of expiration of the term of such Award as set forth in the Award Agreement). To the extent that the Awardee was not entitled to exercise his or her rights under such Awards at the date of such termination, or does not exercise such rights within the time specified in the individual Award Agreements, the Awards shall terminate.
Termination of Status as a Participant
 
(c) . Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 12(b) above, in the event of termination of an Awardee's Continuous Status as a Participant as a result of total and permanent disability (i.e., the inability to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or which has lasted or can be expected to last for a continuous period of twelve (12) months), the Awardee will vest in the Award, but only to the extent of the vesting that would have occurred had the Awardee remained in Continuous Status as a Participant for a period of twelve (12) months after the date on which the Participant ceased performing services as a result of the total and permanent disability. An Option or SAR that is vested pursuant to this Section 12(c) must be exercised within eighteen (18) months (or such shorter time as is specified in the grant) from the date on which the Participant ceased performing services as a result of the total and permanent disability (but in no event later than the date of expiration of the term of such Option or SAR as set forth in the Award Agreement). To the extent that the Awardee was not entitled to exercise such Option or SAR within the time specified herein, the Award shall terminate.
Disability of Awardee
 
(d) . Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 12(b) above, in the event of the death of an Awardee:
Death of Awardee
 
(i) who is at the time of death a Participant, the Award will vest, but only to the extent of the vesting that would have occurred had the Awardee continued living and remained in Continuous Status as a Participant twelve (12) months following the date of death. An Option or SAR that is vested pursuant to this Section 12(d)(i) may be exercised, at any time within twelve (12) months following the date of death, by the Awardee's estate or by a person who acquired the right to exercise the Award by bequest or inheritance; or
 
(ii) whose Option or SAR has not yet expired but whose Continuous Status as a Participant terminated prior to the date of death, the Option or SAR may be exercised, at any time within twelve (12) months following the date of death, by the Awardee's estate or by a person who acquired the right to exercise the Option or SAR by bequest or inheritance, but only to the extent of the right to exercise that had vested at the date of termination.
 
(e) Notwithstanding subsections (b), (c), and (d) of this Section 12, the Board shall have the authority to extend the expiration date of any outstanding Option in circumstances in which it deems such action to be appropriate (provided that no such extension shall extend the term of an Award beyond the date on which the Award would have expired if no termination of the Employee's Continuous Status as a Participant had occurred).
 
13. . An Award may not be sold, pledged, assigned, hypothecated, transferred, or disposed of in any manner other than by will or by the laws of descent or distribution and may be exercised, during the lifetime of the Awardee, only by the Awardee; provided that the Board may permit further transferability, on a general or specific basis, and may impose conditions and limitations on any permitted transferability.
Non-Transferability of Awards
 
14. . If any change is made to the Shares by reason of any stock split, stock dividend, recapitalization, combination of shares, exchange of shares or other change affecting the outstanding Shares as a class without the Company's receipt of consideration, appropriate adjustments shall be made to (i) the maximum number and/or class of securities issuable under the Plan, (ii) the number and/or class of securities and/or the price per Share covered by outstanding Awards under the Plan, (iii) the Maximum Annual Participant Award, (iv) the maximum aggregate number of Shares underlying all Nonqualified Stock Options and SARs with a per Share exercise price of less than fair market value on any grant date that may be granted under the Plan, and (v) the maximum aggregate number of Shares underlying all Awards with a vesting period of less than three years. The Board may also make adjustments described in (i)-(v) of the previous sentence in the event of any distribution of assets to shareholders other than a normal cash dividend. In determining adjustments to be made under this Section 14, the Board may take into account such factors as it deems appropriate, including (i) the restrictions of applicable law, (ii) the potential tax consequences of an adjustment and (iii) the possibility that some Awardees might receive an adjustment and a distribution or other unintended benefit, and in light of such factors or circumstances may make adjustments that are not uniform or proportionate among outstanding Awards, modify vesting dates, defer the delivery of stock certificates or make other equitable adjustments. Any such adjustments to outstanding Awards will be effected in a manner that precludes the enlargement of rights and benefits under such Awards. Adjustments, if any, and any determinations or interpretations, including any determination of whether a distribution is other than a normal cash dividend, made by the Board shall be final, binding and conclusive. For purposes of this Section 14, conversion of any convertible securities of the Company shall not be deemed to have been effected without receipt of consideration. Except as expressly provided herein, no issuance by the Company of shares of any class, or securities convertible into shares of any class, shall affect, and no adjustment by reason thereof shall be made with respect to, the number or price of Shares subject to an Award.
Adjustments to Shares Subject to the Plan
 
In the event of the proposed dissolution or liquidation of the Company, the Award will terminate immediately prior to the consummation of such proposed action, unless otherwise provided by the Board. The Board may, in the exercise of its sole discretion in such instances, declare that any Award shall terminate as of a date fixed by the Board and give each Awardee the right to exercise an Award as to all or any part of the Shares subject to an Award, including Shares as to which the Award would not otherwise be exercisable. In the event of a proposed sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company, or the merger of the Company with or into another corporation, each Award shall be assumed or an equivalent award shall be substituted by such successor corporation or a parent or subsidiary of such successor corporation, unless such successor corporation does not agree to assume the Award or to substitute an equivalent award, in which case the Board shall, in lieu of such assumption or substitution, provide for the Awardee to have the right to exercise the Award as to all of the Shares subject to Awards, including Shares as to which the Award would not otherwise be exercisable. If the Board makes an Award fully exercisable in lieu of assumption or substitution in the event of a merger or sale of assets, the Board shall notify the Awardee that the Award shall be fully exercisable for a period of fifteen (15) days from the date of such notice, and the Award will terminate upon the expiration of such period.
 
15. . The date of grant of an Award shall, for all purposes, be the date on which the Company completes the corporate action relating to the grant of such Award and all conditions to the grant have been satisfied, provided that conditions to the grant, exercise or vesting of an Award shall not defer the date of grant. Notice of a grant shall be given to each Participant to whom an Award is so granted within a reasonable time after the determination has been made.
Time of Granting Awards
 
16. . The Board shall have the right to substitute or assume Awards in connection with mergers, reorganizations, separations, or other transactions to which Section 424(a) of the Code applies, provided such substitutions and assumptions are permitted by Section 424 of the Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder. The number of Shares reserved pursuant to Section 3 may be increased by the corresponding number of Awards assumed and, in the case of a substitution, by the net increase in the number of Shares subject to Awards before and after the substitution.
Substitutions and Assumptions
 
17. .
Amendment and Termination of the Plan
 
(a) . The Board may amend or terminate the Plan from time to time in such respects as the Board may deem advisable (including, but not limited to amendments which the Board deems appropriate to enhance the Company's ability to claim deductions related to stock option exercises); provided that any increase in the number of Shares subject to the Plan, other than in connection with an adjustment under Section 14 of the Plan, and any amendment described in Section 10(c) of the Plan, shall require approval of or ratification by the shareholders of the Company.
Amendment and Termination
 
(b) . The Board shall have the authority to adopt such modifications, procedures, and subplans as may be necessary or desirable to comply with provisions of the laws of foreign countries in which the Company or its Subsidiaries may operate to assure the viability of the benefits from Awards granted to Participants performing services in such countries and to meet the objectives of the Plan.
Participants in Foreign Countries
 
(c) . Except as otherwise provided in Sections 4 and 14, any such amendment or termination of the Plan shall not affect Awards already granted and such Awards shall remain in full force and effect as if this Plan had not been amended or terminated, unless mutually agreed otherwise between the Awardee and the Board, which agreement must be in writing and signed by the Awardee and the Company.
Effect of Amendment or Termination
 
18. . Shares shall not be issued pursuant to the exercise of an Award unless the exercise of such Award and the issuance and delivery of such Shares pursuant thereto shall comply with all relevant provisions of law, including, without limitation, the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, the Exchange Act, the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, and the requirements of any stock exchange upon which the Shares may then be listed, and shall be further subject to the approval of counsel for the Company with respect to such compliance.
Conditions Upon Issuance of Shares
 
19. . The Company, during the term of this Plan, will at all times reserve and keep available such number of Shares as shall be sufficient to satisfy the requirements of the Plan.
Reservation of Shares
 
20. . Nothing in the Plan shall confer upon any Participant the right to an Award or to continue in service as an Employee or Consultant for any period of specific duration, or interfere with or otherwise restrict in any way the rights of the Company (or any Parent or Subsidiary employing or retaining such person), or of any Participant or Awardee, which rights are hereby expressly reserved by each, to terminate such person's services at any time for any reason, with or without cause.
No Employment/Service Rights
 
 

Exhibit 10.2
 
 
 
1. . The purposes of this Stock Option Plan are to attract and retain the best available personnel for positions of substantial responsibility, to provide additional incentive to such individuals, and to promote the success of the Company's business by aligning employee financial interests with long-term shareholder value.
Purpose of the Plan
 
Options granted hereunder may be either Incentive Stock Options or Nonqualified Stock Options, at the discretion of the Board and as reflected in the terms of the written option agreement.
 
2. . As used herein, the following definitions shall apply:
Definitions
 
(a) "" shall mean the Committee, if such Committee has been appointed, or the Board of Directors of the Company, if such Committee has not been appointed.
Board
 
(b) "" shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
 
(c) "" shall mean the Committee appointed by the Board of Directors in accordance with paragraph (a) of Section 4 of the Plan, if one is appointed; provided, however, if the Board of Directors appoints more than one Committee pursuant to Section 4, then "Committee" shall refer to the appropriate Committee, as indicated by the context of the reference.
Committee
 
(d) "" shall mean the common shares of Microsoft Corporation.
Common Shares
 
(e) "" shall mean Microsoft Corporation, a Washington corporation and any successor thereto.
Company
 
(f) "" shall mean the absence of any interruption or termination of service as an Employee. Continuous Status as an Employee shall not be considered interrupted in the case of sick leave, maternity leave, infant care leave, medical emergency leave, military leave, or any other leave of absence authorized in writing by a Vice President of the Company prior to its commencement.
Continuous Status as an Employee
 
(g) "" shall mean any person, including officers, employed by the Company or any Parent or Subsidiary of the Company.
Employee
 
(h) "" shall mean any Option intended to qualify as an incentive stock option within the meaning of Section 422 of the Code.
Incentive Stock Option
 
(i) shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5(e).
"Maximum Annual Employee Grant"
(j) "" shall have the same meaning as defined or interpreted for purposes of Rule 16b-3 (including amendments and successor provisions) as promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to its authority under the Exchange Act ("Rule 16b-3").
Non-Employee Director
 
(k) "" shall mean an Option not intended to qualify as an Incentive Stock Option.
Nonqualified Stock Option
 
(l) "" shall mean a stock option granted pursuant to the Plan.
Option
 
(m) "" shall mean the Common Shares subject to an Option.
Optioned Shares
 
(n) "" shall mean an Employee who receives an Option.
Optionee
 
(o) "" shall have the same meaning as defined or interpreted for purposes of Section 162(m) of the Code.
Outside Director
 
(p) "" shall mean a "parent corporation," whether now or hereafter existing, as defined in Section 424(e) of the Code.
Parent
 
(q) "" shall mean this 1991 Stock Option Plan, including any amendments thereto.
Plan
 
(r) "" shall mean one Common Share, as adjusted in accordance with Section 11 of the Plan.
Share
 
(s) "" shall mean (i) in the case of an Incentive Stock Option a "subsidiary corporation," whether now or hereafter existing, as defined in Section 424(f) of the Code, and (ii) in the case of a Nonqualified Stock Option, in addition to a subsidiary corporation as defined in (i), a limited liability company, partnership or other entity in which the Company controls 50 percent or more of the voting power or equity interests.
Subsidiary
 
3. . Subject to the provisions of Section 11 of the Plan, the maximum aggregate number of shares which may be optioned and sold under the Plan is 4,202,262,379 Common Shares. The Shares may be authorized, but unissued, or reacquired Common Shares.
Shares Subject to the Plan
 
If an Option should expire or become unexercisable for any reason without having been exercised in full, the unpurchased Shares which were subject thereto shall become available for future grant or awards under the Microsoft Corporation 2001 Stock Plan (the "2001 Plan").
 
4. .
Administration of the Plan
 
(a) . The Plan shall be administered by the Board of Directors of the Company.
Procedure
 
(1) The Board of Directors may appoint one or more Committees each consisting of not less than two members of the Board of Directors to administer the Plan on behalf of the Board of Directors, subject to such terms and conditions as the Board of Directors may prescribe. Once appointed, such Committees shall continue to serve until otherwise directed by the Board of Directors.
 
(2) Any grants of Options to officers who are subject to Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") shall be made by (i) a Committee of two or more directors, each of whom is a Non-Employee Director and an Outside Director or (ii) as otherwise permitted by both Rule 16b-3, Section 162(m) of the Code and other applicable regulations.
 
(3) Subject to the foregoing subparagraphs (1) and (2), from time to time the Board of Directors may increase the size of the Committee(s) and appoint additional members thereof, remove members (with or without cause) and appoint new members in substitution therefor, or fill vacancies however caused.
 
(b) . Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Board shall have the authority, in its discretion: (i) to grant Incentive Stock Options or Nonqualified Stock Options; (ii) to determine, in accordance with Section 8(b) of the Plan, the fair market value of the Shares; (iii) to determine, in accordance with Section 8(a) of the Plan, the exercise price per share of Options to be granted; (iv) to determine the Employees to whom, and the time or times at which, Options shall be granted and the number of Shares to be represented by each Option; (v) to interpret the Plan and the terms of Options; (vi) to prescribe, amend, and rescind rules and regulations relating to the Plan; (vii) to determine the terms and provisions of each Option granted (which need not be identical) and, with the consent of the holder thereof, modify or amend any Option; (viii) to reduce the exercise price per share of outstanding and unexercised Options; (ix) to accelerate or defer (with the consent of the Optionee) the vesting or exercise date of any Option; (x) to authorize any person to execute on behalf of the Company any instrument required to effectuate the grant of an Option previously granted by the Board; and (xi) to make all other determinations deemed necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan; provided that, no consent of an Optionee is necessary under clauses (vii) or (ix) if the modification, amendment, acceleration, or deferral in the reasonable judgment of the Board confers a benefit on the Optionee, or is made pursuant to an adjustment in accordance with Section 11.
Powers of the Board
 
(c) . All decisions, determinations, and interpretations of the Board shall be final and binding on all Optionees and any other holders of any Options granted under the Plan.
Effect of Board's Decision
 
5. .
Eligibility
 
(a) Options may be granted only to Employees. For avoidance of doubt, directors are not eligible to participate in the Plan unless they are full-time Employees.
 
(b) Each Option shall be designated in the written option agreement as either an Incentive Stock Option or a Nonqualified Stock Option. However, notwithstanding such designations, to the extent that the aggregate fair market value of the Shares with respect to
 
which Options designated as Incentive Stock Options are exercisable for the first time by any Optionee during any calendar year (under all plans of the Company) exceeds $100,000, such Options shall be treated as Nonqualified Stock Options.
 
(c) For purposes of Section 5(b), Options shall be taken into account in the order in which they were granted, and the fair market value of the Shares shall be determined as of the time the Option with respect to such Shares is granted.
 
(d) Nothing in the Plan or any Option granted hereunder shall confer upon any Optionee any right with respect to continuation of employment with the Company, nor shall it interfere in any way with the Optionee's right or the Company's right to terminate the employment relationship at any time, with or without cause.
 
(e) The maximum number of Shares with respect to which an Option or Options may be granted to any Employee in any one taxable year of the Company shall not exceed 16,000,000 shares (the "Maximum Annual Employee Grant").
 
6. . The Plan shall become effective upon its adoption by the Board. No new Options may be granted under the Plan, provided that Shares subject to the Plan (other than Shares issued in the exercise of Options granted under the Plan) shall be available for grants and awards under the 2001 Plan as provided in Section 3 and awards shall be subject to adjustment as provided in Section 11.
Term of Plan
 
7. . The term of each Option shall be no more than ten (10) years from the date of grant. However, in the case of an Incentive Stock Option granted to an Optionee who, at the time the Option is granted, owns Shares representing more than ten percent (10%) of the voting power of all classes of shares of the Company or any Parent or Subsidiary, the term of the Option shall be no more than five (5) years from the date of grant.
Term of Option
 
8. .
Exercise Price and Consideration
 
(a) The per Share exercise price under each Option shall be such price as is determined by the Board, subject to the following:
 
(1) In the case of an Incentive Stock Option
 
(i) granted to an Employee who, at the time of the grant of such Incentive Stock Option, owns shares representing more than ten percent (10%) of the voting power of all classes of shares of the Company or any Parent or Subsidiary, the per Share exercise price shall be no less than 110% of the fair market value per Share on the date of grant.
 
(ii) granted to any other Employee, the per Share exercise price shall be no less than 100% of the fair market value per Share on the date of grant.
 
(2) In the case of a Nonqualified Stock Option the per Share exercise price may be less than, equal to, or greater than the fair market value per Share on the date of grant.
 
(b) The fair market value per Share shall be the closing price per share of the Common Share on the Nasdaq Stock Market ("Nasdaq") on the date of grant. If the Shares cease to be listed on Nasdaq, the Board shall designate an alternative method of determining the fair market value of the Shares.
 
(c) The consideration to be paid for the Shares to be issued upon exercise of an Option, including the method of payment, shall be determined by the Board at the time of grant and may consist of cash and/or check. Payment may also be made by delivering a properly executed exercise notice together with irrevocable instructions to a broker to promptly deliver to the Company the amount of sale proceeds necessary to pay the exercise price. If the Optionee is an officer of the Company within the meaning of Section 16 of the Exchange Act, he may in addition be allowed to pay all or part of the purchase price with Shares. If the Optionee is a participant in the 1998 Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Gain And Bonus Deferral Program, he may in addition be allowed to pay all or part of the purchase price of any deferred Option with Shares. Shares used by officers to pay the exercise price shall be valued at their fair market value on the exercise date.
 
(d) Prior to issuance of the Shares upon exercise of an Option, the Optionee shall pay any federal, state, and local withholding obligations of the Company, if applicable. If an Optionee is an officer of the Company within the meaning of Section 16 of the Exchange Act, he may elect to pay such withholding tax obligations by having the Company withhold Shares having a value equal to the amount required to be withheld. The value of the Shares to be withheld shall equal the fair market value of the Shares on the day the Option is exercised. The right of an officer to dispose of Shares to the Company in satisfaction of withholding tax obligations shall be deemed to be approved as part of the initial grant of an option, unless thereafter rescinded, and shall otherwise be made in compliance with Rule 16b-3 and other applicable regulations.
 
9. .
Exercise of Option
 
(a) . Any Option granted hereunder shall be exercisable at such times and under such conditions as determined by the Board at the time of grant, and as shall be permissible under the terms of the Plan.
Procedure for Exercise; Rights as a Shareholder
 
An Option may not be exercised for a fraction of a Share.
 
An Option shall be deemed to be exercised when written notice of such exercise has been given to the Company in accordance with the terms of the Option by the person entitled to exercise the Option and full payment for the Shares with respect to which the Option is exercised has been received by the Company. Full payment may, as authorized by the Board, consist of any consideration and method of payment allowable under Section 8(c) of the Plan. Until the issuance (as evidenced by the appropriate entry on the books of the Company or of a duly authorized transfer agent of the Company) of the share certificate evidencing such Shares, no right to vote or receive dividends or any other rights as a shareholder shall exist with
 
respect to the Optioned Stock, notwithstanding the exercise of the Option. The Company shall issue (or cause to be issued) such share certificate promptly upon exercise of the Option. In the event that the exercise of an Option is treated in part as the exercise of an Incentive Stock Option and in part as the exercise of a Nonqualified Stock Option pursuant to Section 5(b), the Company shall issue a share certificate evidencing the Shares treated as acquired upon the exercise of an Incentive Stock Option and a separate share certificate evidencing the Shares treated as acquired upon the exercise of a Nonqualified Stock Option, and shall identify each such certificate accordingly in its share transfer records. No adjustment will be made for a dividend or other right for which the record date is prior to the date the share certificate is issued, except as provided in Section 11 of the Plan.
 
Exercise of an Option in any manner shall result in a decrease in the number of Shares which thereafter may be available, both for purposes of the Plan and for sale under the Option, by the number of Shares as to which the Option is exercised.
 
(b) . In the event of termination of an Optionee's Continuous Status as an Employee, such Optionee may exercise stock options to the extent exercisable on the date of termination. Such exercise must occur within three (3) months (or such shorter time as may be specified in the grant), after the date of such termination (but in no event later than the date of expiration of the term of such Option as set forth in the Option Agreement). To the extent that the Optionee was not entitled to exercise the Option at the date of such termination, or does not exercise such Option within the time specified herein, the Option shall terminate.
Termination of Status as Employee
 
(c) . Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 9(b) above, in the event of termination of an Optionee's Continuous Status as an Employee as a result of total and permanent disability (i.e., the inability to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or which has lasted or can be expected to last for a continuous period of twelve (12) months), the Optionee may exercise the Option, but only to the extent of the right to exercise that would have accrued had the Optionee remained in Continuous Status as an Employee for a period of twelve (12) months after the date on which the Employee ceased working as a result of the total and permanent disability. Such exercise must occur within eighteen (18) months (or such shorter time as is specified in the grant) from the date on which the Employee ceased working as a result of the total and permanent disability (but in no event later than the date of expiration of the term of such Option as set forth in the Option Agreement). To the extent that the Optionee was not entitled to exercise such Option within the time specified herein, the Option shall terminate.
Disability of Optionee
 
(d) . Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 9(b) above, in the event of the death of an Optionee:
Death of Optionee
 
(i) who is at the time of death an Employee of the Company, the Option may be exercised, at any time within six (6) months following the date of death (but in no event later than the date of expiration of the term of such Option as set forth in the Option Agreement), by the Optionee's estate or by a person who acquired the right to exercise the Option by bequest or inheritance, but only to the extent of the right to exercise that would have accrued had the Optionee continued living and remained in Continuous Status as an Employee twelve (12) months after the date of death; or
 
(ii) whose Option has not yet expired but whose Continuous Status as an Employee terminated prior to the date of death, the Option may be exercised, at any time within six (6) months following the date of death (but in no event later than the date of expiration of the term of such Option as set forth in the Option Agreement), by the Optionee's estate or by a person who acquired the right to exercise the Option by bequest or inheritance, but only to the extent of the right to exercise that had accrued at the date of termination.
 
(e) Notwithstanding subsections (b), (c), and (d) above, the Board shall have the authority to extend the expiration date of any outstanding option in circumstances in which it deems such action to be appropriate (provided that no such extension shall extend the term of an option beyond the date on which the option would have expired if no termination of the Employee's Continuous Status as an Employee had occurred).
 
10. . The Option may not be sold, pledged, assigned, hypothecated, transferred, or disposed of in any manner other than by will or by the laws of descent or distribution and may be exercised, during the lifetime of the Optionee, only by the Optionee; provided that the Board may permit further transferability, on a general or specific basis, and may impose conditions and limitations on any permitted transferability.
Non-Transferability of Options
 
11. . If any change is made to the Shares by reason of any stock split, stock dividend, recapitalization, combination of shares, exchange of shares or other change affecting the outstanding Shares as a class without the Company's receipt of consideration, appropriate adjustments shall be made to (i) the maximum number and/or class of securities issuable under the Plan, (ii) the number and/or class of securities and/or the price per share covered by outstanding Options under the Plan, and (iii) the Maximum Annual Employee Grant. The Board may also make adjustments described in (i)-(iii) of the previous sentence in the event of any distribution of assets to shareholders other than a normal cash dividend. In determining adjustments to be made under this Section 11, the Board may take into account such factors as it deems appropriate, including (i) the restrictions of applicable law, (ii) the potential tax consequences of an adjustment, and (iii) the possibility that some Optionees might receive an adjustment and a distribution or other unintended benefit, and in light of such factors or circumstances may make adjustments that are not uniform or proportionate among outstanding Options, modify vesting dates, defer the delivery of stock certificates or make other equitable adjustments. Any such adjustments to outstanding Options will be effected in a manner that precludes the enlargement of rights and benefits under such Options. Adjustments, if any, and any determinations or interpretations, including any determination of whether a distribution is other than a normal cash dividend, made by the Board shall be final, binding and conclusive. For purposes of this Section 11, conversion of any convertible securities of the Company shall not be deemed to have been effected "without receipt of consideration." Except as expressly provided herein, no issuance by the Company of shares of any class, or securities convertible into shares of any class, shall affect, and no adjustment by reason thereof shall be made with respect to, the number or price of Shares subject to an Option.
Adjustments Upon Changes in Capitalization or Merger
 
In the event of the proposed dissolution or liquidation of the Company, the Option will terminate immediately prior to the consummation of such proposed action, unless
 
otherwise provided by the Board. The Board may, in the exercise of its sole discretion in such instances, declare that any Option shall terminate as of a date fixed by the Board and give each Optionee the right to exercise an Option as to all or any part of the Optioned Shares, including Shares as to which the Option would not otherwise be exercisable. In the event of a proposed sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company, or the merger of the Company with or into another corporation, each Option shall be assumed or an equivalent option shall be substituted by such successor corporation or a parent or subsidiary of such successor corporation, unless such successor corporation does not agree to assume the Option or to substitute an equivalent option, in which case the Board shall, in lieu of such assumption or substitution, provide for the Optionee to have the right to exercise the Option as to all of the Optioned Shares, including Shares as to which the Option would not otherwise be exercisable. If the Board makes an Option fully exercisable in lieu of assumption or substitution in the event of a merger or sale of assets, the Board shall notify the Optionee that the Option shall be fully exercisable for a period of fifteen (15) days from the date of such notice, and the Option will terminate upon the expiration of such period.
 
12. . The date of grant of an Option shall, for all purposes, be the date on which the Company completes the corporate action relating to the grant of an option and all conditions to the grant have been satisfied, provided that conditions to the exercise of an option shall not defer the date of grant. Notice of a grant shall be given to each Employee to whom an Option is so granted within a reasonable time after the determination has been made.
Time of Granting Options
 
13. . The Board shall have the right to substitute or assume Options in connection with mergers, reorganizations, separations, or other transactions to which Section 424(a) of the Code applies, provided such substitutions and assumptions are permitted by Section 424 of the Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder. The number of Shares reserved pursuant to Section 3 may be increased by the corresponding number of Options assumed and, in the case of a substitution, by the net increase in the number of Shares subject to Options before and after the substitution.
Substitutions and Assumptions
 
14. .
Amendment and Termination of the Plan
 
(a) . The Board may amend or terminate the Plan from time to time in such respects as the Board may deem advisable (including, but not limited to amendments which the Board deems appropriate to enhance the Company's ability to claim deductions related to stock option exercises); provided that any increase in the number of Shares subject to the Plan, other than in connection with an adjustment under Section 11 of the Plan, shall require approval of or ratification by the shareholders of the Company.
Amendment and Termination
 
(b) . The Board shall have the authority to adopt such modifications, procedures, and subplans as may be necessary or desirable to comply with provisions of the laws of foreign countries in which the Company or its Subsidiaries may operate to assure the viability of the benefits from Options granted to Employees employed in such countries and to meet the objectives of the Plan.
Employees in Foreign Countries
 
(c) . Except as otherwise provided in Sections 4 and 11, any such amendment or termination of the Plan shall not affect Options
Effect of Amendment or Termination
 
already granted and such Options shall remain in full force and effect as if this Plan had not been amended or terminated, unless mutually agreed otherwise between the Optionee and the Board, which agreement must be in writing and signed by the Optionee and the Company.
 
15. . Shares shall not be issued pursuant to the exercise of an Option unless the exercise of such Option and the issuance and delivery of such Shares pursuant thereto shall comply with all relevant provisions of law, including, without limitation, the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, the Exchange Act, the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, and the requirements of any stock exchange upon which the Shares may then be listed, and shall be further subject to the approval of counsel for the Company with respect to such compliance.
Conditions Upon Issuance of Shares
 
16. . The Company, during the term of this Plan, will at all times reserve and keep available such number of Shares as shall be sufficient to satisfy the requirements of the Plan.
Reservation of Shares
 
17. . The Plan, as amended, is subject to approval by the shareholders of the Company at the 2004 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. If the Plan, as herein amended, is not so approved by the shareholders, the Plan, as previously approved, shall continue in effect.
Shareholder Approval
 
 
[The number of shares in Sections 3 and 5(e) have been increased to reflect the 2-for-1 stock splits in May 1994, November 1996, February 1998, March 1999 and February 2003. The number of shares in Section 3 has also been increased to reflect the adjustments related to the special dividend payable December 2, 2004 to shareholders of record on November 17, 2004.]
 

Exhibit 10.3
 
 
1.
Purpose
 
The purpose of the Microsoft Corporation 1999 Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors (the "Plan") is to attract and retain the services of experienced and knowledgeable independent directors of Microsoft Corporation (the "Corporation") for the benefit of the Corporation and its stockholders and to provide additional incentive for such directors to continue to work for the best interests of the Corporation and its stockholders through continuing ownership of its common stock.
 
2.
Shares Subject to the Plan
 
The total number of shares of common stock of the Corporation ("Shares") for which Awards (as defined in Section 4) may be granted under the Plan shall not exceed 3,550,214 in the aggregate, subject to adjustment in accordance with Section 12 hereof. Within the foregoing limitation, Shares underlying Awards that have been granted pursuant to the Plan but which Awards have lapsed or otherwise terminated without delivery of Shares shall become available for the grant of additional Awards.
 
3.
Administration of Plan
 
The Board of Directors of the Corporation shall administer the Plan. The Board may delegate responsibility for administration of the Plan to a Board committee (the "Committee") composed solely of two or more directors, each of whom is a "Non-Employee Director" (as that term is defined in Rule 16b-3(b) promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to its authority under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act")). The Board or the Committee, as the case may be, shall have the power to construe the Plan and the terms of the Shares, to determine all questions arising thereunder, and to adopt and amend such rules and regulations for the administration of the Plan as it may deem desirable; provided that, no consent of an Awardee is necessary where the modification, amendment, acceleration, or deferral in the reasonable judgment of the Board confers a benefit upon the Awardee, or is made pursuant to an adjustment in accordance with Section 12. References to the "Board" in this Plan shall be deemed to refer to either the Board or the Committee, whichever is appropriate in the context in which the word is used.
 
4.
Discretionary Award Grants
 
Pursuant to this Plan, the Board may grant in its discretion an Award (as defined in this Section 4) to any person who (a) is elected a director of the Corporation, and (b) is not, and has not during the immediately preceding 12 month period been, an employee of the Corporation or any subsidiary of the Corporation. An "Award" may be either (i) a grant of a stock option (an "Option") or (ii) a grant of Shares or of a right to receive Shares or their cash equivalent (or both) (a "Stock Award"). No Awards under this Section 4 may be granted to any individual director with respect to more than 10,000 shares for any calendar year or, in the case of a newly elected director, more than 25,000 shares for the year in which the director is first elected. No director shall have any claim or right to be granted an Award under this Plan. Having received an Award under this Plan shall not give a director any right to receive any other Award under this Plan and the Board may determine that any or all director(s) are not eligible to receive an Award under this Plan for an indefinite period or for a specified year or years.
5.
Award Agreement
 
Each Award granted under the Plan shall be evidenced by an Award agreement (the "Agreement") duly executed on behalf of the Corporation and by the director to whom such Award is granted, which Agreements may but need not be identical and which shall (a) comply with and be subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan and (b) provide that the director agrees to continue to serve as a director of the Corporation during the term for which he or she was elected. Each Award shall vest over a period of not less than three (3) years from the date of grant, except with respect to Awards that are granted in lieu of cash compensation. Any Agreement may contain such other terms, provisions, and conditions not inconsistent with the Plan as may be determined by the Board. No Award shall be deemed granted within the meaning of the Plan and no purported grant of any Award shall be effective, until such Agreement shall have been duly executed on behalf of the Corporation and the director to whom the Award is to be granted.
 
6.
Stock Awards
 
(a) Stock Awards may be granted either alone, in addition to, or in tandem with other Awards granted under the Plan. After the Board determines that it will offer a Stock Award, it will advise the director in writing or electronically, by means of an Agreement, of the terms, conditions and restrictions, including vesting, if any, related to the offer, including the number of Shares that the director shall be entitled to receive or purchase, the price to be paid, if any, and, if applicable, the time within which the director must accept the offer. The offer shall be accepted by execution of an Agreement or as otherwise directed by the Board.
 
(b) Unless the Board determines otherwise, the Agreement shall provide for the forfeiture of the non-vested Shares underlying such Stock Award upon the director ceasing to be a director for any reason, including death. To the extent that the director purchased the Shares granted under such Stock Award and any such Shares remain non-vested at the time the director ceases to be a director, the cessation of director status shall cause an immediate sale of such non-vested Shares to the Company at the original price per Share paid by the director.
 
 
(a) The Board shall set the exercise price for an Option granted pursuant to Section 4 of the Plan in its discretion.
 
(b) Each Option shall expire no more than ten years from the date of the granting thereof, but shall be subject to earlier termination as follows:
 
(i) In the event of the death of an Option holder, the Option granted to such person may be exercised to the extent exercisable on the date of death, within the earlier of (x) 180 days after the date of death of such person and (y) the date on which the Option expires by its terms, by the estate of such person, or by any person or persons who acquired the right to exercise such Option by will or by the laws of descent and distribution.
 
(ii) In the event that an Option holder ceases to be a director of the Corporation, other than by reason of his or her death, an Option granted to such person may be exercised, to the extent exercisable on the date such person ceases to be a director, within the earlier of (x) 180 days after the date such person ceases to be a director and (y) the date on which the Option expires by its terms.
 
8.
Vesting and Exercise of Awards
 
(a) The Board shall set the vesting schedule for Awards granted pursuant to Section 4 of the Plan in its discretion.
 
(b) To the extent that the right to exercise an Option has vested and is in effect, the Option may be exercised from time to time, by giving written notice, signed by the person or persons exercising the Option, to the Corporation, stating the number of whole Shares with respect to which the Option is being exercised, accompanied by payment in full for such Shares, which payment may be in whole or in part in shares of the common stock of the Corporation already owned by the person or persons exercising the Option, valued at fair market value on the date of payment. For purposes hereof, the fair market value of the Shares covered by an Option shall be the closing price of the Shares on the applicable date as reported in the National Market List of the National Association of Securities Dealers Inc. Automated Quotation System or on the principal national securities exchange on which the Shares are then listed for trading.
 
(c) Upon exercise of the Option, delivery of a certificate for fully paid and non-assessable Shares shall be made at the principal office of the Corporation in the State of Washington to the person or persons exercising the Option as soon as practicable (but in no event more than 30 days) after the date of receipt of the notice of exercise by the Corporation, or at such time, place, and manner as may be agreed upon by the Corporation and the person or persons exercising the Option.
 
(d) Upon a Stock Award becoming fully vested and nonforfeitable, delivery of a certificate for fully paid and non-assessable Shares shall be made at the principal office of the Corporation in the State of Washington to the person to whom the Stock Award was granted as soon as practicable (but in no event more than 30 days) after the date on which the Stock Award becomes fully vested and nonforfeitable, or at such time, place, and manner as may be agreed upon by the Corporation and the holder of the Stock Award.
 
(e) Prior to issuance of the Shares in connection with an Award, the director receiving the Award may request the Corporation to withhold and pay on the director's behalf any federal, state, and local income tax obligations applicable to such Award by having the Corporation withhold Shares having a value equal to the amount requested to be withheld, and any Award under the Plan may permit that such withholding tax be paid by having the Corporation withhold Shares having a value equal to the amount requested to be withheld. The value of the Shares to be withheld shall equal the fair market value of the Shares on the day the Award is exercised or granted, as applicable. The right of a director to dispose of Shares to the Corporation in satisfaction of withholding tax obligations shall be deemed to be approved as part of the initial grant of an Award, unless thereafter rescinded, and shall otherwise be made in compliance with Rule 16b-3 and other applicable regulations.
 
9.
Merger, Consolidation, Sale of Assets, etc., Resulting in a Change in Control
 
(a) In the event of a Change in Control (as hereinafter defined), notwithstanding the vesting provisions contained in the Agreement granting an Option or Stock Award, as applicable, to a director pursuant to this Plan, such Option shall become fully exercisable or Stock Award shall become fully vested and nonforfeitable if, within one year of such Change in Control, such director shall cease for any reason to be a member of the Board. For purposes hereof, a Change in Control of the Corporation shall be deemed to have occurred if (i) there shall be consummated (x) any consolidation or merger of the Corporation in which the Corporation is not the continuing or surviving corporation or pursuant to which shares of the common stock of the Corporation would be converted into cash, securities, or other property, other than a merger of the Corporation in which the holders of the common stock of the Corporation immediately prior to the merger have the same proportionate ownership of common stock of the surviving corporation immediately after the merger, or (y) any sale, lease, exchange, or other transfer (in one transaction or a series of related transactions) of all, or substantially all, of the assets of the Corporation; or (ii) the stockholders of the Corporation approve any plan or proposal for the liquidation or dissolution of the Corporation; or (iii) any person (as such term is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act), other than William H. Gates III, shall become the beneficial owner (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act) of 30% or more of the Corporation's outstanding common stock; or (iv) during any period of two consecutive years, individuals who at the beginning of such period constitute the entire Board of Directors shall cease for any reason to constitute a majority thereof unless the election, or the nomination for election by the Corporation's stockholders, of each new director was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds of the directors then still in office who were directors at the beginning of the period.
 
(b) Any exercise of an Option permitted pursuant to this Section 9 shall be made within 180 days of the related director's termination as a director of the Corporation.
 
10.
Awards Not Transferable
 
An Award granted pursuant to the Plan may not be sold, pledged, assigned, hypothecated, transferred, or disposed of in any manner other than by will or by the laws of descent or distribution and may be exercised, during the lifetime of the holder of an Award, only by the holder; provided that the Board may permit further transferability, on a general or specific basis, and may impose conditions and limitations on any permitted transferability.
 
11.
No Rights as Stockholder Until Holder
 
Neither the recipient of an Award under the Plan nor his successors in interest shall have any rights as a stockholder of the Corporation with respect to any Shares subject to an Award granted to such person until such person becomes a holder of record of such Shares.
 
12.
Adjustments Upon Changes in Capitalization or Merger
 
If any change is made to the Shares by reason of any stock split, stock dividend, recapitalization, combination of shares, exchange of shares or other change affecting the outstanding Shares as a class without the Corporation's receipt of consideration, appropriate adjustments shall be made to (i) the maximum number and/or class of securities issuable under
 
the Plan, (ii) the number and/or class of securities and/or the price per Share covered by outstanding Awards under the Plan, and (iii) the limits on size of awards permitted pursuant to Section 4 of the Plan. The Board may also make adjustments described in (i)-(iii) of the previous sentence in the event of any distribution of assets to shareholders other than a normal cash dividend. In determining adjustments to be made under this Section 12, the Board may take into account such factors as it deems appropriate, including (i) the restrictions of applicable law, (ii) the potential tax consequences of an adjustment, and (iii) the possibility that some Awardees might receive an adjustment and a distribution or other unintended benefit, and in light of such factors or circumstances may make adjustments that are not uniform or proportionate among outstanding Awards, modify vesting dates, defer the delivery of stock certificates or make other equitable adjustments. Any such adjustments to outstanding Awards will be effected in a manner that precludes the enlargement of rights and benefits under such Awards. Adjustments, if any, and any determinations or interpretations, including any determination of whether a distribution is other than a normal cash dividend, made by the Board shall be final, binding and conclusive. For purposes of this Section 12, conversion of any convertible securities of the Corporation shall not be deemed to have been effected "without receipt of consideration." Except as expressly provided herein, no issuance by the Corporation of shares of stock of any class, or securities convertible into shares of stock of any class, shall affect, and no adjustment by reason thereof shall be made with respect to, the number or price of shares of common stock subject to an Award.
 
In the event of the proposed dissolution or liquidation of the Corporation, an outstanding Award (i.e., an Option that has not been exercised or a Stock Award that has not become fully vested and nonforfeitable) will terminate immediately prior to the consummation of such proposed action, unless otherwise provided by the Board. The Board may, in the exercise of its sole discretion in such instances, declare that any Option shall terminate as of a date fixed by the Board and give each Option holder the right to exercise an Option as to all or any part of the stock covered by such Option, including Shares as to which the Option would not otherwise be exercisable. In the event of a proposed sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Corporation, or the merger of the Corporation with or into another corporation, each Award shall be assumed or an equivalent Award shall be substituted by such successor corporation or a parent or subsidiary of such successor corporation, unless such successor corporation does not agree to assume each and every Award or to substitute an equivalent Award, in which case the Board shall, in lieu of such assumption or substitution, provide for the immediate full vesting of any Stock Awards not yet fully vested, or provide for the Option holder to have the right to exercise such Option as to all of the stock covered by such Option, including Shares as to which such Option would not otherwise be exercisable, or both. If the Board makes an Option fully exercisable in lieu of assumption or substitution in the event of a merger or sale of assets, the Board shall notify the Option holder that the Option shall be fully exercisable for a period of fifteen (15) days from the date of such notice, and the Option will terminate upon the expiration of such period.
 
13.
Restrictions on Issue of Shares
 
Notwithstanding anything in this Plan to the contrary, the Corporation may delay the issuance of Shares covered by any Award and the delivery of a certificate for such Shares until one of the following conditions shall be satisfied:
 
(a) the Shares to be issued in connection with the grant or exercise of an Award, as applicable, are at the time of the issue of such Shares by the Corporation effectively registered under applicable federal securities laws now in force or hereafter amended; or
 
(b) counsel for the Corporation shall have given an opinion, which opinion shall not be unreasonably conditioned or withheld, that such Shares are exempt from registration under applicable federal securities laws now in force or hereafter amended.
 
It is intended that all grants of Stock Awards and exercises of Options shall be effective. Accordingly, the Corporation shall use its best efforts to bring about compliance with the above conditions within a reasonable time, except that the Corporation shall be under no obligation to cause a registration statement or a post-effective amendment to any registration statement to be prepared at its expense solely for the purpose of covering the issuance of Shares in connection with the grant or exercise of any Award.
 
14.
Purchase for Investment
 
Unless the Shares to be issued in connection with the grant or exercise of an Award granted under the Plan have been effectively registered under the Securities Act of 1933 as now in force or hereafter amended, the Corporation shall be under no obligation to issue any Shares covered by any Award unless the person or persons to whom the Shares are to be issued, in whole or in part, shall give a written representation and undertaking to the Corporation, which is satisfactory in form and scope to counsel to the Corporation and upon which, in the opinion of such counsel, the Corporation may reasonably rely, that he or she is acquiring the shares issued or transferred to him or her for his or her own account as an investment and not with a view to, or for sale in connection with, the distribution of any such Shares, and that he or she will make no transfer of the same except in compliance with any rules and regulations in force at the time of such transfer under the Securities Act of 1933, or any other applicable law, and that if Shares are issued or transferred without such registration a legend to this effect may be placed upon the certificates representing the Shares.
 
15.
Expenses of the Plan
 
All costs and expenses of the adoption and administration of the Plan shall be borne by the Corporation and none of such expenses shall be charged to any director.
 
16.
Termination and Amendment of Plan
 
Unless sooner terminated as herein provided, the Plan shall terminate ten years from the Effective Date. The Board may at any time terminate the Plan or make such modification or amendment thereof as it deems advisable; provided, however, that stockholder approval will be required for any amendment that will (a) increase the total number of shares as to which Awards may be granted under the Plan, (b) modify the class of persons eligible to receive Awards, or (c) otherwise require stockholder approval under any applicable law or regulation. In addition, the Board shall not amend the provisions in the Plan regarding the amount, pricing, and timing for grants pursuant to this Plan more than once every six months, other than to comport with changes in the Internal Revenue Code, or the rules thereunder. Except as otherwise provided in Sections 3 and 12, termination or any modification or amendment of the Plan shall not, without the consent of an Award holder, affect his or her rights under an Award previously granted to him or her.
 
All share numbers in the Plan reflect the 2-for-1 stock split effected February 2003. The number of shares in Section 2 has also been increased to reflect the adjustments related to the special dividend payable December 2, 2004 to shareholders of record on November 17, 2004.
 

Exhibit 10.4
 
 
1.
Purpose
 
The purpose of the Microsoft Corporation Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors (the "Plan") is to attract and retain the services of experienced and knowledgeable independent directors of Microsoft Corporation (the "Corporation") for the benefit of the Corporation and its stockholders and to provide additional incentive for such directors to continue to work for the best interests of the Corporation and its stockholders through continuing ownership of its common stock.
 
2.
Shares Subject to the Plan
 
The total number of shares of common stock ("Shares"), of the Corporation for which options may be granted under the Plan shall not exceed 36,033,332 in the aggregate, subject to adjustment in accordance with Section 12 hereof. Within the foregoing limitations, Shares for which options have been granted pursuant to the Plan but which options have lapsed or otherwise terminated shall become available for the grant of additional options. There will initially be reserved for issuance or transfer from the Corporation's treasury upon the exercise of options granted under the Plan 36,033,332 Shares, subject to adjustment in accordance with Section 13 hereof.
 
3.
Administration of Plan
 
All aspects of the Plan relating to non-discretionary options shall be administered by the Board of Directors of the Corporation. All aspects of the Plan relating to the grant of discretionary options pursuant to Section 5, and all administrative functions relating to discretionary options, shall be handled by a Board committee of two or more directors, each of whom is a "disinterested person" (as that term is defined in Rule 16b-3(c)(2) promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to its authority under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934). The Board of the Committee, as the case may be, shall have the power to construe the Plan and the terms of the Shares, to determine all questions arising thereunder, and to adopt and amend such rules and regulations for the administration of the Plan as it may deem desirable; provided that, no consent of an option holder is necessary where the modification, amendment, acceleration, or deferral in the reasonable judgment of the Board confers a benefit on the option holder, or is made pursuant to an adjustment in accordance with Section 13. References to the "Board" in this Plan shall be deemed to refer to either the Board or the Committee, whichever is appropriate in the context in which the word is used.
 
4.
Grant of Non-Discretionary Options
 
Each director who (a) satisfies all of the following criteria:
 
(i) such person is not, and has not during the immediately preceding 12 month period been, an employee of the Corporation or any subsidiary of the Corporation;
 
(ii) such person does not own any common stock of the Corporation which (x) he acquired directly from the Corporation and (y) is currently subject to any contractual provision whereby such stock is either forfeitable or subject to mandatory resale to the Corporation on the occurrence of certain specified events; and
(iii) such person does not hold any unvested stock options to purchase common stock of the Corporation, except for non-discretionary stock options previously granted pursuant to this Section 4 of the Plan.
 
and (b) who is in office on November 30 of any year (commencing with November 30, 1989) shall, on the immediately succeeding January 1, automatically be granted an option to acquire 5,000 Shares under the Plan.
 
5.
Discretionary Option Grants for New Directors
 
An option may be granted by the Board in its discretion to any person who (i) is elected a director of the Corporation, (ii) has not previously served as a director of the Corporation, and (iii) at the time of his election, satisfied criterion (a)(i) of Section 4 above. No options under this Section 5 may be granted for more than 50,000 shares. An option under this Section 5 must be granted either on the date the new director is first elected as a director or on a prior date, but any option granted on a prior date shall be conditioned on the election of the optionee as a director. No director shall be eligible for an option grant under this Section 5 after the date he is first elected as a director.
 
6.
Option Agreement
 
Each option granted under the Plan shall be evidenced by an option agreement (the "Agreement") duly executed on behalf of the Corporation and by the director to whom such option is granted, which Agreements may but need not be identical and which shall (i) comply with and be subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan and (ii) provide that the director agrees to continue to serve as a director of the Corporation during the term for which he or she was elected. Any Agreement may contain such other terms, provisions, and conditions not inconsistent with the Plan as may be determined by the Board. No option shall be deemed granted within the meaning of the Plan and no purported grant of any option shall be effective, until such Agreement shall have been duly executed on behalf of the Corporation and the director to whom the option is to be granted.
 
7.
Option Exercise Price
 
(a) The option exercise price for a non-discretionary option granted pursuant to Section 4 of the Plan shall be the fair market value of the Shares covered by the option on the date of grant, or, if such date is not a day on which Shares are traded, on the trading day (the "Pricing Date"), immediately preceding the date on which the option is granted.
 
(b) The option exercise price for a discretionary option granted pursuant to Section 5 of the Plan shall be set by the Board in its discretion.
 
(c) For purposes hereof, the fair market value of the Shares covered by an option shall be the closing price of the Shares on the applicable date as reported in the National Market List of the National Association of Securities Dealers Inc. Automated Quotation System or on the principal national securities exchange on which the Shares are then listed for trading.
 
8.
Time and Manner of Exercise of Option
 
(a) Non-discretionary options granted pursuant to Section 4 of the Plan shall not be immediately exercisable, but shall become exercisable in full upon the first anniversary of the date of grant.
 
(b) The exercisability of discretionary options pursuant to Section 5 of the Plan shall be set by the Board in its discretion and shall be memorialized in the Agreement between the Corporation and the director to whom the option is granted.
 
(c) To the extent that the right to exercise an option has accrued and is in effect, the option may be exercised from time to time, by giving written notice, signed by the person or persons exercising the option, to the Corporation, stating the number of Shares with respect to which the option is being exercised, accompanied by payment in full for such Shares, which payment may be in whole or in part in shares of the common stock of the Corporation already owned by the person or persons exercising the option, valued at fair market value on the date of payment (as determined pursuant to Section 7(c) hereof).
 
(d) Upon exercise of the option, delivery of a certificate for fully paid and non-assessable Shares shall be made at the principal office of the Corporation in the State of Washington to the person or persons exercising the option as soon as practicable (but in no event more than 30 days) after the date of receipt of the notice of exercise by the Corporation, or at such time, place, and manner as may be agreed upon by the Corporation and the person or persons exercising the option.
 
9.
Term of Options
 
Each option shall expire ten years from the date of the granting thereof, but shall be subject to earlier termination as follows:
 
(a) In the event of the death of an option holder, the option granted to such person may be exercised, to the extent exercisable on the date of death pursuant to Section 8(a) or (b), by the estate of such person, or by any person or persons who acquired the right to exercise such option by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. Such option may be exercised at any time within 180 days after the date of death of such person or prior to the date on which the option expires by its terms, whichever is earlier.
 
(b) In the event that an option holder ceases to be a director of the Corporation, other than by reason of his or her death, the option granted to such person may be exercised, to the extent exercisable on the date such person ceases to be a director, for a period of 30 days after such date, or prior to the date on which the option expires by its terms, whichever is earlier.
 
10.
Merger, Consolidation, Sale of Assets, etc., Resulting in a Change in Control
 
(a) In the event of a Change in Control (as hereinafter defined), notwithstanding the provisions of Sections 8 and 9, an option granted to a director pursuant to the Plan shall become fully exercisable if, within one year of such Change in Control, such director shall cease for any reason to be a member of the Board. For purposes hereof, a Change in Control of the Corporation shall be deemed to have occurred if (i) there shall be consummated (x) any consolidation or merger of the Corporation in which the Corporation is not the continuing or surviving corporation or pursuant to which shares of the common stock of the Corporation would be converted into cash, securities, or other property, other than a merger of the Corporation in which the holders of the common stock of the Corporation immediately prior to the merger have the same proportionate ownership of common stock of the surviving corporation immediately after the merger, or (y) any sale, lease, exchange, or other transfer (in one transaction or a series of related transactions) of all, or substantially all, of the assets of the Corporation; or (ii) the stockholders of the Corporation approve any plan or proposal for the liquidation or dissolution of the Corporation; or (iii) any person (as such term is used in Sections
 
13(d) and 14(d)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act"), other than William H. Gates, shall become the beneficial owner (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act) of 30% or more of the Corporation's outstanding common stock; or (iv) during any period of two consecutive years, individuals who at the beginning of such period constitute the entire Board of Directors shall cease for any reason to constitute a majority thereof unless the election, or the nomination for election by the Corporation's stockholders, of each new director was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds of the directors then still in office who were directors at the beginning of the period.
 
(b) Any exercise of an option permitted pursuant to Section 10(a) shall be made within 180 days of the related director's termination as a director of the Corporation.
 
11.
Options Not Transferable
 
An option granted pursuant to the Plan may not be sold, pledged, assigned, hypothecated, transferred, or disposed of in any manner other than by will or by the laws of descent or distribution and may be exercised, during the lifetime of the option holder, only by the option holder; provided that the Board may permit further transferability, on a general or specific basis, and may impose conditions and limitations on any permitted transferability.
 
12.
No Rights as Stockholder Until Exercise
 
Neither the recipient of an option under the Plan nor his successors in interest shall have any rights as a stockholder of the Corporation with respect to any Shares subject to an option granted to such person until such person becomes a holder of record of such Shares.
 
13.
Adjustments Upon Changes in Capitalization or Merger
 
If any change is made to the Shares by reason of any stock split, stock dividend, recapitalization, combination of shares, exchange of shares or other change affecting the outstanding Shares as a class without the Corporation's receipt of consideration, appropriate adjustments shall be made to (i) the maximum number and/or class of securities issuable under the Plan, and (ii) the number and/or class of securities and/or the price per share covered by outstanding options under the Plan. The Board may also make adjustments described in (i)-(ii) of the previous sentence in the event of any distribution of assets to shareholders other than a normal cash dividend. In determining adjustments to be made under this Section 13, the Board may take into account such factors as it deems appropriate, including (i) the restrictions of applicable law, (ii) the potential tax consequences of an adjustment, and (iii) the possibility that some option holders might receive an adjustment and a distribution or other unintended benefit, and in light of such factors or circumstances may make adjustments that are not uniform or proportionate among outstanding options, modify vesting dates, defer the delivery of stock certificates or make other equitable adjustments. Any such adjustments to outstanding options will be effected in a manner that precludes the enlargement of rights and benefits under such options. Adjustments, if any, and any determinations or interpretations, including any determination of whether a distribution is other than a normal cash dividend, made by the Board shall be final, binding and conclusive. For purposes of this Section 13, conversion of any convertible securities of the Corporation shall not be deemed to have been effected without receipt of consideration." Except as expressly provided herein, no issuance by the Corporation of shares of stock of any class, or securities convertible into shares of stock of any class, shall affect, and no adjustment by reason thereof shall be made with respect to, the number or price of shares of common stock subject to an option.
 
In the event of the proposed dissolution or liquidation of the Corporation, an outstanding option will terminate immediately prior to the consummation of such proposed action, unless otherwise provided by the Board. The Board may, in the exercise of its sole discretion in such
 
instances, declare that any option shall terminate as of a date fixed by the Board and give each option holder the right to exercise an option as to all or any part of the stock covered by such option, including Shares as to which the option would not otherwise be exercisable. In the event of a proposed sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Corporation, or the merger of the Corporation with or into another corporation, each option shall be assumed or an equivalent option shall be substituted by such successor corporation or a parent or subsidiary of such successor corporation, unless such successor corporation does not agree to assume each option or to substitute an equivalent option, in which case the Board shall, in lieu of such assumption or substitution, provide for the option holder to have the right to exercise such option as to all of the stock covered by such option, including Shares as to which such option would not otherwise be exercisable. If the Board makes an option fully exercisable in lieu of assumption or substitution in the event of a merger or sale of assets, the Board shall notify the option holder that the option shall be fully exercisable for a period of fifteen (15) days from the date of such notice, and the option will terminate upon the expiration of such period.
 
14.
Restrictions on Issue of Shares
 
Anything in this Plan to the contrary notwithstanding, the Corporation may delay the issuance of Shares covered by the exercise of any option and the delivery of a certificate for such Shares until one of the following conditions shall be satisfied:
 
(a) the Shares with respect to which an option has been exercised are at the time of the issue or transfer of such Shares effectively registered under applicable federal securities laws now in force or hereafter amended; or
 
(b) counsel for the Corporation shall have given an opinion, which opinion shall not be unreasonably conditioned or withheld, that such Shares are exempt from registration under applicable federal securities laws now in force or hereafter amended.
 
It is intended that all exercises of options shall be effective. Accordingly, the Corporation shall use its best efforts to bring about compliance with the above conditions within a reasonable time, except that the Corporation shall be under no obligation to cause a registration statement or a post-effective amendment to any registration statement to be prepared at its expense solely for the purpose of covering the issuance or transfer from the Corporation's treasury of Shares in respect of which any option may be exercised.
 
15.
Purchase for Investment
 
Unless the Shares to be issued upon exercise of an option granted under the Plan have been effectively registered under the Securities Act of 1933 as now in force or hereafter amended, the Corporation shall be under no obligation to issue or transfer any Shares covered by any option unless the person or persons who exercise such option, in whole or in part, shall give a written representation and undertaking to the Corporation, which is satisfactory in form and scope to counsel to the Corporation and upon which, in the opinion of such counsel, the Corporation may reasonably rely, that he or she is acquiring the shares issued or transferred to him or her for his or her own account as an investment and not with a view to, or for sale in connection with, the distribution for any such Shares, and that he or she will make no transfer of the same except in compliance with any rules and regulations in force at the time of such transfer under the Securities Act of 1933, or any other applicable law, and that if Shares are issued or transferred without such registration a legend to this effect may be placed upon the certificates representing the Shares.
 
16.
Effective Date
 
The effective date (the "Effective Date") of this Plan shall be the date on which the Plan is approved by stockholders of the corporation.
 
17.
Expenses of the Plan
 
All costs and expenses of the adoption and administration of the Plan shall be borne by the Corporation and none of such expenses shall be charged to any director.
 
18.
Termination and Amendment of Plan
 
Unless sooner terminated as herein provided, the Plan shall terminate ten years from the Effective Date. The Board may at any time terminate the Plan or make such modification or amendment thereof as it deems advisable; provided, however, that, except as provided in Section 13, the Board may not, without the approval of the stockholders of the Corporation, (i) increase the maximum aggregate number of shares for which options may be granted under the Plan, (ii) increase the size of the non-discretionary option grants to individual directors, (iii) change the method of setting the option exercise price for non-discretionary options, or (iv) make any other change which would require shareholder approval pursuant to Rule 16b-3. In addition, the provisions in the Plan regarding the amount, pricing, timing, and class of persons eligible for non-discretionary grants shall not be amended more than once every six months, other than to comport with changes in the Internal Revenue Code, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act, or the rules thereunder. Except as otherwise provided in Sections 3 and 13, termination or any modification or amendment of the Plan shall not, without the consent of an option holder, affect his or her rights under an option previously granted to him or her.
 
19.
Shareholder Approval
 
The Plan, as amended, is subject to approval by the shareholders of the Company at the 2004 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. If the Plan, as herein amended, is not so approved by the shareholders, the Plan, as previously approved, shall continue in effect.
 
 
[The number of shares in Section 2 has been increased to reflect stock splits through February 2003 and the adjustments related to the special dividend payable December 2, 2004 to shareholders of record on November 17, 2004.]
 

Exhibit 10.5
 
 
 
1. . The purposes of this Stock Option Plan are to attract and maintain a long-term relationship with the best available consultants and advisors, to provide additional incentive to such individuals, and to promote the success of the Company's business. Options granted hereunder shall be Nonqualified Stock Options, and shall be evidenced by written Stock Option Agreements.
Purposes of the Plan
 
2. . As used herein, the following definitions shall apply:
Definitions
 
(a) "" shall mean the Committee, if such Committee has been appointed, or the Board of Directors of the Company, if such Committee has not been appointed.
Board
 
(b) "" shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
 
(c) "" shall mean the Committee appointed by the Board of Directors in accordance with paragraph (a) of Section 4 of the Plan, if one is appointed.
Committee
 
(d) "" shall mean the common stock of Microsoft Corporation.
Common Stock
 
(e) "" shall mean Microsoft Corporation, a Washington corporation.
Company
 
(f) "" shall mean the absence of any interruption, expiration, or termination of an Optionee's consulting or advisory relationship with the Company. Continuous Status as a Consultant or Advisor shall not be considered interrupted in the case of any temporary interruption in such person's availability to provide services to the Company which has been authorized in writing by a Vice President of the Company prior to its commencement; provided, however, that the Company may require suspension of vesting in such cases. Continuous Status as a Consultant or Advisor shall not be considered terminated if such person accepts employment with the Company, and thereafter a person's Continuous Status as an Employee, and the effects of an interruption or termination thereof (including by reason of death or disability), shall be determined with reference to the Company's 1991 Stock Option Plan.
Continuous Status as a Consultant or Advisor
 
(g) "" shall mean an Option not intended to qualify as an incentive stock option within the meaning of Section 422 of the Code.
Nonqualified Stock Option
 
(h) "" shall mean a stock option granted pursuant to the Plan.
Option
 
(i) "" shall mean the Common Stock subject to an Option.
Optioned Stock
 
(j) "" shall mean any consultant or advisor who receives an Option.
Optionee
 
(k) "" shall mean this Stock Option Plan for Consultants and Advisors.
Plan
(l) "" shall mean one share of Common Stock, as adjusted in accordance with Section 11 of the Plan.
Share
 
3. . Subject to the provisions of Section 11 of the Plan, the maximum aggregate number of shares which may be optioned and sold under the Plan is 4,802,233 shares of Common Stock. The Shares may be authorized, but unissued, or reacquired Common Stock.
Stock Subject to the Plan
 
If an Option should expire or become unexercisable for any reason without having been exercised in full, the unpurchased Shares which were subject thereto shall, unless the Plan shall have been terminated, become available for future grant under the Plan.
 
4. .
Administration of the Plan
 
(a) . The Plan shall be administered by the Board of Directors of the Company.
Procedure
 
(1) The Board of Directors may appoint a Committee, consisting of not less than two members of the Board of Directors, to administer the Plan on behalf of the Board of Directors, subject to such terms and conditions as the Board of Directors may prescribe. Once appointed, such Committee shall continue to serve until otherwise directed by the Board of Directors.
 
(2) The Board of Directors may, from time to time, increase the size of the Committee and appoint additional members thereof, remove members (with or without cause) and appoint new members in substitution therefor, fill vacancies however caused, or remove all members of the Committee and thereafter directly administer the Plan.
 
(b) . Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Board shall have the authority, in its discretion: (i) to grant Nonqualified Stock Options; (ii) to determine, in accordance with Section 8(b) of the Plan, the fair market value of the Common Stock; (iii) to determine, in accordance with Section 8(a) of the Plan, the exercise price per share of Options to be granted, (iv) to determine the individuals to whom, and the time or times at which, options shall be granted and the number of Shares to be represented by each Option; (v) to interpret the Plan and the terms of Options; (vi) to prescribe, amend, and rescind rules and regulations relating to the Plan; (vii) to determine the terms and provisions of each Option granted (which need not be identical) and, with the consent of the holder thereof, modify or amend any Option; (viii) to reduce the exercise price per share of outstanding and unexercised Options; (ix) to accelerate or defer (with the consent of the Optionee) the vesting or exercise date of any Option; (x) to authorize any person to execute, on behalf of the Company, any instrument required to effectuate the grant of an Option previously granted by the Board; and (xi) to make all other determinations deemed necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan; provided that, no consent of an Optionee is necessary under clauses (vii) or (ix) if the modification, amendment, acceleration, or deferral in the reasonable judgment of the Board confers a benefit upon the Optionee, or is made pursuant to an adjustment in accordance with Section 11.
Powers of the Board
 
(c) . All decisions, determinations, and interpretations of the Board shall be final and binding on all Optionees and any other holders of any Options granted under the Plan.
Effect of Board's Decision
 
5. .
Eligibility
 
(a) Options may be granted to consultants and advisors who provide consulting services to the Company. In no event shall any employees (full-time or part-time) of the Company be eligible for the grant of an Option under the Plan. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the fact that an Optionee subsequently becomes an employee of the Company shall not affect such Optionee's Option, so long as the Optionee's Continuous Status as a Consultant or Advisor was uninterrupted prior to his or her commencement of employment with the Company.
 
(b) Nothing in the Plan or any Option granted hereunder shall confer upon any Optionee any right to continue or require the continuance of the Optionee's consulting or advisory relationship with the Company, nor shall it interfere in any way with the Optionee's right or the Company's right to terminate such relationship at any time, with or without cause.
 
6. . The Plan shall become effective upon its adoption by the Board and shall continue in effect for ten (10) years, unless sooner terminated under Section 14 of the Plan.
Term of Plan
 
7. . The term of each Option shall be no more than ten (10) years from the date of grant.
Term of Option
 
8. .
Exercise Price and Consideration
 
(a) The per Share exercise price under each Option shall be such price as is determined by the Board, which price may be less than, equal to, or greater than the fair market value per Share on the date of grant.
 
(b) The fair market value per Share shall be the closing price per share of the Common Stock on the National Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotation ("NASDAQ") National Market System on the date of grant. If the Common Stock ceases to be listed on the NASDAQ National Market System, the Board shall designate an alternative method of determining the fair market value of the Common Stock.
 
(c) The consideration to be paid for the Shares to be issued upon exercise of an Option, including the method of payment, shall be determined by the Board at the time of grant and may consist of cash and/or check. Payment may also be made by delivering a properly executed exercise notice, together with irrevocable instructions to a broker to promptly deliver to the Company the amount of sale proceeds necessary to pay the exercise price.
 
(d) Prior to issuance of the Shares upon exercise of an Option, the Optionee shall pay any federal, state, and local withholding obligations of the Company, if applicable.
 
9. .
Exercise of Option
 
(a) . Any Option granted hereunder shall be exercisable at such times and under such conditions as determined by the Board at the time of grant, and as shall be permissible under the terms of the Plan. An Option may not be exercised for a fraction of a Share.
Procedure for Exercise; Rights as a Stockholder
 
An Option shall be deemed to be exercised when written notice of such exercise has been given to the Company in accordance with the terms of the Option by the person entitled to exercise the Option and full payment for the Shares with respect to which the Option is exercised has been received by the Company. Full payment may, as authorized by the Board, consist of any consideration and method of payment allowable under Section 8(c) of the Plan. Until the issuance (as evidenced by the appropriate entry on the books of the Company or of a duly authorized transfer agent of the Company) of the stock certificate evidencing such Shares, no right to vote or receive dividends or any other rights as a stockholder shall exist with respect to the Optioned Stock, notwithstanding the exercise of the Option. The Company shall issue (or cause to be issued) such stock certificate promptly upon exercise of the Option. No adjustment will be made for a dividend or other right for which the record date is prior to the date the stock certificate is issued, except as provided in Section 11 of the Plan.
 
The exercise of an Option in any manner shall result in a decrease in the number of Shares which thereafter may be available, both for purposes of the Plan and for sale under the Option, by the number of Shares as to which the Option is exercised.
 
(b) . In the event of termination of an Optionee's Continuous Status as a Consultant or Advisor, such Optionee may exercise stock options to the extent exercisable on the date of termination. Such exercise must occur within three (3) months (or such shorter time as may be specified in the grant), after the date of such termination (but in no event later than the date of expiration of the term of such Option as set forth in the Option Agreement). To the extent that the Optionee was not entitled to exercise the Option at the date of such termination, or does not exercise such Option within the time specified herein, the Option shall terminate.
Termination of Consulting Relationship with Optionee
 
(c) . Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 9(b) above, in the event of termination of an Optionee's Continuous Status as a Consultant or Advisor as a result of total and permanent disability (i.e., the inability to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or which has lasted or can be expected to last for a continuous period of twelve (12) months), such Optionee may exercise stock options to the extent exercisable on the date of termination. Such exercise must occur within eighteen (18) months (or such shorter time as may be specified in the grant), after the date of such termination (but in no event later than the date of expiration of the term of such Option as set forth in the Option Agreement). To the extent that the Optionee was not entitled to exercise such Option within the time specified herein, the Option shall terminate.
Termination of Consulting Relationship Due to Disability of Optionee
 
(d) . Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 9(b) above, in the event of the death of an Optionee:
Death of Optionee
 
(i) who is at the time of death a consultant or advisor to the Company, the Option may be exercised, at any time within six (6) months following the date of death (but in no event later than the date of expiration of the term of such Option as set forth in the Option Agreement), by the Optionee's Personal Representative or by a person who acquired the right to exercise the Option by bequest or inheritance, but only to the extent of the right to exercise that had accrued as of the date of death; or
 
(ii) whose Option has not yet expired, but whose Continuous Status as a Consultant or Advisor terminated prior to the date of death, the Option may be exercised, at any time within six (6) months following the date of death (but in no event later than the date of expiration of the term of such Option as set forth in the Option Agreement), by the Optionee's Personal Representative or by a person who acquired the right to exercise the Option by bequest or inheritance, but only to the extent of the right to exercise that had accrued at the date of termination.
 
(e) Notwithstanding subsections (b), (c), and (d) above, the Board shall have the authority to extend the expiration date of any outstanding option in circumstances in which it deems such action to be appropriate (provided that no such extension shall extend the term of an option beyond the date on which the option would have expired if no termination of the Optionee's Continuous Status as a Consultant or Advisor had occurred).
 
10. . The Option may not be sold, pledged, assigned, hypothecated, transferred, or disposed of in any manner other than by will or by the laws of descent or distribution and may be exercised, during the lifetime of the Optionee, only by the Optionee.
Non-Transferability of Options
 
11. . If any change is made to the Shares by reason of any stock split, stock dividend, recapitalization, combination of shares, exchange of shares or other change affecting the outstanding Shares as a class without the Company's receipt of consideration, appropriate adjustments shall be made to (i) the maximum number and/or class of securities issuable under the Plan, and (ii) the number and/or class of securities and/or the price per share covered by outstanding Options under the Plan. The Board may also make adjustments described in (i)-(ii) of the previous sentence in the event of any distribution of assets to shareholders other than a normal cash dividend. In determining adjustments to be made under this Section 11, the Board may take into account such factors as it deems appropriate, including (i) the restrictions of applicable law, (ii) the potential tax consequences of an adjustment, and (iii) the possibility that some Optionees might receive an adjustment and a distribution or other unintended benefit, and in light of such factors or circumstances may make adjustments that are not uniform or proportionate among outstanding Options, modify vesting dates, defer the delivery of stock certificates or make other equitable adjustments. Any such adjustments to outstanding Options will be effected in a manner that precludes the enlargement of rights and benefits under such Options. Adjustments, if any, and any determinations or interpretations, including any determination of whether a distribution is other than a normal cash dividend, made by the Board shall be final, binding and conclusive. For purposes of this Section 11, conversion of any convertible securities of the Company shall not be deemed to have been effected "without receipt of consideration." Except as expressly provided herein, no issuance by the Company of shares of stock of any class, or securities convertible into shares of stock of any class, shall affect, and no adjustment by reasons thereof shall be made with respect to, the number or price of shares of Common Stock subject to an Option.
Adjustments Upon Changes in Capitalization or Merger
 
In the event of the proposed dissolution or liquidation of the Company, the Option will terminate immediately prior to the consummation of such proposed action, unless otherwise provided by the Board. The Board may, in the exercise of its sole discretion in such instances, declare that any Option shall terminate as of a date fixed by the Board and give each Optionee the right to exercise an Option as to all or any part of the Optioned Stock, including Shares as to which the Option would not otherwise be exercisable. In the event of a proposed sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company, or the merger of the Company with or into another corporation, the Option shall be assumed or an equivalent option shall be substituted
 
by such successor corporation or a parent or subsidiary of such successor corporation, unless such successor corporation does not agree to assume the Option or to substitute an equivalent option, in which case the Board shall, in lieu of such assumption or substitution, provide for the Optionee to have the right to exercise the Option as to all of the Optioned Stock, including Shares as to which the Option would not otherwise be exercisable. If the Board makes an Option fully exercisable in lieu of assumption or substitution in the event of a merger or sale of assets, the Board shall notify the Optionee that the Option shall be fully exercisable for a period of fifteen (15) days from the date of such notice, and the Option will terminate upon the expiration of such period.
 
12. . The date of grant of an Option shall, for all purposes, be the date on which the Board makes the determination granting such Option. Notice of the determination shall be given to each consultant or advisor to whom an Option is so granted within a reasonable time after the date of such grant.
Time of Granting Options
 
13. . The Board shall have the right to substitute or assume Options in connection with mergers, reorganizations, separations, or other transactions to which Section 424(a) of the Code applies, provided such substitutions and assumptions are permitted by Section 424 of the Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder. The number of Shares reserved pursuant to Section 3 may be increased by the corresponding number of Options assumed and, in the case of a substitution, by the net increase in the number of Shares subject to Options before and after the substitution.
Substitutions and Assumptions
 
14. .
Amendment and Termination of the Plan
 
(a) . The Board may amend or terminate the Plan from time to time in such respects as the Board may deem advisable.
Amendment and Termination
 
(b) . Except as otherwise provided in Sections 4 and 11, any such amendment or termination of the Plan shall not affect Options already granted and such Options shall remain in full force and effect as if this Plan had not been amended or terminated, unless mutually agreed otherwise between the Optionee and the Board, which agreement must be in writing and signed by the Optionee and the Company.
Effect of Amendment or Termination
 
15. . Shares shall not be issued pursuant to the exercise of an Option unless the exercise of such Option and the issuance and delivery of such shares pursuant to thereto shall comply with all relevant provisions of law, including, without limitation, the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, and the requirements of any stock exchange upon which the Shares may then be listed, and shall be further subject to the approval of counsel for the Company with respect to such compliance.
Conditions Upon Issuance of Shares
 
16. . The Company, during the term of this Plan, will at all times reserve and keep available such number of Shares as shall be sufficient to satisfy the requirements of the Plan.
Reservation of Shares
 
[The number of shares in Section 3 has been adjusted to reflect the 3-for-2 stock split in June 1992, the 2-for-1 stock splits in May 1994, November 1996, February 1998, March 1999 and February 2003, and the adjustments related to the special dividend payable December 2, 2004 to shareholders of record on November 17, 2004.]
 


