FILE:MSFT/MSFT-8K-20050111172556.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
 
On January 6, 2005, John G. Connors informed Microsoft Corporation management that he intended to retire from his position as Chief Financial Officer effective as of a date yet to be determined. A copy of the press release announcing Mr. Connors' decision is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
For Release 2 p.m. PST
Jan. 11, 2005
 
 
Microsoft Corp. today announced that John Connors, its chief financial officer (CFO), is retiring from the company to become a partner at a Seattle-area venture capital firm. The company plans to consider internal and external candidates to fill the CFO position. Connors, age 45, has been with Microsoft 16 years and has been the company's CFO for the last five years.
REDMOND, Wash.  Jan. 11, 2005 
 
"I will miss Microsoft a great deal, but it's time for me to move to a new chapter in my life," Connors said. "I'm looking forward to a greater emphasis on community and business participation in the Northwest."
 
"I want to thank John for his terrific contribution over the past 16 years and his participation in building a thriving set of businesses," said Steve Ballmer, Microsoft's CEO. "John has done an awesome job building a world-class finance organization for Microsoft and leaves behind him a very capable team."
 
Founded in 1975, Microsoft (Nasdaq "MSFT") is the worldwide leader in software, services and solutions that help people and businesses realize their full potential.
 
 
Microsoft is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corp. in the United States and/or other countries.
 
For more information, print and online media only:
 
Rapid Response Team, Waggener Edstrom, (503) 443-7070, rrt@wagged.com
 
For more information, financial analysts only:
 
Curt Anderson, Microsoft Investor Relations, (425) 706-3703
 
 
If you are interested in viewing additional information on Microsoft, please visit the Microsoft
Note to editors:
Web page at http://www.microsoft.com/presspass on Microsoft's corporate information pages. Web links, telephone numbers and titles were correct at time of publication, but may since have changed. For additional assistance, journalists and analysts may contact Microsoft's Rapid Response Team or other appropriate contacts listed at http://www.microsoft .com/presspass/contactpr.asp.


