FILE:MSFT/MSFT-8K-20060825171552.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
On August 22, 2006, Ann McLaughlin Korologos, a member of the Microsoft Board of Directors since 2000, informed the Company that she has decided to retire from the Board effective as of the 2006 annual meeting of shareholders, and therefore will not stand for re-election at the annual meeting. The Company issued a press release announcing Ms. Korologos' plans on August 25, 2006.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
For Immediate Release
Aug. 25, 2006
Microsoft Corp. today announced that Ann McLaughlin Korologos, chairman of the RAND Corp. board of trustees, has decided not to seek re-election to Microsoft's board of directors at the company's 2006 shareholder meeting.
REDMOND, Wash.  Aug. 25, 2006 
Korologos' decision was prompted by increasing demands on her time from other professional and personal commitments. She is completing her seventh year on the Microsoft board, having joined the group in January 2000.
"Ann has been an outstanding member of the Microsoft board," said Steve Ballmer, chief executive officer at Microsoft. "Her contributions and guidance have been invaluable, and we appreciate her seven years of service."
"I have thoroughly enjoyed my tenure on the board of this worldwide, highly respected company; however, new responsibilities and opportunities force me reluctantly not to seek re-election," Korologos said.
Other members of the Microsoft board of directors are Bill Gates, chairman of Microsoft; Ballmer; James I. Cash Jr., Ph.D., former James E. Robison professor at the Harvard Business School; Dina Dublon, former chief financial officer of JPMorgan Chase; Raymond V. Gilmartin, former chairman, president and chief executive officer of Merck & Co. Inc.; David F. Marquardt, general partner at August Capital; Charles H. Noski, former vice chairman of AT&T Corp.; Dr.
 
Helmut Panke, chairman of the board of management at BMW AG; and Jon Shirley, former president and chief operating officer of Microsoft.
Founded in 1975, Microsoft (Nasdaq "MSFT") is the worldwide leader in software, services and solutions that help people and businesses realize their full potential.
Microsoft is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corp. in the United States and/or other countries.
The names of actual companies and products mentioned herein may be the trademarks of their respective owners.
For more information, press only:
Rapid Response Team, Waggener Edstrom Worldwide, (503) 443-7070, rrt@waggeneredstrom.com
If you are interested in viewing additional information on Microsoft, please visit the Microsoft
Note to editors:
Web page at http://www.microsoft.com/presspass on Microsoft's corporate information pages. Web links, telephone numbers and titles were correct at time of publication, but may since have changed. For additional assistance, journalists and analysts may contact Microsoft's Rapid Response Team or other appropriate contacts listed at http://www.microsoft.com/presspass/contactpr.mspx.


