FILE:MSFT/MSFT-8K-20060717170356.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
On July 17, 2006, Microsoft Corporation ("the Company") issued a press release announcing that effective the first quarter of fiscal year 2007, it will report its businesses under five operating segments, reflecting completion of the previously announced changes in the Company's organizational structure, and how the Company will manage its business beginning in fiscal year 2007. Each of the five segments will be organized under one of the three operating divisions announced earlier in fiscal year 2006:
 
 
 
We are filing this Current Report on Form 8-K to provide the press release and certain other information to help investors better understand these changes.
The five operating segments are described below. The first three of these will compose the Microsoft Platforms and Services Division.
will include the former Client segment.
Client
will include the former Server and Tools segment, excluding the Exchange Server business and certain client access licenses (CALs) related to products residing in the Microsoft Business Division.
Server and Tools
will include the former MSN segment and Windows Live.
Online Services Group
will include the former Information Worker and Microsoft Business Solutions segments, as well as the Exchange Server business and certain CALs, formerly reported in the Server and Tools segment.
Microsoft Business Division
will include the former Home and Entertainment and Mobile and Embedded Devices segments.
Microsoft Entertainment and Devices Division
To assist readers of the Company's financial statements in analyzing these reporting changes and making comparisons of the Company's financial information, we are voluntarily furnishing a summary of historical financial information previously disclosed in the Management's Discussion and Analysis Section of our periodic reports, revised to reflect the new operating segment structure, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. This exhibit includes , as previously reported and preliminary tables for the four quarters and fiscal year of fiscal 2005, and the first three quarters of fiscal year 2006, based on the new operating segment structure. The preliminary information in Exhibit 99.1 represents management's calculations as of the date of this filing, and may change as final organizational changes may continue to take place in early fiscal year 2007.
Segment Product Revenue/Operating Income (Loss)
Segment Product Revenue/Operating Income (Loss)
In our annual report on Form 10-K for fiscal year 2006, the Company will report segment information using the seven operating segments that were in place for that period. The Company expects to include in its fiscal year 2006 Form 10-K a final analysis of both fiscal years 2005 and 2006 on a quarterly basis based on the new operating segment structure.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
Microsoft Corporation
Adjusted Segment Product Revenue/Operating Income (Loss) tables for the four quarters and fiscal year ended June 30, 2005, and the first three quarters of fiscal year 2006
(In millions)
 

Exhibit 99.2
Microsoft Corporation today announced upcoming changes in its financial reporting structure reflecting completion of previously announced organizational changes. Beginning in fiscal year 2007, the company will report its financial performance based on five operating segments: Client, Server and Tools, Online Services Group, Microsoft Business Division, and Microsoft Entertainment and Devices Division.
REDMOND, Wash.  July 17, 2006 
Today's news further aligns the company around three operating divisions  Microsoft Platforms and Services Division, Microsoft Business Division, and Microsoft Entertainment and Devices Division  previously created to achieve greater agility in managing future growth and execute on Microsoft's software-based services strategy.
The Microsoft Platforms and Services Division includes the operating segments of Client, Server and Tools, and the Online Services Group. The Online Services Group includes MSN as well as Windows Live. The company will continue to report results for each of these three segments, which is consistent with the way they are managed and reported within Microsoft.
The Microsoft Business Division includes the Information Worker and Microsoft Business Solutions businesses. These businesses have been merged and the financial results for these two businesses will be presented as one operating segment.
The Microsoft Entertainment and Devices Division includes the Home and Entertainment and Mobile and Embedded Devices businesses. These businesses have been merged and the financial results for these two businesses will be presented as one operating segment.
The company also previously announced the formation of the Unified Communications Group within the Microsoft Business Division, which includes the Exchange Server business. Financial results in fiscal year 2007 for the Exchange Server business, as well as certain client access licenses related to products residing in the Microsoft Business Division, will be included as part of the results in the Microsoft Business Division segment. Previously, the financial results for these products and licenses had been included in the Server and Tools segment.
The company will announce financial results for its fiscal fourth quarter on July 20, 2006 for the seven business segments under which the company operated in fiscal year 2006, and will provide fiscal year 2007 guidance under the new operating segment structure.
Financial Information
Financial segment information for the four quarters and the year for fiscal year 2005 and the first three quarters of fiscal year 2006, as if reported under the new operating segment structure, will be available in our 8-K filing on the company's Web site at .
www.microsoft.com/MSFT
Webcast Details
To assist investors in understanding the financial statement impacts of these changes and to answer questions regarding this announcement, Microsoft will hold an audio webcast
at 2:30 p.m. PDT (5:30 p.m. EDT) today with Chris Liddell, chief financial officer, and Frank Brod, corporate vice president and chief accounting officer. Earnings will be announced after market close on July 20, 2006 and discussion of fiscal fourth quarter results and fiscal year 2007 guidance will be deferred until that time.
The session may be accessed at . The webcast will be available for replay through the close of business on July 17, 2007.
http://www.microsoft.com/msft
About Microsoft
Founded in 1975, Microsoft (Nasdaq "MSFT") is the worldwide leader in software, services and solutions that help people and businesses realize their full potential.
Microsoft, MSN, and Windows Live are either registered trademarks or trademarks of Microsoft Corporation in the U.S. and/or other countries.
For more information, press only:
Rapid Response Team, Waggener Edstrom Worldwide, (503) 443-7070,
rrt@wagged.com
If you are interested in viewing additional information on Microsoft, please visit the Microsoft Web page at on Microsoft's corporate information pages. Web links, telephone numbers and titles were correct at time of publication, but may since have changed. Shareholder and financial information, as well as today's 2:30 p.m. PDT conference call with investors and analysts, is available at .
Note to editors:
http://www.microsoft.com/presspass/
http://www.microsoft.com/msft


