FILE:MSFT/MSFT-8K-20070326172113.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
(d) On March 26, 2007, Microsoft Corporation ("Microsoft") issued a press release to announce that the Microsoft Board of Directors has appointed Reed Hastings, age 46, to the Microsoft Board of Directors, effective immediately. Mr. Hastings is the chairman and CEO of Netflix, Inc., which he founded in 1997.
Mr. Hastings will serve on the finance committee of the Board. Mr. Hastings will receive the same compensation as other non-employee Microsoft directors, consisting of:
 
 
Mr. Hastings and Microsoft have entered into the standard Microsoft director indemnification agreement, whereby Microsoft agrees to indemnify, defend and hold its directors harmless from and against losses and expenses incurred as a result of their board service, subject to the terms and conditions provided in the agreement.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
For Immediate Release
March 26, 2007
Microsoft Corp. today announced that its board of directors has increased the size of the board from nine to 10 members and elected Reed Hastings, 46, chairman and CEO of Netflix Inc., to the board. Hastings has also been appointed to the finance committee. At the meeting, the board of directors also declared a quarterly dividend of $0.10 per share, payable June 14, 2007, to shareholders of record on May 17, 2007. The ex-dividend date will be May 15, 2007.
REDMOND, Wash.  March 26, 2007 
"Reed's track record for delivering innovative and disruptive technologies to market is very impressive," said Microsoft chairman Bill Gates. "With his rich consumer and technology background, he will be a tremendous addition to our board."
"There are very few companies that rival Microsoft's impact on the way millions of people live, work and play around the world," Hastings said. "I look forward to working with Microsoft's esteemed group of board members to help shape the direction of the company as it continues to tackle the biggest industry challenges and opportunities."
Hastings founded Netflix in 1997, and the company ended 2006 with 6.3 million subscribers, having more than doubled in size over the last two years.
Prior to founding Netflix, Hastings founded Pure Software, which he built into one of the
world's 50 largest public software companies. After a successful public offering and a number of acquisitions, Pure was acquired by Rational Software in 1997. An active community leader, Hastings has also been deeply involved in promoting education initiatives, and has served as president of the California State Board of Education.
He holds a bachelor's degree in mathematics from Bowdoin College and a master's degree in computer science from Stanford University. Hastings also served in the United States Peace Corps.
Microsoft's board of directors consists of William H. Gates, Microsoft chairman; Steven A. Ballmer, Microsoft chief executive officer; James I. Cash Jr., Ph.D., former James E. Robison professor of business administration at the Harvard Business School; Dina Dublon, former chief financial officer of JPMorgan Chase; Raymond V. Gilmartin, professor of management practice at Harvard Business School and former chairman, president and chief executive officer of Merck & Co. Inc.; David F. Marquardt, general partner at August Capital; Charles H. Noski, former vice chairman of AT&T Corp.; Dr. Helmut Panke, former chairman of the board of management at BMW AG; and Jon A. Shirley, former president and chief operating officer of Microsoft.
Founded in 1975, Microsoft (Nasdaq "MSFT") is the worldwide leader in software, services and solutions that help people and businesses realize their full potential.
Microsoft is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corp. in the United States and/or other countries.
The names of actual companies and products mentioned herein may be the trademarks of their respective owners.
For more information, financial analysts and investors only:
Colleen Healy, general manager, Investor Relations (425) 706-3703
For more information, press only:
Rapid Response Team, Waggener Edstrom Worldwide, (503) 443-7070, rrt@waggeneredstrom.com
 
For shareholder and financial information:
http://www.microsoft.com/msft
If you are interested in viewing additional information on Microsoft, please visit the Microsoft Web page at http://www.microsoft.com/presspass on Microsoft's corporate information pages. Web links, telephone numbers and titles were correct at time of publication, but may since have changed. For additional assistance, journalists and analysts may contact Microsoft's Rapid Response Team or other appropriate contacts listed at http://www.microsoft.com/presspass/contactpr.mspx.
Note to editors:


