FILE:MSFT/MSFT-8K-20090911165357.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Director Retirement
James I. Cash, Jr., Ph.D., who has served as a member of the Microsoft Board of Directors since 2001, has informed the Company that he has decided to retire from the Board in order to devote more time to other professional and personal commitments. Dr. Cash will not stand for re-election at the 2009 annual meeting of shareholders; therefore, his retirement will be effective on that date. The Company issued a press release announcing Dr. Cash's plans on September 11, 2009.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
For Release Noon PDT
Sept. 11, 2009
Microsoft Corp. today announced that James I. Cash Jr., Ph.D., emeritus James E. Robison professor at the Harvard Business School, has decided not to seek re-election to Microsoft's board of directors at the company's 2009 shareholder meeting.
REDMOND, Wash.  Sept. 11, 2009 
Cash, who joined the Microsoft board in May 2001, said that he has enjoyed working with his colleagues on the board, but was stepping down due to increasing pressure on his time from other professional and personal commitments.
"Jim has brought tremendous wisdom and judgment to our board, as well as keen insights into our enterprise business efforts based on his academic work at Harvard," said Steve Ballmer, Microsoft's chief executive officer. "We appreciate all of his contributions and we will certainly miss his leadership and perspective."
"This was a difficult decision. I have tremendous respect for my colleagues on the Microsoft board, and I have enjoyed the work we've done together over the past eight years," Cash said. "Microsoft has a tremendous innovation pipeline coming to market over the next two years, so the company is well-positioned for growth as the economy improves."
With Cash's departure, the Microsoft board will have nine members: Bill Gates, chairman of Microsoft; Steve Ballmer; Dina Dublon, former chief financial officer of JPMorgan
 
Chase; Raymond V. Gilmartin, former chairman, president and chief executive officer of Merck & Co. Inc.; Reed Hastings, founder, chairman and CEO of Netflix Inc.; Maria M. Klawe, president, Harvey Mudd College; David F. Marquardt, general partner at August Capital; Charles H. Noski, former vice chairman of AT&T Corp.; and Dr. Helmut Panke, former chairman of the board of management at BMW AG.
Founded in 1975, Microsoft (Nasdaq "MSFT") is the worldwide leader in software, services and solutions that help people and businesses realize their full potential.
For more information, financial analysts and investors only:
Bill Koefoed, general manager, Investor Relations, Microsoft, (425) 706-3703
For more information, press only:
Pete Wootton, Waggener Edstrom Worldwide, (503) 443-7000,
peterw@waggeneredstrom.com
Rapid Response Team, Waggener Edstrom Worldwide, (503) 443-7070,
rrt@waggeneredstrom.com
For shareholder and financial information:
http://www.microsoft.com/msft
If you are interested in viewing additional information on Microsoft, please visit the Microsoft Web page at on Microsoft's corporate information pages. Web links, telephone numbers and titles were correct at time of publication, but may since have changed. For additional assistance, journalists and analysts may contact Microsoft's Rapid Response Team or other appropriate contacts listed at .
Note to editors:
http://www.microsoft.com/presspass
http://www.microsoft.com/presspass/contactpr.mspx
 


