FILE:MSFT/MSFT-8K-20091023083229.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 23, 2009, Microsoft Corporation issued a press release announcing its financial results for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2009. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
Microsoft Corp. today announced revenue of $12.92 billion for the first quarter ended Sept. 30, 2009, a 14% decline from the same period of the prior year. Operating income, net income and diluted earnings per share for the quarter were $4.48 billion, $3.57 billion and $0.40 per share, which represented declines of 25%, 18% and 17%, respectively, when compared with the prior year period.
REDMOND, Wash.  Oct. 23, 2009 
These financial results reflect the deferral of $1.47 billion of revenue, an impact of $0.12 of diluted earnings per share, relating to the Windows 7 Upgrade Option program and sales of Windows 7 to OEMs and retailers before general availability. Adding back the deferred revenue, revenue totaled $14.39 billion, a 4% year-over-year decline, and EPS totaled $0.52 per share, an increase of 8% over the same period of the prior year.
"We are very pleased with our performance this quarter and particularly by the strong consumer demand for Windows," said Chris Liddell, chief financial officer at Microsoft. "We also maintained our cost discipline, which allowed us to drive strong earnings performance despite continued tough overall economic conditions."
Windows 7 and Windows Server 2008 R2 launched globally on Oct. 22 as anticipated. Also during October, Microsoft released Microsoft Exchange Server 2010 to manufacturing and in July announced a strategic partnership with Yahoo! Inc. to provide search results for their global properties.
"The worldwide launches of Windows 7, Exchange Server 2010 and Windows Server 2008 R2 are exciting milestones for Microsoft, our partners, and customers," said Kevin Turner, chief operating officer at Microsoft. "We are pleased by the early positive response we are receiving for these products."
Business Outlook
Microsoft is reducing operating expense guidance to $26.2 billion to $26.5 billion, for the full year ending June 30, 2010.
Management will discuss first-quarter results and the company's business outlook on a conference call and webcast at 7:30 a.m. PDT (10:30 a.m. EDT) today.
Webcast Details
Chris Liddell, senior vice president and chief financial officer, Frank Brod, corporate vice president and chief accounting officer, and Bill Koefoed, general manager of Investor Relations, will host a conference call and webcast at 7:30 a.m. PDT (10:30 a.m. EDT) today to discuss details of the company's performance for the quarter and certain forward-looking information. The session may be accessed at . The webcast will be available for replay through the close of business on Oct. 23, 2010.
http://www.microsoft.com/msft
Adjusted Financial Results  Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Measures
 
This information has been provided to aid readers of the financial statements in further understanding the company's financial performance. The impact of certain items and events on the financial results may not be indicative of trends affecting the company's business. For comparability of reporting, management considers this information in conjunction with GAAP amounts in evaluating business performance. The non-GAAP financial measures provided above should not be considered as a substitute for, or superior to, the measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP.
About Microsoft
Founded in 1975, Microsoft (Nasdaq "MSFT") is the worldwide leader in software, services and solutions that help people and businesses realize their full potential.
Forward-Looking Statements
Statements in this release that are "forward-looking statements" are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially because of factors such as:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For further information regarding risks and uncertainties associated with Microsoft's business, please refer to the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and "Risk Factors" sections of Microsoft's SEC filings, including, but not limited to, its annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, copies of which may be obtained by contacting Microsoft's Investor Relations department at (800) 285-7772 or at Microsoft's Investor Relations Web site at .
http://www.microsoft.com/msft
All information in this release is as of Oct. 23, 2009. The company undertakes no duty to update any forward-looking statement to conform the statement to actual results or changes in the company's expectations.
For more information, press only:
Rapid Response Team, Waggener Edstrom Worldwide, (503) 443-7070,
rrt@waggeneredstrom.com
For more information, financial analysts and investors only:
Bill Koefoed, general manager, Investor Relations, (425) 706-3703
If you are interested in viewing additional information on Microsoft, please visit the Microsoft Web page at on Microsoft's corporate information pages. Web links, telephone numbers and titles were correct at time of publication, but may since have changed. Shareholder and financial information, as well as today's 7:30 a.m. PDT conference call with investors and analysts is available at .
Note to editors:
http://www.microsoft.com/presspass
http://www.microsoft.com/msft
Microsoft Corporation
Income Statements
(In millions, except per share amounts) (Unaudited)
 
Microsoft Corporation
Balance Sheets
(In millions)
 
 
Microsoft Corporation
Cash Flows Statements
(In millions) (Unaudited)
 
Microsoft Corporation
Segment Revenue and Operating Income (Loss)
(In millions) (Unaudited)
 


