FILE:MSFT/MSFT-8K-20120119160503.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On January 19, 2012, Microsoft Corporation issued a press release announcing its financial results for the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2011. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
(d) Exhibits:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Microsoft Reports Record Revenue of $20.9 Billion in Second Quarter
Strong business demand and holiday sales drive record revenue and EPS.
Microsoft Corp. today announced quarterly revenue of $20.89 billion for the quarter ended Dec. 31, 2011, a 5% increase from the prior year period. Operating income, net income, and diluted earnings per share for the quarter were $7.99 billion, $6.62 billion, and $0.78 per share, compared with $8.17 billion, $6.63 billion and $0.77 per share, respectively, in the prior year period. Prior year results include recognition of $224 million of deferred revenue related to the Office 2010 technology guarantee program.
REDMOND, Wash.  Jan. 19, 2012 
"We delivered solid financial results, even as we prepare for a launch year that will accelerate many of our key products and services," said Steve Ballmer, chief executive officer at Microsoft. "Coming out of the Consumer Electronics Show, we're seeing very positive reviews for our new phones and PCs, and a strong response to our new Metro style design that will unify consumer experiences across our phones, PCs, tablets, and television in 2012."
The Microsoft Business Division reported $6.28 billion in second quarter revenue, a 3% increase from the prior year period, and a 7% increase excluding the prior year recognition of deferred revenue for the Office 2010 technology guarantee program. Nearly 200 million licenses of Office 2010 have been sold in the 18 months since launch. Revenue from Exchange and SharePoint grew by 10% or more over the prior year period, and revenue from Lync and Dynamics CRM grew by more than 30%.
The Server & Tools business posted $4.77 billion in second quarter revenue, an 11% increase from the prior year period, reflecting double-digit revenue growth in Windows Server and SQL Server premium editions and more than 20% growth in System Center revenue.
"We saw strong demand for our business products and services, despite the soft PC market and continuing economic uncertainty in key parts of the world," said Peter Klein, chief financial officer at Microsoft. "We delivered record earnings per share by continuing to manage our costs while investing for future growth."
The Windows and Windows Live Division posted revenue of $4.74 billion, a 6% decline from the prior period. Microsoft has sold over 525 million Windows 7 licenses since launch.
The Online Services Division reported revenue of $784 million, a 10% increase from the prior year period. Bing organic US market share grew to 15.1% while Bing-powered US market share, including Yahoo! properties, was approximately 27%.
The Entertainment & Devices Division posted revenue of $4.24 billion, an increase of 15% from the prior period. The Xbox 360 installed base now totals approximately 66 million consoles and 18 million Kinect sensors. Xbox LIVE now has 40 million members worldwide, an increase of 33% from the prior year period.
"In addition to the continued strength of our commercial business, this holiday season was the strongest in Microsoft history, thanks to good sales execution and compelling products like Xbox 360 and Kinect," said Kevin Turner, chief operating officer at Microsoft. "We are seeing a lot of excitement for new devices, from Windows 7 Ultrabooks to new Windows Phones, as well as growing anticipation for Windows 8."
Business Outlook
Microsoft is revising operating expense guidance downward to $28.5 billion to $28.9 billion for the full year ending June 30, 2012.
Webcast Details
Peter Klein, chief financial officer, Frank Brod, chief accounting officer, and Bill Koefoed, general manager of Investor Relations, will host a conference call and webcast at 2:30 p.m. PST (5:30 p.m. EST) today to discuss details of the company's performance for the quarter and certain forward-looking information. The session may be accessed at . The webcast will be available for replay through the close of business on Jan. 19, 2013.
http://www.microsoft.com/investor
About Microsoft
Founded in 1975, Microsoft (Nasdaq "MSFT") is the worldwide leader in software, services and solutions that help people and businesses realize their full potential.
Forward-Looking Statements
Statements in this release that are "forward-looking statements" are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially because of factors such as:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For further information regarding risks and uncertainties associated with Microsoft's business, please refer to the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and "Risk Factors" sections of Microsoft's SEC filings, including, but not limited to, its annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, copies of which may be obtained by contacting Microsoft's Investor Relations department at (800) 285-7772 or at Microsoft's Investor Relations website at .
http://www.microsoft.com/investor/
All information in this release is as of January 19, 2012. The company undertakes no duty to update any forward-looking statement to conform the statement to actual results or changes in the company's expectations.
For more information, press only:
Rapid Response Team, Waggener Edstrom Worldwide, (503) 443-7070,
rrt@waggeneredstrom.com
For more information, financial analysts and investors only:
Bill Koefoed, general manager, Investor Relations, (425) 706-3703
For more information, news and perspectives from Microsoft, please visit the Microsoft News Center at . Web links, telephone numbers and titles were correct at time of publication, but may since have changed. Shareholder and financial information, as well as today's 2:30 p.m. PST conference call with investors and analysts, is available at .
Note to editors:
http://www.microsoft.com/news/
http://www.microsoft.com/investor/
MICROSOFT CORPORATION
 
MICROSOFT CORPORATION
 
 
MICROSOFT CORPORATION
 
MICROSOFT CORPORATION
 


