FILE:AVB/AVB-8K-20041021210243.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On October 21, 2004, AvalonBay Communities, Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for the third quarter of 2004. That release referred to certain attachments with supplemental information that were available on the Company's website. The full text of the press release, including the supplemental information and attachments referred to within the release, are furnished as Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2 hereto.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 the registrant has duly caused this report to be filed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
For Immediate Release
reported today that Earnings per Share  diluted ("EPS") in the third quarter of 2004 declined from the same period of 2003, but Funds from Operations attributable to common stockholders  diluted ("FFO") per share, the primary supplemental metric by which REIT performance is measured, increased 7.5% in the third quarter 2004 as compared to the third quarter of 2003.
ALEXANDRIA, VA (October 21, 2004)  AvalonBay Communities, Inc. (NYSE/PCX: AVB)
Net Income Available to Common Stockholders for the quarter ended September 30, 2004 was $43,191,000, resulting in EPS of $0.60, compared to $0.79 for the comparable period of 2003, a per share decrease of 24.1%. The decline in EPS is due to reduced disposition activity in the third quarter 2004 as compared to the same period of 2003.
FFO for the quarter ended September 30, 2004 was $63,601,000, or $0.86 per share compared to $56,159,000, or $0.80 per share for the comparable period of 2003, a per share increase of 7.5%. The Company's FFO per share for the quarter is higher than the estimate of $0.80 to $0.84 provided in July 2004 due to better than expected community operating results, a gain on the sale of a land parcel previously held for development, and lower than expected interest expense.
Commenting on the Company's results, Bryce Blair, Chairman, CEO and President said, "Better than expected operating results for the third quarter 2004, combined with strong execution in all areas of our business, resulted in positive FFO per share growth, on a year-over-year basis, for the first time in nearly three years. These results and our positive outlook for the remainder of 2004 have allowed us to raise our financial outlook for the second time this year."
Highlights from the Company's third quarter Established Communities include:
Year-to-Date 2004 Financial Results
For the nine months ended September 30, 2004, EPS was $1.39 compared to $2.35 for the comparable period of 2003, a per share decrease of 40.9%. FFO per share for the nine months ended September 30, 2004 increased by 0.8% to $2.48 from $2.46 for the comparable period in 2003.
Operating Results for the Three and Nine Months Ended September 30, 2004
Total revenue for the third quarter 2004 increased by $10,859,000, or 6.9% to $168,261,000 from the third quarter 2003. Total revenue for the nine months ended September 30, 2004 increased by $15,496,000, or 3.3% to $491,459,000 as compared to the comparable period of 2003.
, rental revenue increased 0.5%, operating expenses increased 0.3%, and NOI increased 0.6% during the third quarter 2004 as compared to the third quarter 2003. For the nine months ended September 30, 2004, Established Communities rental revenue decreased 1.0%, operating expenses increased 1.1%, and NOI decreased 1.9% as compared to the comparable period of 2003.
For Established Communities
 
Sequentially, as compared to the second quarter 2004, Established Communities' rental revenue increased 0.6%, operating expenses increased 6.2% and NOI decreased 1.9%. Operating expenses increased sequentially due to seasonal trends in turnover that typically result in higher third quarter expenses and due to a $661,000 property tax refund recognized in the second quarter of 2004 but not in the third quarter of 2004. Excluding the impact of the property tax refund, operating expenses would have increased 4.2% and NOI would have decreased 1.1% sequentially as compared to the second quarter 2004.
Outlook
Market fundamentals continue to improve in many of the Company's markets, as Established Communities' Economic Occupancy remains above 95%, availability remains low, and cash concessions per move-in have declined. However, the Company is entering a season of slower leasing activity. Accordingly, the Company expects community operating performance to remain at current levels for the remainder of 2004.
As a result of higher than expected disposition gains, the receipt of an early prepayment premium described in the Full Release and better than previously expected operating performance, the Company has increased its range for projected EPS and Projected FFO per share for both the fourth quarter and full year 2004.
The Company expects EPS in the range of $0.67 to $0.70 for the fourth quarter of 2004, resulting in EPS of $2.06 to $2.09 for the full year 2004.
The Company expects Projected FFO per share (diluted) in the range of $0.85 to $0.88 for the fourth quarter of 2004 and $3.33 to $3.36 for the full year 2004.
Conference Call
The Company will hold a conference call on October 22, 2004 at 1:00 PM EDT to review and answer appropriate questions about these results and projections, the Full Release and Earnings Release Attachments described below, and related matters. The domestic number to call to participate is 1-877-510-2397. The international number to call to participate is 1-706-634-5877. The domestic number to hear a replay of this call is 1-800-642-1687, and the international number to hear a replay of this call is 1-706-645-9291  Access Code: 9815826.
A webcast of the conference call will also be available at http://www.avalonbay.com/earnings, and an on-line playback of the webcast will be available for at least 30 days following the call.
Earnings Release and Attachments
In addition to this release, the Company also publishes a complete discussion of its third quarter 2004 operating results ("the Full Release") and Earnings Release Attachments ("the Attachments") that provide detailed information regarding operating, development, redevelopment, disposition and acquisition activity. The Full Release and the Attachments are considered a part of this release and are available through the Company's website at http://www.avalonbay.com/earnings and via e-mail distribution. The ability to access the Full Release and the Attachments on the Company's website requires the Adobe Acrobat 6.0 Reader, which may be downloaded at the following website address: http://www.adobe.com/products/acrobat/readstep.html.
Definitions and Reconciliations
The following non-GAAP financial measures and other terms, as used in the text of this earnings release, are defined and further explained on Attachment 1, "Definitions and Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Financial Measures and Other Terms":
About AvalonBay Communities, Inc.
As of September 30, 2004, AvalonBay owned or held an ownership interest in 148 apartment communities containing 43,001 apartment homes in ten states and the District of Columbia, of which 13 communities were under construction and two communities were under reconstruction. AvalonBay is an equity REIT in the business of developing, redeveloping, acquiring and managing apartment communities in high barrier-to-entry markets of the United States. More information on AvalonBay may be found on AvalonBay's website at http://www.avalonbay.com.
Forward-Looking Statements
This release, including its attachment, contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. You can identify these forward-looking statements by the Company's use of words such as "expects," "plans," "estimates," "projects," "intends," "believes" and similar expressions that do not relate to historical matters. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements as a result of risks and
 
uncertainties, including possible changes in demand for apartment homes, the effects of economic conditions (including changes in interest and employment rates), the impact of competition and competitive pricing, delays in completing developments and lease-ups on schedule, changes in construction costs, the results of financing efforts, the timing and closing of planned dispositions and acquisitions under agreement, the effects of the Company's accounting policies and other matters detailed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2003 under the heading "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  Forward-Looking Statements."
The Company does not undertake a duty to update forward-looking statements, including its expected operating results for the fourth quarter or the full year 2004. The Company may, in its discretion, provide information in future public announcements regarding its outlook that may be of interest to the investment community. The format and extent of future outlooks may be different from the format and extent of the information contained in this release.
      
 
Attachment 1
This release, including this attachment, contains certain non-GAAP financial measures and other terms. The definition and calculation of these non-GAAP financial measures and other terms may differ from the definitions and methodologies used by other REITs and, accordingly, may not be comparable. The non-GAAP financial measures referred to below should not be considered an alternative to net income as an indication of our performance. In addition, these non-GAAP financial measures do not represent cash generated from operating activities in accordance with GAAP and therefore should not be considered as an alternative measure of liquidity or as indicative of cash available to fund cash needs.
is determined based on a definition adopted by the Board of Governors of the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts ("NAREIT"). FFO is calculated by the Company as net income or loss computed in accordance with GAAP, adjusted for gains or losses on sales of previously depreciated operating communities, extraordinary gains or losses (as defined by GAAP), cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle and depreciation of real estate assets, including adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures. Management generally considers FFO to be an appropriate supplemental measure of operating performance because, by excluding gains or losses related to dispositions of previously depreciated operating communities and excluding real estate depreciation (which can vary among owners of identical assets in similar condition based on historical cost accounting and useful life estimates), FFO can help one compare the operating performance of a company's real estate between periods or as compared to different companies. A reconciliation of FFO to net income is as follows (dollars in thousands):
FFO
, as provided within this release in the Company's outlook, is calculated on a consistent basis as historical FFO, and is therefore considered to be an appropriate supplemental measure to projected net income of projected operating performance. A reconciliation of the range provided for Projected FFO per share (diluted) for the fourth quarter and full year 2004 to the range provided for projected EPS (diluted) is as follows:
Projected FFO
 
Attachment 1 (continued)
are identified by the Company as communities where a comparison of operating results from the prior year to the current year is meaningful, as these communities were owned and had Stabilized Operations, as defined below, as of the beginning of the prior year. Therefore, for 2004, Established Communities are communities that have Stabilized Operations as of January 1, 2003 and are not conducting or planning to conduct substantial redevelopment activities within the current year. Established Communities do not include communities that are currently held for sale or planned for disposition during the current year. During the third quarter of 2004, the Company changed the classification of certain communities to reflect changes in the Company's disposition program. All amounts for Established Communities have been adjusted from amounts previously reported to reflect this new classification.
Established Communities
is defined as the earlier of (i) attainment of 95% physical occupancy or (ii) the one-year anniversary of completion of development.
Stabilized Operations
is defined by the Company as total revenue less direct property operating expenses (including property taxes), and excludes corporate-level property management and other indirect operating expenses, interest income and expense, general and administrative expense, joint venture income, minority interest and venture partner interest in profit-sharing, depreciation expense, gain on sale of real estate assets, impairment losses, cumulative effect of change in accounting principle and income from discontinued operations. The Company considers NOI to be an appropriate supplemental measure to net income of operating performance of a community or communities because it helps both investors and management to understand the core operations of a community or communities prior to the allocation of any corporate-level property management overhead or general and administrative costs. This is more reflective of the operating performance of a community, and allows for an easier comparison of the operating performance of single assets or groups of assets. In addition, because prospective buyers of real estate have different overhead structures, with varying marginal impact to overhead by acquiring real estate, NOI is considered by many in the real estate industry to be a useful measure for determining the value of a real estate asset or groups of assets.
NOI
A reconciliation of NOI (from continuing operations) to net income, as well as a breakdown of NOI by operating segment, is as follows (dollars in thousands):
 
Attachment 1 (continued)
NOI as reported by the Company does not include the operating results from discontinued operations (i.e., assets sold or held for sale as of September 30, 2004). A reconciliation of NOI from communities sold or held for sale to net income for these communities for the third quarter and year-to-date 2004 is as follows (dollars in thousands):
is defined as total possible revenue less vacancy loss as a percentage of total possible revenue. Total possible revenue is determined by valuing occupied units at contract rates and vacant units at Market Rents. Vacancy loss is determined by valuing vacant units at current Market Rents. By measuring vacant apartments at their Market Rents, Economic Occupancy takes into account the fact that apartment homes of different sizes and locations within a community have different economic impacts on a community's gross revenue.
Economic Occupancy
as reported by the Company are based on the current market rates set by the managers of the Company's communities based on their experience in renting their communities' apartments and publicly available market data. Trends in market rents for a region as reported by others could vary. Market Rents for a period are based on the average Market Rents during that period and do not reflect any impact for cash concessions.
Market Rents
reflects the sum of: (i) occupied apartment homes for which notice of move-out within the next 30 days has been given; and (ii) vacant apartment homes that are not pre-leased, as a percentage of total apartment homes in the Company's Established Communities portfolio.
30-Day Availability

 
Exhibit 99.2
For Immediate News Release October 21, 2004
reported today that Net Income Available to Common Stockholders for the quarter ended September 30, 2004 was $43,191,000, resulting in Earnings per Share  diluted ("EPS") of $0.60, compared to $0.79 for the comparable period of 2003, a per share decrease of 24.1%. For the nine months ended September 30, 2004, EPS was $1.39 compared to $2.35 for the comparable period of 2003, a per share decrease of 40.9%. These decreases are primarily attributable to reduced disposition activity from the historically high levels experienced in 2003. However, the Company's reported EPS for the quarter is higher than the estimate of $0.43 provided in July 2004 due to higher than anticipated gains on asset sales.
(Alexandria, VA) AvalonBay Communities, Inc. (NYSE/PCX: AVB)
Funds from Operations attributable to common stockholders  diluted ("FFO") for the quarter ended September 30, 2004 was $63,601,000, or $0.86 per share compared to $56,159,000, or $0.80 per share for the comparable period of 2003, a per share increase of 7.5%. FFO per share for the nine months ended September 30, 2004 increased by 0.8% to $2.48 from $2.46 for the comparable period in 2003. The Company's reported FFO per share for the quarter is higher than the estimate of $0.80 to $0.84 provided in July 2004 due to better than expected community operating results, the gain recognized on the sale of a land parcel previously held for development, and lower than expected interest expense.
Operating Results for the Quarter Ended September 30, 2004 Compared to the Prior Year Period
, including discontinued operations, total revenue increased by $10,859,000, or 6.9% to $168,261,000. , rental revenue increased 0.5%, due to an increase in Economic Occupancy of 2.2%, partially offset by a decline in rental rates of 1.7% between periods. Total revenue for Established Communities increased $532,000 to $110,616,000, and operating expenses increased $102,000, or 0.3%, to $36,652,000. Accordingly, Net Operating Income ("NOI") for Established Communities increased by $430,000 or 0.6%, to $73,964,000.
For the Company
For Established Communities
The following table reflects the percentage changes in rental revenue, operating expenses and NOI for Established Communities from the third quarter of 2003 to the third quarter of 2004:
Sequential Operating Results for the Quarter Ended September 30, 2004 Compared to the Quarter Ended June 30, 2004
The following table reflects the sequential percentage changes in rental revenue, operating expenses and NOI for Established Communities from the second quarter to the third quarter of 2004:
Due to trends in turnover, operating expenses are generally high during the third quarter of each year. The sequential increase in operating expenses, and the
 
resulting sequential decrease in NOI for Established Communities, reflects this seasonal trend, as well as the impact of a successful property tax appeal recognized in the operating results for the Northeast portfolio in the second quarter of 2004.
Operating Results for the Nine Months Ended September 30, 2004 Compared to the Prior Year Period
, including discontinued operations, total revenue increased by $15,496,000, or 3.3% to $491,459,000. , rental revenue decreased 1.0%, comprised of a rental rate decline of 2.3%, partially offset by an increase in Economic Occupancy of 1.3%. Total revenue for Established Communities decreased $3,155,000 to $329,307,000 and operating expenses increased $1,205,000, or 1.1%, to $106,282,000. Accordingly, NOI for Established Communities decreased by $4,360,000 or 1.9%, to $223,025,000.
For the Company
For Established Communities
The following table reflects the percentage changes in rental revenue, operating expenses and NOI for Established Communities for the nine months ended September 30, 2004 compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2003:
Established Communities Operating Statistics
As a result of continued improving occupancy, Established Community rental revenue for the third quarter of 2004 increased on a year-over-year basis, despite lower rental rates resulting from the continued impact of concessions. This increase represents the first year-over-year increase that the Company has experienced in its Established Community portfolio since 2001. In addition, the Company continued its trend of sequential increases in rental revenue from Established Communities with an increase from the second quarter of 2004 to the third quarter of 2004.
, as determined by the Company, averaged approximately $1,472 per home for the Established Community portfolio as a whole in the third quarter of 2004, increasing 1.1% as compared to
Market Rents
average Market Rents for the third quarter of 2003 and increasing 1.3% over average Market Rents for the second quarter of 2004.
was 96.1% during the third quarter of 2004, increasing 2.2% as compared to the third quarter of 2003 and increasing 1.0% as compared to the second quarter of 2004.
Economic Occupancy
are recognized on an accrual basis in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP") and are amortized over the approximate lease term, which is generally one year. For the third quarter of 2004, rental revenue with concessions on a cash basis increased 0.8% as compared to the third quarter of 2003 (versus an increase of 0.5% on a GAAP basis) and increased 0.1% as compared to the second quarter of 2004 (versus an increase of 0.6% on a GAAP basis).
Cash concessions
Concessions granted per move-in for Established Communities averaged $912 during the third quarter of 2004, an increase of 6.7% from $855 in the third quarter of 2003 and a decrease of 17.8% from $1,109 in the second quarter of 2004.
Acquisition and Disposition Activity
During the third quarter of 2004, the Company acquired two communities, Briarcliffe Lakeside Apartments, located in Chicago, IL and Essex Place, located in the greater Boston metropolitan area. Briarcliffe Lakeside is a garden-style community containing 204 apartment homes and was acquired for an acquisition price of $14,200,000, which includes the assumption of $8,155,000 of fixed rate mortgage debt. Essex Place is a garden-style community containing 286 apartment homes and was acquired for an acquisition price of $23,301,000. Essex Place was acquired subject to a pre-existing purchase option entered into by the Company in 1998 at the same time as the acquisition, from the same seller, of an adjacent land parcel on which a community was subsequently developed and is still owned by the Company.
The Company sold one community, Avalon at Fox Mill, located in the greater Washington, DC metropolitan area, during the third quarter of 2004. This community, which contained 165 apartment homes, was sold for a sales price of $38,500,000. The sale of this community resulted in a gain as reported in accordance with GAAP of $21,624,000 and an Economic Gain of $18,720,000. The Initial Year Market Cap Rate related to this community was 4.6%. In addition, the Company sold a land parcel in Washington, DC, as well as certain transferable development rights acquired with an adjacent parcel of land on which a current operating community was developed, for a gross sales price of $9,927,000. The sale of the land parcel and transferable development rights resulted in an aggregate GAAP gain of $1,138,000.
 
Development Activity
The Company completed one development community during the third quarter of 2004. Avalon at Grosvenor Station, located in the greater Washington, DC area, is a garden-style community containing 497 apartment homes and was completed for a Total Capital Cost of $79,000,000.
In addition, during the third quarter of 2004, the Company commenced redevelopment on Avalon Towers located in Long Island, NY. This community, acquired by the Company in 1995, contains 109 apartment homes and, if redeveloped as expected, will be completed for a Total Capital Cost of $21,500,000 (of which $17,300,000 was incurred prior to redevelopment).
Financing, Liquidity and Balance Sheet Statistics
As of September 30, 2004, the Company had $200,000,000 outstanding under its $500,000,000 unsecured credit facility. Leverage, calculated as total debt as a percentage of Total Market Capitalization, was 36.2% at September 30, 2004. Unencumbered NOI for the nine months ended September 30, 2004 was approximately 81% and Interest Coverage for the third quarter of 2004 was 2.8 times.
Outlook
Market fundamentals continue to improve in many of the Company's markets, as Established Communities' Economic Occupancy remains above 95%, availability remains low, and cash concessions per move-in have declined. However, the Company is entering a season of slower leasing activity. Accordingly, the Company expects community operating performance to remain at current levels for the remainder of 2004.
In addition, on October 15, 2004, the Company received payment in full of an outstanding mortgage loan due from the partnership that owns Avalon Arbor, a 302 apartment home community in Shrewsbury, MA. The mortgage loan was repaid prior to its scheduled maturity, and therefore an early prepayment premium, net of related legal costs, of approximately $1,240,000, was received and will be reflected in net income and FFO during the fourth quarter of 2004.
As a result of higher than expected disposition gains, the receipt of the prepayment premium described above and better than previously expected operating performance, the Company has increased its range for projected EPS and Projected FFO per share for both the fourth quarter and full year 2004.
The Company expects EPS in the range of $0.67 to $0.70 for the fourth quarter of 2004, resulting in EPS of $2.06 to $2.09 for the full year 2004.
The Company expects Projected FFO per share in the range of $0.85 to $0.88 for the fourth quarter of 2004 and $3.33 to $3.36 for the full year 2004.
Other Matters
The Company will hold a conference call on October 22, 2004 at 1 PM EDT to review and answer appropriate questions about these results and projections, the earnings release attachments described below and related matters. The domestic number to call to participate is 1-877-510-2397. The international number to call to participate is 1-706-634-5877. The domestic number to hear a replay of this call is 1-800-642-1687 and the international number to hear a replay of this call is 1-706-645-9291  Access Code: 9815826.
A webcast of the conference call will also be available at http://www.avalonbay.com/earnings, and an on-line playback of the webcast will be available for at least 30 days following the call.
The Company produces Earnings Release Attachments (the "Attachments") that provide detailed information regarding operating, development, redevelopment, disposition and acquisition activity. These Attachments are considered a part of this earnings release and are available in full with this earnings release via the Company's website and through e-mail distribution. The full earnings release including the Attachments is available at http://www.avalonbay.com/earnings. To receive future press releases via e-mail, please register through the Investor Relations section of the website at http://www.avalonbay.com/Template.cfm?Section=Subscribe. Some items referenced in the earnings release may require the Adobe Acrobat 6.0 Reader. If you do not have the Adobe Acrobat 6.0 Reader, you may download it at the following website address:
http://www.adobe.com/products/acrobat/readstep.html.
Definitions and Reconciliations
The following non-GAAP financial measures and other terms, as used in the text of this earnings release, are defined and further explained on Attachment 13, "Definitions and Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Financial Measures and Other Terms":
 
About AvalonBay Communities, Inc.
As of September 30, 2004, AvalonBay owned or held an ownership interest in 148 apartment communities containing 43,001 apartment homes in ten states and the District of Columbia, of which thirteen communities were under construction and two communities were under reconstruction. AvalonBay is an equity REIT in the business of developing, redeveloping, acquiring and managing apartment communities in high barrier-to-entry markets of the United States. More information on AvalonBay may be found on AvalonBay's website at http://www.avalonbay.com. For additional information, please contact Bryce Blair, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President, at (703) 317-4652 or Thomas J. Sargeant, Chief Financial Officer, at (703) 317-4635.
Forward-Looking Statements
This release, including its Attachments, contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. You can identify these forward-looking statements by the Company's use of words such as "expects," "plans," "estimates," "projects," "intends," "believes" and similar expressions that do not relate to historical matters. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by the
forward-looking statements as a result of risks and uncertainties, including possible changes in demand for apartment homes, the effects of economic conditions (including changes in interest and employment rates), the impact of competition and competitive pricing, delays in completing developments and lease-ups on schedule, changes in construction costs, the results of financing efforts, the timing and closing of planned dispositions and acquisitions under agreement, the effects of the Company's accounting policies and other matters detailed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2003 under the heading "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  Forward-Looking Statements."
The Company does not undertake a duty to update forward-looking statements, including its expected operating results for the fourth quarter or the full year 2004. The Company may, in its discretion, provide information in future public announcements regarding its outlook that may be of interest to the investment community. The format and extent of future outlooks may be different from the format and extent of the information contained in this release.
 
 
The following is a "Safe Harbor" Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The projections and estimates contained in the attachments referred to above are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, and actual results may differ materially from those projected in such statements. Risks associated with the Company's development, redevelopment, construction, and lease-up activities, which could impact the forward-looking statements made, include: development opportunities may be abandoned; Total Capital Cost of a community may exceed original estimates, possibly making the community uneconomical and/or affecting projected returns; construction and lease-up may not be completed on schedule, resulting in increased debt service and construction costs; and other risks described in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2003.
 
Attachment 1
 
Attachment 2
 
Attachment 3
 
Attachment 4
 
Attachment 5
 
Attachment 6
 
Attachment 7
 
Attachment 8
 
Attachment 9
 
Attachment 10
This chart contains forward-looking statements. Please see the paragraph regarding forward-looking statements on the Table of Contents page relating to the Company's Supplemental Operating and Financial Data for the third quarter of 2004.
 
Attachment 11
This chart contains forward-looking statements. Please see the paragraph regarding forward-looking statements on the Table of Contents page relating to the Company's Supplemental Operating and Financial Data for the third quarter of 2004.
 
Attachment 12
 
Attachment 13
This release, including its attachments, contains certain non-GAAP financial measures and other terms. The definition and calculation of these non-GAAP financial measures and other terms may differ from the definitions and methodologies used by other REITs and, accordingly, may not be comparable. The non-GAAP financial measures referred to below should not be considered an alternative to net income as an indication of our performance. In addition, these non-GAAP financial measures do not represent cash generated from operating activities in accordance with GAAP and therefore should not be considered as an alternative measure of liquidity or as indicative of cash available to fund cash needs.
is determined based on a definition adopted by the Board of Governors of the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts ("NAREIT"). FFO is calculated by the Company as net income or loss computed in accordance with GAAP, adjusted for gains or losses on sales of previously depreciated operating communities, extraordinary gains or losses (as defined by GAAP), cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle and depreciation of real estate assets, including adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures. Management generally considers FFO to be an appropriate supplemental measure of operating performance because, by excluding gains or losses related to dispositions of previously depreciated operating communities and excluding real estate depreciation (which can vary among owners of identical assets in similar condition based on historical cost accounting and useful life estimates), FFO can help one compare the operating performance of a company's real estate between periods or as compared to different companies. A reconciliation of FFO to net income is as follows (dollars in thousands):
FFO
, as provided within this release in the Company's outlook, is calculated on a consistent basis as historical FFO, and is therefore considered to be an appropriate supplemental measure to projected net income of projected operating performance. A reconciliation of the range provided for Projected FFO per share (diluted) for the fourth quarter and full year 2004 to the range provided for projected EPS (diluted) is as follows:
Projected FFO
 
Attachment 13 (continued)
are identified by the Company as communities where a comparison of operating results from the prior year to the current year is meaningful, as these communities were owned and had Stabilized Operations, as defined below, as of the beginning of the prior year. Therefore, for 2004, Established Communities are communities that have Stabilized Operations as of January 1, 2003 and are not conducting or planning to conduct substantial redevelopment activities within the current year. Established Communities do not include communities that are currently held for sale or planned for disposition during the current year. During the third quarter of 2004, the Company changed the classification of certain communities to reflect changes in the Company's disposition program. All amounts for Established Communities have been adjusted from amounts previously reported to reflect this new classification.
Established Communities
is defined by the Company as total revenue less direct property operating expenses (including property taxes), and excludes corporate-level property management and other indirect operating expenses, interest income and expense, general and administrative expense, joint venture income, minority interest and venture partner interest in profit-sharing, depreciation expense, gain on sale of real estate assets, impairment losses, cumulative effect of change in accounting principle and income from discontinued operations. The Company considers NOI to be an appropriate supplemental measure to net income of operating performance of a community or communities because it helps both investors and management to understand the core operations of a community or communities prior to the allocation of any corporate-level property management overhead or general and administrative costs. This is more reflective of the operating performance of a community, and allows for an easier comparison of the operating performance of single assets or groups of assets. In addition, because prospective buyers of real estate have different overhead structures, with varying marginal impact to overhead by acquiring real estate, NOI is considered by many in the real estate industry to be a useful measure for determining the value of a real estate asset or groups of assets.
NOI
A reconciliation of NOI (from continuing operations) to net income, as well as a breakdown of NOI by operating segment, is as follows (dollars in thousands):
 
Attachment 13 (continued)
NOI as reported by the Company does not include the operating results from discontinued operations (i.e., assets sold or held for sale as of September 30, 2004). A reconciliation of NOI from communities sold or held for sale to net income for these communities for the third quarter and year-to-date 2004 is as follows (dollars in thousands):
, as used within this release for certain Development and Redevelopment Communities and in calculating the Initial Year Market Cap Rate for dispositions, represents management's estimate, as of the date of this release, of projected stabilized rental revenue minus projected stabilized operating expenses. For Development and Redevelopment Communities, Projected NOI is calculated based on the first year of Stabilized Operations, as defined below, following the completion of construction. In calculating the Initial Year Market Cap Rate, Projected NOI for dispositions is calculated for the first twelve months following the date of the buyer's valuation. Projected stabilized rental revenue represents management's estimate of projected gross potential (based on leased rents for occupied homes and Market Rents, as defined below, for vacant homes) minus projected economic vacancy and adjusted for concessions. Projected stabilized operating expenses do not include interest, income taxes (if any), depreciation or amortization, or any allocation of corporate-level property management overhead or general and administrative costs. The weighted average Projected NOI as a percentage of Total Capital Cost is weighted based on the Company's share of the Total Capital Cost of each community, based on its percentage ownership.
Projected NOI
In this release the Company has not given a projection of NOI on a company-wide basis. Management believes that Projected NOI of the development and redevelopment communities, on an aggregated weighted average basis, assists investors in understanding management's estimate of the likely impact on operations of the Development and Redevelopment Communities (before allocation of any corporate-level property management overhead, general and administrative costs or interest expense) when they are complete and achieve stabilized occupancy. Given the different dates and fiscal years at which stabilization is projected for these communities, the projected allocation of corporate-level property management overhead, general and administrative costs and interest expense to communities under development or redevelopment is complex, impractical to develop, and of uncertain meaningfulness. Projected NOI of these communities is not a projection of the Company's financial performance or cash flow. There can be no assurance that the communities under development or redevelopment will achieve the Projected NOI used in the calculation of weighted average Projected NOI to Total Capital Cost.
as reported by the Company are based on the current market rates set by the managers of the Company's communities based on their experience in renting their communities' apartments and publicly available market data. Trends in market rents for a region as reported by others could vary. Market Rents for a period are based on the average Market Rents during that period and do not reflect any impact for cash concessions.
Market Rents
is defined as total possible revenue less vacancy loss as a percentage of total possible revenue. Total possible revenue is determined by valuing occupied units at contract rates and vacant units at Market Rents. Vacancy loss is determined by valuing vacant units at current Market Rents. By measuring vacant apartments at their Market Rents, Economic Occupancy takes into account the fact that apartment homes of different sizes and locations within a community have different economic impacts on a community's gross revenue.
Economic Occupancy
 
Attachment 13 (continued)
is considered by the Company to be a supplemental measure to rental revenue in conformity with GAAP in helping investors to evaluate the impact of both current and historical concessions on GAAP based rental revenue and to more readily enable comparisons to revenue as reported by other companies. In addition, rental revenue (with concessions on a cash basis) allows an investor to understand the historical trend in cash concessions, which is an indicator of current rental market conditions. A reconciliation of rental revenue from Established Communities in conformity with GAAP to rental revenue (with concessions on a cash basis) is as follows (dollars in thousands):
Rental revenue (with concessions on a cash basis)
is calculated by the Company as the gain on sale in accordance with GAAP, less accumulated depreciation through the date of sale and any other non-cash adjustments that may be required under GAAP accounting. Management generally considers Economic Gain to be an appropriate supplemental measure to gain on sale in accordance with GAAP because it helps investors to understand the relationship between the cash proceeds from a sale and the cash invested in the sold community. The Economic Gain for each of the communities presented is estimated based on their respective final settlement statements. A reconciliation of Economic Gain to gain on sale in accordance with GAAP is presented on Attachment 12.
Economic Gain
is defined by the Company as Projected NOI of a single community for the first 12 months following the date of the buyer's valuation, less estimates for non-routine allowance of approximately $225  $300 per apartment home, divided by the gross sales price for the community. For this purpose, management's projection of stabilized operating expenses for the community includes a management fee of approximately 2.5% - 3.5%. The Initial Year Market Cap Rate, which may be determined in a different manner by others, is a measure frequently used in the real estate industry when determining the appropriate purchase price for a property or estimating the value for the property. Buyers may assign different Initial Year Market Cap Rates to different communities when determining the appropriate value because they (i) may project different rates of change in operating expenses, including capital expenditure estimates and (ii) may project different rates of change in future rental revenue due to different estimates for changes in rent and occupancy levels. The weighted average Initial Year Market Cap Rate is weighted based on the gross sales price of each community.
Initial Year Market Cap Rate
includes all capitalized costs projected to be or actually incurred to develop the respective Development or Redevelopment Community, or Development Right, including land acquisition costs, construction costs, real estate taxes, capitalized interest and loan fees, permits, professional fees, allocated development overhead and other regulatory fees, all as determined in accordance with GAAP. With respect to communities where development or redevelopment was completed in a prior or the current period, Total Capital Cost reflects the actual cost incurred, plus any contingency estimate made by management. Total Capital Cost for communities identified as having joint venture ownership, either during construction or upon construction completion, represents the total projected joint venture contribution amount.
Total Capital Cost
 
Attachment 13 (continued)
is calculated by the Company as total debt as a percentage of Total Market Capitalization. Total Market Capitalization represents the aggregate of the market value of the Company's common stock, the market value of the Company's operating partnership units outstanding (based on the market value of the Company's common stock), the liquidation preference of the Company's preferred stock and the outstanding principal balance of the Company's debt. Management believes that Leverage can be one useful measure of a real estate operating company's long-term liquidity and balance sheet strength, because it shows an approximate relationship between a company's total debt and the current total market value of its assets based on the current price at which the company's common stock trades. Changes in Leverage also can influence changes in per share results. A calculation of Leverage as of September 30, 2004 is as follows (dollars in thousands):
Leverage
Because Leverage changes with fluctuations in the Company's stock price, which occurs regularly, the Company's Leverage may change even when the Company's earnings, interest and debt levels remain stable. Investors should also note that the net value of the Company's assets in liquidation is not easily determinable and may differ substantially from the Company's Total Market Capitalization.
as calculated by the Company represents NOI generated by real estate assets unencumbered by outstanding secured debt as a percentage of total NOI generated by real estate assets. The Company believes that current and prospective unsecured creditors of the Company view Unencumbered NOI as one indication of the borrowing capacity of the Company. Therefore, when reviewed together with the Company's Interest Coverage, EBITDA and cash flow from operations, Unencumbered NOI is a useful supplemental measure for determining the financial flexibility of an entity. A calculation of Unencumbered NOI for the nine months ended September 30, 2004 is as follows (dollars in thousands):
Unencumbered NOI
is calculated by the Company as EBITDA from continuing operations divided by the sum of interest expense and preferred dividends net of interest income. Interest Coverage is presented by the Company because it provides rating agencies and investors an additional means of comparing our liquidity to that of other companies. EBITDA is defined by the Company as net income before interest income and expense, income taxes, depreciation and amortization. Under this definition, which complies with the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, EBITDA includes gains on sale of assets and gain on sale of partnership interests.
Interest Coverage
 
Attachment 13 (continued)
A reconciliation of EBITDA and a calculation of Interest Coverage for the third quarter of 2004 are as follows (dollars in thousands):
In the calculations of EBITDA above, EBITDA from discontinued operations includes $22,762 in gain on sale of communities.
represents capital expenditures that will not directly result in revenue earnings or expense savings.
Non-Revenue Generating Capex
is defined as the earlier of (i) attainment of 95% physical occupancy or (ii) the one-year anniversary of completion of development or redevelopment.
Stabilized/Restabilized Operations
, as calculated for certain Development and Redevelopment Communities in lease-up, reflects (i) actual average leased rents for those apartments leased through the end of the quarter net of estimated stabilized concessions, (ii) estimated market rents net of comparable concessions for all unleased apartments and (iii) includes actual and estimated other rental revenue. For Development and Redevelopment Communities not yet in lease-up, Average Rent per Home reflects management's projected rents, including concessions equal to one-half month rent.
Average Rent per Home
on sold communities refers to the internal rate of return calculated by the Company considering the timing and amounts of (i) total revenue during the period owned by the Company and (ii) the gross sales price net of selling costs, offset by (iii) the undepreciated capital cost of the communities at the time of sale and (iv) total direct operating expenses during the period owned by the Company. Each of the items (i), (ii), (iii) and (iv) are calculated in accordance with GAAP.
Unleveraged IRR
The calculation of Unleveraged IRR does not include an adjustment for the Company's general and administrative expense, interest expense, or corporate-level property management and other indirect operating expenses. Therefore, Unleveraged IRR is not a substitute for net income as a measure of our performance. Management believes that the Unleveraged IRR achieved during the period a community is owned by the Company is useful because it is one indication of the gross value created by the Company's acquisition, development or redevelopment, management and sale of the community, before the impact of indirect expenses and Company overhead. The Unleveraged IRR achieved on the communities as cited in this release should not be viewed as an indication of the gross value created with respect to other communities owned by the Company, and the Company does not represent that it will achieve similar Unleveraged IRRs upon the disposition of other communities. The weighted average Unleveraged IRR is weighted based on the gross sales price of each community.


