FILE:AVB/AVB-8K-20040122111728.txt.gz
EVENTS:	
TEXT:
ITEM: 
 
 
Item 12.   Quarterly Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On January 21, 2004, AvalonBay Communities, Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for the fourth quarter and full year of 2003. That release referred to certain attachments with supplemental information that were available on the Company's website. The full text of the press release, including the supplemental information and attachments referred to within the release, are furnished as Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2 hereto and are incorporated by reference herein.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be filed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
For Immediate Release
reported today its fourth quarter and full year 2003 operating results. Highlights follow:
ALEXANDRIA, VA (January 21, 2004)  AvalonBay Communities, Inc. (NYSE/PCX: AVB)
 
Earnings Release and Attachments
In addition to this release, the Company also publishes a complete discussion of its fourth quarter and full year 2003 operating results ("the Full Release") and Earnings Release Attachments ("the Attachments") that provide detailed information regarding operating, development, redevelopment, disposition and acquisition activity. The Full Release also includes information regarding dates and webcasts of future investor presentations. The Full Release and the Attachments are considered a part of this release and are available through the Company's website at and via e-mail distribution. The ability to access the Full Release and the Attachments on the Company's website requires the Adobe Acrobat 5.0 Reader, which may be downloaded at
http://www.avalonbay.com/earnings
http://www.adobe.com/products/acrobat/readstep.html.
Conference Call and Webcast
The Company will hold a conference call on January 22, 2004 at 1:00 PM Eastern Standard Time (EST) to review and answer appropriate questions about these results and projections, the Full Release and Attachments described above, and related matters. The domestic number to call to participate is 1-877-510-2397, and the international number to participate is 1-706-634-5877. The domestic number to hear a replay of this call is 1-800-642-1687, and the international number to hear a replay of this call is 1-706-645-9291  Access Code: 4573066. A live webcast and an on-line playback of the conference call will also be available on the Company's website at .
http://www.avalonbay.com/earnings
Definitions and Reconciliations
The following Non-GAAP financial measures and other terms, as used within the text of this release, are defined and further explained on Attachment 1, "Definitions and Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Financial Measures and Other Terms":
 
About AvalonBay Communities, Inc.
AvalonBay Communities, Inc., headquartered in Alexandria, Virginia, currently owns or holds an ownership interest in 142 apartment communities containing 41,997 apartment homes in ten states and the District of Columbia, of which eleven communities are under construction and two communities are under reconstruction. AvalonBay is in the business of developing, redeveloping, acquiring and managing apartment communities in high barrier-to-entry markets of the United States. More information on AvalonBay may be found on AvalonBay's Web Site at .
http://www.avalonbay.com
Forward-Looking Statements
This release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. You can identify these forward-looking statements by the Company's use of the words "expects," "plans," "estimates," "projects," "intends," "believes" and similar expressions that do not relate to historical matters. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements as a result of risks and uncertainties, including possible changes in demand for apartment homes, the effects of economic conditions (including interest rates), the impact of competition and competitive pricing, delays in completing developments and lease-ups on schedule, changes in construction costs, the results of financing efforts, the timing and closing of planned dispositions under agreement, the effects of the Company's accounting policies and other matters detailed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K/A for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2002 under the heading "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  Forward-Looking Statements."
The Company does not undertake a duty to update forward-looking statements, including its expected operating results for the first quarter or full year 2004. The Company may, in its discretion, provide information in future public announcements regarding its outlook that may be of interest to the investment community. The format and extent of future outlooks may be different from the format and extent of the information contained in this release.
 
Attachment 1
This release, including its attachments, contains certain non-GAAP financial measures and other terms. The definition and calculation of these non-GAAP financial measures and other terms may differ from the definitions and methodologies used by other REITs and, accordingly, may not be comparable. The non-GAAP financial measures referred to below should not be considered an alternative to net income as an indication of our performance. In addition, these non-GAAP financial measures do not represent cash generated from operating activities in accordance with GAAP and therefore should not be considered as an alternative measure of liquidity or as indicative of cash available to fund cash needs.
is determined based on a definition adopted by the Board of Governors of the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts ("NAREIT"). FFO is calculated by the Company as net income or loss computed in accordance with GAAP, adjusted for gains or losses on sales of property, extraordinary gains or losses (as defined by GAAP) and depreciation of real estate assets, including adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures. Effective January 1, 2003, the Company no longer adds back impairment losses when calculating FFO pursuant to NAREIT's clarified FFO definition. As a result, FFO for both the quarter and the year ended December 31, 2002 have been reduced from amounts previously reported to reflect $6,800,000 or $0.10 per share (diluted) of asset impairment losses recognized in the fourth quarter of 2002. Management generally considers FFO to be an appropriate supplemental measure of operating performance because, by excluding gains or losses related to dispositions of property and excluding real estate depreciation (which can vary among owners of identical assets in similar condition based on historical cost accounting and useful life estimates), FFO can help one compare the operating performance of a company's real estate between periods or as compared to different companies. A reconciliation of FFO to net income is as follows (dollars in thousands):
FFO
 
as provided within this release in the Company's outlook for 2004, is calculated on a consistent basis as historical FFO, and is therefore considered to be an appropriate supplemental measure to projected net income of projected operating performance. A reconciliation of the range provided for Projected FFO per share (diluted) for the first quarter and full year 2004 to the range provided for projected EPS (diluted) is as follows:
Projected FFO,
 
Attachment 1 (continued)
are identified by the Company as communities where a comparison of operating results from the prior year to the current year is meaningful, as these communities were owned and had Stabilized Operations, as defined below, as of the beginning of the prior year. Therefore, for 2003, Established Communities are communities that have Stabilized Operations as of January 1, 2002 and are not conducting or planning to conduct substantial redevelopment activities within the current year. Established Communities do not include communities that are currently held for sale or planned for disposition during the current year.
Established Communities
is defined as the earlier of (i) attainment of 95% physical occupancy or (ii) the one-year anniversary of completion of development.
Stabilized Operations
is defined by the Company as total revenue less direct property operating expenses (including property taxes), and excludes corporate-level property management and other indirect operating expenses, interest income and expense, general and administrative expense, joint venture income, minority interest and venture partner interest in profit-sharing, depreciation expense, gain on sale of communities, impairment losses and income from discontinued operations. The Company considers NOI to be an appropriate supplemental measure to net income of operating performance of a community or communities because it helps both investors and management to understand the core operations of a community or communities prior to the allocation of any corporate-level property management overhead or general and administrative costs. This is more reflective of the operating performance of a community, and allows for an easier comparison of the operating performance of single assets or groups of assets. In addition, because prospective buyers of real estate have different overhead structures, with varying marginal impact to overhead by acquiring real estate, NOI is considered by many in the real estate industry to be a useful measure for determining the value of a real estate asset or groups of assets.
NOI
A reconciliation of NOI (from continuing operations) to net income, as well as a breakdown of NOI by operating segment, is as follows (dollars in thousands):
 
Attachment 1 (continued)
is calculated by the Company as the gain on sale in accordance with GAAP, less accumulated depreciation through the date of sale and any other non-cash adjustments that may be required under GAAP accounting. Management generally considers Economic Gain to be an appropriate supplemental measure to gain on sale in accordance with GAAP because it helps investors to understand the relationship between the cash proceeds from a sale and the cash invested in the sold community. The Economic Gain for each of the communities presented is estimated based on their respective final settlement statements. A reconciliation of Economic Gain to gain on sale in accordance with GAAP is included in the table below (dollars in thousands):
Economic Gain
is defined by the Company as Projected NOI of a single community for the first 12 months following the date of the buyer's valuation, less estimates for non-routine allowance of approximately $225 - $300 per apartment home, divided by the gross sales price for the community. For this purpose, management's projection of stabilized operating expenses for the community includes a management fee of approximately 2.5%  3.5%. The Initial Year Market Cap Rate, which may be determined in a different manner by others, is a measure frequently used in the real estate industry when determining the appropriate purchase price for a property or estimating the value for the property. Buyers may assign different Initial Year Market Cap Rates to different communities when determining the appropriate value because they (i) may project different rates of change in operating expenses, including capital expenditure estimates and (ii) may project different rates of change in future rental revenue due to different estimates for changes in rent and occupancy levels. The weighted average Initial Year Market Cap Rate is weighted based on the gross sales price of each community.
Initial Year Market Cap Rate
includes all capitalized costs projected to be or actually incurred to develop the respective Development or Redevelopment Community, or Development Right, including land acquisition costs, construction costs, real estate taxes, capitalized interest and loan fees, permits, professional fees, allocated development overhead and other regulatory fees, all as determined in accordance with GAAP. With respect to communities where development or redevelopment was completed in a prior or the current period, Total Capital Cost reflects the actual cost incurred, plus any contingency estimate made by management.
Total Capital Cost
on sold communities refers to the internal rate of return calculated by the Company considering the timing and amounts of (i) total revenue during the period owned by the Company and (ii) the gross sales price net of selling costs, offset by (iii) the undepreciated capital cost of the communities at the time of sale and (iv) total direct operating expenses during the period owned by the Company. Each of the items (i), (ii), (iii) and (iv) are calculated in accordance with GAAP.
Unleveraged IRR
The calculation of Unleveraged IRR does not include an adjustment for the Company's general and administrative expense, interest expense, or corporate-level property management and other indirect operating expenses. Therefore, Unleveraged IRR is not a substitute for net income as a measure of our performance. Management believes that the Unleveraged IRR achieved during the period a community is owned by the Company is useful because it is one indication of the gross value created by the Company's acquisition, development or redevelopment, management and sale of the community, before the impact of indirect expenses and Company overhead. The Unleveraged IRR achieved on the communities as cited in this release should not be viewed as an indication of the gross value created with respect to other communities owned by the Company, and the Company does not represent that it will achieve similar Unleveraged IRRs upon the disposition of other communities.

 
EXHIBIT 99.2
For Immediate News Release January 21, 2004
reported today that Net Income Available to Common Stockholders for the quarter ended December 31, 2003 was $98,108,000, resulting in Earnings per Share ("EPS") of $1.36 (diluted), compared to $0.91 (diluted) for the comparable period of 2002, a per share increase of 49.5%. For the year ended December 31, 2003, EPS was $3.73 (diluted) compared to $2.23 (diluted) for the comparable period of 2002, a per share increase of 67.3%.
(Alexandria, VA) AvalonBay Communities, Inc. (NYSE/PCX: AVB)
The Company reports Funds from Operations attributable to common stockholders ("FFO") in accordance with the standards established by NAREIT. FFO for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2003 totaled $58,464,000 and $229,332,000, respectively, or $0.81 and $3.27 per share (diluted). This compares to $0.75 or $3.55 per share (diluted) for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2002, respectively. NAREIT clarified the definition of FFO in 2003 to include impairment losses, and the 2002 amounts above reflect FFO under this clarified definition. For comparative purposes, FFO as originally reported in 2002 was $0.85 and $3.65 per share (diluted) for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2002, respectively.
Operating Results for the Quarter Ended December 31, 2003 Compared to the Prior Year
, including discontinued operations, total revenue decreased by $3,766,000, or 2.3% to $157,530,000. , rental revenue decreased 3.1%, due to a decline in rental rates of 3.3%, partially offset by an increase in economic occupancy of 0.2% between periods. Total revenue for Established Communities decreased $3,567,000 to $111,391,000 and operating expenses increased $605,000, or 1.7%, to $35,571,000. Accordingly, Net Operating Income ("NOI") for Established Communities decreased by $4,172,000 or 5.2%, to $75,820,000.
For the Company
For Established Communities
The following table reflects the percentage changes in rental revenue, operating expenses and NOI for Established Communities from the fourth quarter of 2002 to the fourth quarter of 2003:
 
Sequential Operating Results for the Quarter Ended December 31, 2003 Compared to the Quarter Ended September 30, 2003
The following table reflects the sequential percentage changes in rental revenue, operating expenses and NOI for Established Communities from the third quarter to the fourth quarter of 2003:
 
Operating Results for the Year Ended December 31, 2003 Compared to the Prior Year
, including discontinued operations, total revenue decreased by $6,590,000, or 1.0% to $633,494,000. , rental revenue decreased 4.3%, comprised of a rental rate decline of 4.5%, partially offset by an increase in economic occupancy of 0.2%. Total revenue for Established Communities decreased $20,525,000 to $450,130,000 and operating expenses increased $7,194,000, or 5.2%, to $144,909,000. Accordingly, NOI for Established Communities decreased by $27,719,000 or 8.3%, to $305,221,000.
For the Company
For Established Communities
The following table reflects the percentage changes in rental revenue, operating expenses and NOI for Established Communities from the year ended December 31, 2002 to the year ended December 31, 2003:
Established Communities Operating Statistics
as determined by the Company, declined by an average of 1.2% in the fourth quarter of 2003 compared to the same quarter in the prior year. The greatest declines, on a year over year basis, were in San Jose, CA with a decline of 5.6%, Boston, MA with a decline of 4.1% and San Francisco, CA with a decline of 3.6% from the fourth quarter of 2002. Sequentially, as compared to the third quarter of 2003, market rents remained stable for the Established Community portfolio as a whole.
Market Rents,
was 94.1% during the fourth quarter of 2003, increasing 0.2% as compared to the same quarter last year. Sequentially, from the third quarter to the fourth quarter of 2003, Economic Occupancy increased 0.1%. The largest increases in the fourth quarter 2003 as compared to the third quarter were in Central New Jersey at 3.6%, San Francisco, CA at 1.7% and Northern New Jersey at 1.2%. These increases in Economic Occupancy were partially offset by decreases in Fairfield-New Haven, CT of 2.6% and Long Island, NY of 2.5%.
Economic Occupancy
are recognized on an accrual basis in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP") and are amortized over the approximate lease term, which is generally one year. For the fourth quarter of 2003, rental revenue (with concessions on a cash basis) decreased 2.6% as compared to the fourth quarter of 2002 (versus a decrease of 3.1% on a GAAP basis) and remained flat as compared to the third quarter of 2003 (versus a decrease of 0.9% on a GAAP basis).
Cash concessions
Concessions granted per move-in for Established Communities averaged $949 during the fourth quarter of 2003, an increase of 38.3% from $686 in the fourth quarter of 2002 and an increase of 8.7% from $873 in the third quarter of 2003.
Development Activity
The Company completed two development communities during the fourth quarter of 2003. Avalon Glendale, located near Los Angeles, CA is a garden-style community containing 223 apartment homes and was completed for a Total Capital Cost of $40,400,000. Avalon at Newton Highlands, located in the greater Boston, MA area, is a mid-rise community containing 294 apartment homes and was completed for a Total Capital Cost of $57,700,000.
During the fourth quarter of 2003, the Company commenced construction of three communities, Avalon Chrystie Place I, located in New York, NY, Avalon at The Pinehills I, located in the Boston, MA area and Avalon Pines I, located in the Long Island, NY area. These communities, when completed, are expected to contain an aggregate of 760 apartment homes for a Total Capital Cost of $218,500,000. The Company expects Avalon Chrystie Place I to be financed under a joint venture structure, with the Company's portion of the Total Capital Cost projected to be $30,000,000, including community-based tax-exempt debt.
Disposition Activity
During the fourth quarter, the Company sold three communities, Avalon Crest (located in Fort Lee, New Jersey), Avalon at Fair Lakes and Avalon at Dulles (both located in the greater Washington, DC metro area). These three communities, which contained a total of 821 apartment homes, were sold for an aggregate sales price of $159,025,000. The sale of these communities resulted in a gain as reported in accordance with GAAP of $77,598,000 and an Economic Gain of $62,049,000. The weighted average Initial Year Market Cap Rate related to these communities was 5.8%. In addition, the Company sold a parcel of land located in Oakland, CA for a sales price of $6,700,000, resulting in a GAAP gain of $1,234,000.
 
In the aggregate, the Company sold twelve communities with 3,634 apartment homes during 2003 for a gross sales price of approximately $453,900,000, including one community in which the Company held a 50% membership interest. The sale of these twelve communities in 2003 resulted in a GAAP gain, including amounts reflected in joint venture income and minority interest, of $183,204,000 and an Economic Gain of $130,591,000. The combined weighted average Initial Year Market Cap Rate for the twelve communities sold during 2003 was 6.3%, the weighted average Unleveraged IRR was 15.0% and the weighted average Economic Gain as a percentage of Total Capital Cost was 41.1%.
Financing, Liquidity and Balance Sheet Statistics
As of December 31, 2003, the Company had $51,100,000 outstanding under its $500,000,000 unsecured credit facility and unrestricted cash of approximately $7,196,000. This unrestricted cash, the unsecured credit facility, net proceeds from anticipated asset sales in 2004 and cash retained from operations, will be used to fund development and redevelopment activity and for general corporate purposes.
Leverage, as measured by debt as a percentage of total market capitalization, was 39.9% at December 31, 2003. Unencumbered NOI was approximately 80% for 2003 and Interest Coverage for the fourth quarter of 2003 was 2.7 times.
2004 Outlook
As noted in the Company's initial 2004 financial outlook provided on December 18, 2003, the Company expects EPS (diluted) in the range of $0.36 to $0.40 for the first quarter of 2004 and $1.49 to $1.67 for the full year 2004.
The Company expects Projected FFO per share (diluted) in the range of $0.75 to $0.79 for the first quarter of 2004 and $3.13 to $3.31 for the full year 2004.
First Quarter 2004 Conference Schedule
The Company is scheduled to participate in the Smith Barney 2004 REIT CEO Conference at The Breakers hotel in Palm Beach, FL on March 1-2, 2004. Management is scheduled to give a presentation at this conference on Monday, March 1, 2004 at 3:45 PM Eastern Time (EST). Management's presentation will be followed by a question and answer session during which management may discuss the Company's current operating environment; operating trends; current development, disposition and acquisition activity; the Company's outlook and other business and financial matters affecting the Company. A live, listen-only webcast of the Company's presentation will be available on the Company's website at http://www.avalonbay.com/events.
Other Matters
The Company will hold a conference call on January 22, 2004 at 1:00 PM EST to review and answer appropriate questions about these results and projections, the earnings release attachments described below, and related matters. The domestic number to call to participate is 1-877-510-2397. The international number to call to participate is 1-706-634-5877. The domestic number to hear a replay of this call is 1-800-642-1687, and the international number to hear a replay of this call is 1-706-645-9291  Access Code: 4573066.
A webcast of the conference call will also be available at http://www.avalonbay.com/earnings, and an on-line playback of the webcast will be available for at least 30 days following the call.
The Company produces Earnings Release Attachments (the "Attachments") that provide detailed information regarding operating, development, redevelopment, disposition and acquisition activity. These Attachments are considered a part of this earnings release and are available in full with this earnings release via the Company's website and through e-mail distribution. Access to the full earnings release including the Attachments through the Company's website is available at http://www.avalonbay.com/earnings. If you would like to receive future press releases via e-mail, please register through the Company's website at http://www.avalonbay.com/Template.cfm?Section=Subscribe. Some items referenced in the earnings release may require the Adobe Acrobat 5.0 Reader. If you do not have the Adobe Acrobat 5.0 Reader, you may download it at the following website address: http://www.adobe.com/products/acrobat/readstep.html.
Definitions and Reconciliations
The following non-GAAP financial measures and other terms, as used in the text of this earnings release, are defined and further explained on Attachment 14, "Definitions and Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Financial Measures and Other Terms":
 
About AvalonBay Communities, Inc.
AvalonBay currently owns or holds an ownership interest in 142 apartment communities containing 41,997 apartment homes in ten states and the District of Columbia, of which eleven communities are under construction and two communities are under reconstruction. AvalonBay is an equity REIT in the business of developing, redeveloping, acquiring and managing apartment communities in high barrier-to-entry markets of the United States. More information on AvalonBay may be found on AvalonBay's website at http://www.avalonbay.com. For additional information, please contact Bryce Blair, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President, at (703) 317-4652 or Thomas J. Sargeant, Chief Financial Officer, at (703) 317-4635.
Forward-Looking Statements
This release, including its attachments, contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. You can identify these forward-looking statements by the Company's use of words such as "expects," "plans," "estimates," "projects," "intends," "believes" and similar expressions that do not relate to historical matters. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements as a result of risks and uncertainties, including possible changes in demand for apartment homes, the effects of economic conditions (including interest rates), the impact of competition and competitive pricing, delays in completing developments and lease-ups on schedule, changes in construction costs, the results of financing efforts, the timing and closing of planned dispositions under agreement, the effects of the Company's accounting policies and other matters detailed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K/A for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2002 under the heading "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Forward-Looking Statements."
The Company does not undertake a duty to update forward-looking statements, including its expected operating results for the first quarter or full year 2004. The Company may, in its discretion, provide information in future public announcements regarding its outlook that may be of interest to the investment community. The format and extent of future outlooks may be different from the format and extent of the information contained in this release.
 
 
The following is a "Safe Harbor" Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The projections and estimates contained in the attachments referred to above are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, and actual results may differ materially from those projected in such statements. Risks associated with the Company's development, redevelopment, construction, and lease-up activities, which could impact the forward-looking statements made, include: development opportunities may be abandoned; total capital cost of a community may exceed original estimates, possibly making the community uneconomical and/or affecting projected returns; construction and lease-up may not be completed on schedule, resulting in increased debt service and construction costs; and other risks described in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K/A for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2002.
 
Attachment 1
 
 
Attachment 2
 
Attachment 3
 
Attachment 4
 
Attachment 5
 
Attachment 6
 
Attachment 7
     
[Additional columns below]
 
     
 
[Continued from above table, first column(s) repeated]
 
Attachment 8
 
Attachment 9
 
Attachment 10
 
Attachment 11
This chart contains forward-looking statements. Please see the paragraph regarding forward-looking statements on the Table of Contents page relating to the Company's Supplemental Operating and Financial Data charts for the fourth quarter of 2003.
 
Attachment 12
This chart contains forward-looking statements. Please see the paragraph regarding forward-looking statements on the Table of Contents page relating to the Company's Supplemental Operating and Financial Data charts for the fourth quarter of 2003.
 
Attachment 13
 
Attachment 14
This release, including its attachments, contains certain non-GAAP financial measures and other terms. The definition and calculation of these non-GAAP financial measures and other terms may differ from the definitions and methodologies used by other REITs and, accordingly, may not be comparable. The non-GAAP financial measures referred to below should not be considered an alternative to net income as an indication of our performance. In addition, these non-GAAP financial measures do not represent cash generated from operating activities in accordance with GAAP and therefore should not be considered as an alternative measure of liquidity or as indicative of cash available to fund cash needs.
is determined based on a definition adopted by the Board of Governors of the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts ("NAREIT"). FFO is calculated by the Company as net income or loss computed in accordance with GAAP, adjusted for gains or losses on sales of property, extraordinary gains or losses (as defined by GAAP) and depreciation of real estate assets, including adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures. Effective January 1, 2003, the Company no longer adds back impairment losses when calculating FFO pursuant to NAREIT's clarified FFO definition. As a result, FFO for both the quarter and the year ended December 31, 2002 have been reduced from amounts previously reported to reflect $6,800,000 or $0.10 per share (diluted) of asset impairment losses recognized in the fourth quarter of 2002. Management generally considers FFO to be an appropriate supplemental measure of operating performance because, by excluding gains or losses related to dispositions of property and excluding real estate depreciation (which can vary among owners of identical assets in similar condition based on historical cost accounting and useful life estimates), FFO can help one compare the operating performance of a company's real estate between periods or as compared to different companies. A reconciliation of FFO to net income is as follows (dollars in thousands):
FFO
 
Attachment 14 (continued)
, as provided within this release in the Company's outlook for 2004, is calculated on a consistent basis as historical FFO, and is therefore considered to be an appropriate supplemental measure to projected net income of projected operating performance. A reconciliation of the range provided for Projected FFO per share (diluted) for the first quarter and full year 2004 to the range provided for projected EPS (diluted) is as follows:
Projected FFO
is calculated by the Company as the gain on sale in accordance with GAAP, less accumulated depreciation through the date of sale and any other non-cash adjustments that may be required under GAAP accounting. Management generally considers Economic Gain to be an appropriate supplemental measure to gain on sale in accordance with GAAP because it helps investors to understand the relationship between the cash proceeds from a sale and the cash invested in the sold community. The Economic Gain for each of the communities presented is estimated based on their respective final settlement statements. A reconciliation of Economic Gain to gain on sale in accordance with GAAP is presented on Attachment 13.
Economic Gain
is defined by the Company as Projected NOI of a single community for the first 12 months following the date of the buyer's valuation, less estimates for non-routine allowance of approximately $225 - $300 per apartment home, divided by the gross sales price for the community. For this purpose, management's projection of stabilized operating expenses for the community includes a management fee of approximately 2.5%  3.5%. The Initial Year Market Cap Rate, which may be determined in a different manner by others, is a measure frequently used in the real estate industry when determining the appropriate purchase price for a property or estimating the value for the property. Buyers may assign different Initial Year Market Cap Rates to different communities when determining the appropriate value because they (i) may project different rates of change in operating expenses, including capital expenditure estimates and (ii) may project different rates of change in future rental revenue due to different estimates for changes in rent and occupancy levels. The weighted average Initial Year Market Cap Rate is weighted based on the gross sales price of each community.
Initial Year Market Cap Rate
are identified by the Company as communities where a comparison of operating results from the prior year to the current year is meaningful, as these communities were owned and had Stabilized Operations, as defined below, as of the beginning of the prior year. Therefore, for 2003, Established Communities are communities that have Stabilized Operations as of January 1, 2002 and are not conducting or planning to conduct substantial redevelopment activities within the current year. Established Communities do not include communities that are currently held for sale or planned for disposition during the current year.
Established Communities
is defined by the Company as total revenue less direct property operating expenses (including property taxes), and excludes corporate-level property management and other indirect operating expenses, interest income and expense, general and administrative expense, joint venture income, minority interest and venture partner interest in profit-sharing, depreciation expense, gain on sale of communities, impairment losses and income from discontinued operations. The Company considers NOI to be an appropriate supplemental measure to net income of operating performance of a community or communities because it helps both investors and management to understand the core operations of a community or communities prior to the allocation of any corporate-level property management overhead or general and administrative costs. This is more reflective of the operating performance of a community, and allows for an easier comparison of the operating performance of single assets or groups of assets. In addition, because prospective buyers of real estate have different overhead structures, with varying marginal impact to overhead by acquiring real estate, NOI is considered by many in the real estate industry to be a useful measure for determining the value of a real estate asset or groups of assets.
NOI
 
Attachment 14 (continued)
A reconciliation of NOI (from continuing operations) to net income, as well as a breakdown of NOI by operating segment, is as follows (dollars in thousands):
NOI as reported by the Company does not include the operating results from discontinued operations (i.e., assets sold or held for sale as of December 31, 2003). A reconciliation of NOI for communities sold or held for sale to net income for these communities for the fourth quarter and year-to-date 2003 is as follows (dollars in thousands):
 
Attachment 14 (continued)
, as used within this release for certain Development and Redevelopment Communities and in calculating the Initial Year Market Cap Rate for dispositions, represents management's estimate, as of the date of this release, of projected stabilized rental revenue minus projected stabilized operating expenses. For Development and Redevelopment Communities, Projected NOI is calculated based on the first year of Stabilized Operations, as defined below, following the completion of construction. In calculating the Initial Year Market Cap Rate, Projected NOI for dispositions is calculated for the first twelve months following the date of the buyer's valuation. Projected stabilized rental revenue represents management's estimate of projected gross potential (based on leased rents for occupied homes and Market Rents, as defined below, for vacant homes) minus projected economic vacancy and adjusted for concessions. Projected stabilized operating expenses do not include interest, income taxes (if any), depreciation or amortization, or any allocation of corporate-level property management overhead or general and administrative costs. The weighted average Projected NOI as a percentage of Total Capital Cost is weighted based on the Total Capital Cost of each community.
Projected NOI
In this release the Company has not given a projection of NOI on a company-wide basis. Management believes that Projected NOI of the development and redevelopment communities, on an aggregated weighted average basis, assists investors in understanding management's estimate of the likely impact on operations of the development and redevelopment communities (before allocation of any corporate-level property management overhead, general and administrative costs or interest expense) when they are complete and achieve stabilized occupancy. Given the different dates and fiscal years at which stabilization is projected for these communities, the projected allocation of corporate-level property management overhead, general and administrative costs and interest expense to communities under development or redevelopment is complex, impractical to develop, and of uncertain meaningfulness. Projected NOI of these communities is not a projection of the Company's financial performance or cash flow. There can be no assurance that the communities under development or redevelopment will achieve the Projected NOI used in the calculation of weighted average Projected NOI to total capital cost.
as reported by the Company are based on the current market rates set by the managers of the Company's communities based on their experience in renting their communities' apartments and publicly available market data. Trends in market rents for a region as reported by others could vary. Market Rents for a period are based on the average Market Rents during that period and do not reflect any impact for cash concessions.
Market Rents
is defined as total possible revenue less vacancy loss as a percentage of total possible revenue. Total possible revenue is determined by valuing occupied units at contract rates and vacant units at Market Rents. Vacancy loss is determined by valuing vacant units at current Market Rents. By measuring vacant apartments at their Market Rents, Economic Occupancy takes into account the fact that apartment homes of different sizes and locations within a community have different economic impacts on a community's gross revenue.
Economic Occupancy
 
Attachment 14 (continued)
is considered by the Company to be a supplemental measure to rental revenue in conformity with GAAP in helping investors to evaluate the impact of both current and historical concessions on GAAP based rental revenue and to more readily enable comparisons to revenue as reported by other companies. In addition, rental revenue (with concessions on a cash basis) allows an investor to understand the historical trend in cash concessions, which is an indicator of current rental market conditions. A reconciliation of rental revenue from Established Communities in conformity with GAAP to rental revenue (with concessions on a cash basis) is as follows (dollars in thousands):
Rental revenue (with concessions on a cash basis)
includes all capitalized costs projected to be or actually incurred to develop the respective Development or Redevelopment Community, or Development Right, including land acquisition costs, construction costs, real estate taxes, capitalized interest and loan fees, permits, professional fees, allocated development overhead and other regulatory fees, all as determined in accordance with GAAP. With respect to communities where development or redevelopment was completed in a prior or the current period, Total Capital Cost reflects the actual cost incurred, plus any contingency estimate made by management.
Total Capital Cost
is calculated by the Company as total debt as a percentage of total market capitalization. Total market capitalization represents the aggregate of the market value of the Company's common stock, the market value of the Company's operating partnership units outstanding (based on the market value of the Company's common stock), the liquidation preference of the Company's preferred stock and the outstanding principal balance of the Company's debt. Management believes that Leverage can be one useful measure of a real estate operating company's long term liquidity and balance sheet strength, because it shows an approximate relationship between a company's total debt and the current total market value of its assets based on the current price at which the company's common stock trades. Changes in Leverage also can influence changes in per share results. A calculation of Leverage as of December 31, 2003 is as follows (dollars in thousands):
Leverage
 
Attachment 14 (continued)
is calculated by the Company as a measure of liquidity and represents NOI generated by real estate assets unencumbered by outstanding secured debt as a percentage of total NOI generated by real estate assets. Unencumbered NOI is used as a measure of protection for unsecured creditors of the Company. In addition, the Company believes that Unencumbered NOI can be one useful measure of an entity's liquidity and balance sheet strength, and provides rating agencies and investors an additional means of comparing our liquidity to that of other companies. A calculation of Unencumbered NOI for 2003 is as follows (dollars in thousands):
Unencumbered NOI
is calculated by the Company as EBITDA from continuing operations divided by the sum of interest expense and preferred dividends net of interest income. Interest Coverage is presented by the Company because it provides rating agencies and investors an additional means of comparing our liquidity to that of other companies. EBITDA is defined by the Company as net income before interest income and expense, income taxes, depreciation and amortization. Under this definition, which complies with the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, EBITDA includes gains on sale of assets and gain on sale of partnership interests.
Interest Coverage
 
Attachment 14 (continued)
A reconciliation of EBITDA and a calculation of Interest Coverage for the fourth quarter of 2003 are as follows (dollars in thousands):
In the calculations of EBITDA above, EBITDA from discontinued operations includes $78,832 in gain on sale of communities.
represents capital expenditures that will not directly result in revenue earnings or expense savings.
Non-Revenue Generating Capex
is defined as the earlier of (i) attainment of 95% physical occupancy or (ii) the one-year anniversary of completion of development or redevelopment.
Stabilized/Restabilized Operations
, as calculated for certain Development and Redevelopment Communities in lease-up, reflects (i) actual average leased rents for those apartments leased through the end of the quarter net of amortized concessions, (ii) estimated market rents net of comparable concessions for all unleased apartments and (iii) includes actual and estimated other rental revenue. For Development and Redevelopment Communities not yet in lease-up, Average Rent per Home reflects management's projected rents, including concessions equal to one-half month rent.
Average Rent per Home
on sold communities refers to the internal rate of return calculated by the Company considering the timing and amounts of (i) total revenue during the period owned by the Company and (ii) the gross sales price net of selling costs, offset by (iii) the undepreciated capital cost of the communities at the time of sale and (iv) total direct operating expenses during the period owned by the Company. Each of the items (i), (ii), (iii) and (iv) are calculated in accordance with GAAP.
Unleveraged IRR
The calculation of Unleveraged IRR does not include an adjustment for the Company's general and administrative expense, interest expense, or corporate-level property management and other indirect operating expenses. Therefore, Unleveraged IRR is not a substitute for net income as a measure of our performance. Management believes that the Unleveraged IRR achieved during the period a community is owned by the Company is useful because it is one indication of the gross value created by the Company's acquisition, development or redevelopment, management and sale of the community, before the impact of indirect expenses and Company overhead. The Unleveraged IRR achieved on the communities as cited in this release should not be viewed as an
 
Attachment 14 (continued)
indication of the gross value created with respect to other communities owned by the Company, and the Company does not represent that it will achieve similar Unleveraged IRRs upon the disposition of other communities.


