FILE:AVB/AVB-8K-20051122174658.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
ITEM 5.02(b) Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
Charles D. Peebler, Jr., a director, resigned from the Company's Board of Directors for health-related reasons. Mr. Peebler suffers from progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP), which has made active Board service increasingly difficult. Mr. Peebler resigned effective November 22, 2005. Attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 is a copy of a press release dated November 22, 2005 announcing Mr. Peebler's resignation.
 
ITEM 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (c) Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
AVALONBAY COMMUNITIES, INC.
By: Name: Bryce Blair Title: Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer
/s/ Bryce Blair
Date: November 22, 2005
 

 
For Immediate Release
announced today that Charles D. Peebler, Jr. has resigned from the Company's Board of Directors for health-related reasons. Mr. Peebler suffers from progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP), which has made active Board service increasingly difficult. He therefore felt it was an appropriate time for him to step down from the Board.
Alexandria, VA (November 22, 2005)  AvalonBay Communities, Inc. (NYSE/PCX: AVB)
"Chuck brought a wealth of insight and experience to the AvalonBay Board from his many years as a business executive," said Bryce Blair, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Peebler joined the Board on May 8, 2001. "The Company has benefited greatly from his many contributions. We respect his decision, which we know he made with the best interests of the Company in mind. We will miss his service on the Board."
About AvalonBay Communities
AvalonBay Communities, Inc., headquartered in Alexandria, Virginia, currently owns or holds an ownership interest in 152 apartment communities containing 44,139 apartment homes in ten states and the District of Columbia, of which fourteen communities are under construction and four communities are under reconstruction. AvalonBay is in the business of developing, redeveloping, acquiring, and managing apartment communities in high barrier-to-entry markets of the United States. More information on AvalonBay may be found on AvalonBay's Web site at .
http://www.avalonbay.com


