FILE:AVB/AVB-8K-20050127104605.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On January 26, 2005, AvalonBay Communities, Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for the fourth quarter and full year 2004. That release referred to certain attachments with supplemental information that were available on the Company's website. The full text of the press release, including the supplemental information and attachments referred to within the release, are furnished as Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2 hereto.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 the registrant has duly caused this report to be filed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
For Immediate Release
reported today that Net Income Available to Common Stockholders for the quarter ended December 31, 2004 was $111,894,000, resulting in Earnings per Share  diluted ("EPS") of $1.52 compared to $1.36 for the comparable period of 2003, a per share increase of 11.8%. Funds from Operations attributable to common stockholders  diluted ("FFO") for the quarter ended December 31, 2004 was $64,818,000, or $0.88 per share, compared to $59,697,000, or $0.83 per share for the comparable period of 2003, a per share increase of 6.0%.
ALEXANDRIA, VA (January 26, 2005) - AvalonBay Communities, Inc. (NYSE/PCX: AVB)
FFO for the fourth quarter 2004 includes approximately $1,240,000, or approximately $0.02 per share, for the receipt of a non-routine prepayment premium on a note payable to the Company, net of legal costs.
Highlights from the Company's fourth quarter Established Communities results include:
Full Year 2004 Financial Results
For the year ended December 31, 2004, EPS was $2.92 compared to $3.73 for the year ended December 31, 2003, a per share decrease of 21.7%. The decline in EPS is primarily due to reduced disposition activity in 2004 as compared to 2003.
FFO per share for the year ended December 31, 2004 was $3.36 as compared to $3.28 for the year ended December 31, 2003, a 2.4% increase. FFO per share for the full year 2004 includes approximately $0.02 per share for the prepayment premium discussed previously.
Commenting on the Company's results, Bryce Blair, Chairman, CEO and President said, "In 2004, improving fundamentals and strong execution by AvalonBay led to the first year of positive FFO per share growth for the Company since 2001. We expect the positive momentum from 2004 to continue, contributing to stronger market fundamentals and increasing earnings growth in 2005 as compared to 2004."
Operating Results for the Quarter and Year Ended December 31, 2004
Total revenue for the fourth quarter 2004 increased by $12,873,000, or 8.2% to $170,403,000 from the fourth quarter 2003. Total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2004 increased by $28,368,000, or 4.5%, to $661,862,000 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2003.
For Established Communities, rental revenue increased 1.6%, operating expenses increased 3.7%, and NOI increased 0.5% during the fourth quarter 2004 as compared to the fourth quarter 2003. For the year ended December 31, 2004, Established Communities rental revenue decreased 0.3%, operating expenses increased 1.8%, and NOI decreased 1.3% as compared to the year ended December 31, 2003.
Sequentially, as compared to the third quarter 2004, Established Communities rental revenue increased 0.2%, operating expenses decreased 3.0% and NOI
 
increased 1.8%. Consistent with expected trends, the sequential decline in operating expenses from the third quarter 2004 to the fourth quarter 2004 is primarily due to lower seasonal turnover costs.
2005 Outlook
As noted in the Company's initial 2005 financial outlook provided on December 21, 2004, the Company expects EPS in the range of $0.65 to $0.69 for the first quarter of 2005 and $1.93 to $2.13 for the full year 2005.
The Company expects Projected FFO per share in the range of $0.91 to $0.95 for the first quarter of 2005 and $3.51 to $3.71 for the full year 2005. The Projected FFO ranges for both the first quarter 2005 and the full year 2005 include $0.08 to $0.09 related to the potential sale of an investment in a real estate technology company that the Company expects will occur in the first quarter of 2005. Projected FFO per share excluding the $0.08 to $0.09 of expected gain is $0.82 to $0.86 for the first quarter of 2005 and $3.42 to $3.62 for the full year 2005.
First Quarter 2005 Conference Schedule
The Company is scheduled to participate in the Lehman Brothers 8th Annual Future of REITs Panel Discussion on March 3, 2005 from 8:00 AM - 11:30 AM Eastern Time (EST) in New York, NY. Bryce Blair, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President, will participate in the panel, which will focus on the economics of development and redevelopment in 2005. Details on how to access a webcast of the event will be available on the Company's website at http://www.avalonbay.com/events beginning March 1, 2005.
The Company is scheduled to participate in the Smith Barney 2005 REIT CEO Conference in Naples, FL on March 7-8, 2005. Management is scheduled to present at this conference on Monday, March 7, 2005 at 3:45 PM EST. Management's presentation will be followed by a question and answer session during which management may discuss the Company's current operating environment; operating trends; current development, disposition and acquisition activity; the Company's outlook and other business and financial matters affecting the Company. The Company's presentation will be accessible via a dial-in phone number which will be available on the Company's website at http://www.avalonbay.com/events beginning March 3, 2005.
Earnings Conference Call
The Company will hold a conference call on January 27, 2005 at 1:00 PM EST to review and answer appropriate questions about these results and projections, the earnings release attachments described below, and related matters. The domestic number to call to participate is 1-877-510-2397. The international number to call to participate is 1-706-634-5877. The domestic number to hear a replay of this call is 1-800-642-1687, and the international number to
hear a replay of this call is 1-706-645-9291 - Access Code: 2684060.
A webcast of the conference call will also be available at http://www.avalonbay.com/earnings, and an on-line playback of the webcast will be available for at least 30 days following the call.
Earnings Release and Attachments
In addition to this release, the Company also publishes a complete discussion of its fourth quarter and full year 2004 operating results ("the Full Release") and Earnings Release Attachments ("the Attachments") that provide detailed information regarding operating, development, redevelopment, disposition and acquisition activity. The Full Release and the Attachments are considered a part of this release and are available through the Company's website at http://www.avalonbay.com/earnings and via e-mail distribution. The ability to access the Full Release and the Attachments on the Company's website requires the Adobe Acrobat 6.0 Reader, which may be downloaded at the following website address: http://www.adobe.com/products/acrobat/readstep.html.
Definitions and Reconciliations
The following non-GAAP financial measures and other terms, as used in the text of this earnings release, are defined and further explained on Attachment 1, "Definitions and Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Financial Measures and Other Terms":
About AvalonBay Communities, Inc.
As of December 31, 2004, AvalonBay owned or held an ownership interest in 148 apartment communities containing 42,810 apartment homes in ten states and the District of Columbia, of which ten communities were under construction and four communities were under reconstruction. AvalonBay is an equity REIT in the business of developing, redeveloping, acquiring and managing apartment communities in high barrier-to-entry markets of the United States. More information on AvalonBay may be found on AvalonBay's website at http://www.avalonbay.com.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
This release, including its Attachment, contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. You can identify these forward-looking statements by the Company's use of words such as "expects," "plans," "estimates," "projects," "intends," "believes" and similar expressions that do not relate to historical matters. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements as a result of risks and uncertainties, which include the following: changes in local employment conditions, demand for apartment homes, supply of competitive housing products, and other economic conditions may result in lower than expected occupancy and/or rental rates and adversely affect the profitability of our communities; increases in costs of materials, labor or other expenses may result in communities that we develop or redevelop failing to achieve expected profitability; delays in completing development, redevelopment and/or lease-up may result in increased financing and construction costs, and may delay and/or reduce the profitability of a community; debt and/or equity financing for development, redevelopment or acquisitions of communities may not be available on favorable terms; we may be unable to obtain, or experience delays in obtaining, necessary governmental permits and authorizations; we may abandon development or redevelopment opportunities for which we have already incurred costs. Additional discussions of risks and uncertainties appear in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2003 under the heading "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Forward-Looking Statements."
The Company does not undertake a duty to update forward-looking statements, including its expected operating results for the first quarter or the full year 2005. The Company may, in its discretion, provide information in future public announcements regarding its outlook that may be of interest to the investment community. The format and extent of future outlooks may be different from the format and extent of the information contained in this release.
 
Attachment 1
This release, including this attachment, contains certain non-GAAP financial measures and other terms. The definition and calculation of these non-GAAP financial measures and other terms may differ from the definitions and methodologies used by other REITs and, accordingly, may not be comparable. The non-GAAP financial measures referred to below should not be considered an alternative to net income as an indication of our performance. In addition, these non-GAAP financial measures do not represent cash generated from operating activities in accordance with GAAP and therefore should not be considered as an alternative measure of liquidity or as indicative of cash available to fund cash needs.
is determined based on a definition adopted by the Board of Governors of the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts ("NAREIT"). FFO is calculated by the Company as net income or loss computed in accordance with GAAP, adjusted for gains or losses on sales of previously depreciated operating communities, extraordinary gains or losses (as defined by GAAP), cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle and depreciation of real estate assets, including adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures. Management generally considers FFO to be an appropriate supplemental measure of operating performance because, by excluding gains or losses related to dispositions of previously depreciated operating communities and excluding real estate depreciation (which can vary among owners of identical assets in similar condition based on historical cost accounting and useful life estimates), FFO can help one compare the operating performance of a company's real estate between periods or as compared to different companies. A reconciliation of FFO to net income is as follows (dollars in thousands):
FFO
, as provided within this release in the Company's outlook, is calculated on a consistent basis as historical FFO, and is therefore considered to be an appropriate supplemental measure to projected net income of projected operating performance. A reconciliation of the range provided for Projected FFO per share (diluted) for the first quarter and full year 2005 to the range provided for projected EPS (diluted) is as follows:
Projected FFO
 
Attachment 1 (continued)
are identified by the Company as communities where a comparison of operating results from the prior year to the current year is meaningful, as these communities were owned and had Stabilized Operations, as defined below, as of the beginning of the prior year. Therefore, for 2004, Established Communities are communities that have Stabilized Operations as of January 1, 2003 and are not conducting or planning to conduct substantial redevelopment activities within the current year. Established Communities do not include communities that are currently held for sale or planned for disposition during the current year.
Established Communities
is defined as the earlier of (i) attainment of 95% physical occupancy or (ii) the one-year anniversary of completion of development.
Stabilized Operations
is defined by the Company as total revenue less direct property operating expenses (including property taxes), and excludes corporate-level property management and other indirect operating expenses, interest income and expense, general and administrative expense, joint venture income, minority interest and venture partner interest in profit-sharing, depreciation expense, gain on sale of real estate assets, impairment losses, cumulative effect of change in accounting principle and income from discontinued operations. The Company considers NOI to be an appropriate supplemental measure to net income of operating performance of a community or communities because it helps both investors and management to understand the core operations of a community or communities prior to the allocation of any corporate-level property management overhead or general and administrative costs. This is more reflective of the operating performance of a community, and allows for an easier comparison of the operating performance of single assets or groups of assets. In addition, because prospective buyers of real estate have different overhead structures, with varying marginal impact to overhead by acquiring real estate, NOI is considered by many in the real estate industry to be a useful measure for determining the value of a real estate asset or groups of assets.
NOI
A reconciliation of NOI (from continuing operations) to net income, as well as a breakdown of NOI by operating segment, is as follows (dollars in thousands):
 
Attachment 1 (continued)
NOI as reported by the Company does not include the operating results from discontinued operations (i.e., assets sold or held for sale as of December 31, 2004). A reconciliation of NOI from communities sold or held for sale to net income for these communities for the fourth quarter and full year 2004 is as follows (dollars in thousands):
is defined as total possible revenue less vacancy loss as a percentage of total possible revenue. Total possible revenue is determined by valuing occupied units at contract rates and vacant units at Market Rents. Vacancy loss is determined by valuing vacant units at current Market Rents. By measuring vacant apartments at their Market Rents, Economic Occupancy takes into account the fact that apartment homes of different sizes and locations within a community have different economic impacts on a community's gross revenue.
Economic Occupancy
as reported by the Company reflect actual average leased rents during the period indicated net of concessions amortized over the lease term.
Average Rental Rates

 
Exhibit 99.2
For Immediate News Release January 26, 2005
reported today that Net Income Available to Common Stockholders for the quarter ended December 31, 2004 was $111,894,000, resulting in Earnings per Share - diluted ("EPS") of $1.52, compared to $1.36 for the comparable period of 2003, a per share increase of 11.8%. For the year ended December 31, 2004, EPS was $2.92 compared to $3.73 for the comparable period of 2003, a per share decrease of 21.7%. These variances are primarily attributable to the timing and volume of disposition activity in 2004 and 2003.
(Alexandria, VA) AvalonBay Communities, Inc. (NYSE/PCX: AVB)
Funds from Operations attributable to common stockholders - diluted ("FFO") for the quarter ended December 31, 2004 was $64,818,000, or $0.88 per share compared to $59,697,000, or $0.83 per share for the comparable period of 2003, a per share increase of 6.0%. FFO per share for the year ended December 31, 2004 increased by 2.4% to $3.36 from $3.28 for the comparable period in 2003. FFO for both the fourth quarter and the full year 2004 include approximately $1,240,000, or approximately $0.02 per share, for the receipt of a non-routine prepayment premium on a note payable to the Company, net of legal costs.
Operating Results for the Quarter Ended December 31, 2004 Compared to the Prior Year Period
, including discontinued operations, total revenue increased by $12,873,000, or 8.2% to $170,403,000. , rental revenue increased 1.6%, due to an increase in Economic Occupancy of 2.0%, partially offset by a decline in rental rates of 0.4% between periods. Total revenue for Established Communities increased $1,655,000 to $110,838,000, and operating expenses increased $1,259,000, or 3.7%, to $35,541,000. Accordingly, Net Operating Income ("NOI") for Established Communities increased by $396,000 or 0.5%, to $75,297,000.
For the Company
For Established Communities
The following table reflects the percentage changes in rental revenue, operating expenses and NOI for Established Communities from the fourth quarter of 2003 to the fourth quarter of 2004:
Sequential Operating Results for the Quarter Ended December 31, 2004 Compared to the Quarter Ended September 30, 2004
The following table reflects the sequential percentage changes in rental revenue, operating expenses and NOI for Established Communities from the third quarter to the fourth quarter of 2004:
Consistent with expected trends, operating expenses declined from the third quarter to the fourth quarter of 2004 due to lower seasonal turnover costs.
 
Operating Results for the Year Ended December 31, 2004 Compared to the Prior Year
, including discontinued operations, total revenue increased by $28,368,000, or 4.5% to $661,862,000. , rental revenue decreased 0.3%, comprised of a rental rate decline of 1.8%, partially offset by an increase in Economic Occupancy of 1.5%. Total revenue for Established Communities decreased $1,499,000 to $440,145,000 and operating expenses increased $2,464,000, or 1.8%, to $141,823,000. Accordingly, NOI for Established Communities decreased by $3,963,000 or 1.3%, to $298,322,000.
For the Company
For Established Communities
The following table reflects the percentage changes in rental revenue, operating expenses and NOI for Established Communities for the year ended December 31, 2004 compared to the year ended December 31, 2003:
Established Communities Operating Statistics
, as determined by the Company, averaged $1,477 per home for the Established Community portfolio as a whole in the fourth quarter of 2004, increasing 1.5% as compared to average Market Rents for the fourth quarter of 2003 and increasing 0.4% over average Market Rents for the third quarter of 2004.
Market Rents
was 95.8% during the fourth quarter of 2004, increasing 2.0% as compared to the fourth quarter of 2003 and decreasing 0.3% as compared to the third quarter of 2004, consistent with seasonal trends.
Economic Occupancy
are recognized on an accrual basis in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP") and are amortized over the approximate lease term, which is generally one year. For the fourth quarter of 2004, rental revenue with concessions on a cash basis increased 2.8% as compared to the fourth quarter of 2003 (versus an increase of 1.6% on a GAAP basis) and increased 1.8% as compared to the third quarter of 2004 (versus an increase of 0.2% on a GAAP basis).
Cash concessions
Concessions granted per move-in for Established Communities averaged $861 during the fourth quarter of 2004, a decrease of 14.2% from $1,004 in the fourth quarter of 2003 and a decrease of 5.6% from $912 in the third quarter of 2004.
Acquisition Activity
During the fourth quarter of 2004, the Company acquired two communities, Hobbits Grove, located in the Baltimore, MD area, and Ravenswood at the Park, located in the Seattle, WA area. Hobbits Grove is a garden-style community containing 170 apartment homes and was acquired for an acquisition price of $23,650,000. Ravenswood at the Park is a garden-style community containing 400 apartment homes and was acquired for an acquisition price of $49,000,000.
In the aggregate, the Company acquired five communities during 2004. These five communities contain an aggregate of 1,165 apartment homes and were acquired for a total acquisition price of $134,216,000, which includes the assumption of $8,155,000 of fixed rate mortgage debt. Four of these communities were acquired with the intent of being owned through a discretionary investment fund, for which the Company expects the initial closing to occur during the first quarter of 2005.
Development Activity
The Company completed four development communities during the fourth quarter of 2004 for an aggregate Total Capital Cost of approximately $188,700,000. Avalon at Glen Cove South, located in the Long Island, NY area, is a mid-rise community containing 256 apartment homes and was completed for a Total Capital Cost of $67,300,000. Avalon at Traville, located in the Washington, DC metropolitan area, is a garden-style/ townhome community containing 520 apartment homes and was completed for a Total Capital Cost of $70,000,000. Avalon Milford I, located in the Fairfield  New Haven, CT area, is a garden-style community containing 246 apartment homes and was completed for a Total Capital Cost of $31,500,000. Avalon at The Pinehills I, located in the Boston, MA area, is a garden-style community containing 101 apartment homes and was completed for a Total Capital Cost of $19,900,000.
During the fourth quarter of 2004, the Company commenced construction of one community, Avalon at Bedford Center, located in the Boston, MA area. This community, when completed, is expected to contain 139 apartment homes for a Total Capital Cost of $24,900,000.
In addition, the Company entered into a joint venture agreement with an unrelated third party for the development of Avalon at Mission Bay North II during the fourth quarter of 2004. The Company holds a 25%
 
equity interest in this joint venture and expects to commence construction during the first quarter of 2005. The Company expects to complete Avalon at Mission Bay North II for a Total Capital Cost of approximately $117,000,000, of which approximately 80% will be financed through a construction loan. Avalon at Mission Bay North II, when completed, is expected to contain 313 apartment homes.
The Company commenced redevelopment on two communities during the fourth quarter of 2004. Avalon at Fairway Hills III, located in the Washington, DC metropolitan area, was acquired by the Company in 1996, and Briarcliffe Lakeside, located in the Chicago, IL area, was acquired by the Company in 2004. These communities contain a total of 540 apartment homes and, if redeveloped as expected, will be completed for an aggregate Total Capital Cost of $47,800,000 (of which $37,800,000 was incurred prior to redevelopment).
Disposition Activity
During the fourth quarter of 2004, the Company sold two communities, Fairway Glen, located in San Jose, CA, and Avalon at Ballston  Vermont and Quincy Towers, located in the greater Washington, DC metropolitan area. These two communities, which contained a total of 598 apartment homes, were sold for an aggregate sales price of $141,450,000. The sale of these communities resulted in a gain as reported in accordance with GAAP of $87,288,000 and an Economic Gain of $81,562,000. The weighted average Initial Year Market Cap Rate related to these communities was 4.3%.
The Company sold five communities during 2004, containing a total of 1,360 apartment homes, and a land parcel, for a gross sales price of approximately $250,977,000. The sale of these five communities and the land parcel in 2004 resulted in a GAAP gain of $122,425,000 and an Economic Gain of $103,105,000. The weighted average Initial Year Market Cap Rate for the five communities sold during 2004 was 4.8% and the weighted average Unleveraged IRR was 16.5%.
Financing, Liquidity and Balance Sheet Statistics
As of December 31, 2004, the Company had $102,000,000 outstanding under its $500,000,000 unsecured credit facility. Leverage, calculated as total debt as a percentage of Total Market Capitalization, was 30.7% at December 31, 2004. Unencumbered NOI for the year ended December 31, 2004 was approximately 82% and Interest Coverage for the fourth quarter of 2004 was 2.8 times.
2005 Outlook
As noted in the Company's initial 2005 financial outlook provided on December 21, 2004, the Company expects EPS in the range of $0.65 to $0.69 for the first quarter of 2005 and $1.93 to $2.13 for the full year 2005.
The Company expects Projected FFO per share in the range of $0.91 to $0.95 for the first quarter of 2005 and $3.51 to $3.71 for the full year 2005. The Projected FFO ranges for both the first quarter of 2005 and the full year 2005 include $0.08 to $0.09 related to the potential sale of an investment in a real estate technology company that the Company expects will occur in the first quarter of 2005. Projected FFO per share excluding the $0.08 to $0.09 of expected gain is $0.82 to $0.86 for the first quarter of 2005 and $3.42 to $3.62 for the full year 2005.
First Quarter 2005 Conference Schedule
The Company is scheduled to participate in the Lehman Brothers 8th Annual Future of REITs Panel Discussion on March 3, 2005 from 8:00 AM - 11:30 AM Eastern Time (EST) in New York, NY. Bryce Blair, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President, will participate in the panel, which will focus on the economics of development and redevelopment in 2005. Details on how to access a webcast of the event will be available on the Company's website at http://www.avalonbay.com/events beginning March 1, 2005.
The Company is scheduled to participate in the Smith Barney 2005 REIT CEO Conference in Naples, FL on March 7-8, 2005. Management is scheduled to present at this conference on Monday, March 7, 2005 at 3:45 PM EST. Management's presentation will be followed by a question and answer session during which management may discuss the Company's current operating environment; operating trends; current development, disposition and acquisition activity; the Company's outlook and other business and financial matters affecting the Company. The Company's presentation will be accessible via a dial-in phone number which will be available on the Company's website at http://www.avalonbay.com/events beginning March 3, 2005.
Other Matters
The Company will hold a conference call on January 27, 2005 at 1:00 PM EST to review and answer appropriate questions about these results and projections, the earnings release attachments described below and related matters. The domestic number to call to participate is 1-877-510-2397. The international number to call to participate is 1-706-634-5877. The domestic number to hear a replay of this call is 1-800-642-1687 and the international number to hear a replay of this call is 1-706-645-9291 - Access Code: 2684060.
 
A webcast of the conference call will also be available at http://www.avalonbay.com/earnings, and an on-line playback of the webcast will be available for at least 30 days following the call.
The Company produces Earnings Release Attachments (the "Attachments") that provide detailed information regarding operating, development, redevelopment, disposition and acquisition activity. These Attachments are considered a part of this earnings release and are available in full with this earnings release via the Company's website and through e-mail distribution. The full earnings release including the Attachments is available at http://www.avalonbay.com/earnings. To receive future press releases via e-mail, please register through the Investor Relations section of the website at http://www.avalonbay.com/Template.cfm?Section=Subscribe. Some items referenced in the earnings release may require the Adobe Acrobat 6.0 Reader. If you do not have the Adobe Acrobat 6.0 Reader, you may download it at the following website address: http://www.adobe.com/products/acrobat/readstep.html.
Definitions and Reconciliations
The following non-GAAP financial measures and other terms, as used in the text of this earnings release, are defined and further explained on Attachment 14, "Definitions and Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Financial Measures and Other Terms":
About AvalonBay Communities, Inc.
As of December 31, 2004, AvalonBay owned or held an ownership interest in 148 apartment communities containing 42,810 apartment homes in ten states and the District of Columbia, of which ten communities were under construction and four communities were under reconstruction. AvalonBay is an equity REIT in the business of developing, redeveloping, acquiring and managing apartment communities in high barrier-to-entry markets of the United States. More information on AvalonBay may be found on AvalonBay's website at http://www.avalonbay.com. For additional information, please contact Bryce Blair, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President, at (703) 317-4652 or Thomas J. Sargeant, Chief Financial Officer, at (703) 317-4635.
Forward-Looking Statements
This release, including its Attachments, contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. You can identify these forward-looking statements by the Company's use of words such as "expects," "plans," "estimates," "projects," "intends," "believes" and similar expressions that do not relate to historical matters. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements as a result of risks and uncertainties, which include the following: changes in local employment conditions, demand for apartment homes, supply of competitive housing products, and other economic conditions may result in lower than expected occupancy and/or rental rates and adversely affect the profitability of our communities; increases in costs of materials, labor or other expenses may result in communities that we develop or redevelop failing to achieve expected profitability; delays in completing development, redevelopment and/or lease-up may result in increased financing and construction costs, and may delay and/or reduce the profitability of a community; debt and/or equity financing for development, redevelopment or acquisitions of communities may not be available on favorable terms; we may be unable to obtain, or experience delays in obtaining, necessary governmental permits and authorizations; we may abandon development or redevelopment opportunities for which we have already incurred costs. Additional discussions of risks and uncertainties appear in the Company's fillings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2003 under the heading "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Forward-Looking Statements."
The Company does not undertake a duty to update forward-looking statements, including its expected operating results for the first quarter or the full year 2005. The Company may, in its discretion, provide information in future public announcements regarding its outlook that may be of interest to the investment community. The format and extent of future outlooks may be different from the format and extent of the information contained in this release.
 
 
The following is a "Safe Harbor" Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The projections and estimates contained in the following attachments are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, and actual results may differ materially from those projected in such statements. Risks associated with the Company's development, redevelopment, construction, and lease-up activities, which could impact the forward-looking statements made, are discussed in the paragraph titled "Forward-Looking Statements" in the release to which these attachments relate. In particular, development opportunities may be abandoned; Total Capital Cost of a community may exceed original estimates, possibly making the community uneconomical and/or affecting projected returns; construction and lease-up may not be completed on schedule, resulting in increased debt service and construction costs; and other risks described in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2003.
 
Attachment 1
 
Attachment 2
 
Attachment 3
 
Attachment 4
 
Attachment 5
 
Attachment 6
 
Attachment 7
 
Attachment 8
 
Attachment 9
 
Attachment 10
 
Attachment 11
 
Attachment 12
 
Attachment 13
 
Attachment 14
This release, including its attachments, contains certain non-GAAP financial measures and other terms. The definition and calculation of these non-GAAP financial measures and other terms may differ from the definitions and methodologies used by other REITs and, accordingly, may not be comparable. The non-GAAP financial measures referred to below should not be considered an alternative to net income as an indication of our performance. In addition, these non-GAAP financial measures do not represent cash generated from operating activities in accordance with GAAP and therefore should not be considered as an alternative measure of liquidity or as indicative of cash available to fund cash needs.
is determined based on a definition adopted by the Board of Governors of the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts ("NAREIT"). FFO is calculated by the Company as net income or loss computed in accordance with GAAP, adjusted for gains or losses on sales of previously depreciated operating communities, extraordinary gains or losses (as defined by GAAP), cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle and depreciation of real estate assets, including adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures. Management generally considers FFO to be an appropriate supplemental measure of operating performance because, by excluding gains or losses related to dispositions of previously depreciated operating communities and excluding real estate depreciation (which can vary among owners of identical assets in similar condition based on historical cost accounting and useful life estimates), FFO can help one compare the operating performance of a company's real estate between periods or as compared to different companies. A reconciliation of FFO to net income is as follows (dollars in thousands):
FFO
, as provided within this release in the Company's outlook, is calculated on a consistent basis as historical FFO, and is therefore considered to be an appropriate supplemental measure to projected net income of projected operating performance. A reconciliation of the range provided for Projected FFO per share (diluted) for the first quarter and full year 2005 to the range provided for projected EPS (diluted) is as follows:
Projected FFO
 
Attachment 14 (continued)
are identified by the Company as communities where a comparison of operating results from the prior year to the current year is meaningful, as these communities were owned and had Stabilized Operations, as defined below, as of the beginning of the prior year. Therefore, for 2004, Established Communities are communities that have Stabilized Operations as of January 1, 2003 and are not conducting or planning to conduct substantial redevelopment activities within the current year. Established Communities do not include communities that are currently held for sale or planned for disposition during the current year.
Established Communities
is defined by the Company as total revenue less direct property operating expenses (including property taxes), and excludes corporate-level property management and other indirect operating expenses, interest income and expense, general and administrative expense, joint venture income, minority interest and venture partner interest in profit-sharing, depreciation expense, gain on sale of real estate assets, impairment losses, cumulative effect of change in accounting principle and income from discontinued operations. The Company considers NOI to be an appropriate supplemental measure to net income of operating performance of a community or communities because it helps both investors and management to understand the core operations of a community or communities prior to the allocation of any corporate-level property management overhead or general and administrative costs. This is more reflective of the operating performance of a community, and allows for an easier comparison of the operating performance of single assets or groups of assets. In addition, because prospective buyers of real estate have different overhead structures, with varying marginal impact to overhead by acquiring real estate, NOI is considered by many in the real estate industry to be a useful measure for determining the value of a real estate asset or groups of assets.
NOI
 
Attachment 14 (continued)
A reconciliation of NOI (from continuing operations) to net income, as well as a breakdown of NOI by operating segment, is as follows (dollars in thousands):
NOI as reported by the Company does not include the operating results from discontinued operations (i.e., assets sold or held for sale as of December 31, 2004). A reconciliation of NOI from communities sold or held for sale to net income for these communities for the fourth quarter and full year 2004 is as follows (dollars in thousands):
, as used within this release for certain Development and Redevelopment Communities and in calculating the Initial Year Market Cap Rate for dispositions, represents management's estimate, as of the date of this release, of projected stabilized rental revenue minus projected stabilized operating expenses. For Development and Redevelopment Communities, Projected NOI is calculated based on the first year of Stabilized Operations, as defined below, following the completion of construction. In calculating the Initial Year Market Cap Rate, Projected
Projected NOI
 
Attachment 14 (continued)
NOI for dispositions is calculated for the first twelve months following the date of the buyer's valuation. Projected stabilized rental revenue represents management's estimate of projected gross potential (based on leased rents for occupied homes and Market Rents, as defined below, for vacant homes) minus projected economic vacancy and adjusted for concessions. Projected stabilized operating expenses do not include interest, income taxes (if any), depreciation or amortization, or any allocation of corporate-level property management overhead or general and administrative costs. The weighted average Projected NOI as a percentage of Total Capital Cost is weighted based on the Company's share of the Total Capital Cost of each community, based on its percentage ownership.
In this release the Company has not given a projection of NOI on a company-wide basis. Management believes that Projected NOI of the development and redevelopment communities, on an aggregated weighted average basis, assists investors in understanding management's estimate of the likely impact on operations of the Development and Redevelopment Communities (before allocation of any corporate-level property management overhead, general and administrative costs or interest expense) when they are complete and achieve stabilized occupancy. Given the different dates and fiscal years at which stabilization is projected for these communities, the projected allocation of corporate-level property management overhead, general and administrative costs and interest expense to communities under development or redevelopment is complex, impractical to develop, and of uncertain meaningfulness. Projected NOI of these communities is not a projection of the Company's financial performance or cash flow. There can be no assurance that the communities under development or redevelopment will achieve the Projected NOI used in the calculation of weighted average Projected NOI to Total Capital Cost.
as reported by the Company are based on the current market rates set by the managers of the Company's communities based on their experience in renting their communities' apartments and publicly available market data. Trends in market rents for a region as reported by others could vary. Market Rents for a period are based on the average Market Rents during that period and do not reflect any impact for cash concessions.
Market Rents
is defined as total possible revenue less vacancy loss as a percentage of total possible revenue. Total possible revenue is determined by valuing occupied units at contract rates and vacant units at Market Rents. Vacancy loss is determined by valuing vacant units at current Market Rents. By measuring vacant apartments at their Market Rents, Economic Occupancy takes into account the fact that apartment homes of different sizes and locations within a community have different economic impacts on a community's gross revenue.
Economic Occupancy
is considered by the Company to be a supplemental measure to rental revenue in conformity with GAAP in helping investors to evaluate the impact of both current and historical concessions on GAAP based rental revenue and to more readily enable comparisons to revenue as reported by other companies. In addition, rental revenue (with concessions on a cash basis) allows an investor to understand the historical trend in cash concessions, which is an indicator of current rental market conditions. A reconciliation of rental revenue from Established Communities in conformity with GAAP to rental revenue (with concessions on a cash basis) is as follows (dollars in thousands):
Rental revenue (with concessions on a cash basis)
is calculated by the Company as the gain on sale in accordance with GAAP, less accumulated depreciation through the date of sale and any other non-cash adjustments that may be required under GAAP accounting. Management generally considers Economic Gain to be an appropriate supplemental measure to gain on sale in accordance with GAAP because it helps investors to understand the relationship between the cash proceeds from a sale and the cash invested in the sold community. The Economic Gain for each of the communities presented is estimated based on their respective final settlement statements. A reconciliation of Economic Gain to gain on sale in accordance with GAAP is presented on Attachment 13.
Economic Gain
 
Attachment 14 (continued)
is defined by the Company as Projected NOI of a single community for the first 12 months following the date of the buyer's valuation, less estimates for non-routine allowance of approximately $225 - $300 per apartment home, divided by the gross sales price for the community. For this purpose, management's projection of stabilized operating expenses for the community includes a management fee of approximately 2.5% - 3.5%. The Initial Year Market Cap Rate, which may be determined in a different manner by others, is a measure frequently used in the real estate industry when determining the appropriate purchase price for a property or estimating the value for the property. Buyers may assign different Initial Year Market Cap Rates to different communities when determining the appropriate value because they (i) may project different rates of change in operating expenses, including capital expenditure estimates and (ii) may project different rates of change in future rental revenue due to different estimates for changes in rent and occupancy levels. The weighted average Initial Year Market Cap Rate is weighted based on the gross sales price of each community.
Initial Year Market Cap Rate
includes all capitalized costs projected to be or actually incurred to develop the respective Development or Redevelopment Community, or Development Right, including land acquisition costs, construction costs, real estate taxes, capitalized interest and loan fees, permits, professional fees, allocated development overhead and other regulatory fees, all as determined in accordance with GAAP. With respect to communities where development or redevelopment was completed in a prior or the current period, Total Capital Cost reflects the actual cost incurred, plus any contingency estimate made by management. Total Capital Cost for communities identified as having joint venture ownership, either during construction or upon construction completion, represents the total projected joint venture contribution amount.
Total Capital Cost
is calculated by the Company as total debt as a percentage of Total Market Capitalization. Total Market Capitalization represents the aggregate of the market value of the Company's common stock, the market value of the Company's operating partnership units outstanding (based on the market value of the Company's common stock), the liquidation preference of the Company's preferred stock and the outstanding principal balance of the Company's debt. Management believes that Leverage can be one useful measure of a real estate operating company's long-term liquidity and balance sheet strength, because it shows an approximate relationship between a company's total debt and the current total market value of its assets based on the current price at which the company's common stock trades. Changes in Leverage also can influence changes in per share results. A calculation of Leverage as of December 31, 2004 is as follows (dollars in thousands):
Leverage
Because Leverage changes with fluctuations in the Company's stock price, which occurs regularly, the Company's Leverage may change even when the Company's earnings, interest and debt levels remain stable. Investors should also note that the net realizable value of the Company's assets in liquidation is not easily determinable and may differ substantially from the Company's Total Market Capitalization.
 
Attachment 14 (continued)
as calculated by the Company represents NOI generated by real estate assets unencumbered by outstanding secured debt as a percentage of total NOI generated by real estate assets. The Company believes that current and prospective unsecured creditors of the Company view Unencumbered NOI as one indication of the borrowing capacity of the Company. Therefore, when reviewed together with the Company's Interest Coverage, EBITDA and cash flow from operations, the Company believes that investors and creditors view Unencumbered NOI as a useful supplemental measure for determining the financial flexibility of an entity. A calculation of Unencumbered NOI for the year ended December 31, 2004 is as follows (dollars in thousands):
Unencumbered NOI
is calculated by the Company as EBITDA from continuing operations divided by the sum of interest expense and preferred dividends net of interest income. Interest Coverage is presented by the Company because it provides rating agencies and investors an additional means of comparing our liquidity to that of other companies. EBITDA is defined by the Company as net income before interest income and expense, income taxes, depreciation and amortization. Under this definition, which complies with the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, EBITDA includes gains on sale of assets and gains on sale of partnership interests.
Interest Coverage
A reconciliation of EBITDA and a calculation of Interest Coverage for the fourth quarter of 2004 are as follows (dollars in thousands):
In the calculations of EBITDA above, EBITDA from discontinued operations includes $87,288 in gain on sale of communities.
 
Attachment 14 (continued)
represents capital expenditures that will not directly result in revenue earnings or expense savings.
Non-Revenue Generating Capex
is defined as the earlier of (i) attainment of 95% physical occupancy or (ii) the one-year anniversary of completion of development or redevelopment.
Stabilized/Restabilized Operations
, as calculated for certain Development and Redevelopment Communities in lease-up, reflects (i) actual average leased rents for those apartments leased through the end of the quarter net of estimated stabilized concessions, (ii) estimated market rents net of comparable concessions for all unleased apartments and (iii) includes actual and estimated other rental revenue. For Development and Redevelopment Communities not yet in lease-up, Average Rent per Home reflects management's projected rents, including concessions equal to one-half month rent.
Average Rent per Home
on sold communities refers to the internal rate of return calculated by the Company considering the timing and amounts of (i) total revenue during the period owned by the Company and (ii) the gross sales price net of selling costs, offset by (iii) the undepreciated capital cost of the communities at the time of sale and (iv) total direct operating expenses during the period owned by the Company. Each of the items (i), (ii), (iii) and (iv) are calculated in accordance with GAAP.
Unleveraged IRR
The calculation of Unleveraged IRR does not include an adjustment for the Company's general and administrative expense, interest expense, or corporate-level property management and other indirect operating expenses. Therefore, Unleveraged IRR is not a substitute for net income as a measure of our performance. Management believes that the Unleveraged IRR achieved during the period a community is owned by the Company is useful because it is one indication of the gross value created by the Company's acquisition, development or redevelopment, management and sale of the community, before the impact of indirect expenses and Company overhead. The Unleveraged IRR achieved on the communities as cited in this release should not be viewed as an indication of the gross value created with respect to other communities owned by the Company, and the Company does not represent that it will achieve similar Unleveraged IRRs upon the disposition of other communities. The weighted average Unleveraged IRR for sold communities is weighted based on all cash flows over the holding period for each respective community, including net sales proceeds.


