FILE:AVB/AVB-8K-20060125105338.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On January 24, 2006, AvalonBay Communities, Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for the fourth quarter and full year 2005 and providing its 2006 financial outlook. That release referred to certain attachments with supplemental information that were available on the Company's website. The full text of the press release, including the supplemental information and attachments referred to within the release, are furnished as Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2 hereto.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 the registrant has duly caused this report to be filed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
For Immediate Release
reported today that Net Income Available to Common Stockholders for the quarter ended December 31, 2005 was $94,554,000, resulting in Earnings per Share  diluted ("EPS") of $1.26 compared to $1.52 for the comparable period of 2004, a per share decrease of 17.1%. The decrease is primarily attributable to differences in the timing and volume of disposition activity in the fourth quarter of 2005 and the fourth quarter of 2004.
(Alexandria, VA) AvalonBay Communities, Inc. (NYSE/PCX: AVB)
Funds from Operations attributable to common stockholders  diluted ("FFO") for the quarter ended December 31, 2005 was $70,109,000, or $0.93 per share compared to $64,818,000, or $0.88 per share for the comparable period of 2004, a per share increase of 5.7%. The increase in FFO per share for the fourth quarter of 2005 as compared to the fourth quarter of 2004 is primarily attributable to contributions from newly developed communities and improved community operating results.
During the fourth quarter of 2005, Established Communities rental revenue increased 5.2% as compared to the fourth quarter of 2004 or 5.7% with concessions on a cash basis, and operating expenses increased 3.7%. Accordingly, Net Operating Income increased resulting in a 6.0% in the fourth quarter of 2005 as compared to the fourth quarter of 2004.
Full Year 2005 Summary
Highlights for the year ended December 31, 2005 as compared to 2004 include:
Commenting on the Company's results, Bryce Blair, Chairman and CEO said, "2005 was a successful year for AvalonBay. Revenue and NOI growth from communities accelerated throughout 2005. We increased development activity, ending the year with $4.0 billion under construction and in planning, and we achieved the largest increase in FFO per share since 2000. Looking ahead, we are well positioned for continued earnings growth at levels that support additional dividend growth. Recognizing thus, our Board voted to increase the dividend 9.8% for the first quarter 2006."
2006 Financial Outlook
Sustained job growth, limited new supply and declining home affordability contributed to strengthening apartment fundamentals in 2005. Third-party economic forecasts suggest job growth in the Company's markets of 1.7%, supporting additional apartment rental demand in 2006. The Company expects this job growth, combined with expected low levels of new apartment supply, to result in favorable apartment market fundamentals in 2006.
Projected EPS is expected to be within a range of $3.46 to $3.66 for the full year 2006, and is impacted by management's expectation for lower gains on asset sales as a result of fewer dispositions.
 
The Company expects 2006 Projected FFO per share to increase to a range of $3.95 to $4.15 as compared to $3.77 for the full year 2005, resulting in an increase in Projected FFO per share of approximately 7.4% at the mid-point of the range. Adjusting for the net impact of $0.10 of non-routine items in 2005, the Company expects 2006 Projected FFO per share growth of 10.4% at the mid-point of the range.
Management expects the increase in Projected FFO per share for the full year 2006 as compared to 2005 to be driven primarily by: (i) growth in NOI from Established Communities of approximately 6.0% to 7.0%; (ii) an increase in NOI from development and redevelopment; and (iii) lower net interest expense.
For the first quarter of 2006, the Company expects Projected EPS within a range of $1.25 to $1.30. The Company expects Projected FFO per share for the first quarter of 2006 within a range of $0.93 to $0.97. Adjusting for the net impact of $0.07 of non-routine items included in the Company's first quarter 2005 FFO per share of $0.96, Projected FFO per share growth in the first quarter of 2006 is expected to be 6.7% at the mid-point of the range.
The Company's 2006 financial outlook is based on a number of assumptions and estimates. These assumptions and estimates are described more fully in the Company's Full Release and Attachments (as described below under the section titled, Earnings Release and Attachments).
Earnings Conference Call
The Company will hold a conference call on January 25, 2006 at 1:00 PM EST to review and answer questions about these results and projections, the earnings release attachments described below and related matters. To participate on the call, dial 1-877-510-2397 domestically and 1-706-634-5877 internationally. To hear a replay of the call, which will be available from January 25, 2006 until February 1, 2006, dial 1-800-642-1687 domestically and 1-706-645-9291 internationally, and use Access Code: 3529723.
A webcast of the conference call will also be available at http://www.avalonbay.com/earnings, and an on-line playback of the webcast will be available for at least 30 days following the call.
First Quarter 2006 Conference Schedule
The Company is scheduled to present at the Citigroup 2006 REIT CEO Conference in Palm Beach, FL on Tuesday, March 7, 2006 at 11:00 AM EST. Management's presentation will be followed by a question and answer session during which management may discuss the Company's current operating environment; operating trends; development, redevelopment, disposition and acquisition activity; financial outlook and other business and financial matters affecting the Company. The Company's presentation will be accessible via a dial-in phone number which will be available on the Company's website at http://www.avalonbay.com/events beginning March 6, 2006.
Earnings Release and Attachments
In addition to this release, the Company also publishes a complete discussion of its fourth quarter and full year 2005 operating results and its 2006 financial outlook ("the Full Release") and Earnings Release Attachments ("the Attachments") that provide detailed information regarding operating, development, redevelopment, disposition and acquisition activity and projections. The Full Release and the Attachments are considered a part of this release and are available via AvalonBay's website at http://www.avalonbay.com/earnings and via e-mail distribution. The ability to access the Full Release and the Attachments on the Company's website requires the Adobe Acrobat Reader, which may be downloaded at the following website address: http://www.adobe.com/products/acrobat/readstep.html.
Definitions and Reconciliations
The following non-GAAP financial measures and other terms, as used in the text of this earnings release, are defined and further explained on Attachment 1, "Definitions and Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Financial Measures and Other Terms":
About AvalonBay Communities, Inc.
As of December 31, 2005, AvalonBay owned or held an ownership interest in 158 apartment communities containing 45,474 apartment homes in ten states and the District of Columbia, of which 15 communities were under construction and two communities were under reconstruction. AvalonBay is an equity REIT in the business of developing, redeveloping, acquiring and managing apartment communities in high barrier-to-entry markets of the United States. More information on AvalonBay may be found on AvalonBay's website at http://www.avalonbay.com.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
This release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. You can identify these forward-looking statements by the Company's use of words such as "expects," "plans," "estimates," "projects," "intends," "believes" and similar expressions that do not relate to historical matters. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements as a result of risks and uncertainties, which include the following: changes in local employment conditions, demand for apartment homes, supply of competitive housing products, and other economic conditions may result in lower than expected occupancy and/or rental rates and adversely affect the profitability of our communities; increases in costs of materials, labor or other expenses may result in communities that we develop or redevelop failing to achieve expected profitability; development, redevelopment and/or lease-up delays may result in increased financing and construction costs, and may delay and/or reduce the profitability of a community; debt and/or equity financing for development, redevelopment or acquisitions may not be available on favorable terms; we may be unable to obtain, or experience delays in obtaining, necessary governmental permits and authorizations; we may abandon development or redevelopment opportunities for which we have already incurred costs. Additional discussions of risks and uncertainties appear in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004 and the Company's Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for subsequent quarters under the heading "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  Forward-Looking Statements."
The Company does not undertake a duty to update forward-looking statements, including its financial outlook for the first quarter and full year 2006. The Company may, in its discretion, provide information in future public announcements regarding its outlook that may be of interest to the investment community. The format and extent of future outlooks may differ from the format and extent of the information contained in this release.
 
Attachment 1
This release, including its attachments, contains certain non-GAAP financial measures and other terms. The definition and calculation of these non-GAAP financial measures and other terms may differ from the definitions and methodologies used by other REITs and, accordingly, may not be comparable. The non-GAAP financial measures referred to below should not be considered an alternative to net income as an indication of our performance. In addition, these non-GAAP financial measures do not represent cash generated from operating activities in accordance with GAAP and therefore should not be considered as an alternative measure of liquidity or as indicative of cash available to fund cash needs.
is determined based on a definition adopted by the Board of Governors of the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts ("NAREIT"). FFO is calculated by the Company as net income or loss computed in accordance with GAAP, adjusted for gains or losses on sales of previously depreciated operating communities, extraordinary gains or losses (as defined by GAAP), cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle and depreciation of real estate assets, including adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures. Management generally considers FFO to be an appropriate supplemental measure of operating performance because, by excluding gains or losses related to dispositions of previously depreciated operating communities and excluding real estate depreciation (which can vary among owners of identical assets in similar condition based on historical cost accounting and useful life estimates), FFO can help one compare the operating performance of a company's real estate between periods or as compared to different companies. A reconciliation of FFO to net income is as follows (dollars in thousands):
FFO
, as provided within this release in the Company's outlook, is calculated on a consistent basis as historical FFO, and is therefore considered to be an appropriate supplemental measure to projected net income of projected operating performance. A reconciliation of the range provided for Projected FFO per share (diluted) for the first quarter and full year 2006 to the range provided for projected EPS (diluted) is as follows:
Projected FFO
 
Attachment 1 (continued)
are development opportunities in the early phase of the development process for which the Company either has an option to acquire land or enter into a leasehold interest, for which the Company is the buyer under a long-term conditional contract to purchase land or where the Company owns land to develop a new community. The dollar amount for Development Rights represents the Total Capital Cost if the rights were developed as anticipated.
Development Rights
are identified by the Company as communities where a comparison of operating results from the prior year to the current year is meaningful, as these communities were owned and had Stabilized Operations, as defined below, as of the beginning of the prior year. Therefore, for 2005, Established Communities are consolidated communities that have Stabilized Operations as of January 1, 2004 and are not conducting or planning to conduct substantial redevelopment activities within the current year. The number of Established communities was adjusted during the fourth quarter of 2005 to reflect changes in the Company's disposition program. Established Communities do not include communities that are currently held for sale or planned for disposition during the current year.
Established Communities
is defined as the earlier of (i) attainment of 95% physical occupancy or (ii) the one-year anniversary of completion of development.
Stabilized Operations
is defined by the Company as total property revenue less direct property operating expenses (including property taxes), and excludes corporate-level income (including management, development and other fees), corporate-level property management and other indirect operating expenses, investments and investment management, net interest expense, general and administrative expense, joint venture income, minority interest and venture partner interest in profit-sharing, depreciation expense, gain on sale of real estate assets, cumulative effect of change in accounting principle and income from discontinued operations. The Company considers NOI to be an appropriate supplemental measure to net income of operating performance of a community or communities because it helps both investors and management to understand the core operations of a community or communities prior to the allocation of any corporate-level property management overhead or general and administrative costs. This is more reflective of the operating performance of a community, and allows for an easier comparison of the operating performance of single assets or groups of assets. In addition, because prospective buyers of real estate have different overhead structures, with varying marginal impact to overhead by acquiring real estate, NOI is considered by many in the real estate industry to be a useful measure for determining the value of a real estate asset or groups of assets.
NOI
A reconciliation of NOI (from continuing operations) to net income, as well as a breakdown of NOI by operating segment, is as follows (dollars in thousands):
 
Attachment 1 (continued)
NOI as reported by the Company does not include the operating results from discontinued operations (i.e., assets sold or held for sale as of December 31, 2005). A reconciliation of NOI from communities sold or held for sale to net income for these communities is as follows (dollars in thousands):
as reported by the Company are based on the current market rates set by the managers of the Company's communities based on their experience in renting their communities' apartments and publicly available market data. Trends in market rents for a region as reported by others could vary. Market Rents for a period are based on the average Market Rents during that period and do not reflect any impact for cash concessions.
Market Rents
is considered by the Company to be a supplemental measure to rental revenue in conformity with GAAP in helping investors to evaluate the impact of both current and historical concessions on GAAP based rental revenue and to more readily enable comparisons to revenue as reported by other companies. In addition, rental revenue (with concessions on a cash basis) allows an investor to understand the historical trend in cash concessions. A reconciliation of rental revenue from Established Communities in conformity with GAAP to rental revenue (with concessions on a cash basis) is as follows (dollars in thousands):
Rental Revenue with Concessions on a Cash Basis
is defined by the Company as Projected NOI of a single community for the first 12 months of operations (assuming no repositioning), less estimates for non-routine allowance of approximately $200 to $300 per apartment home, divided by the gross sales price for the community. The gross sales price is adjusted for transaction costs and deferred maintenance in determining the Initial Year Market Capitalization Rate for acquisitions. Projected NOI, as referred to above, represents management's estimate of projected rental revenue minus projected operating expenses before interest, income taxes (if any), depreciation, amortization and extraordinary items. For this purpose, management's projection of operating expenses for the community includes a management fee of 3.0% to 3.5%. The Initial Year Market Cap Rate which may be determined in a different manner by others, is a measure frequently used in the real estate industry when determining the appropriate purchase price for a property or estimating the value for the property. Buyers may assign different Initial Year Market Capitalization Rates to different communities when determining the appropriate value because they (i) may project different rates of change in operating expenses, including capital expenditure estimates and (ii) may project different rates of change in future rental revenue due to different estimates for changes in rent and occupancy levels. The weighted average Initial Year Market Capitalization Rate is weighted based on the gross sales price of each community (for dispositions) and on the expected total investment in each community (for acquisitions).
Initial Year Market Cap Rate
is defined as Projected NOI, following renovation, of a single community divided by the total expected investment in each community following completion of renovation. Post-Renovation Yield and Projected NOI are forward-looking statements, and actual results may differ if the cost or duration of renovation is greater than
Post-Renovation Yield
 
Attachment 1 (continued)
expected, the Company does not achieve expected rents, or operating expenses for the community are greater than expected.
on sold communities refers to the internal rate of return calculated by the Company considering the timing and amounts of (i) total revenue during the period owned by the Company and (ii) the gross sales price net of selling costs, offset by (iii) the undepreciated capital cost of the communities at the time of sale and (iv) total direct operating expenses during the period owned by the Company. Each of the items (i), (ii), (iii) and (iv) are calculated in accordance with GAAP.
Unleveraged IRR
The calculation of Unleveraged IRR does not include an adjustment for the Company's general and administrative expense, interest expense, or corporate-level property management and other indirect operating expenses. Therefore, Unleveraged IRR is not a substitute for net income as a measure of our performance. Management believes that the Unleveraged IRR achieved during the period a community is owned by the Company is useful because it is one indication of the gross value created by the Company's acquisition, development or redevelopment, management and sale of the community, before the impact of indirect expenses and Company overhead. The Unleveraged IRR achieved on the communities as cited in this release should not be viewed as an indication of the gross value created with respect to other communities owned by the Company, and the Company does not represent that it will achieve similar Unleveraged IRRs upon the disposition of other communities. The weighted average Unleveraged IRR for sold communities is weighted based on all cash flows over the holding period for each respective community, including net sales proceeds.

 
Exhibit 99.2
For Immediate News Release January 24, 2006
reported today that Net Income Available to Common Stockholders for the quarter ended December 31, 2005 was $94,554,000, resulting in Earnings per Share  diluted ("EPS") of $1.26, compared to $1.52 for the comparable period of 2004, a per share decrease of 17.1%. For the year ended December 31, 2005, EPS was $4.21 compared to $2.92 for the comparable period of 2004, a per share increase of 44.2%. These changes are primarily attributable to the timing and volume of disposition activity in 2005 and 2004, as well as growth in income from existing and newly developed communities.
(Alexandria, VA) AvalonBay Communities, Inc. (NYSE/PCX: AVB)
Funds from Operations attributable to common stockholders  diluted ("FFO") for the quarter ended December 31, 2005 was $70,109,000, or $0.93 per share compared to $64,818,000, or $0.88 per share for the comparable period of 2004, a per share increase of 5.7%. The increase in FFO per share for the quarter ended December 31, 2005 as compared to the comparable period in 2004 is primarily attributable to contributions from newly developed communities and improved community operating results. FFO per share for the year ended December 31, 2005 increased by 12.2% to $3.77 from $3.36 for 2004.
Operating Results for the Quarter Ended December 31, 2005 Compared to the Prior Year Period
, including discontinued operations, total revenue increased by $7,199,000, or 4.2% to $177,602,000. , rental revenue increased 5.2%, comprised of an increase in Average Rental Rates of 4.0% and an increase in Economic Occupancy of 1.2%. As a result, total revenue for Established Communities increased $6,002,000 to $120,882,000, and operating expenses for Established Communities increased $1,362,000 or 3.7% to $38,652,000. Accordingly, Net Operating Income ("NOI") for Established Communities increased by $4,640,000 or 6.0%, to $82,230,000.
For the Company
For Established Communities
The following table reflects the percentage changes in rental revenue, operating expenses and NOI for Established Communities from the fourth quarter of 2004 to the fourth quarter of 2005:
Operating Results for the Year Ended December 31, 2005 Compared to the Prior Year
, including discontinued operations, total revenue increased by $35,685,000, or 5.4% to $697,547,000. , rental revenue increased 3.6%, comprised of an increase in Average Rental Rates of 2.7% and an increase in Economic Occupancy of 0.9%. As a result, total revenue for Established Communities increased $16,545,000 to $472,636,000, and operating expenses for Established Communities increased $3,493,000 or 2.4% to $151,262,000. Accordingly, NOI for Established Communities increased by $13,052,000 or 4.2%, to $321,374,000.
For the Company
For Established Communities
 
The following table reflects the percentage changes in rental revenue, operating expenses and NOI for Established Communities for the year ended December 31, 2005 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2004:
Established Communities Operating Statistics
were $1,526 per home for the Established Community portfolio as a whole in the fourth quarter of 2005, increasing 4.0% as compared to Average Rental Rates for the fourth quarter of 2004.
Average Rental Rates
was 96.8% during the fourth quarter of 2005, increasing 1.2% as compared to 95.6% in the fourth quarter of 2004.
Economic Occupancy
are recognized on an accrual basis in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP") and are amortized over the approximate lease term, which is generally one year. The following table reflects the percentage changes in GAAP rental revenue and rental revenue with concessions on a cash basis for our Established Communities:
Cash concessions
Development Activity
The Company completed development of three communities during the fourth quarter of 2005 for an aggregate Total Capital Cost of $229,900,000. Avalon Chrystie Place I, located in New York, NY, is a high-rise community containing 361 apartment homes and is owned through a joint venture in which the Company holds a 20% interest. Avalon Danbury, located in the Fairfield-New Haven, CT area, is a garden-style community containing 234 homes, and Avalon at Juanita Village is a garden-style community containing 211 apartment homes, located in the Seattle, WA area. Avalon at Juanita Village will be owned and operated through a joint venture partnership to be formed in early 2006.
During 2005, the Company completed development of seven communities, containing an aggregate of 1,971 apartment homes for an aggregate Total Capital Cost of $408,200,000.
The Company commenced construction of four communities during the fourth quarter of 2005: Avalon Chrystie Place II, located in New York, NY; Avalon at Glen Cove North, located in the Long Island, NY area; and Avalon Danvers and Avalon Woburn, both located in the Boston, MA area. These four communities are expected to contain an aggregate of 1,196 apartment homes when completed for an aggregate Total Capital Cost of $309,900,000.
During 2005, the Company commenced construction of twelve communities, which are expected to contain an aggregate of 3,365 apartment homes when completed, for an aggregate Total Capital Cost of $882,700,000.
Disposition Activity
During the fourth quarter of 2005, the Company sold one community, the Tower at Avalon Cove, located in northern New Jersey. This community contained 269 apartment homes and was sold to a condominium converter for a sales price of $106,000,000. This resulted in a gain as reported in accordance with GAAP of $63,718,000 and an Economic Gain of $54,173,000. The Unleveraged IRR over an approximate eight year holding period was 17.8%.
In addition, the Company decided to relocate one of its regional offices and as a result sold an office building in New Canaan, CT. This office building was sold for a sales price of $7,650,000, resulting in a GAAP gain of $2,818,000 and an Economic Gain of $2,356,000.
The Company sold seven communities during 2005, containing a total of 1,305 apartment homes, a regional office building, and three land parcels, for a gross sales price of approximately $382,720,000. These dispositions resulted in a GAAP Gain of $199,766,000, of which $4,479,000 relates to land sales, and an Economic Gain of $184,838,000. Excluding the dispositions of the land parcels and the office building, the weighted average Initial Year Market Cap Rate related to these communities was 3.8%, and the Unleveraged IRR was 18.0%.
In January 2006, the Company sold Avalon Estates, located in Boston, MA. This community contained 162 apartment homes and was sold for a price of $34,550,000. This resulted in a GAAP gain of approximately $16,500,000 and an Economic Gain of approximately $14,300,000. The Unleveraged IRR over a six year holding period was 18.2%.
 
Fund Activity
During the fourth quarter of 2005, AvalonBay Value Added Fund, L.P. (the "Fund"), the private, discretionary investment vehicle in which the Company holds an equity interest of approximately 15%, acquired the following communities:
The Company's pro rata share of the capital investment invested in these acquisitions is approximately $8,606,000. During 2005, the Fund acquired a total of four communities for a combined Total Capital Cost of $99,907,000, at a weighted average Initial Year Market Cap Rate of 5.0% and an expected weighted average Post-Renovation Yield of approximately 5.8%.
In addition, during the fourth quarter of 2005, the Fund completed the redevelopment of Avalon Lakeside for a Total Capital Cost of $18,400,000, of which $14,500,000 was incurred prior to redevelopment. Avalon Lakeside is a garden-style community, located in the Chicago, IL area, containing 204 apartment homes.
Financing, Liquidity and Balance Sheet Statistics
As of December 31, 2005, the Company had $66,800,000 outstanding under its $500,000,000 unsecured credit facility. Leverage, calculated as total debt as a percentage of Total Market Capitalization, was 26.1% at December 31, 2005. Unencumbered NOI for the year ended December 31, 2005 was approximately 85% and Interest Coverage for the fourth quarter of 2005 was 3.0 times.
2006 Financial Outlook
Sustained job growth, limited new supply and declining home affordability contributed to strengthening apartment fundamentals in 2005. Third-party economic forecasts suggest job growth in the Company's markets of 1.7%, supporting additional apartment rental demand in 2006. The Company expects this job growth, combined with expected low levels of new apartment supply, to result in favorable apartment market fundamentals in 2006.
Projected EPS is expected to be within a range of $3.46 to $3.66 for the full year 2006, and is impacted by management's expectation for lower gains on asset sales as a result of fewer dispositions.
The Company expects 2006 Projected FFO per share to increase to a range of $3.95 to $4.15 as compared to $3.77 for the full year 2005, resulting in an increase in Projected FFO per share of approximately 7.4% at the mid-point of the range. The Company's 2005 FFO per share of $3.77 included approximately $0.10 attributable to the net impact of gains from land sales and Rent.com, partially offset by severance costs and costs related to various litigation matters. Adjusting for these non-routine items, the Company expects 2006 Projected FFO per share growth of 10.4% at the mid-point of the range.
Management expects the increase in Projected FFO per share for the full year 2006 as compared to 2005 to be driven primarily by: (i) growth in NOI from Established Communities and other stabilized communities; (ii) an increase in NOI from development and redevelopment; and (iii) lower net interest expense. Net interest expense is expected to be lower in 2006 as compared to 2005 due to higher capitalized interest resulting from increased development activity and a lower average outstanding balance on the Company's unsecured credit facility.
For the first quarter of 2006, the Company expects Projected EPS within a range of $1.25 to $1.30. The Company expects Projected FFO per share for the first quarter of 2006 within a range of $0.93 to $0.97. Adjusting for the net impact of $0.07 of non-routine items included in the Company's first quarter 2005 FFO per share of $0.96, Projected FFO per share growth in the first quarter of 2006 is expected to be 6.7% at the mid-point of the range.
Based on the Company's expectations for continued growth, the Board of Directors voted to increase the Company's quarterly Common Stock dividend 9.8%, from an annualized dividend rate of $2.84 per share to an annualized dividend rate of $3.12 per share.
The Company's 2006 financial outlook is based on a number of assumptions and estimates, which are provided on Attachment 14 of this release. The primary assumptions and estimates include the following:
Property Operations
 
Development
Dispositions
Acquisitions
First Quarter 2006 Conference Schedule
The Company is scheduled to present at the Citigroup 2006 REIT CEO Conference in Palm Beach, FL on Tuesday, March 7, 2006 at 11:00 AM EST. Management's presentation will be followed by a question and answer session during which management may discuss the Company's current operating environment; operating trends; development, redevelopment, disposition and acquisition activity; financial outlook and other business and financial matters affecting the Company. The Company's presentation will be accessible via a dial-in phone number which will be available on the Company's website at http://www.avalonbay.com/events beginning March 6, 2006.
Other Matters
The Company will hold a conference call on January 25, 2006 at 1:00 PM EST to review and answer questions about these results and projections, the earnings release attachments described below and related matters. To participate on the call, dial 1-877-510-2397 domestically and 1-706-634-5877 internationally. To hear a replay of the call, which will be available from January 25, 2006 until February 1, 2006, dial 1-800-642-1687 domestically and 1-706-645-9291 internationally, and use Access Code: 3529723.
A webcast of the conference call will also be available at http://www.avalonbay.com/earnings, and an on-line playback of the webcast will be available for at least 30 days following the call.
The Company produces Earnings Release Attachments (the "Attachments") that provide detailed information regarding operating, development, redevelopment, disposition and acquisition activity. These Attachments are considered a part of this earnings release and are available in full with this earnings release via the Company's website and through e-mail distribution. The full earnings release including the Attachments is available at
 
http://www.avalonbay.com/earnings. To receive future press releases via e-mail, please send a request to ER@AvalonBay.com. Some items referenced in the earnings release may require the Adobe Acrobat Reader. If you do not have the Adobe Acrobat Reader, you may download it at http://www.adobe.com/products/acrobat/readstep.html.
Definitions and Reconciliations
The following non-GAAP financial measures and other terms, as used in the text of this earnings release, are defined and further explained on Attachment 15, "Definitions and Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Financial Measures and Other Terms":
About AvalonBay Communities, Inc.
As of December 31, 2005 the Company owned or held an ownership interest in 158 apartment communities containing 45,474 apartment homes in ten states and the District of Columbia, of which 15 communities were under construction and two communities were under reconstruction. The Company is an equity REIT in the business of developing, redeveloping, acquiring and managing apartment communities in high barrier-to-entry markets of the United States. More information on the Company may be found on the Company's website at http://www.avalonbay.com . For additional information, please contact Thomas J. Sargeant, Chief Financial Officer, at (703) 317-4635 or Alaine Walsh, Director of Investor Relations at (703) 317-4632.
Forward-Looking Statements
This release, including its Attachments, contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. You can identify these forward-looking statements by the Company's use of words such as "expects," "plans," "estimates," "projects," "intends," "believes" and similar expressions that do not relate to historical matters. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements as a result of risks and uncertainties, which include the following: changes in local employment conditions, demand for apartment homes, supply of competitive housing products, and other economic conditions may result in lower than expected occupancy and/or rental rates and adversely affect the profitability of our communities; increases in costs of materials, labor or other expenses may result in communities that we develop or redevelop failing to achieve expected profitability; delays in completing development, redevelopment and/or lease-up may result in increased financing and construction costs, and may delay and/or reduce the profitability of a community; debt and/or equity financing for development, redevelopment or acquisitions of communities may not be available on favorable terms; we may be unable to obtain, or experience delays in obtaining, necessary governmental permits and authorizations; or we may abandon development or redevelopment opportunities for which we have already incurred costs. Additional discussions of risks and uncertainties appear in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004 and the Company's Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for subsequent quarters under the heading "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  Forward-Looking Statements."
The Company does not undertake a duty to update forward-looking statements, including its expected operating results for the first quarter and full year 2006. The Company may, in its discretion, provide information in future public announcements regarding its outlook that may be of interest to the investment community. The format and extent of future outlooks may be different from the format and extent of the information contained in this release.
 
Avalon Chrystie Place I, located in New York City, was completed in the fourth quarter of 2005. This community is located at 2nd Avenue and Houston Street where SoHo meets the East Village. The community is the first of a three phase development which will revitalize this unique, lower Manhattan neighborhood.
Avalon Chrystie Place I is comprised of three distinctive components: residential, retail and a community center. Avalon Chrystie Place I has 361 apartment homes and features a 24-hour concierge service, a community lounge with a billiards table, an exercise facility and a sun deck. The community center contains a competition size swimming pool and basketball court which is available to residents. Substantially all of the retail space is leased to a Whole Foods which, upon completion of all improvements, will be the largest grocery store in Manhattan. The community is located across the street from a park and adjacent to a subway stop.
Avalon Chrystie Place I was completed for a Total Capital Cost of $149 million. Construction of Avalon Chrystie Place II, a 206 apartment home community, commenced this quarter and is anticipated to be completed in the third quarter of 2007 for an estimated Total Capital Cost of $100.8 million.
 
The following is a "Safe Harbor" Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The projections and estimates contained in the following attachments are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, and actual results may differ materially from those projected in such statements. Risks associated with the Company's development, redevelopment, construction, and lease-up activities, which could impact the forward-looking statements made are discussed in the paragraph titled "Forward-Looking Statements" in the release to which these attachments relate. In particular, development opportunities may be abandoned; Total Capital Cost of a community may exceed original estimates, possibly making the community uneconomical and/or affecting projected returns; construction and lease-up may not be completed on schedule, resulting in increased debt service and construction costs; and other risks described in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004 and the Company's Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for subsequent quarters.
 
Attachment 1
 
Attachment 2
 
Attachment 3
 
 
Attachment 4
 
 
Attachment 5
 
 
Attachment 6
 
 
Attachment 7
 
 
Attachment 8
 
Attachment 9
 
Attachment 10
 
Attachment 11
 
Attachment 12
 
Attachment 13
 
Attachment 14
Development Activity
 
Attachment 14 (cont'd.)
This release contains "forward-looking statements" as that term is defined under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. You can identify forward-looking statements by the use of the words "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "intend," "estimate," "assume," and other similar expressions that predict or indicate future events, achievements or trends or that do not relate to historical matters. In addition, all statements about expected 2006 financial and operating data and results, and trends and factors that may affect them, are forward-looking statements.
The Company cannot assure the future results or outcome of the matters described in forward-looking statements; rather, these statements merely reflect management's current expectations of the approximate outcomes of the matters discussed. You should not rely on forward-looking statements because they involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, some of which are beyond the Company's control. These factors may cause the Company's actual performance to differ materially from the anticipated future performance expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. Some of the factors that could cause the Company's actual performance to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, the following:
Additional factors are described in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), including the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004 and the Company's Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for subsequent quarters under the heading "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  Forward-Looking Statements." Further, the Company encourages the review of all of its disclosures in its previous and future SEC filings, which discuss factors that may be material to investors and may materially affect the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. Because of these and other risks and uncertainties, EPS, Projected FFO per share, funds invested in development, amount of development and dispositions completed, changes in Established Communities' revenue, operating expenses and NOI, amount of debt offered, actual changes in expensed and capitalized overhead and interest expense incurred by the Company may be materially greater or less than indicated by the outlook information described in this release.
 
Attachment 15
This release, including its attachments, contains certain non-GAAP financial measures and other terms. The definition and calculation of these non-GAAP financial measures and other terms may differ from the definitions and methodologies used by other REITs and, accordingly, may not be comparable. The non-GAAP financial measures referred to below should not be considered an alternative to net income as an indication of our performance. In addition, these non-GAAP financial measures do not represent cash generated from operating activities in accordance with GAAP and therefore should not be considered as an alternative measure of liquidity or as indicative of cash available to fund cash needs.
is determined based on a definition adopted by the Board of Governors of the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts ("NAREIT"). FFO is calculated by the Company as net income or loss computed in accordance with GAAP, adjusted for gains or losses on sales of previously depreciated operating communities, extraordinary gains or losses (as defined by GAAP), cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle and depreciation of real estate assets, including adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures. Management generally considers FFO to be an appropriate supplemental measure of operating performance because, by excluding gains or losses related to dispositions of previously depreciated operating communities and excluding real estate depreciation (which can vary among owners of identical assets in similar condition based on historical cost accounting and useful life estimates), FFO can help one compare the operating performance of a company's real estate between periods or as compared to different companies. A reconciliation of FFO to net income is as follows (dollars in thousands):
FFO
, as provided within this release in the Company's outlook, is calculated on a consistent basis as historical FFO, and is therefore considered to be an appropriate supplemental measure to projected net income of projected operating performance. A reconciliation of the range provided for Projected FFO per share (diluted) for the first quarter and full year 2006 to the range provided for projected EPS (diluted) is as follows:
Projected FFO
 
 are identified by the Company as communities where a comparison of operating results from the prior year to the current year is meaningful, as these communities were owned and had Stabilized Operations, as defined below, as of the beginning of the prior year. Therefore, for 2005, Established Communities are consolidated communities that have Stabilized Operations as of January 1, 2004 and are not conducting or planning to conduct substantial redevelopment activities within the current year. Established Communities do not include communities that are currently held for sale or planned for disposition during the current year. The number of Established Communities was adjusted during the fourth quarter of 2005 to reflect changes in the Company's disposition program.
Established Communities
 is defined by the company as total property revenue less direct property operating expenses (including property taxes), and excludes corporate-level income (including management, development and other fees), corporate-level property management and other indirect operating expenses, investments and investment management, net interest expense, general and administrative expense, joint venture income, minority interest and venture partner interest in profit-sharing, depreciation expense, gain on sale of real estate assets, cumulative effect of change in accounting principle and income from discontinued operations. The Company considers NOI to be an appropriate supplemental measure to net income of operating performance of a community or communities because it helps both investors and management to understand the core operations of a community or communities prior to the allocation of any corporate-level property management overhead or general and administrative costs. This is more reflective of the operating performance of a community, and allows for an easier comparison of the operating performance of single assets or groups of assets. In addition, because prospective buyers of real estate have different overhead structures, with varying marginal impact to overhead by acquiring real estate, NOI is considered by many in the real estate industry to be a useful measure for determining the value of a real estate asset or groups of assets.
NOI
A reconciliation of NOI (from continuing operations) to net income, as well as a breakdown of NOI by operating segment, is as follows (dollars in thousands):
 
NOI as reported by the Company does not include the operating results from discontinued operations (i.e., assets sold or held for sale as of December 31, 2005). A reconciliation of NOI from communities sold or held for sale to net income for these communities is as follows (dollars in thousands):
, as used within this release for certain Development and Redevelopment Communities and in calculating the Initial Year Market Cap Rate for dispositions, represents management's estimate, as of the date of this release (or as of the date of the buyer's valuation in the case of dispositions), of projected stabilized rental revenue minus projected stabilized operating expenses. For Development and Redevelopment Communities, Projected NOI is calculated based on the first year of Stabilized Operations, as defined below, following the completion of construction. In calculating the Initial Year Market Cap Rate, projected NOI for dispositions is calculated for the first twelve months following the date of the buyer's valuation. Projected stabilized rental revenue represents management's estimate of projected gross potential (based on leased rents for occupied homes and Market Rents, as defined below, for vacant homes) minus projected economic vacancy and adjusted for concessions. Projected stabilized operating expenses do not include interest, income taxes (if any), depreciation or amortization, or any allocation of corporate-level property management overhead or general and administrative costs. The weighted average Projected NOI as a percentage of Total Capital Cost is weighted based on the Company's share of the Total Capital Cost of each community, based on its percentage ownership.
Projected NOI
In this release the Company has not given a projection of NOI on a company-wide basis. Management believes that projected NOI of the Development and Redevelopment communities, on an aggregated weighted average basis, assists investors in understanding management's estimate of the likely impact on operations of the Development and Redevelopment Communities (before allocation of any corporate-level property management overhead, general and administrative costs or interest expense) when they are complete and achieve stabilized occupancy. Given the different dates and fiscal years at which stabilization is projected for these communities, the projected allocation of corporate-level property management overhead, general and administrative costs and interest expense to communities under development or redevelopment is complex, impractical to develop, and of uncertain meaningfulness. Projected NOI of these communities is not a projection of the Company's financial performance or cash flow. There can be no assurance that the communities under development or redevelopment will achieve the Projected NOI used in the calculation of weighted average Projected NOI to Total Capital Cost.
are calculated by the Company as rental revenue in accordance with GAAP, divided by the weighted average number of occupied apartment homes.
Average Rental Rates
is defined as total possible revenue less vacancy loss as a percentage of total possible revenue. Total possible revenue is determined by valuing occupied units at contract rates and vacant units at Market Rents. Vacancy loss is determined by valuing vacant units at current Market Rents. By measuring vacant apartments at their Market Rents, Economic Occupancy takes into account the fact that apartment homes of different sizes and locations within a community have different economic impacts on a community's gross revenue.
Economic Occupancy
 
is considered by the Company to be a supplemental measure to rental revenue in conformity with GAAP in helping investors to evaluate the impact of both current and historical concessions on GAAP based rental revenue and to more readily enable comparisons to revenue as reported by other companies. In addition, rental revenue (with concessions on a cash basis) allows an investor to understand the historical trend in cash concessions. A reconciliation of rental revenue from Established Communities in conformity with GAAP to rental revenue (with concessions on a cash basis) is as follows (dollars in thousands):
Rental Revenue with Concessions on a Cash Basis
includes all capitalized costs projected to be or actually incurred to develop the respective Development or Redevelopment Community, or Development Right, including land acquisition costs, construction costs, real estate taxes, capitalized interest and loan fees, permits, professional fees, allocated development overhead and other regulatory fees, all as determined in accordance with GAAP. With respect to communities where development or redevelopment was completed in a prior or the current period, Total Capital Cost reflects the actual cost incurred, plus any contingency estimate made by management. Total Capital Cost for communities identified as having joint venture ownership, either during construction or upon construction completion, represents the total projected joint venture contribution amount. For joint ventures not in construction, Total Capital Cost is equal to gross real estate value.
Total Capital Cost
is calculated by the Company as the gain on sale in accordance with GAAP, less accumulated depreciation through the date of sale and any other non-cash adjustments that may be required under GAAP accounting. Management generally considers Economic Gain to be an appropriate supplemental measure to gain on sale in accordance with GAAP because it helps investors to understand the relationship between the cash proceeds from a sale and the cash invested in the sold community. The Economic Gain for each of the communities presented is estimated based on their respective final settlement statements. A reconciliation of Economic Gain for the year ended December 31, 2005 to gain on sale in accordance with GAAP is presented on Attachment 13. For the disposition of Avalon Estates, which occurred subsequent to December 31, 2005, the Economic Gain of approximately $14,300,000 represents a GAAP gain of approximately $16,500,000 less accumulated depreciation of $2,200,000.
Economic Gain
is defined by the Company as Projected NOI of a single community for the first 12 months of operations (assuming no repositioning), less estimates for non-routine allowance of approximately $200 - $300 per apartment home, divided by the gross sales price for the community. The gross sales price is adjusted for transaction costs and deferred maintenance in determining the Initial Year Market Cap Rate for acquisitions. Projected NOI, as referred to above, represents management's estimate of projected rental revenue minus projected operating expenses before interest, income taxes (if any), depreciation, amortization and extraordinary items. For this purpose, management's projection of operating expenses for the community includes a management fee of 3.0% - 3.5%. The Initial Year Market Cap Rate, which may be determined in a different manner by others, is a measure frequently used in the real estate industry when determining the appropriate purchase price for a property or estimating the value for the property. Buyers may assign different Initial Year Market Cap Rates to different communities when determining the appropriate value because they (i) may project different rates of change in operating expenses and capital expenditure estimates and (ii) may project different rates of change in future rental revenue due to different estimates for changes in rent and occupancy levels. The weighted average Initial Year Market Cap Rate is weighted based on the gross sales price of each community (for dispositions) and on the expected total investment in each community (for acquisitions).
Initial Year Market Cap Rate
is defined as Projected NOI, following renovation, of a single community divided by the total expected investment in each community following completion of renovation. Post-Renovation Yield and Projected NOI are forward-looking statements, and actual results may differ if the cost or duration of renovation is greater than expected, the Company does not achieve expected rents, or operating expenses for the community are greater than expected.
Post-Renovation Yield
 
on sold communities refers to the internal rate of return calculated by the Company considering the timing and amounts of (i) total revenue during the period owned by the Company and (ii) the gross sales price net of selling costs, offset by (iii) the undepreciated capital cost of the communities at the time of sale and (iv) total direct operating expenses during the period owned by the Company. Each of the items (i), (ii), (iii) and (iv) are calculated in accordance with GAAP.
Unleveraged IRR
The calculation of Unleveraged IRR does not include an adjustment for the Company's general and administrative expense, interest expense or corporate-level property management and other indirect operating expenses. Therefore, Unleveraged IRR is not a substitute for net income as a measure of our performance. Management believes that the Unleveraged IRR achieved during the period a community is owned by the Company is useful because it is one indication of the gross value created by the Company's acquisition, development or redevelopment, management and sale of the community, before the impact of indirect expenses and Company overhead. The Unleveraged IRR achieved on the communities as cited in this release should not be viewed as an indication of the gross value created with respect to other communities owned by the Company, and the Company does not represent that it will achieve similar Unleveraged IRRs upon the disposition of other communities. The weighted average Unleveraged IRR for sold communities is weighted based on all cash flows over the holding period for each respective community, including net sales proceeds.
is calculated by the Company as total debt as a percentage of Total Market Capitalization. Total Market Capitalization represents the aggregate of the market value of the Company's common stock, the market value of the Company's operating partnership units outstanding (based on the market value of the Company's common stock), the liquidation preference of the Company's preferred stock and the outstanding principal balance of the Company's debt. Management believes that Leverage can be one useful measure of a real estate operating company's long-term liquidity and balance sheet strength, because it shows an approximate relationship between a company's total debt and the current total market value of its assets based on the current price at which the company's common stock trades. Changes in Leverage also can influence changes in per share results. A calculation of Leverage as of December 31, 2005 is as follows (dollars in thousands):
Leverage
Because Leverage changes with fluctuations in the Company's stock price, which occurs regularly, the Company's Leverage may change even when the Company's earnings, interest and debt levels remain stable. Investors should also note that the net realizable value of the Company's assets in liquidation is not easily determinable and may differ substantially from the Company's Total Market Capitalization.
 
as calculated by the Company represents NOI generated by real estate assets unencumbered by outstanding secured debt as a percentage of total NOI generated by real estate assets. The Company believes that current and prospective unsecured creditors of the Company view Unencumbered NOI as one indication of the borrowing capacity of the Company. Therefore, when reviewed together with the Company's Interest Coverage, EBITDA and cash flow from operations, the Company believes that investors and creditors view Unencumbered NOI as a useful supplemental measure for determining the financial flexibility of an entity. A calculation of Unencumbered NOI for the year ended December 31, 2005 is as follows (dollars in thousands):
Unencumbered NOI
is calculated by the Company as EBITDA from continuing operations divided by the sum of interest expense, net, and preferred dividends. Interest Coverage is presented by the Company because it provides rating agencies and investors an additional means of comparing our liquidity to that of other companies. EBITDA is defined by the Company as net income before interest income and expense, income taxes, depreciation and amortization. Under this definition, which complies with the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, EBITDA includes gains on sale of assets and gains on sale of partnership interests.
Interest Coverage
A reconciliation of EBITDA and a calculation of Interest Coverage for the fourth quarter of 2005 are as follows (dollars in thousands):
In the calculations of EBITDA above, EBITDA from discontinued operations includes $66,398 in gain on sale of communities and land.
represents capital expenditures that will not directly result in revenue earnings or expense savings.
Non-Revenue Generating Capex
is defined as the earlier of (i) attainment of 95% physical occupancy or (ii) the one-year anniversary of completion of development or redevelopment.
Stabilized/Restabilized Operations
 
, as calculated for certain Development and Redevelopment Communities in lease-up, reflects (i) actual average leased rents for those apartments leased through the end of the quarter net of estimated stabilized concessions, (ii) estimated market rents net of comparable concessions for all unleased apartments and (iii) includes actual and estimated other rental revenue. For Development and Redevelopment Communities not yet in lease-up. Average Rent per Home reflects management's projected rents.
Average Rent per Home
represent the Total Capital Cost, projected through construction completion, for those communities that start or complete development in the indicated period.
Development Starts and Development Completions
represents the portion of the Total Capital Cost incurred during the indicated period with respect to all development communities, regardless of their start or completion date.
Cash Disbursed for Development


