FILE:AVB/AVB-8K-20090206143506.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
This Current Report on Form 8-K/A amends the Current Report on Form 8-K (the "Form 8-K") of AvalonBay Communities, Inc. (the "Company"), filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 5, 2009. On February 4, 2009, the Company issued a press release announcing its financial results for the fourth quarter and full year 2008. That release referred to certain attachments with supplemental information that were available on the Company's website. The full text of the press release, including the supplemental information and attachments referred to within the release (collectively, the "Earnings Release"), were furnished as Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2 to the .
Form 8-K
As a result of a typographical error, the dollar amounts of certain items shown in footnote 1 to the table under the heading "FFO" on Attachment 17, "Definitions and Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Financial Measures and Other Terms," were incorrectly shown in the Earnings Release. The per-share amounts shown in the table on the first page of the earnings release were correct. The items involved are: Federal excise tax, Fund II organizational costs, Gain on medium-term notes repurchase and Preferred stock deferred offering expenses. The correct amounts for footnote 1 are reflected in the table below, and no other amounts are involved.
The version of the Earnings Release with attachments that has been posted to the Company's website has been updated to reflect this correction.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be filed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


