FILE:NU/NU-8K-20031216183855.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549-1004 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported) December 16, 2003 ------------------- Commission File Number 1-5324 ------ NORTHEAST UTILITIES -------------------- (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) MASSACHUSETTS 04-2147929 ---------------------- --------------- (State or other jurisdiction of (I.R.S. Employer incorporation or organization) Identification No.) 174 BRUSH HILL AVENUE, WEST SPRINGFIELD, MASSACHUSETTS 01090-0010 ----------------------------------------------------------------- (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code) (413) 785-5871 (Registrant's telephone number, including area code) Not Applicable -------------- (Former name or former address, if changed since last report) ITEM 5. OTHER EVENTS On December, 16, 2003, Northeast Utilities ("NU") announced that Michael G. Morris, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of NU, has been named president and chief executive officer of American Electric Power, Inc., effective January 1, 2004. NU's Board of Trustees has named Elizabeth T. Kennan, Lead Trustee, as interim Chairman of the Board, and Charles W. Shivery, President - Competitive Group, as interim President, effective in each case January 1, 2004. An executive search committee will conduct a search for a new chief executive officer. For further information concerning this matter, see Exhibit 99. ITEM 7. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS Exhibit 99 Northeast Utilities News Release dated December 16, 2003. [SIGNATURE PAGE TO FOLLOW] SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. NORTHEAST UTILITIES (Registrant) By: /s/ Randy A. Shoop Name: Randy A. Shoop Title: Assistant Treasurer - Finance Date: December 16, 2003

Exhibit 99 News Release CONTACT: Deborah L. Beauchamp (Media) Jeff Kotkin (Investors) Office: (860) 665-5423 (860) 665-5154 After Hours: 1-800-286-2000 1-800-286-2000 NU Announces Interim Leadership BERLIN, Connecticut, December 16, 2003 - The Northeast Utilities (NYSE: NU) Board of Trustees today announced interim leadership positions effective January 1, 2004 and the formation of an executive search committee to select a new chief executive officer. Charles W. Shivery is appointed interim NU President, with responsibility for all aspects of the company. NU Lead Trustee Elizabeth T. Kennan is appointed interim Chairman of the NU Board. Shivery, 58, is currently president of NU's Competitive Group, responsible for the strategic growth and performance of NU's competitive energy businesses which includes Select Energy, Select Energy Services, Northeast Generation Services Company, and Northeast Generation Company. This group provides electricity, natural gas, related energy supply and services, as well as specialized generation services primarily in the 11 states region from Maine to Maryland. Shivery joined NU in 2002, having retired earlier that year as co-president of the Constellation Energy Group, parent company of Baltimore Gas & Electric (BG&E) and other energy-related businesses. He has held numerous senior management positions at Constellation including: chairman, president and chief executive officer of Constellation Power Source; chairman and chief executive officer of Constellation Energy Source; president and director of Constellation Energy Solutions; director of Orion Power Holdings; and vice president, chief financial officer and secretary of BG&E. He joined BG&E in 1972 after four years in the U.S. Navy. Kennan, 65, has served as Lead NU Trustee for seven years. She led the search for Mike Morris who today announced his departure as NU chairman, president and chief executive officer to join American Electric Power Company as president and chief executive officer. Kennan is President Emeritus of Mount Holyoke College, Massachusetts. "These interim positions will enable a deliberate selection process to proceed as the NU Board of Trustees fulfills its obligation to employees, shareholders and customers to appoint a senior leader," said Kennan. "We made tremendous strides under Mike's leadership, and will now continue with the same momentum as we fulfill our customer commitment to provide safe and reliable energy services." John H. Forsgren, 57, will continue in his role as vice chairman of the Board, executive vice president and Chief Financial Officer. Cheryl Grise', 51, will remain as President of the Utility Group and Chief Executive Officer of its principal operating subsidiaries. Northeast Utilities (NYSE: NU) is a Fortune 500 diversified energy company located in Connecticut with operations throughout the Northeast. Through its competitive and regulated subsidiaries, NU provides Energy for a Changing World, with a full range of energy products and services to millions of residential and business customers from Maine to Maryland. From delivering electricity and natural gas, to marketing energy commodities, to operating and maintaining power plant facilities, NU is committed to safety, reliability and expanding consumers' energy options. For more information on Northeast Utilities and its subsidiaries, visit the NU family of Web sites at www.nu.com. # # #


