FILE:NU/NU-8K-20051107064145.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Section 2   -
Financial Information
Item 2.02
Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On November 7, 2005, Northeast Utilities issued a news release announcing its unaudited results of operations for the third quarter and year to date 2005 and related financial information for certain of its subsidiaries for the same periods.  A copy of the news release and related financial reports are attached as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, and are incorporated herein by reference thereto.  The information contained in this Item 2.02, including Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, shall not be deemed "filed" with the Securities and Exchange Commission nor incorporated by reference in any registration statement filed by Northeast Utilities or any of its affiliates under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specified otherwise.
Section 7   -
Regulation FD
Item 7.01   
Regulation FD Disclosure
On November 7, 2005, NU made a slideshow presentation at the Edison Electric Institute's Finance Conference in Hollywood, Florida.  The slides are attached hereto as Exhibit 99.3, incorporated in this Item 7 by reference thereto, and are furnished pursuant to Regulation FD.
The information contained in this Item 7.01, including Exhibit 99.3, shall not be deemed "filed" with the Securities and Exchange Commission nor incorporated by reference in any registration statement filed by Northeast Utilities, The Connecticut Light and Power Company, Public Service Company of New Hampshire or Western Massachusetts Electric Company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specified otherwise.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 
 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c)
 Exhibits.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on their behalves by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:  November 7, 2005

Exhibit 99.1
News Release
NU TO FOCUS ON ITS REGULATED BUSINESSES, DIVEST ALL COMPETITIVE BUSINESSES BY END OF 2006
Proceeds from Sale of Competitive Businesses to Be Used to Reduce Debt, Fund Continued Capital Investment in Company's Regulated Businesses
NU's Regulated Transmission, Distribution and Generation Operations Are Strong, Continue to Perform Well
Third-Quarter Results Largely Reflect Losses in Wholesale Marketing Business Being Divested
Company Reaffirms 2005 Earnings Guidance and Provides Guidance for 2006
Broadening a strategy launched earlier this year when it announced its intention to exit the competitive energy wholesale marketing and services businesses, Northeast Utilities (NU-NYSE) today announced that it will also divest its other competitive businessesgeneration and retail marketingto focus entirely on its regulated transmission, distribution and generation operations.  The company expects to complete the sale of its competitive businesses by the end of 2006, and will apply net sale proceeds to debt reduction and capital investment in its regulated businesses.
BERLIN, Connecticut, November 7, 2005
NU today also issued its financial results for the third quarter, which showed wholesale mark to market and operating losses driven primarily by higher volumes and energy prices.  Additionally, NU reaffirmed its 2005 regulated company earnings guidance; released 2006 earnings guidance for its regulated companies; and issued progress reports on its previously announced divestiture and capital investment plans.
Commenting on the company's decision to focus entirely on its strong and successful regulated operations, Charles W. Shivery, NU chairman, president and chief executive officer, said, "The steps we are taking will transform NU and better align our business strategy with New England's energy infrastructure needs.  Monetizing the value of our competitive coal-fired, pumped storage and hydroelectric generation assets will provide additional resources for our regulated capital spending programs.  That, in turn, will improve system reliability and help us better serve our customers.  Focusing solely on our regulated businesses will also simplify our business model, increase our earnings predictability, lower our risk profile, and drive our earnings and dividend growth, all of which will help us achieve a key objective: building value for all NU shareholders."
NU's decision to divest two of its four competitive business lineswholesale marketing and energy serviceswas announced in March 2005, and NU has since made significant progress in implementing that decision.  Shivery reported that accomplishments since that date include:
Agreeing to terminate or transfer to third parties all New England wholesale marketing obligations, including 14 long-term, below-market contracts with municipal electric systems.  Payments totaling approximately $131 million were made to several municipalities to terminate those obligations in the third quarter and approximately $97 million of additional payments will be paid to counterparties in the fourth quarter.  NU has now eliminated approximately 70 percent of the net obligations it had in its entire wholesale book.
Reaching agreements in principle or signed letters of intent to sell two of its six energy services businesses to third parties for a total of approximately $6 million.  NU Enterprises, Inc. (NUEI), the holding company for Select Energy and NU's other competitive businesses, expects to close on those agreements by the end of this month and to sell its other services businesses in 2006.
NU's 1,440 megawatts of competitive generation are located in Massachusetts and Connecticut and include approximately 1,110 megawatts of pumped storage units, approximately 165 megawatts of conventional hydroelectric generation, 145 megawatts of base load coal-fired generation, and about 20 megawatts of combustion turbine peaking generation.  "We expect these units to attract considerable interest," Shivery said.
NU will retain nearly 1,200 MW of regulated generation located in New Hampshire, which cost-effectively serves customers of its Public Service Company of New Hampshire (PSNH) subsidiary.
"We are becoming a more focused company with a higher degree of financial certainty," Shivery said.  "We believe the new business model we are creating will better enable us to make the capital investments necessary to serve our customers, reduce our risk profile, and make NU a more attractive investment."
EARNINGS GUIDANCE
NU today reaffirmed its earlier earnings guidance for 2005 of between $1.22 per share and $1.30 per share for its regulated companies, including earnings of between $0.96 per share and $1.00 per share at its electric and natural gas distribution businesses and between $0.26 per share and $0.30 per share at its regulated electric transmission business.  NU also projects parent company expenses of between $0.08 per share and $0.13 per share.  Through the first three quarters of 2005, NU's regulated businesses earned $0.88 per share, and NU recorded parent and other expenses of approximately $0.08 per share.
NU today established 2006 earnings guidance of between $1.21 per share and $1.31 per share for its regulated business, as well as parent company expenses of between $0.09 per share and $0.12 per share.  The regulated earnings range includes projected earnings of between $0.89 per share and $0.96 per share at NU's electric and natural gas distribution businesses and between $0.32 per share and $0.35 per share at NU's electric transmission businesses.  Those ranges reflect the expected issuance of additional common equity in either late 2005 or early 2006.  NU is not providing guidance for 2005 or 2006 for its competitive energy businesses.  However, Shivery said that fourth-quarter-2005 results could be adversely affected by the decision to exit the competitive retail generation business, as accounting principles may require the company to recognize impairments and mark to marke t losses in the period.
THIRD-QUARTER RESULTS
NU reported a modest improvement in third-quarter regulated results compared with 2004, and a significant loss at NU Enterprises, Inc., the holding company for NU's competitive businesses, primarily as a result of the wholesale marketing business NU is divesting.  Overall, NU reported a third-quarter-2005 loss of $94.5 million, or $0.73 per share, compared with a loss of $7.9 million, or $0.06 per share, in the third quarter of 2004.  For the first nine months of 2005, NU lost $239.9 million, or $1.85 per share, compared with earnings of $83.5 million, or $0.65 per share, in the first nine months of 2004.  Third-quarter results in both 2005 and 2004 were significantly affected by the marking to market of Select Energy's wholesale energy positions.
Regulated businesses
NU's four regulated utilities earned $38.6 million in the third quarter of 2005, compared with earnings of $37.8 million in the same period of 2004.  For the nine months ended September 30, 2005, NU's regulated companies earned $114.3 million, compared with $118.3 million in the first nine months of 2004.  Those results include transmission business earnings of $12.2 million in the third quarter and $31.6 million in the first nine months of 2005, compared with earnings of $11.0 million in the third quarter and $23.6 million in the first nine months of 2004.  Distribution and regulated generation earnings totaled $26.4 million in the third quarter and $82.7 million in the first nine months of 2005, compared with earnings of $26.8 million in the third quarter and $94.7 million in the first nine months of 2004.  Shivery said NU benefited from a much hotter summer in 2005 compared to the relatively mild summer in 2004, and from rate increases that took effect in the first half of 2005.  Those benefits, however, were mostly offset, he said, by higher interest, operation, and maintenance expense, as well as by certain nonrecurring items that benefited earnings in the third quarter of 2004.  Some of the higher operation and maintenance expense was driven by the same hotter weather that increased retail sales.
In the third quarter of 2005, regulated electric sales were up 6.8 percent compared with the same period of 2004.  Over the first nine months of 2005, regulated electric sales were up 2.3 percent compared with the same period of 2004.  On a weather-adjusted basis, however, sales were up only 0.3 percent in the third quarter and down 1.0 percent for the year.
The Connecticut Light and Power Company (CL&P) and PSNH both benefited in the third quarter of 2004 from items that did not recur in 2005.  CL&P's third-quarter 2004 results included a $6 million after-tax benefit from an August 2004 state regulatory decision modifying a previous rate order.  PSNH's third-quarter 2004 earnings benefited from a lower effective tax rate related to an adjustment of tax reserves.
NU today also provided progress reports on its continuing capital investment program.  Shivery said NU's capital expenditures totaled $521.5 million through the first nine months of 2005, including $508.1 million in its regulated businesses.  NU continues to project total capital expenditures of $740 million in 2005.
Shivery said five of NU's major infrastructure projects, representing a projected capital investment of more than $1.6 billion by the end of 2009, remain on schedule.  CL&P's 21-mile, 345-kV transmission project between Bethel and Norwalk, Connecticut, is now approximately 50 percent complete.  The Yankee Gas Services Company's (Yankee Gas) 1.2 billion cubic foot liquefied natural gas storage facility in Waterbury, Connecticut, is now about 35 percent complete.  Also, PSNH is approximately 65 percent complete on its conversion of a 50-MW, coal-fired generating unit at Schiller Station in Portsmouth, New Hampshire, to burn wood chips.  CL&P continues to prepare the final engineering and construction documents for a 69-mile, 345-kV transmission line between Norwalk and Middletown, Connecticut, and on a nine-mile, 115-kV transmission project between Norwalk and the Gl enbrook section of Stamford, Connecticut.  Both of those projects received regulatory approval earlier this year.
NU said it expects to spend up to $4.3 billion on capital projects in its regulated businesses from 2006 through 2010, investing up to $2.3 billion on high-voltage electric transmission, including the projects noted above, and approximately $2.0 billion on regulated electric and gas distribution and regulated generation, including the Schiller Station and gas storage facilities noted above.
Competitive businesses
NUEI lost a total of $129.6 million in the third quarter of 2005 and $344.1 million in the first nine months of 2005, compared with losses of $43.0 million in the third quarter of 2004 and $20.2 million in the first nine months of 2004.  Shivery attributed the 2005 losses to marking to market the longer-term wholesale electricity contracts noted above, and to heavy electric loads in the summer of 2005 that required Select Energy to purchase additional energy supplies at higher than projected price levels.
NU's four competitive businesses, all of which are now slated for divestiture, include retail marketing, wholesale marketing, energy services, and competitive generation.  As previously indicated, retail marketing results were negatively impacted by a requirement to account for the sourcing of its customers' electric requirements at current market prices for sales contracts signed in the past at lower prices.  This was necessitated by the fact that the source of those contracts, wholesale marketing, is being divested.  As a result, a first-quarter-2005 gain on those retail contracts of $59.9 million was recorded, but second- and third-quarter 2005 results were negatively affected.  In the third quarter of 2005, that factor lowered retail marketing results by approximately $19.6 million.  Absent that impact, retail marketing earned $1.1 million in the third quarter of 2005 and $3.9 million in the first nine months of 2005.  
NUEI's retail marketing business serves approximately 30,000 customer accounts in three power pools in the northeast and mid-Atlantic United States and is expected to generate approximately $1.1 billion in revenues in 2005.
The following table reconciles 2005 and 2004 third-quarter and year-to-date earnings.  
Third-quarter and year-to-date financial results for NU's regulated businesses and competitive business lines are noted below:
Three months ended:
Nine months ended:
* $59.9 million gain in the first quarter of 2005 that affected the retail transfer price is classified as a wholesale contract market change.
NU has approximately 130 million common shares outstanding.  It operates New England's largest energy delivery system, serving approximately 2 million customers in Connecticut, New Hampshire and Massachusetts.
This news release includes statements concerning NU's expectations, plans, objectives, future financial performance and other statements that are not historical facts.  These statements are "forward looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  In some cases the reader can identify these forward looking statements by words such as "estimate", "expect", "anticipate", "intend", "plan", "believe", "forecast", "should", "could", and similar expressions.  Forward looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those included in the forward looking statements.  Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those included in the forward looking statements incl ude, but are not limited to, actions by state and federal regulatory bodies, competition and industry restructuring, changes in economic conditions, changes in weather patterns, changes in laws, regulations or regulatory policy, expiration or initiation of significant energy supply contracts, changes in levels of capital expenditures, developments in legal or public policy doctrines, technological developments, volatility in electric and natural gas commodity markets, effectiveness of our risk management policies and procedures, changes in accounting standards and financial reporting regulations, fluctuations in the value of electricity positions, the methods, timing and results of the disposition of competitive businesses, terrorist attacks on domestic energy facilities, and other presently unknown or unforeseen factors. Other risk factors are detailed from time to time in our reports to the Securities and Exchange Commission.  We undertake no obligation to update the information contained in any forwa rd looking statements to reflect developments or circumstances occurring after the statement is made.
Note:  NU will Webcast an investor meeting Monday, November 7, 2005, at 7:30 a.m. Eastern Standard Time.  The call can be accessed through NU's website at www.nu.com.

The data contained in this report is preliminary and is unaudited.  This report is being submitted for the sole purpose of providing information to present shareholders about Northeast Utilities and Subsidiaries and is not a representation, prospectus, or intended for use in connection with any purchase or sale of securities.
The data contained in this report is preliminary and is unaudited.  This report is being submitted for the sole purpose of providing information to present shareholders about Northeast Utilities and Subsidiaries and is not a representation, prospectus, or intended for use in connection with any purchase or sale of securities.
The data contained in this report is preliminary and is unaudited.  This report is being submitted for the sole purpose of providing information to present shareholders about Northeast Utilities and Subsidiaries and is not a representation, prospectus, or intended for use in connection with any purchase or sale of securities.

Exhibit 99.3
SLIDE 1
NU Logo
Northeast Utilities System
SLIDE 2
Safe Harbor Provisions
This presentation contains statements concerning NU's expectations, plans, objectives, future financial performance and other statements that are not historical facts.  These statements are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  In some cases, a listener can identify these forward-looking statements by words such as "estimate", "expect", "anticipate", "intend", "plan", "believe", "forecast", "should", "could", and similar expressions.  Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those included in the forward-looking statements.  Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those included in the forward-looking statements include, but ar e not limited to, actions by state and federal regulatory bodies; competition and industry restructuring; changes in economic conditions; changes in weather patterns; changes in laws, regulations or regulatory policy; expiration or initiation of significant energy supply contracts; changes in levels of capital expenditures; developments in legal or public policy doctrines; technological developments; volatility in electric and natural gas commodity markets; effectiveness of our risk management policies and procedures; changes in accounting standards and financial reporting regulations; fluctuations in the value of electricity positions; the methods, timing and results of the disposition of competitive businesses; terrorist attacks on domestic energy facilities; and other presently unknown or unforeseen factors.  Other risk factors are detailed from time to time in our reports to the Securities and Exchange Commission.  We undertake no obligation to update the information contained in any forward-lo oking statements to reflect developments or circumstances occurring after the statement is made.
SLIDE 3
Today's Announcements
Divest all competitive business and focus solely on regulated utilities
Update five-year regulated capital expenditure estimates
Issue third-quarter results and reaffirm 2005 guidance
Establish 2006 guidance
Report on divestiture of wholesale, energy services business
SLIDE 4
Third-Quarter Results
Consolidated loss of $94.5 million
Regulated business earnings of $38.6 million, up 2.1% from 2004
-
Hot weather, rate increases, higher transmission earnings offset by higher costs, absence of 2004 nonrecurring benefits
Competitive business loss of $129.6 million
-
Wholesale and retail mark-to-market losses of $95 million
Parent, other costs of $3.5 million
-
Consistent with guidance
SLIDE 5
Key Developments in 2005
Transmission
-
Approvals of key southwest Connecticut projects
-
Bethel/Norwalk project ahead of schedule
-
Earnings growth continuing to track increased investment
Distribution
-
Major projects (LNG, Northern Wood) on schedule
-
Earnings on track
-
Full pass-through of rising energy, capacity costs
Competitive
-
Decided on full divestiture
-
Continued progress exiting wholesale marketing, energy services
-
Signed agreements to divest New England wholesale marketing book by 1/1/06 at a total cost of $230 million; $155 million paid to date
-
Negotiating reduction of PJM, New York wholesale marketing obligations
-
Expect to close on two of six services businesses this month
SLIDE 6
Corporate Strategy for 2006 and Beyond
-
Divest all non-regulated businesses during 2006
-
Simplify business model
-
Reduce business risk and improve financial flexibility
-
Enhance earnings visibility
-
Capitalize on increasing valuation of generation assets
-
Focus on regulated utility infrastructure capital expenditure programs
-
Transmission: To meet customers needs, up to $2.3 billion of capex in 2006-2010 vs. projected 12/31/05 rate base of $650 million
-
Distribution and generation: Approximately $2 billion of capex in 2006-2010 vs. projected 12/31/05 rate base of $2.85 billion
-
Finance regulated capital expenditures with appropriate combination of debt and equity to maintain investment grade ratings
SLIDE 7
Why Are We Moving in This Direction?
SLIDE 8
We Will Transform Ourselves Into a 100% Regulated Utility
[Chart illustrating transformation of business into a regulated utility]
SLIDE 9
Necessary Regulated Capital Investment Will Produce
Substantial Rate Base Growth
Bar Chart Illustrating Cash Capital Expenditures in Millions and comparing Regulated Capital Expenditures and Depreciation
SLIDE 10
NU is the Focus of New England's Transmission
Infrastructure Update
-
ISO-NE has identified 272 transmission projects in its Regional System Plan
-
NU's projects comprise 55% of the projected capital expenditures in the plan
[Pie Chart Illustrating breakdown in percentages by company of the projected capital expenditures in the ISO-NE's Regional System Plan]
SLIDE 11
Transmission Will Comprise a Much Larger Share of
NU's Regulated Mix
SLIDE 11 (Continued)
[Pie Chart illustrating percentages of $3.5 billion rate base]
SLIDE 12
Projected Transmission Rate Base Growth
[Bar Chart illustrating Projected Transmission Rate Base Growth]
SLIDE 13
Projected Distribution and Regulated Generation Rate Base
[Bar Chart illustrating Projected Distribution and Regulated Generation Rate Growth]
SLIDE 14
Transmission Strategy
SLIDE 15
We are Confident in Our Ability to Execute the Strategic Plan
A review of our status over the past year shows significant forward progress
SLIDE 16
New England's Transmission Needs Provide for a Significant
Investment Opportunity
-
New England faces significant energy challenges, including the need for new transmission infrastructure
-
The current 345 kV backbone grid in New England is inadequate
-
Regional load pockets exist where uneconomic generation resources must be committed for reliability
-
Comprehensive plan will improve reliability while further enabling competitive markets, and creating savings for customers
-
It will also reward NU shareholders with a fair, FERC-regulated return on their invested capital
SLIDE 17
New England uses an Open Stakeholder Process to
Identify Regional Needs and Develop Solutions
{Wagon wheel chart illustrating the ISO NE Regional Plan System)
-
The Regional System Plan is a comprehensive approach to meet regional needs
-
The transmission aspect of that plan forms the basis of NU's transmission business strategy
SLIDE 18
We Will Deploy Significant Capital Over the Next Five Years
[Bar chart showing capital spending historic and forecast for the period from 2006  2010]
 - 
Spending on major projects in Connecticut represents 80% of capital spending over the next three years.
 - 
The majority of our capital spending is secure from a siting viewpoint.
 - 
During 2006 we expect to complete the Bethel-Norwalk project and be well into the construction phase on the Middletown-Norwalk and the Glenbrook Cables projects.
SLIDE 19
The Changes in the Capital Program from Last Year are
Largely Driven by New Regional System Plan Projects
Bar Chart illustrating costs for new regional system plan projects, comparing prior forecast (2005-2009) to current forecast (2006-2010)
SLIDE 20
NU's Transmission Revenue Requirements are 100%
FERC Regulated
 - 
NU's FERC-approved transmission tariffs fully track all transmission costs
-
Rates are forward looking, based on forecasted investment level
-
Rates are adjusted every six months
-
Rates are trued up annually
 - 
The combination of forward looking rates and the annual true-up provision lowers the risk associated with recovery of transmission investment
 - 
FERC's policies provide strong incentives for transmission investment, including ROE and CWIP in rate base treatment
SLIDE 21
NU Collects its Revenue Requirements Through a
Combination of Regional and Local Tariffs
-
ISO determines cost allocation for each project
-
Regionalized cost allocation results in a large component of our revenue requirements being recovered from non-NU companies in New England
-
At the distribution level, we have trackers in Connecticut and Massachusetts that allow for timely recovery
SLIDE 22
Transmission Investment Provides for Strong Growth
Based on current transmission investment schedule, NU's transmission-related rate base is expected to grow at a 29% CAGR
[Bar chart illustrating growth rate of transmission rate base growth]
*  
Spending levels depend on final level and timing of all projects.  Capital expenditures reflect 50% CWIP in Rate Base treatment for four southwest Connecticut projects.
SLIDE 23
Our Investments Will Provide Significant Benefits for Customers
and Earnings for Shareholders
-
Customers will benefit from:
Improved system reliability and operational flexibility
Ability to connect much needed generation resources to the grid
Increases in deliverability of power within the region, thereby lowering congestion and energy costs
-
Investors will be rewarded through:
Strong earnings growth driven by increased rate base
Solid returns on equity, consistent with FERC policies and incentives
Certainty of cash flow
Limited cost recovery risk due to FERC-based tariffs
SLIDE 24
Financial Update
SLIDE 25
Financial Highlights
-
2005 results
Overall
Utility Group
NUEI
-
2005  2006 earnings guidance and drivers
-
Cash sources and uses
SLIDE 26
Year-To-Date Results
SLIDE 27
Third-Quarter Regulated Earnings
[Bar Chart Showing Third-Quarter Regulated Earnings for 2004 & 2005]
SLIDE 28
Year-To-Date Regulated Earnings
[Bar Chart Showing Year-To-Date Regulated Earnings for 2004 & 2005]
SLIDE 29
2005 NUEI Results
[Bar Chart Showing NUEI Results for 3Q05 and YTD 2005]
SLIDE 30
2005 and 2006 Earnings Guidance
SLIDE 31
Earnings Drivers at NUEI in 2005-2006 Until Divestiture
is Complete
-
Earnings on generation, retail, services until divested
-
Managing wholesale contracts not divested
-
Marking to market remaining wholesale, retail positions
-
Cash termination payments on wholesale contracts
-
Proceeds from competitive business divestitures
SLIDE 32
Earnings Drivers
2006 Regulated Company
SLIDE 33
By Investment Growth
Earnings To Be Driven
[Bar Chart illustrating Estimated Earnings in Electric Transmission and Regulated Distribution and Generation]
SLIDE 34
Items Affecting Q4 2005 and 2006 Cash Flows
SLIDE 35
Focus
-
NU will transition toward a 100% regulated business
- -
Simplified business model
-
Reduced operating risk profile and improved financial flexibility
-
Enhanced earnings predictability
Growth
-
Substantial regulated investment opportunities will drive superior regulated earnings growth
Financial Success Factors
-
EPS growth
-
Balance sheet strength to finance capital program
-
  Achieved ROEs
-
Consistent dividend policy
SLIDE 36


