FILE:NU/NU-8K-20061025164158.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Section 7   -
Regulation FD
Item 7.01  
Regulation FD Disclosure
On October 25, 2006, The Connecticut Light and Power Company ("CL&P") issued a news release announcing that it had energized its new Bethel-to-Norwalk 345-kilovolt electric transmission line on October 12, 2006.  The news release is attached as Exhibit 99 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated herein.  The information contained in this report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99, shall not be deemed "filed" with the Securities and Exchange Commission nor incorporated by reference in any registration statement filed by NU or CL&P under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless otherwise specified.
Section 9    -
Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits
(a)
Not Applicable
(b)
Not Applicable
(c)
Not Applicable
(d)
Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on their behalves by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:  October 25, 2006

Exhibit 99.1
News Release
 The Connecticut Light and Power Company (CL&P), part of the Northeast Utilities System (NYSE: NU), today announced that on October 12, 2006, it energized the new Bethel-to-Norwalk (B/N) 345-kilovolt (kV) electric transmission line.  This line will allow an additional 600 megawatts of electricity to be delivered to southwest Connecticut and the region.  
BERLIN, Connecticut, October 25, 2006
Completion of this project is another significant step in NU's strategic business plan that was announced in November 2005.  This plan focuses on improving regulated utility infrastructure to meet customers' energy needs.  Construction of CL&P's B/N transmission project began in spring 2005 and was completed ahead of schedule.  The NU team completed all underground and overhead construction in just 16 months.  The line spans some 21 miles to connect CL&P's largest load center, southwest Connecticut, to the region's existing 345-kV energy backbone.
"This new transmission line helps improve the reliability of the region's power supply," said Charles W. Shivery, NU chairman, president and chief executive officer.  "The project provides benefits to customers in the state of Connecticut and those in New England.  The new B/N transmission line is expected to save electric consumers about $100 million annually in federally mandated charges."  
One of the largest transmission projects recently completed in the country, the $350 million B/N project came in under budget by about $10 million and ahead of schedule by two months.  The B/N project uses state-of-the-art technology such as a gas-insulated system substation that reduced land space to meet site limitations.  The company is also leading the industry in its application of underground transmission by installing the longest length of 345-kV solid underground cable in the United States.
"Here in New England, the requirement for an improved and enhanced electric transmission system is especially urgent, and NU is building the right solution, at the right time," Shivery said.  State regulators and lawmakers also recognize the critical need to reinforce the state's electric infrastructure and aided CL&P in the timely review and successful siting of this major project.  "Our multi-state, multi-project build-out program represents approximately 55 percent of the total New England transmission upgrade and is one of the largest programs of its type in the U.S.," Shivery said.
The B/N project is the first of four major initiatives in southwest Connecticut that will resolve long-standing reliability challenges and will make our regional transmission grid more secure and efficient.  In Connecticut, work is under way on the Middletown-to-Norwalk project, the Glenbrook Cables project and the Long Island Replacement Cable, which further extend the benefits of the 345-kV bulk power system into southwest Connecticut.  And, as NU companies provide energy for future needs, planning and construction are also under way on other projects across NU's franchise area such as a new liquefied natural gas facility in Waterbury, the Northern Woods Power Plant in New Hampshire, as well as many distribution system upgrades in Connecticut, western Massachusetts and New Hampshire.
The Connecticut Light and Power Company (CL&P) has been part of everyday life in Connecticut for more than 100 years, providing safe and reliable electric service to homes, neighborhoods and businesses.  With more than 1.1 million customers in 149 cities and towns, CL&P is an active member in the communities it serves, offering programs in energy conservation, economic development and environmental education.  CL&P is part of the Northeast Utilities System (NYSE: NU).  For more information, please visit
www.cl-p.com.


