FILE:NU/NU-8K-20061101160207.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[  ]
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[  ]  
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d- 2(b))
 
[  ]
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e- 4(c))
Section 2 -
Financial Information
Item 2.01
Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
On November 1, 2006, affiliates of Northeast Utilities ("NU") closed on the sale of NU's competitive generating assets in Massachusetts and Connecticut to affiliates of Energy Capital Partners ("ECP").  In the transaction, NU Enterprises, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of NU, sold all of the outstanding stock of its subsidiary, Northeast Generation Company ("NGC"), to NE Energy, Inc. ("NEEI"), an affiliate of ECP.  Certain other NU subsidiaries, Northeast Generation Services Company, Select Energy, Inc. and Northeast Utilities Service Company, sold to NEEI certain assets and liabilities related to NU's competitive generation business.  NGC owns 14 hydro and pumped-water storage generating plants with a total output of 1,296 megawatts.  In addition, Holyoke Water Power Company, a wholly-owned subsidiary of NU sold its 146-megawatt coal-fired plant at Mt. Tom in Holyo ke, Massachusetts to Mt. Tom Generating Company, LLC ("MTGC"), a subsidiary of NEEI.  The aggregate purchase price paid by ECP to NU was approximately $1.0 billion in cash and approximately $320 million of assumed debt of NGC.
Neither ECP, NEEI or MTGC, nor any affiliate thereof, have any material relationship with NU or any of its affiliates, or any trustee or officer of NU or its affiliates, other than in respect of the foregoing transactions.
A copy of the news release issued by NU on November 1, 2006 further describing this transaction is attached as Exhibit 99 and is incorporated herein by reference thereto.  Reference is made to NU's current report on Form 8-K dated June 7, 2006, and NU's March 31, 2006 and June 30, 2006 reports on Form 10-Q, which reported the assets and liabilities of NGC and the Mt. Tom plant as assets held for sale and liabilities of assets held for sale and reported the operations of NGC and the Mt. Tom plant as discontinued operations.
Section 9    -
Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)
Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:  November 1, 2006

NU LOGO
Exhibit 99
Northeast Utilities (NYSE: NU) today announced the closing of the sale of its competitive generation assets in Connecticut and Massachusetts to Energy Capital Partners (ECP) for $1.34 billion, including the assumption of $320 million in debt.  
BERLIN, Conn., November 1, 2006 
The sale includes 15 generating plants at 14 sites with a total output of 1,442 megawatts, the largest of which is the 1,080-megawatt Northfield Mountain pumped-storage facility located in Northfield, Massachusetts.  Also included is Mt. Tom Station, a 146-megawatt coal-fired plant in Holyoke, Massachusetts.   
In another significant step in the implementation of the company's strategic plan, NU will use the sale proceeds to invest in its regulated utility infrastructure, including the transmission and distribution systems, in Connecticut, Massachusetts and New Hampshire.
"With this sale we have completed the divestiture of the vast majority of our competitive businesses," said Charles W. Shivery, NU's Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer.  "The execution of this milestone is one more step in implementing our strategy to focus exclusively on regulated utility infrastructure.  With the exit from the competitive businesses, we have a simplified business model, reduced business risk, greater financial flexibility and increased earnings visibility.  Our focus is now solely on making regulated infrastructure capital investments to meet our customers' energy needs.  This includes investing more than $4 billion over the next five years in the region's electric transmission and distribution infrastructure, a critical step toward improving New England's energy reliability."
J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. acted as financial advisor to NU on the transaction.
For additional information about the companies, visit and .
www.nu.com
www.ecpartners.com
Northeast Utilities (NYSE: NU), a Fortune 500 energy company based in Connecticut, operates
New England's largest energy delivery system.  NU is committed to safety, reliability, environmental leadership and stewardship, and expanding energy options for its more than 2 million electricity and natural gas customers.  For more information on Northeast Utilities and our subsidiaries, visit the NU family of Web sites at
www.nu.com
.


