FILE:NU/NU-8K-20071101162513.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Section 7
Regulation FD
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
On October 31, 2007, Northeast Utilities ("NU" or the "company") issued a news release announcing that it will Webcast a financial analyst presentation at 7:30 a.m. Eastern Standard Time on Monday, November 5, 2007 at the Edison Electric Institute Financial Conference in Orlando, Florida. Senior management will discuss the company's and subsidiaries' third quarter 2007 results, which are expected to be released earlier that day.
Section 9 
Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on their behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: November 1, 2007

Exhibit 99.1
 
News Release
 
Northeast Utilities (NYSE: NU) will Webcast a conference call with financial analysts on Monday, November 5, 2007, in which senior management will discuss the company's financial performance through the third quarter of 2007.
BERLIN, Connecticut, October 31, 2007 
The discussion will be led by Charles W. Shivery, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, and will include David R. McHale, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, and Lee Olivier, Executive Vice President of Operations.
The listen-only, live audio Webcast will begin at 7:30 a.m. Eastern Standard Time and will be available on Windows Media Player on the Investors section of the NU Web site at . After the Webcast is completed, a recording of the call will be archived on the site.
http://www.nu.com/investors/presentations.asp
Northeast Utilities (NYSE: NU), a Fortune 500 energy company based in Connecticut, operates New England's largest energy delivery system. NU is committed to safety, reliability, environmental leadership and stewardship, and expanding energy options for its more than 2 million electricity and natural gas customers. For more information on Northeast Utilities and our subsidiaries, visit the NU family of Web sites at .
www.nu.com


