FILE:NU/NU-8K-20081217184514.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Section 8 -
Other Events
Item 8.01.
Other Events.
On December 15, 2008, Northeast Utilities (NU) and NSTAR together issued a News Release announcing that on December 12, 2008, Northeast Utilities Service Company, NU's service company subsidiary, and NSTAR Electric Company (NSTAR Electric), a wholly-owned subsidiary of NSTAR, submitted a joint petition for a declaratory order to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC).  The petition requests a ruling by FERC that would allow NU and NSTAR Electric to enter into a bilateral transmission services agreement with H.Q. Energy Services (U.S.) Inc. (HQUS), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Hydro-Qubec.  Under such an agreement, NU and NSTAR subsidiaries would sell 1,200 megawatts of firm electric transmission service over a new, participant-funded transmission tie line connecting New England with the Hydro-Qubec system in order for HQUS to sell and deliver this same amount of firm electric power in New England for a term of no less than twenty years .  
If FERC issues the declaratory order, NU and NSTAR would subsequently seek approval from FERC of the specific terms and conditions of the transmission arrangement.
NU, NSTAR and HQUS have signed memoranda of understanding to develop this transmission project on an exclusive basis.  This project would provide a competitive source of low-carbon power that is favorable in comparison to current alternatives.  It also would provide for an expansion of New England's transmission system without raising regional transmission rates.
NU, NSTAR and HQUS have also begun discussions on the specifics of the long-term power purchase agreement that would ensure the line is utilized to bring low-carbon power to benefit New England customers. The intent of the parties is to create a structure that allows additional New England customers to participate, not just those of NU and NSTAR.
Assuming completion of an acceptable power purchase agreement and receipt of all necessary regulatory approvals, NU anticipates that construction will occur in the 2011 to 2014 timeframe.  NU's initial estimate of its portion of the construction funding is approximately $525 million.  An NU subsidiary and NSTAR Electric will finance and own this transmission line, while HQ will reimburse the NU subsidiary and NSTAR Electric for the total costs of this project, including an investment return to these companies, over 20 years.   
A copy of the news release is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
For further information, see NU's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ending September 30, 2008, under Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Business Development and Capital Expenditures.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on their behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
News Release
   
Northeast Utilities (NYSE: NU) and NSTAR (NYSE: NST) submitted to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) a request for a declaratory order on a proposed transmission interconnection with the Canadian province of Quebec.  The filing, submitted December 12, requests that the Commission approve the assignment of firm transmission rights on a new participant-funded transmission line to Hydro-Quebec (HQ) to enable the development of a purchase power agreement.  The proposal calls for Hydro-Qubec to deliver low-carbon hydroelectric power to New England over a new high voltage direct current (HVDC) tie line between northern New England and Quebec.  
BERLIN, Conn. and BOSTON, Mass., December 15, 2008 
NU, NSTAR and H.Q. Energy Services (U.S.) Inc. (HQUS), a wholly owned subsidiary of Hydro-Qubec, have signed memoranda of understanding to develop this transmission project on an exclusive basis.  Planning is under way with HQ subsidiary Transnergie to develop the specifics of the new tie line.  The proposed transmission line would connect the Des Cantons substation in Qubec with a point to be determined in southern New Hampshire, where NU's Public Service Company of New Hampshire operates.  The proposed line will be designed to transmit at least 1,200 megawatts of power.  
"New England has some of the most ambitious environmental goals in the nation.  With this project, we can help the region meet its energy, environmental and economic needs.  In addition, we will materially diversify New England's generation mix," said Charles W. Shivery, NU's chairman, president and CEO.  "We have had many discussions with policymakers and other interested stakeholders over the past year and believe there's an opportunity to create a mutually beneficial agreement with Hydro-Qubec.  The project, as conceived, could meet nearly one-third of New England's greenhouse gas reduction goals," he added.  
NU, NSTAR and HQUS have also begun discussions on the specifics of the longer-term power purchase agreement that would ensure the line is utilized to bring low-carbon energy to benefit New England customers.  The intent of the parties is to create a structure that allows additional New England customers to participate, not just those of NU and NSTAR.
"This project would play a key role in meeting New England's future energy needs in a cost-effective and environmentally friendly manner," said Tom May, NSTAR's chairman, president and CEO.  "Our goal is
2
to build a line that would carry enough electricity to supply approximately one million homes with clean, low-carbon power."  
"Hydro-Qubec is uniquely positioned to work with NU and NSTAR in developing this project.  Our natural resource base and New England's power markets combine to make a win-win transaction possible," said Thierry Vandal, president and CEO of Hydro-Qubec.  
Assuming a favorable ruling from FERC, the companies will negotiate terms of the power purchase agreement as well as a joint development agreement to build the transmission line.  The U.S. portion of the line would be owned by NU and NSTAR.  As the line will be participant-funded, NU and NSTAR will not seek regional cost recovery for the line.  The proposed project would be submitted to the Independent System Operator of New England (ISO-NE) for approval as appropriate in light of the unique nature of this transaction. Hydro-Qubec will also obtain all required authorizations and permits for its project.
Northeast Utilities, a Fortune 500 energy company with headquarters in Connecticut, operates New England's largest energy delivery system.  NU is committed to safety, reliability, environmental leadership and stewardship, and expanding energy options for its more than 2 million electricity and natural gas customers.  For more information on Northeast Utilities and its subsidiaries, visit .
www.nu.com
NSTAR is the largest Massachusetts-based, investor-owned electric and gas utility.  The company transmits and delivers electricity and natural gas to 1.4 million customers in Eastern and Central Massachusetts, including more than one million electric customers in 81 communities and 300,000 gas customers in 51 communities.  For more information, visit .
www.nstar.com
Hydro-Qubec generates, transmits and distributes electricity.  The company has an installed capacity of over 40,000 megawatts, operates a 20,500-mile transmission system and provides its 3.8 million Qubec customers with a reliable supply of electricity. Its sole shareholder is the Qubec government.  Hydro-Qubec's production is 97% non-carbon emitting hydroelectric power.  The company also conducts research in energy-related fields such as energy efficiency.  For more information, visit .
www.hydro-quebec.com


