FILE:NU/NU-8K-20100715141632.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K fili ng is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Section 8 Other Events
Item 8.01 Other Events
(a)
On July 14, 2010, The Connecticut Light and Power Company ("CL&P") filed with the Connecticut Department of Public Utility Control ("DPUC") a request for reconsideration of certain aspects described below of the DPUC's final Decision issued on June 30, 2010 (the "Final Decision") in CL&P's elect ric distribution rate case proceeding, which CL&P had filed on January 8, 2010.  The DPUC had issued a Draft Decision on June 14, 2010 (the "Draft Decision").  CL&P is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Northeast Utilities ("NU").  
The Final Decision approved increases in CL&P's distribution revenues of $63.4 million for 2010 and $38.5 million for 2011 versus the $61.1 million and $37.7 million approved in the Draft Decision, respectively, but is otherwise substantially the same as the Draft Decision.
However, the Final Decision disallowed CL&P establishing an $8.2 million regulatory asset, which related to its share of future tax benefits lost as a result of a provision in the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010 that eliminated the tax deductibility of certain post-retirement benefits other than pensions ("PBOP").  NU had deferred $14.6 million of such impacts on an after-tax consolidated basis in the first quarter of 2010 expecting that they would be recovered in future rates across all of its operating jurisdictions.  
As a result of the Final Decision, NU will take an after-tax charge of $9.8 million in the second quarter of 2010 ($0.06 per share), representing CL&P's and Yankee Gas Service Company's ("Yankee Gas") collective portions of the deferred amount. Yankee Gas is also a subsidiary of NU that is regulated by the DPUC and therefore is not able to assert that these costs are probable of recovery as a regulatory asset.
The Final Decision does not have any impact on NU' ;s expectation that recovery of amounts that have been deferred for recovery by its other two regulated subsidiaries, approximately $4.8 million, is not probable, because these subsidiaries are not regulated by the DPUC.
CL&P's request for reconsideration concerns this aspect of the Final Decision. Should the DPUC accept CL&P's position, both CL&P and Yankee Gas would be likely to determine that these costs would be probable of recovery and therefore re-establish these amounts as regulatory assets, which would result in a $9.8 million benefit to earnings.
A copy of the Final Decision can be found on the "Rate Case Updates" link on the "Investors" page of Northeast Utilities' website at www.nu.com.  
For further information on this matter, reference is made to NU's and CL&P's combined Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ending March 31, 2010, under "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation  Overview" and "- Financial Condition and Business Analysis  Regulatory Developments and Rate Matters" and their combined Current Report on Form 8-K filed June 18, 2010.
(b)
On July 15, 2010, CL&P and The United Illuminating Company (UI) issued a joint news release announcing that they had filed a join t application with the DPUC seeking approval for UI's investment in and ownership of certain portions of the New England East West Solution (NEEWS) projects being constructed by CL&P.
A copy of the news release is attached herewith as Exhibit 99.
For further information concerning NEEWS, see NU's and CL&P's combined Annual Report on Form 10-K under Item 1, "Business  Transmission Projects" and Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  Business Development and Capital Expenditures," and their combined quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2010 under Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  Busine ss Development and Capital Expenditures."
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on their behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:  July 15, 2010

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE                                                            
Thursday  July 15, 2010
Media Contacts:
:
Investor Contact
Michael A. West Jr.
Sue Allen
The United Illuminating Company
The United Illuminating Company
(203) 499-3858
(203) 499-2409
Al Lara
Jeffrey R. Kotkin
Connecticut Light and Power
(860) 728-4616
(860) 728-4650
NEW HAVEN and BERLIN, CT July 15, 2010  Today The United Illuminating Company (UI) [NYSE: UIL] and The Connecticut Light & Power Company (CL&P) [NYSE: NU] filed a joint application with the Connecticut Department of Public Utility Control seeking approval for UI's investment in and ownership of transmission assets associated with the Connecticut portion of CL&P's New England East West Solution (NEEWS) projects to improve regional energy reliability.
 
NEEWS consists of four inter-related transmission projects being developed by subsidiaries of Northeast Utilities (NU), the parent company of CL&P, in collaboration with National Grid USA.  Three of the projects have portions sited in Connecticut:  (1) the Greater Springfield Reliability Project, (2) the Interstate Reliability Project and (3) the Central Connecticut Reliability Project.  Based on data prepared by CL&P, UI expects the cost of building the Connecticut portion of these projects will be approximately $711 million.
Under the terms of an agreement between UI and CL&P, which will be subject to state and federal regulatory approval, UI has the option to make quarterly payments to CL&P in exchange for ownership of specific transmission assets as they come into commercial operation.  Following regulatory approval, UI will have the right to invest up to the greater of $60 million or an amoun t equal to 8.4 percent of CL&P's costs for the Connecticut portions of these projects.  As assets come into commercial operation, CL&P will transfer title to transmission assets such as poles and wires to UI in proportion to its investments, but CL&P will continue to maintain these portions of the transmission system once they are in operation pursuant to an operating and maintenance agreement with UI.
UI's investments are expected to be made over a period of three years based on current project completion projections.
This proposed transaction follows the successful collaboration of CL&P and UI on the 345-kV Middletown-to-Norwalk Transmission Pro ject, where each party owns portions of the line.  The Middletown-to-Norwalk Transmission Project went into commercial operation at the end of 2008.
"CL&P and UI have long worked together to advance needed transmission infrastructure for efficient and reliable energy for Connecticut," said James A. Muntz, senior vice president- Transmission for CL&P.   
"This transaction continues to promote a cooperative spirit of addressing transmission needs in Connecticut," said John J. Prete, UI's vice president of Transmission.  "While UI will not physically construct any portion of NEEWS, its participation will provide benefits similar to those provided in the Middletown-to-Norwalk Transmission Project."
In addition to today's DPUC filing, CL&P and UI will seek required approvals from the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission.  The transaction is conditional on the receipt of state and federal regulatory approvals, among other things, and is subject to termination and other rights as more fully described in the agreement. This transaction is already reflected in the transmission capital expenditure and rate base forecasts published in NU's annual report.
The United Illuminating Company (UI) is a New Haven-based regional distribution utility established in 1899. UI is engaged in the purchase, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity and related services to more than 325,000 residential, commercial and industrial customers across 17 cities and towns including the Greater New Haven and Bridgeport areas. UI is a wholly owned subsidiary of UIL Holdings Corp oration (NYSE: UIL).  For more information please visit www.uinet.com.
The Connecticut Light and Power Company (CL&P) has been part of everyday life in Connecticut for more than 100 years, providing safe and reliable electric service to homes, neighborhoods and businesses.  With 1.2 million customers in 149 cities and towns, CL&P is improving the environments you live in, by offering programs in energy conservation, economic development and environmental stewardship.  CL&P is a Northeast Utilities company (NYSE: NU). For more information, please visit www.cl-p.com.


