FILE:NU/NU-8K-20110923171227.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
o
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Section 8
Other Events
Item 8.01.
Other Events.
On September 22, 2011, Public Service Company of New Hampshire issued a news release announcing that the Company has scheduled operational testing of the Clean Air Project at the Company's Merrimack Station.  A copy of the news release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
Section 9
Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)
Exhibits.  
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on their behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
Clean Air Project Progress Report  Operational Testing to Begin
Mercury Reduction System Ahead of Schedule
to meet the clean air requirements set by the Legislature at least one year early. As part of the testing, neighbors may notice a water vapor plume from the facility's new chimney.
PSNH officials today reported to a joint meeting of the Legislature's Electric Restructuring Oversight Committee and the Air Pollution Advisory Committee that the majority of heavy construction was completed in 2010 and building and equipment installation is being finalized this year. By law, the scrubber must be complete and operating by July 2013 but incentives were included in the law for the earliest completion date.
"The hundreds of workers who have been part of this project, including many residents of New Hampshire, have worked safely and have been incredibly productive," noted Bill Smagula, director  PSNH Generation. "More than 1.2 million worker-hours have been invested, and they have paid off. We expect to beat the operation date mandated by the Legislature and begin to reduce emissions much sooner than required."
The installation of a at Merrimack Station was mandated by the State of New Hampshire in 2006 () and is aimed at reducing emissions of mercury and other pollutants. The scrubber will remove more than 80 percent of the mercury and more than 90 percent of sulfur emissions from the flue gases of the coal-fired power plant.    
wet flue gas desulfurization system
RSA 125-O:11
 
 
Infographic:
Emissions Control Technology Installed at Merrimack Station
According to Smagula, initial testing of the system may begin the week of September 25, and the project is expected to be complete and fully operational by July 2012, one year ahead of the deadline set out by the State. The price
estimate of the scrubber system has been reduced to $430 million from $457 million. The early completion will provide for cleaner air sooner and lower costs to customers.
During a challenging economic period, the construction project included as much as $50 million in spending in the local economy, and the use of more than 50 New Hampshire companies and hundreds of New Hampshire residents. "The project came at a critical time for many New Hampshire working families, considering the economic conditions," said Smagula. "A multi-year construction project provides quite a bit of stability for workers. We're very proud of what has been accomplished through our partnership with the New Hampshire Building and Trades."
 
PSNH is New Hampshire's largest electric utility, generating and distributing clean electricity for more than 500,000 homes and businesses in an environmentally friendly manner.


