FILE:NU/NU-8K-20120215173132.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 1 Registrant's Business and Operations
 
On February 15, 2012, NSTAR and Northeast Utilities (NU) reached comprehensive merger-related agreements with both the Massachusetts Department of Energy Resources and the Office of the Attorney General of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.
The first Settlement Agreement, between NSTAR, NU, NSTAR's wholly-owned subsidiaries NSTAR Electric Company and NSTAR Gas Company, and NU's wholly-owned subsidiary Western Massachusetts Electric Company (WMECO), was reached with the Office of the Attorney General of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts and the Massachusetts Department of Energy Resources (collectively, the "Settling Parties"). This agreement covers a variety of rate-making and rate design issues, including a distribution rate freeze until 2016 for NSTAR Electric, NSTAR Gas and WMECO.
NSTAR Electric Company, NSTAR Gas Company and WMECO also entered into a second Settlement Agreement with the Massachusetts Department of Energy Resources. This agreement covers a variety of matters impacting the advancement of Massachusetts clean energy goals established by the Green Communities Act and Global Warming Solutions Act.
Pursuant to the terms and provisions of the Settlement Agreements, the Settling Parties agree that the proposed merger between NSTAR and NU set forth in the Merger Agreement and proposed to be approved by the Massachusetts Department of Public Utilities is consistent with the public interest and should be approved. The Settling Parties have requested a merger approval date of April 4, 2012.
NSTAR and NU issued a joint press release highlighting the key provisions in the Settlement Agreements, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
NU and NSTAR are also awaiting approval of the merger from the Connecticut Public Utilities Regulatory Authority.
For further information regarding the pending NU-NSTAR merger, please refer to the Registration Statement on Form S-4 (Registration No. 333-170754) filed by NU with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") in connection with the merger; NU's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010; its Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2011, June 30, 2011, and September 30, 2011, and its Current Reports on Form 8-K filed on December 5, 2011, December 29, 2011, January 5, 2012 and January 19, 2012.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
WHEREAS, this Settlement Agreement ("Settlement" or "Settlement Agreement") is entered into by and among NSTAR Electric Company ("NSTAR Electric") and NSTAR Gas Company ("NSTAR Gas"), along with their holding company parent, NSTAR, and Western Massachusetts Electric Company ("WMECO"), along with its holding company parent Northeast Utilities ("NU") (the corporate entities together, and their successors, the "Joint Petitioners"), the Department of Energy Resources ("DOER"), and the Attorney General of the Commonwealth ("Attorney General") with regard to the proposed merger transactions as set forth in the Merger Agreement between the holding companies NU and NSTAR ("Proposed Merger").
WHEREAS, NU and NSTAR filed the Proposed Merger before the Department of Public Utilities ("Department") for approval pursuant to G.L. c. 164,  96, and the Settling Parties have engaged in discovery, hearings, briefing and negotiations concerning the Proposed Merger.
WHEREAS, the Settling Parties have raised competing and disputed claims with regard to the various issues contained in the Proposed Merger but wish to resolve those matters on mutually agreeable terms, and without establishing any new precedent or principle applicable to any other proceedings.
WHEREAS, the Settling Parties intend that both customers and shareholders receive the full value of the settled issues, and not some substitute regulatory treatment of lesser value either now or in the future, and agree that no terms of this Settlement Agreement or supporting
workpapers, calculations, or proposed tariffs will be used or interpreted to diminish, in any way, the intended customer or shareholder benefit related to this Settlement Agreement.
WHEREAS, it is the objective of the Settling Parties to ensure that the impacts of the Proposed Merger to Massachusetts customers of the merged entity will operate in a way that achieves comparability with other states with respect to merger savings, service improvements and employment impacts, and the Settling Parties have structured this Settlement Agreement to achieve such comparability.
NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the exchange of promises and covenants herein contained, the legal sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the Settling Parties agree, subject to approval by the Department as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The signatories listed below represent that they are authorized on behalf of their principals to enter into this Settlement Agreement.
 
 
Dated: February 15, 2012
 

Exhibit 10.2
 
 
WHEREAS, this Settlement Agreement is entered into by and between NSTAR Electric Company ("NSTAR Electric"), NSTAR Gas Company ("NSTAR Gas") and Western Massachusetts Electric Company ("WMECO") (together the "Companies"), and the Massachusetts Department of Energy Resources ("DOER"), collectively, the "Settling Parties", with regard to the Joint Petitioners' proposed merger application and ancillary matters pending before the Department of Public Utilities ("Department") in the above-referenced proceeding:
WHEREAS, the Settling Parties have engaged in negotiations with regard to the matters specified in the articles of this Settlement Agreement; and
WHEREAS, the Settling Parties have raised competing and disputed claims with regard to the factors considered by the Department in reviewing a proposed merger application, including, but not limited to the impact of the merger on the advancement of the Commonwealth's clean energy goals established by the Green Communities Act ("GCA") and the Global Warming Solutions Act ("GWSA"); long-term strategies that will assure a reliable, cost-effective energy delivery system; the impact on rates, service quality, and post-merger financial integrity; the equitable allocation of merger benefits; the effect on competition, and societal and economic impacts, but wish to resolve those matters on mutually agreeable terms, and without establishing any new precedent or principle applicable to any other proceedings; and
WHEREAS, the Settling Parties have the mutual objective of resolving the competing and disputed claims with respect to DOER's Renewed Motion for Stay of the Proceedings, filed with the Department on July 14, 2011, in this proceeding; and
WHEREAS, the Settling Parties have the mutual objective of establishing a regulatory framework to take effect upon the Department's approval of the Proposed Merger in order to further the Commonwealth's policies on the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and to secure long-term cost savings available from the Proposed Merger for customers.
WHEREAS, it is the objective of the Settling Parties to allocate the impacts of the Proposed Merger among the various states in which the merged entity will operate in a way that achieves comparability among the states with respect to merger savings, service improvements and employment impacts, and the Settling Parties have structured this Settlement Agreement to achieve such comparability, and are committed to structuring any settlement agreements in other jurisdictions in a way that will maintain such comparability.
NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the exchange of promises and covenants herein contained, the legal sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the Settling Parties agree, subject to approval by the Department, as follows:
The Settling Parties recognize the value of providing merger savings to customers immediately, and of providing stable electric and natural gas prices over an extended period of time. Accordingly, the Settling Parties have agreed to the following provisions:
 
 
 
The Settling Parties recognize that, as a result of the merger, the Companies will be part of a regional utility having significant size and substantial impact. As such, the Companies recognize their obligation to play a strong leadership role with respect to the advancement of the Commonwealth's climate change policies. Therefore, the Settling Parties agree as follows:
 
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, NSTAR Electric shall include as a provision in its contract with Cape Wind, and the Department shall issue an Order in this proceeding to the effect that, if Cape Wind does not commence physical construction of the facility prior to December 31, 2015, then NSTAR Electric shall terminate the Cape Wind Contract as of December 31, 2015. If the Cape Wind Contract has been terminated, then NSTAR Electric shall issue a request for proposal ("RFP") for new Massachusetts RPS Class-I qualified renewable contract(s) with a term of at least 15 years, for approximately 2.0 percent of its 2013 electric load requirement. The RFP shall be issued no later than March 31, 2016 in accordance with the provisions of procurement obligations under Section 83 of the GCA; provided, however, that in the event that Cape Wind, its successors or assigns, or another party representing its interests, challenges the
 
validity or effectiveness of NSTAR Electric's termination of the Cape Wind Contract, NSTAR Electric shall issue such RFP, but shall not be required to execute a renewable contract(s) resulting from such RFP, until there has been a final determination that said contract has been terminated. The alternative renewable contract(s) resulting from the RFP will be proposed to the Department for review and approval. For purposes of this paragraph, "physical construction" shall mean any physical installation of equipment or materials into the seabed of the Cape Wind construction site that is integral to the assembly of the wind turbine generation units. The Cape Wind Contract shall provide that the determination as to whether physical construction has commenced shall be made by the Department, upon petition by NSTAR Electric.
 
The costs associated with the Cape Wind Contract or any alternative long-term renewable contract entered into in accordance with paragraph 2.2 shall be recovered from NSTAR Electric distribution customers, with the difference between the contract price paid by NSTAR Electric and net revenues received to be charged or credited to distribution customers in accordance with Department practice.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Commencing in 2013, NSTAR Electric and WMECO shall increase their aggregate energy efficiency savings target to at least 2.5% of retail sales annually through energy efficiency, so long as there is no material change in the framework for assessing the success of the program and associated incentives, or providing for program funding. This annual commitment will remain in place until the expiration of Base-Rate Freeze period. If the Energy Efficiency Advisory Council ("EEAC") determines that the minimum target established in the 3-year plans during this period should be increased to a level above 2.5%, and the Department approves the EEAC's minimum savings target, NSTAR Electric and WMECO shall be required to meet that higher standard, accordingly.
 
 
 
 
 
The Settling Parties believe that it is critical to maintain customer service levels while merger efficiencies are being achieved; that any merger-related workforce reductions should be shared equitably across the several states in which the utilities operate, and that post-merger utility reporting should meet high standards of accuracy. Accordingly, the Settling Parties commit to the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The signatories listed below represent that they are authorized on behalf of their principals to enter into this Settlement Agreement.
 
 
Dated: February 15, 2012
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
News Release
MEDIA CONTACTS:
 
NSTAR (NYSE: NST) and Northeast Utilities (NYSE: NU) have reached separate, comprehensive merger-related agreements with both the Massachusetts Department of Energy Resources (DOER) and the Massachusetts Attorney General (AG) that will guarantee substantial customer and environmental benefits, while allowing the utilities' merger to proceed. The settlement agreements both call for a one-time $21 million rate credit to be directed to customers of NSTAR Electric, NSTAR Gas and Western Massachusetts Electric Company (WMECo). Base distribution rates for the utilities would then be frozen until 2016. In addition, under the agreement with the DOER, the utilities pledge further environmental commitments to solar, wind, hydro, energy efficiency and electric vehicle development, including a memorandum of understanding to purchase clean power from Cape Wind, the nation's first off-shore, large-scale wind farm.
HARTFORD, CT, and BOSTON, MA, (February 15, 2012) 
"Today's announcement is the result of a year-long effort by the state agencies and the companies to reach agreements that appropriately balance all of the interests affected by the merger," said Tom May, NSTAR Chairman, President and CEO. "Benefits for Massachusetts customers are both immediate, in the form of a rate credit plus a four-year distribution rate freeze, and longer-term, with NSTAR's purchase of clean power from Cape Wind, which together with our existing wind contracts will help meet the state's clean energy targets. We recognize that the climate change goals set forth by Governor Patrick's Green Communities Act will require aggressive action and we think the best way to meet those requirements is through a diversified portfolio of renewable resources."
"The merger will benefit all of our customers by creating a stronger company that stays headquartered in New England and is expected to provide higher service levels and lower costs over the long term," noted Charles W. Shivery, NU Chairman, President and CEO. "This merger continues to be the right decision for customers, employees and shareholders now and into the future."
Highlights of both the AG and DOER agreements include the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In addition, the settlement agreement between the DOER and the utilities includes the following environmental provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
The agreements must be approved by the MDPU. The parties have requested an approval date of April 4, 2012.
About Northeast Utilities
NU, headquartered in Hartford, operates New England's largest utility system with annual revenues of approximately $5.4 billion and assets of $14.2 billion. NU and its companies in Connecticut, Massachusetts and New Hampshire serve more than 2.1 million electric and natural gas customers in nearly 500 cities and towns. For more information, go to www.nu.com.
About NSTAR
NSTAR is the largest Massachusetts-based, investor-owned electric and gas utility. The company transmits and delivers electricity and natural gas to 1.4 million customers in Eastern and Central Massachusetts, including more than one million electric customers in 81 communities and 300,000 gas customers in 51 communities. For more information, visit www.nstar.com.
In addition to historical information, this communication may contain a number of "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Words such as anticipate, expect, project, intend, plan, believe, and words and terms of similar substance used in connection with any discussion of future plans, actions, or events identify forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements relating to the proposed merger include, but are not limited to: statements about the benefits of the proposed merger involving NSTAR and Northeast Utilities, including future financial and operating results; NSTAR's and Northeast Utilities' plans, objectives, expectations and intentions; the expected timing of completion of the transaction; and other statements relating to the merger that are not historical facts. Forward-looking statements involve estimates, expectations and projections and, as a result, are subject to risks and uncertainties. There can be no assurance that actual results will not materially differ from expectations. Important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements. With respect to the proposed merger, these factors include, but are not limited to: the risk that NSTAR or Northeast Utilities may be unable to obtain governmental and regulatory approvals required for the merger, or required governmental and regulatory approvals may delay the merger or result in the imposition of conditions that could reduce the anticipated benefits from the merger or cause the parties to abandon the merger; the risk that a condition to closing of the merger may not be satisfied; the length of time necessary to consummate the proposed merger; the risk that the businesses will not be integrated successfully; the risk that the cost savings and any other synergies from the transaction may not be fully realized or may take longer to realize than expected; disruption from the transaction making it more difficult to maintain relationships with customers, employees or suppliers; the diversion of management time on merger-related issues; the effect of future regulatory or legislative actions on the companies; and the risk that the credit ratings of the combined company or its subsidiaries may be different from what the companies expect. These risks, as well as other risks associated with the merger, are more fully discussed in the joint proxy statement/prospectus that is included in the Registration Statement on Form S-4 (Registration No. 333-170754) that was filed by Northeast Utilities with the SEC in connection with the merger. Additional risks and uncertainties are identified and discussed in NSTAR's and Northeast Utilities' reports filed with the SEC and available at the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. Forward-looking statements included in this document speak only as of the date of this document. Neither NSTAR nor Northeast Utilities undertakes any obligation to update its forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this document.
This communication does not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any securities or a solicitation of any vote or approval. In connection with the proposed merger between Northeast Utilities and NSTAR, Northeast Utilities filed with the SEC a Registration Statement on Form S-4 (Registration No. 333-170754) that includes a joint proxy statement of Northeast Utilities and NSTAR that also constitutes a prospectus of Northeast Utilities. Northeast Utilities and NSTAR mailed the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus to their respective shareholders, on or about January 5, 2011. Northeast Utilities and NSTAR urge investors and shareholders to read the joint proxy statement/prospectus regarding the proposed merger, as well as other documents filed with the SEC, because they contain important information. You may obtain copies of all documents filed with the SEC regarding this proposed transaction, free of charge, at the SEC's website (www.sec.gov). You may also obtain these documents, free of charge, from Northeast Utilities' website (www.nu.com) under the tab "Investors" and then under the heading "Financial/SEC Reports." You may also obtain these documents, free of charge, from NSTAR's website (www.nstar.com) under the tab "Investor Relations."


