FILE:NU/NU-8K-20120313172724.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On March 13, 2012, Northeast Utilities (NU) and NSTAR jointly announced that they had entered into a comprehensive merger-related agreement with the Attorney General of the State of Connecticut and the Connecticut Office of Consumer Counsel that will guarantee substantial customer and environmental benefits, while allowing the NU-NSTAR merger to proceed. The agreement covers a variety of matters including a rate credit, a base distribution rate freeze, and the development of a targeted plan to advance Connecticut's energy goals. In addition, NU agreed to maintain certain business functions and offices in Connecticut for seven years after the closing. The agreement also reflects commitments of NU's subsidiary, The Connecticut Light and Power Company, with respect to additional spending for distribution system resiliency and recovery of costs associated with restoration activities following 2011 storms.
The agreement in its entirety is subject to the approval of the Connecticut Public Utility Regulatory Authority (PURA). The parties have requested an approval date of April 2, 2012.
NU and NSTAR issued a joint press release highlighting the key provisions of the agreement, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
NU and NSTAR are awaiting approvals of the pending merger from PURA and the Massachusetts Department of Public Utilities (DPU). PURA is scheduled to issue its final decision on April 2, 2012. On February 15, 2012, NU and NSTAR reached comprehensive merger-related settlement agreements with both the Massachusetts Attorney General and the Massachusetts Department of Energy Resources agreeing to certain conditions with respect to the merger, which are subject to DPU approval and have been requested by the parties to be approved on April 4, 2012. If both PURA and the DPU issue acceptable decisions by such dates, we expect the merger will be consummated by April 16, 2012.
For further information regarding the pending NU-NSTAR merger, please refer to the Registration Statement on Form S-4 (Registration No. 333-170754) filed by NU with the Securities and Exchange Commission in connection with the merger; NU's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, and its Current Reports on Form 8-K filed on January 5, 2012, January 19, 2012, and February 15, 2012.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
WHEREAS, this Settlement Agreement is entered into by and between Northeast Utilities ("NU") and NSTAR (together, the "Companies"), and George Jepsen, Attorney General of the State of Connecticut ("Attorney General"), and Elin Swanson Katz, Consumer Counsel, on behalf of the State of Connecticut, Office of Consumer Counsel ("OCC") (collectively, the "Settling Parties"), in connection with the Companies' application dated January 19, 2012 ("Application") for approval of a holding company transaction ("Proposed Transaction") pending before the Public Utilities Regulatory Authority ("Authority") in the above-referenced docket;
WHEREAS, the Companies filed their Application for approval with the Authority, and the Settling Parties subsequently have engaged in discovery, hearings and negotiations concerning the Application, the Proposed Transaction and the matters addressed in this Settlement Agreement;
WHEREAS, the Settling Parties have raised competing and disputed claims with regard to the various issues related to the Application and Proposed Transaction, but wish to resolve those issues on mutually agreeable terms, and without establishing any precedent or principles applicable to any other proceedings; and
WHEREAS, it is the policy of the Authority, consistent with Conn. Gen. Stat. 16-19jj, to encourage the use of settlements to resolve contested cases and proceedings.
NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the exchange of promises and covenants herein contained, the legal sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the Settling Parties agree, subject to approval by the Authority, as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NU commits to work with DEEP to explore opportunities to ensure and/or expand public access to the properties held by the NU preservation land trust for passive recreation, where such public access is appropriate and consistent with any existing use of these properties in support of NU's business activities; and (c) NU shall work cooperatively and in good faith with the State of Connecticut and appropriate historical and cultural stakeholders to preserve the property known as the "Venture Smith Homestead."
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The signatories listed below represent that they are authorized on behalf of their principals to enter into this Settlement Agreement.
 
 
Dated: March 13, 2012
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
MEDIA CONTACTS:
Al Lara, Northeast Utilities
860-728-4616
albert.lara@nu.com
Caroline Pretyman, NSTAR
617-424-2460
caroline.pretyman@nstar.com
)  Northeast Utilities (NYSE: NU) and NSTAR (NYSE: NST) have reached a comprehensive merger-related agreement with the Connecticut Attorney General and the Office of Consumer Counsel (OCC) that will guarantee substantial customer and environmental benefits.
HARTFORD, CT, and BOSTON, MA, (March 13, 2012
"We are pleased to have reached this settlement agreement with the Attorney General and the Office of Consumer Counsel," said Charles W. Shivery. "The agreement will provide constructive and tangible benefits for Connecticut customers and communities."
"With today's announcement we move one step closer to completing this important merger," noted Thomas J. May. "The merger will benefit all of our customers by creating a stronger company that is expected to provide higher service levels and lower costs over the long term."
The settlement agreement calls for a one-time, $25 million rate credit and the freezing of base distribution rates until December 1, 2014, for customers of The Connecticut Light and Power Company (CL&P). It also calls for the investment of another $15 million to be set aside to fund energy efficiency programs for low-income customers and projects associated with the development of electric vehicle infrastructure, microgrids and renewable energy.
CL&P will submit to Connecticut's Public Utilities Regulatory Authority (PURA) a multi-year plan and cost-recovery mechanism for a $300 million investment in additional resiliency as part of its ongoing effort to improve system performance. CL&P will also forgo recovery of $40 million of the approximately $260 million of costs it incurred as a result of the two major storms of 2011, and it will defer storm recovery until after the company's next rate case. Both resiliency spending and storm cost recovery will be subject to review and approval by PURA.
For no less than seven years, NU agreed to maintain principal Board and Executive offices and functions in Hartford, Conn. NU also agreed that the headquarters of CL&P, Yankee Gas and NU's transmission business, as well as Call Center operations, would remain in Connecticut for the same period. Additionally, CL&P, Yankee Gas and the Northeast Utilities Foundation will maintain their current levels of funding for charitable and community commitments for that same period.
Under the agreement, within 12 months of the merger close, NU will establish an irrevocable preservation land trust and will work with Connecticut's Department of Energy and Environmental Protection to explore opportunities to expand public access to NU land for passive recreation where such use is appropriate and consistent with the company's business activities. A total of 981 acres would be transferred into the trust including the following properties in Connecticut: King's Island in Enfield/Suffield; Skiff Mountain in Sharon; Hanover Road in Newtown; and Bartlett Road in Waterford.
In a unique aspect of the agreement, CL&P will also work with local community colleges to develop a lineworker apprentice program.
The agreement must be approved by the Connecticut PURA. NU and NSTAR have requested PURA's approval by April 2, 2012.
Northeast Utilities (NYSE: NU), a Fortune 500 and Standard & Poor's 500 energy company based in Connecticut, operates New England's largest energy delivery system. NU is committed to safety, reliability, environmental leadership and stewardship, and expanding energy options for its more than 2 million electricity and natural gas customers. For more information on Northeast Utilities and its subsidiaries, visit the NU family of Web sites at www.nu.com.
NSTAR is the largest Massachusetts-based, investor-owned electric and gas utility. The company transmits and delivers electricity and natural gas to 1.4 million customers in Eastern and Central Massachusetts, including more than one million electric customers in 81 communities and 300,000 gas customers in 51 communities. For more information, visit www.nstar.com.


