Item 7: Managements Discussion and Analysis Trends, Risks and Uncertainties." These and many other factors could affect Applieds future financial and operating results, and could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations based on forward looking statements made in this document or elsewhere by Applied or on its behalf. All references to fiscal year apply to Applieds fiscal year, which ends on the last Sunday in October. PART I Item 1: Business Organized in 1967, Applied develops, manufactures, markets and services semiconductor wafer fabrication equipment and related spare parts for the worldwide semiconductor industry. Customers for these products include semiconductor wafer manufacturers and semiconductor integrated circuit (or chip) manufacturers, who either use the chips they manufacture in their own products or sell them to other companies. These chips are key components in most advanced electronic products for the Internet, communications, computers and digital devices. Most chips are built on a base of silicon, called a wafer, and include multiple layers of wiring that connect a variety of circuit components, such as transistors and other structures. As the density of the circuit components is increased to enable smaller chips and greater computing power, the complexity of building the chip also increases, necessitating the formation of smaller structures and more intricate wiring schemes. To build a chip, the transistors, capacitors and other circuit components are first created on the surface of the wafer by performing a series of processes to deposit and remove selected film layers. Similar processes are then used to build the layers of wiring structures on the wafer. A typical, simplified process sequence for building the wiring portion of new copper based chips involves initially depositing a dielectric film layer onto the base layer of circuit components using a chemical vapor deposition (CVD) system. An etch system is then used to create openings and patterns in the dielectric layer. To form the metal wiring, these openings and patterns are subsequently filled with copper material using physical vapor deposition (PVD) and electroplating technologies. A chemical mechanical polishing (CMP) step then polishes the wafer to maintain a flat surface. Additional deposition, etch and CMP steps are then performed to build up the layers of wiring needed to complete the interconnection of the circuit elements to form the chip. Advanced chip designs require well over 300 individual process steps to complete the manufacturing of the wafer, and many of these processes are performed multiple times. Applied operates in a single industry segment for the manufacture, marketing and servicing of semiconductor wafer fabrication equipment. Applied currently manufactures systems that perform most of the primary steps in the chip fabrication process, including: CVD, PVD, electroplating, etch, ion implantation, rapid thermal processing (RTP), CMP, metrology and wafer/reticle inspection. Applieds subsidiary, AKT, Inc. (AKT), manufactures CVD systems used to make flat panel displays (FPDs) that are used in notebook computers, desktop monitors, televisions and other applications. Applieds subsidiary, Etec Systems, Inc. (Etec), is a leading manufacturer of systems used to generate circuit patterns on reticles used in the photolithography process. Applied also provides manufacturing facility (fab) management software to the semiconductor industry. Most of Applieds products are single wafer systems designed with two or more process chambers attached to a base platform. The platform feeds a wafer to each chamber, allowing the simultaneous processing of several wafers to enable high manufacturing productivity and precise control of the process. Applied sells most of its single wafer, multi chamber systems based on four main platforms: the Centura&reg;, the Endura&reg;, the Endura SL and the Producer&reg;. These platforms currently support CVD, PVD, etch and RTP technologies. Throughout its history, the semiconductor industry has migrated to increasingly larger wafer sizes, from one inch wafers to the 200mm (eight inches) standard predominant today. To gain the economic advantages of a larger surface area, the industry has begun using 300mm (12 inches) wafers as the next wafer size. The surface area of a 300mm wafer is more than two times that of a 200mm wafer. New hardware is needed to process 300mm wafers, although some "bridge tools" have dual 200mm 300mm capabilities. Applied has developed and launched a comprehensive line of systems for 300mm wafer processing for all of its core technologies, supporting more than 90 process applications. These new systems encompass almost 75 percent of the processes needed to fabricate advanced 0.13 micron and beyond devices on the wafer, including deposition, etch, RTP, CMP, ion implantation and inspection technologies. Products The following summarizes Applieds portfolio of process technologies, most of which are available for both 200mm and 300mm wafer processing. Deposition Deposition is a fundamental step in fabricating a chip. During deposition, a layer of either dielectric (material used as insulation between conductors) or electrically conductive (material used to carry current) film is deposited or grown on a wafer. Applied currently provides equipment to perform the three main types of deposition: CVD, PVD and electroplating. Applied also offers certain types of dielectric deposition processes using its RTP systems. Chemical Vapor Deposition CVD is used by chipmakers to deposit dielectric films (insulators) and metal films (conductors) on a wafer. During the CVD process, gases that contain atoms of the material to be deposited react on the wafer surface, forming a thin film of solid material. Films deposited by CVD may be silicon oxide, single crystal epitaxial silicon, silicon nitride, dielectric anti reflective coatings, low k (highly efficient insulating materials), high k (electrical charge storing materials), aluminum, titanium, titanium nitride, tantalum pentoxide, polysilicon, tungsten, refractory metals or silicides. Applied offers the following CVD products and technologies: Producer The Producer CVD platforms feature Twin Chamber modules that have two single wafer process chambers per unit. Up to three Twin Chamber modules can be mounted on each Producer platform, giving it a maximum processing capacity of six wafers at a time for high throughput manufacturing. Many of Applieds dielectric CVD film processes can be performed on this platform. In June 2001, Applied introduced its Producer SE system, which features advanced productivity for a wide range of dielectric CVD applications. The Producer platform also features integrated metrology technology that automatically measures the thickness and uniformity of the deposited film. By mid fiscal 2001, over 350 Producer systems had been shipped to customers worldwide. Ultima HDP CVD Centura High density plasma CVD (HDP CVD) is used to fill very small, deep spaces with dielectric film. One of the processes offered on the system is fluorinated silicate glass (FSG), a material that has better insulating capability than conventional oxide materials. These types of films are referred to as low dielectric constant (low k) materials. These low k films enable faster chip performance. A number of major customers have been using FSG deposition for manufacturing, making it the first low k dielectric film to be used for production chipmaking. The new Ultima X system, launched in May 2001, incorporates several new technology advances that extend the Ultimas process applications to 100 nanometer (100nm or 0.10 micron) and below chipmaking. Other Low k Dielectric Films Throughout fiscal 2001, Applied accelerated its programs for developing dielectric films with lower k values to complement the trend of using copper material for even faster chip speeds. Applied has introduced several low k dielectric materials using its established CVD technologies. Black Diamond, a silicon based low k dielectric film launched in fiscal 1999, is designed for copper based interconnect structures. A second low k dielectric, called BLOk (Barrier Low k), provides a low k solution for critical barrier layers in semiconductor devices, enabling the complete, multi layer dielectric chip structure to benefit from low k technology. High k Dielectric Films In fiscal 2000, Applied introduced the Giga Cap TanOx Centura for the deposition of high k tantalum pentoxide films. The system, which integrates CVD and RTP technologies, is used to fabricate capacitor structures in advanced memory chips. Epitaxial Deposition Epitaxial silicon (epitaxy or epi), used in some semiconductor devices, is a layer of pure silicon grown in a uniform crystalline structure on the wafer to form a high quality base for the device circuitry. Applied has manufactured epitaxial deposition systems for over 30 years. In fiscal 2000, Applied introduced its latest model, the Epi xP Centura, that integrates pre and post epi processes on the system to reduce total epi production costs. In addition to silicon applications, Applied offers an Epi Centura system for silicon germanium (SiGe) epi process technology, which can reduce power usage and increase speed in certain kinds of advanced chips. Polysilicon Deposition Polysilicon is a type of silicon used to form portions of the transistor structure within the semiconductor device. Applieds latest system, introduced in fiscal 2000, is the PolyGen Centura, a single wafer, multi chamber product that deposits thin polysilicon films at high temperatures with improved productivity and process control. A variant of the system, the Polycide Centura, combines chambers for polysilicon and tungsten silicide deposition on the Centura platform in an integrated process to create the polycide structures found in advanced semiconductors. To address the challenging requirements of 0.15 micron and below devices, Applied has combined its RTP and polysilicon technologies on one system called the Gate Stack Centura. This single system integration of polysilicon with advanced RTP oxidation and nitridation technology provides superior film quality and material properties, as well as improved process control. Integrating these technologies on one high productivity system lets customers use fewer process steps and reduce cycle time for their gate fabrication sequence. The process control provided by the single wafer approach is superior to batch processing, and is expected to become increasingly important as transistor structures shrink to smaller dimensions and as chipmakers move to larger wafer diameters. Silicon Nitride Deposition Applied offers a single wafer, high temperature system to deposit silicon nitride films, called the SiNgen Centura. This system operates at a lower deposition temperature than conventional methods to minimize the amount of time the wafer is exposed to high temperatures and to reduce particles while improving many areas of operating cost and productivity in critical transistor nitride layers for sub 0.18 micron devices. Tungsten Deposition Tungsten is the basic material used to connect the multiple layers of metal wiring on a chip. For many years, Applied has been a leading provider of systems to deposit tungsten. In fiscal 2001, Applied launched the Sprint Plus Centura to fill the tight geometries required in 100nm generation chip designs. In addition, Applied introduced an ALD (Atomic Layer Deposition) chamber that can be integrated with the Sprint Plus system for depositing tungsten and titanium based films. Physical Vapor Deposition PVD, also called sputtering, is a physical process in which atoms of a gas, such as argon, are accelerated at a metal target. The metal atoms chip off, or sputter away, and are then deposited on the wafer. The Endura PVD platform offers a broad range of advanced deposition processes, including aluminum, titanium/titanium nitride (Ti/TiN), tantalum/tantalum nitride and copper (Cu). This platform passed its 2,000th system shipment by the end of fiscal 2000. The Enduras highly flexible, multi chamber architecture allows the integration of multiple PVD processes or combinations of metal CVD and PVD technologies on the same system. The Enduras PVD Ti technology can be coupled with either CVD TiN or PVD TiN processes to form the critical lining layers of interconnect structures. These structures are subsequently bulk filled with tungsten, aluminum or other film materials. A new, high throughput version of the Endura platform, called Endura SL, was introduced in fiscal 2000 for applications benefiting from its efficient wafer handling and greater operational flexibility. A new technology for depositing critical barrier/seed films in copper based devices and liner/barrier films in aluminum based chips, called SIP (self ionized plasma), was introduced in early fiscal 2001 to extend PVD to smaller geometries. Systems for Copper Based Devices A majority of process steps used in chipmaking are performed to build the interconnect, a complex matrix of microscopic wires that carry electrical signals to connect the transistor and capacitor components of the chip. Chipmakers are beginning to shift from using aluminum as the main conducting material for the interconnect circuitry to copper, which has lower resistance than aluminum and can carry more current in a smaller area. Applied is a leading supplier of systems for copper based chipmaking, with systems that perform deposition of the barrier and seed layers (Endura Electra Cu&reg; Barrier & Seed), copper bulk fill by electroplating (Electra Cu ECP), and copper planarization by CMP (Mirra Mesa). In addition, Applied makes a full line of systems for depositing and etching the dielectric layers used in the copper interconnect and for inspection and metrology. The Endura Electra Cu Barrier & Seed system, launched in fiscal 1998, is widely used by chipmakers for fabricating copper based chips. Using PVD technology, the system sequentially deposits the critical layers that prevent copper material from entering other areas of the device and prime the structure for subsequent deposition of bulk copper material by electroplating. This year, Applied announced the industrys first CVD titanium silicon nitride (TiSiN) process for the Endura system, enabling high performance barrier films for sub 100nm device generations. Electroplating Electroplating is a process by which metal atoms are removed from a chemical fluid (an electrolyte) and deposited on the surface of an object immersed in the electrolyte. Its main application is to deposit copper in circuit wiring structures following the deposition of barrier and seed layers. Launched in April 1999, the Electra Cu ECP (ElectroChemical Plating) was Applieds first system to use electroplating technology. The Electra Cu ECP system offers the first completely automated ECP chemical management technology to the industry and provides process control and productivity not available in manually controlled systems. The Electra Cu ECPs high throughput system architecture features two twin cell modules that allow the simultaneous processing of four wafers. In fiscal 2000, Applied introduced the industrys first integrated ECP system, combining copper deposition with critical heat treatment and wafer edge clean processes on a single platform. Etch Etching is used many times throughout the semiconductor manufacturing process to selectively remove material from the surface of a wafer. Before etching begins, the wafer is coated with a light sensitive film, called photoresist, and is exposed to a circuit pattern during a photolithography process step that projects the circuit pattern onto the wafer. Etching removes material only from areas dictated by the photoresist pattern. Applied offers systems for etching three basic types of materials: metal, silicon and dielectric films. Applied extended an established etch technology, called magnetically enhanced reactive ion etch, into the 0.18 to 0.13 micron generation where it operates with high productivity and low cost of ownership in high volume production environments. The Dielectric Etch eMax Centura was introduced in fiscal 2000 as an extension of Applieds MxP+ and Super e dielectric process chamber designs. For etching advanced conducting films, Applied launched its latest generations of DPS systems in fiscal 2001, the Metal Etch DPS II and Silicon Etch DPS II Centura systems, offering customers the technology, productivity and reliability required for 100nm and below processing. Applied also introduced a new system, the Silicon Etch HART, for etching very small and deep structures. The Transforma etch patterning system combines silicon etch technology with new optical critical dimension metrology capability to enable chipmakers to improve process control, device yield and overall fab cycle time. Ion Implantation During ion implantation, silicon wafers are bombarded by a high velocity beam of ions, called dopants, that penetrate (or implant) the film surface to a desired depth. Implantation occurs in the transistor structure and changes the properties of the material in which the dopants are implanted to achieve a particular electrical performance. Fiscal 2001 saw the acceleration of an industry trend toward low energy implantation, which enables the fabrication of smaller structures and thus contributes to faster transistor performance. Applieds industry leading low energy implantation technology, featuring the Quantum LEAP (low energy advanced processing) system, has gained major acceptance by many chipmakers to create thinner, more advanced transistor structures. In early fiscal 2001, Applied launched an ion implantation system, called Swift&reg;, that combines the functions of two traditional implant technologies high energy and medium current in one system. This system introduces several advances in doping accuracy and wafer positioning that will be required for devices as they approach the 100nm generation. With the Swift system, Applied has broadened its product line to include virtually every ion implant application for advanced chip production. Rapid Thermal Processing RTP subjects a wafer to a very brief burst of intense heat that can take the wafer from room temperature to more than 1,000 degrees Celsius in less than 10 seconds. RTP, used mainly for modifying the properties of deposited films, activates dopant atoms in the device after implantation by using processes such as annealing. Applieds RTP systems, which include the RTP Xeplus and Radiance Centura products, offer advances in temperature and ramp rate control as well as other features aimed at providing leading edge capability for sub 0.15 micron generations. These single wafer systems have also gained increasing acceptance for growing high quality oxide and oxynitride films, deposition steps that have traditionally been assigned to furnaces. This trend to single wafer processing versus batch furnaces is expected to continue as the industry transitions to larger 300mm wafers. Chemical Mechanical Polishing CMP removes material from a wafer to create a flat (planarized) surface. This allows subsequent photolithography patterning steps to take place with greater accuracy and enables film layers to build up with minimal height variations. CMP is performed primarily in the interconnect structure of the chip, where it is used multiple times, and is especially crucial to fabricating copper based chips to define the circuit wires that create the interconnect. Applied entered the CMP market in 1995 with its Mirra&reg; system and has since added several important features to this product, including integrated film measurement and inspection capabilities. In fiscal 1999, the Mirra Mesa was introduced to provide customers with integrated cleaning technology. By mid fiscal 2001, Applied had shipped its 1,000th CMP system, including over 100 systems for polishing copper. Metrology and Wafer/Reticle Inspection Applied produces several types of products that are used to inspect the wafer during various stages of the fabrication process. Applied also supplies an inspection system to photomask manufacturers that is used to detect defects on quartz plates, called reticles or masks. These reticles are used by photolithography systems to transfer microscopic circuit designs onto wafers. The reticle must be defect free with perfect image fidelity because any imperfection will be replicated on the wafer. Critical Dimension and Defect Review Scanning Electron Microscopes (CD SEMs and DR SEMs) Scanning electron microscopes (SEMs) use an electron beam to form images of microscopic features of a semiconductor wafer at extremely high magnification. Applied provides chipmakers with operator free automation, along with the high accuracy and sensitivity needed for measuring advanced generation feature sizes. Introduced in fiscal 1999, the VeraSEM extends CD SEM technology beyond critical dimension measurement to also enable the monitoring of multiple process parameters. In fiscal 2000, Applied introduced the VeraSEM 3D, which enables users to perform three dimensional imaging of chip features down to 0.10 micron and achieves greater efficiency. DR SEMs review defects on the wafer (i.e., particles, scratches or residues) that are first located by other detection systems and then classify the defects to identify their source. The high throughput, fully automatic technology of Applieds SEMVision DR SEM enables customers to use DR SEM technology as an integral part of their production lines, rather than using it off line to occasionally sample wafers. Over 100 SEMVision systems had been shipped to customers by early fiscal 2001. Wafer Inspection Using laser based technology, defects can be detected on patterned wafers (wafers with circuit images printed on them) as they move between processing steps. Defects may include particles, open circuit lines, shorts between lines or other problems. In July 2000, Applied introduced Compass, the industrys first system to detect critical defects in devices with design rules as small as 0.10 micron and below at the high speeds required for chipmakers volume production lines. A second system, called Excite, was also introduced for monitoring the condition of process tools. The system identifies particle excursions right after processing, reducing the need for costly monitoring of wafers and increasing overall fab efficiency. Reticle Inspection The ARIS 100i system is an automated, ultraviolet wavelength based advanced inspection system for reticles used in 0.18 micron and below generation devices. The system features enhanced image acquisition technology, data handling capabilities and sensitivity for the most advanced mask designs. Flat Panel Displays The most advanced FPDs are manufactured using technologies similar to those for making semiconductors. One difference is the vastly larger area of the substrate (panel). Compared to todays largest wafers (300mm diameter), the panels can be up to 15 times larger. Applied began development of FPD process technology in 1990, beginning with a CVD process. In fiscal 2000, AKT introduced several new systems and technology capabilities. The AKT 5500 CVD system and AKT 10K CVD systems expanded its product line to include systems for larger substrate sizes, including the one square meter Generation 5 size represented by the 10K system. In addition, a new CVD process was introduced to enable the manufacture of polysilicon based screens used in next generation communications applications. Factory Management Software The Consilium WorkStream and FAB300 products are designed for semiconductor and FPD manufacturers to control and optimize their facility operations. In fiscal 2000, FAB300 version 2.0 was announced, a wafer fab management software package specifically designed to meet the requirements of 300mm wafer production. The FAB300 2.0 product integrates a full complement of operating modules, enabling chipmakers to easily manage 300mm wafer movement and equipment operation in a single, fully automated, fab wide solution. Mask Pattern Generation Systems Mask pattern generation systems use precision lasers or electron beams to write (or pattern) each layer of a semiconductor chips design onto a piece of chrome coated quartz glass. Introduced in 2001, the advanced MEBES&reg; eXara is an electron beam system for leading edge maskmaking. The latest ALTA&reg; 4000, a laser beam system launched in 2001, provides mainstream, high throughput production capability. A new system was introduced in fiscal 2001 for etching photomasks, the Tetra Photomask Etch system. This product uses dry etch technology to fabricate the most advanced photomasks, which are required for 100nm and below chipmaking. Customer Service and Support Applieds customer service organization plays a critical role in Applieds ability to continuously satisfy its customers production requirements. Approximately 4,000 highly trained customer engineers and process support engineers are deployed in more than a dozen countries. These engineers are usually located at or near the customers fab sites and service approximately 17,000 Applied systems. In fiscal 1999, Applied introduced a new line of service products, called Total Service Solutions (TSS), that offers an innovative approach to maintaining and servicing Applieds equipment in the fab. In one aspect of the TSS program, called Total Parts Management&reg; (TPM), Applied is responsible for the spare parts used in its equipment at a customers fab site. Under TPM, chipmakers no longer need to own or manage inventory for their Applied systems. A second product, called Total Support Package&reg; (TSP), is a comprehensive equipment service solution that includes parts inventory management and maintenance, with operating cost reduction and system performance improvement guarantees for their Applied equipment. Launched in 2001, SparesSolutions is an on line customer support application that provides a simple, fast and cost effective way for customers to obtain spare parts for their Applied systems. Backlog Applieds backlog decreased from $4.4 billion at October 29, 2000 to $2.7 billion at October 28, 2001. Backlog adjustments for fiscal 2001 included cancellations of $882 million and currency and other adjustments of $229 million, partially offset by a positive adjustment of $571 million to reinstate backlog for revenue that will be recognized in future periods due to the implementation of Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 101 (SAB 101), "Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements." For further details regarding the implementation of SAB 101, see Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Applied schedules production of its systems based on order backlog and customer commitments. Backlog includes only orders for which written authorizations have been accepted, shipment dates within 12 months have been assigned and revenue has not been recognized. However, customers may delay delivery of products or cancel orders suddenly and without sufficient notice, subject to possible cancellation penalties. Due to possible customer changes in delivery schedules and cancellations of orders, Applieds backlog at any particular date is not necessarily indicative of actual sales for any succeeding period. Delays in delivery schedules and or a reduction of backlog during any particular period could have a material adverse effect on Applieds business and results of operations. Manufacturing, Raw Materials and Supplies Applieds manufacturing activities consist primarily of assembling various commercial and proprietary components into finished systems, with pilot manufacturing principally located in Santa Clara, California and volume manufacturing in Austin, Texas. Applied also has manufacturing operations in Hayward, California; Hillsboro, Oregon; Horsham, England and Rehovot, Israel. Production requires some raw materials and a wide variety of mechanical and electrical components to be manufactured to Applieds specifications. Applied uses numerous domestic and international vendors to supply parts, components and subassemblies (collectively, "parts") for the manufacture and support of its products. Applied has embarked on a strategy of increasing the value add of subassembly suppliers in the manufacture of many of its new products. Although Applied makes reasonable efforts to ensure that parts are available from multiple qualified suppliers, this is not always possible; accordingly, some key parts may be obtained only from a single supplier or a limited group of suppliers. Applied has sought, and will continue to seek, to minimize the risk of production and service interruptions and or shortages of key parts by: 1) selecting and qualifying alternative suppliers for key parts; 2) monitoring the financial stability of key suppliers; and 3) maintaining appropriate inventories of key parts. If Applied does not receive a sufficient quantity of parts in a timely and cost effective manner to meet its production requirements, Applieds results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Research, Development and Engineering Applieds long term growth strategy requires continued development of new semiconductor and FPD manufacturing products. Applieds significant investment in research, development and engineering (RD&E) has generally enabled it to deliver new products and technologies before the emergence of strong demand, thus allowing customers to incorporate these products into their manufacturing plans at an early stage in the technology selection cycle. Applied works closely with its global customers to design systems that meet their planned technical and production requirements. Engineering organizations are located in the United States, the United Kingdom, Israel and Japan, with process support and customer demonstration laboratories in the United States, the United Kingdom, Israel, Japan and Taiwan. Applied invested $740 million (14.5 percent of net sales) for fiscal 1999, $1.1 billion (11.6 percent of net sales) for fiscal 2000 and $1.2 billion (16.3 percent of net sales) for fiscal 2001 in RD&E for product development and engineering programs to improve or sustain existing product lines. Applied has spent an average of 14.2 percent of net sales on RD&E over the last five years. In addition to RD&E for specific product technologies, Applied maintains ongoing programs in software, automation control systems, materials research and environmental control that have applications to its products. Key activities during fiscal 2001 included development of wafer fabrication equipment for smaller chip feature sizes, copper based devices and 300mm wafers. Applied also continued the development of its Process Module concept, the integration of multiple individual systems with metrology and inspection capabilities and specialized software for feedforward/feedback process control. These systems operate as a single, highly automated unit to perform a particular wafer processing application in a customers manufacturing process to a specified level of performance. Applied expects this concept to save customers critical process development and facility start up time, enabling them to bring new chip technologies to market more quickly. Marketing and Sales Because of the highly technical nature of its products, Applied markets and sells its products worldwide through a direct sales force. For fiscal 2001, net sales as a percent of Applieds total net sales to customers in each region were: North America (primarily the United States) 29 percent, Japan 26 percent, Taiwan 15 percent, Europe 15 percent, Asia Pacific 9 percent and Korea 6 percent. Applieds business is usually not seasonal in nature, but it is cyclical based on the capital equipment investment patterns of major semiconductor manufacturers. These expenditure patterns are based on many factors, including anticipated market demand for integrated circuits, the development of new technologies and global and regional economic conditions. Information on net sales to unaffiliated customers and long lived assets attributable to Applieds geographic regions is included in Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. For fiscal 1999 and fiscal 2001, Intel Corporation accounted for more than 10 percent of Applieds net sales. For fiscal 2000, no individual customer accounted for more than 10 percent of Applieds net sales. Competition The global semiconductor equipment industry is highly competitive and is characterized by increasingly rapid technological advancements and demanding worldwide service requirements. Applieds ability to compete depends on its ability to commercialize its technology and continually improve its products, processes and services, as well as its ability to develop new products that meet constantly evolving customer requirements. Significant competitive factors for succeeding in the semiconductor manufacturing equipment market include the equipments technical capability, productivity and cost effectiveness, overall reliability, ease of use and maintenance, contamination and defect control, and the level of technical service and support provided by the vendor. The importance of each of these factors varies depending on the specific customers needs and criteria, including considerations such as the customers process application, product requirements, timing of the purchase and particular circumstances of the purchasing decision. The pace of technological change is rapid, with customers continually moving to smaller critical dimensions and larger wafer sizes and adopting new materials for use in semiconductor manufacturing. Sometimes, existing technology can be adapted to the new requirements; however, the new requirements sometimes create the need for an entirely new technical approach. The rapid pace of technological change continually creates new opportunities for existing competitors and start ups, and can quickly diminish the value of existing technologies. Substantial competition exists for each of Applieds products. Competitors range from small companies that compete with a single innovative product to companies with a large and diverse line of semiconductor processing products. Competitors in a given technology tend to have different degrees of market presence in the various regional markets. Management believes that Applied is a strong competitor and that Applieds competitive position is based on the ability of its products and services to continue to address customer requirements. Success for Applied will require a continued high level of investment in RD&E and in sales and marketing. However, new products, rapid changes in technology and other competitive actions from both new and existing competitors could materially and adversely affect Applieds market position. Patents and Licenses Management believes that Applieds competitive position is significantly dependent upon skills in engineering, production and marketing, rather than just on its patent position. However, protection of Applieds technology assets by obtaining and enforcing patents is important. Therefore, Applied has a program to file patent applications in the U.S. and other countries for inventions that Applied considers significant. Applied has a number of patents in the U.S. and other countries, and additional applications are pending for new developments in its equipment and processes. In addition to patents, Applied also possesses other proprietary intellectual property, including trademarks, know how, trade secrets and copyrights. Applied enters into patent and technology licensing agreements with other companies when management determines that it is in Applieds best interest to do so. Applied pays royalties under existing patent license agreements for the use, in several of its products, of certain patented technologies that are licensed to Applied for the life of the patents. Applied also receives royalties from licenses granted to third parties. Royalties received from third parties have not been, and are not expected to be, material. In the normal course of business, Applied from time to time receives and makes inquiries regarding possible patent infringement. In dealing with such inquiries, it may become necessary or useful for Applied to obtain or grant licenses or other rights. However, there can be no assurance that such licenses or rights will be available to Applied on commercially reasonable terms. Although there can be no assurance about the outcome of existing patent infringement inquiries, Applied believes it is unlikely that their resolution will have a material adverse effect on its financial condition or results of operations. Environmental Matters Two of Applieds locations have been designated as environmental cleanup sites since 1987. The United States Environmental Protection Agency designated one of the locations, in Santa Clara, California, as a Superfund site and named Applied as a "Responsible Party." Cleanup activities have been underway at this site since 1984. The California Regional Water Quality Control Board has designated Applied as a "Discharger" with respect to the other site in Sunnyvale, California. Applied was named a Discharger at the Sunnyvale site because it currently owns the site in question, although prior owners and operators are being required to perform cleanup and monitoring activities. Applied has also been cited by local authorities for instances of noncompliance with local and or state environmental laws, and in each such instance, those allegations have been resolved. Neither compliance with federal, state and local provisions regulating discharge of materials into the environment, nor remedial agreements or other actions relating to the environment, has had, or is expected to have, a material effect on Applieds capital expenditures, financial condition, results of operations or competitive position. Employees At October 28, 2001, Applied employed 17,365 regular employees. On December 12, 2001, Applied announced a headcount reduction of approximately 1,700 positions, or 10 percent of its global workforce, in response to the continuing downturn in the semiconductor industry. At December 23, 2001, Applied employed 16,263 regular employees. In the high technology industry, competition for highly skilled employees is intense. Applied believes that its future success is highly dependent upon on its continued ability to attract and retain qualified employees. There can be no assurance that Applied will be able to attract, hire, assimilate and retain a sufficient number of qualified people. None of Applieds employees are represented by a trade union, and management considers its relations with employees to be good. Item 2: Properties Information concerning Applieds principal properties at October 28, 2001 is set forth below: Square Owner Location Type Principal Use Footage ship Santa Clara, CA.... Office, plant Headquarters, Marketing, 1,047,000 owned & warehouse Manufacturing, 2,876,000 (1) leased Distribution, Research and Engineering Austin, TX......... Office, plant Manufacturing 1,696,000 owned & warehouse 523,000 leased Hayward, CA........ Office, plant Manufacturing, Research 360,000 leased & warehouse and Engineering Hsinchu, Taiwan.... Office, plant Research and Engineering, 81,000 owned & warehouse Customer Support 258,000 leased Rehovot, Israel.... Office, plant Manufacturing, Research 267,000 owned & warehouse and Engineering Narita, Japan...... Office, plant Research and Engineering, 227,000 (2) owned & warehouse Customer Support Hillsboro, OR...... Office, plant Manufacturing, Research 177,000 leased & warehouse and Engineering Tainan, Taiwan..... Office, plant Customer Support 141,000 owned & warehouse Horsham, England... Office, plant Manufacturing, Research 127,000 leased & warehouse and Engineering Chunan, Korea...... Office, plant Customer Support 109,000 owned & warehouse (1) Includes approximately 491,000 square feet that is currently being subleased. (2) Subject to loans of $27 million, collateralized by property and equipment with a net book value of $49 million at October 28, 2001. In addition to the above properties, Applied leases office space for sales and customer support offices in 90 locations throughout the world: 27 in North America (primarily the United States), 3 in Taiwan, 25 in Japan, 18 in Europe, 10 in Korea and 7 in Asia Pacific. Applied also owns 865,000 square feet in Santa Clara, California, owns 140,000 square feet in Singapore, leases 100,000 square feet in Danvers, Massachusetts, and owns 118,000 square feet in Rehovot, Israel of facilities that have not yet been completed and placed in service. In addition, Applied owns: 1) 96 acres of buildable land in Texas that can accommodate approximately 1,465,000 square feet of additional building space; 2) 26 acres in Oregon that can accommodate approximately 396,000 square feet; 3) 13 acres in California that can accommodate approximately 392,000 square feet; and 4) 9 acres in Japan that can accommodate approximately 766,000 square feet. Applied also leases 13 acres in Taiwan that can accommodate approximately 284,000 square feet, and leases 10 acres in Israel that can accommodate approximately 159,000 square feet. This additional building space is intended to satisfy Applieds current and future needs. Applied considers the above facilities suitable and adequate to meet its requirements. Item 3: Legal Proceedings Novellus After Varian Associates, Inc. (Varian) failed to respond to requests by Applied to discuss patent issues, on June 13, 1997, Applied filed a lawsuit against Varian, captioned Applied Materials, Inc. v. Varian Associates, Inc. (case no. C 97 20523 RMW) in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California, alleging infringement of several of Applieds patents concerning PVD technology. On July 7, 1997, Applied amended that action to allege infringement of those same Applied PVD patents against Novellus Systems, Inc. (Novellus) and to add Novellus as a defendant, as a result of Novellus acquisition of Varians thin film systems PVD business. On June 23, 1997, Novellus filed a separate lawsuit against Applied captioned Novellus Systems, Inc. v. Applied Materials, Inc. (case no. C 97 20551 EAI) in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California, alleging infringement by Applied of several PVD technology patents that were formerly owned by Varian. Novellus seeks damages for past infringement, a permanent injunction, treble damages for willful infringement, pre judgment interest and attorneys fees. In September 2000, Applied and Varian settled their disputes, and on October 3, 2000, Applieds claims against Varian and Varians claims and counterclaims against Applied were dismissed with prejudice. The litigation with Novellus continues. Fact discovery has closed in the actions. The court has canceled an August 2001 trial date and no new trial date has been set. Applied believes it has meritorious claims and defenses and intends to pursue them vigorously. Plasma Physics On April 17, 2000, Applied filed a lawsuit against Plasma Physics Corp. (PPC) and Solar Physics Corp. (SPC). The lawsuit seeks a judicial declaration that Applieds CVD equipment does not infringe two patents owned by PPC and exclusively licensed to SPC and or that those patents are invalid or unenforceable. On July 31, 2000, PPC and SPC answered the complaint and filed a conditional counterclaim alleging that Applied had contributed to or induced others to infringe the two patents. PPC and SPC seek an injunction prohibiting infringement by Applied and an award of costs, expenses and attorneys fees. The counterclaim is conditional because PPC and SPC have stated that they will not sue Applied for infringement of the two patents if the Court dismisses the lawsuit initiated by Applied for lack of subject matter jurisdiction. The Court subsequently denied without prejudice PPCs and SPCs motion to dismiss the lawsuit for lack of subject matter jurisdiction, but stated that PPC and SPC could renew the motion to dismiss, if appropriate, after further discovery. On September 13, 2001, Applied filed an amended complaint adding two new causes of action to the existing declaratory judgment claims. The new claims allege that PPC and SPC have violated the Lanham Act and engaged in unfair competition by willfully making false or misleading statements about Applieds equipment. Discovery has commenced. The Court has ordered the parties to be ready for trial by October 1, 2002 but has not yet set a trial date. Applied believes it has meritorious claims and defenses and intends to pursue them vigorously. U.S. Department of Justice, Antitrust Division In September 2000, Applied received notice from the Department of Justice, Antitrust Division that it had begun an investigation into Applieds licensing of technology. Although neither the extent nor the outcome of this investigation can be determined at this time, Applied does not believe that the outcome will have a material adverse effect on its financial condition or results of operations. Axcelis Technologies On January 8, 2001, Axcelis Technologies, Inc. (Axcelis), formerly a subsidiary of Eaton Corporation, filed a lawsuit in the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts, captioned Axcelis Technologies, Inc. v. Applied Materials, Inc. (case no. 01 10029 DPW). The lawsuit alleges that Applied infringes a patent concerning ion implantation owned by Axcelis. The complaint also alleges various Massachusetts state and common law tortious interference and unfair competition claims. Axcelis seeks a preliminary and permanent injunction, damages, costs and attorneys fees. On April 12, 2001, Applied answered the complaint by denying all allegations and counterclaiming for declaratory judgment of invalidity and non infringement, and violations of various unfair and deceptive trade practices laws. Applied seeks damages, a permanent injunction, costs and attorneys fees. Fact and expert discovery have closed. Summary judgment motions have been filed and are pending before the Court. No trial date has been set. Applied believes it has meritorious defenses and counterclaims to the action and intends to pursue them vigorously. Linear Technology Corp. On March 2, 2001, Linear Technology Corp. (LTC) filed a third party complaint against Applied in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas, captioned Texas Instruments, Inc. v. Linear Technology Corp. v. Applied Materials, Inc. (case no. 2 01 CV4 (DF)). The complaint against Applied alleges that Applied is obligated to indemnify LTC and defend LTC for certain claims in the underlying patent infringement lawsuit brought by Texas Instruments, Inc. (TI) against LTC. The complaint also alleges claims for breach of contract, breach of warranty and various unfair business practices. In the complaint, LTC alleges that Applied failed to disclose to LTC, before LTC purchased certain equipment from Applied, that TI previously had won a jury verdict against Hyundai Electronics Industries Co., Ltd. (Hyundai) for patent infringement based on Hyundais use of certain semiconductor equipment including some Applied tools. LTCs lawsuit against Applied seeks indemnification and damages from Applied and an order requiring Applied to defend LTC in the underlying lawsuit with TI. Applied has brought a motion to dismiss all claims. The motion is pending before the court. Discovery is proceeding. No trial date has been set. Applied believes it has meritorious defenses to the action and intends to pursue them vigorously. Semitool, Inc. On June 11, 2001, Semitool, Inc. (Semitool) filed a lawsuit against Applied in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California, captioned Semitool, Inc. v. Applied Materials, Inc. (case no. CV 01 2277 CRB). The lawsuit alleges that Applied infringes a patent concerning seed repair and electroplating owned by Semitool. Semitool seeks a preliminary and permanent injunction, damages, costs and attorneys fees. On July 12, 2001, before Applied had answered the complaint, Semitool voluntarily dismissed its action against Applied in the Northern District of California. On the same day, Semitool filed a substantially identical action against Applied in the United States District Court for the District of Oregon, captioned Semitool, Inc. v. Applied Materials, Inc. (case no. CV01 1066 AS). On July 13, 2001, Applied filed a declaratory judgment action against Semitool in the Northern District of California, captioned Applied Materials, Inc. v. Semitool, Inc. (case no. CV 01 2673 BZ). In that action, Applied seeks a declaration that Applied has not infringed the Semitool patent and that Semitools patent is invalid and unenforceable. Applied also seeks costs and attorneys fees. The California Court has ordered Applieds action against Semitool transferred to the District of Oregon. The actions are proceeding together in Oregon. Discovery is ongoing. No trial date has been set. Applied believes it has meritorious claims and defenses and intends to pursue them vigorously. David Scharf On July 31, 2001, an individual, David Scharf, filed a lawsuit against Applied in the United States District Court for the Central District of California, captioned David Scharf v. Applied Materials, Inc. (case no. 01 06580 AHM). The lawsuit alleges that Applied infringes, has induced others to infringe and has contributed to others infringement of a patent concerning color synthesizing scanning electron microscope technology. Mr. Scharf seeks a preliminary and permanent injunction, damages and costs. Applied has answered the complaint and counterclaimed for declaratory judgment of non infringement and invalidity. Discovery is proceeding. No trial date has been set. Applied believes it has meritorious defenses and counterclaims and intends to pursue them vigorously. Applied is subject to various other legal proceedings and claims, either asserted or unasserted, that arise in the ordinary course of business. Although the outcome of these claims cannot be predicted with certainty, Applied does not believe that any of these other existing legal matters will have a material adverse effect on its financial condition or results of operations. Item 4: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders in the Fourth Fiscal Quarter of 2001 None. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT The following table and notes set forth information about Applieds five executive officers: Name of Individual Capacities in which Served James C. Morgan(1).... Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Dan Maydan(2)......... Director and President Joseph R. Bronson(3).. Executive Vice President, Office of the President and Chief Financial Officer Sasson Somekh(4)...... Executive Vice President, Office of the President David N.K. Wang(5).... Executive Vice President, Office of the President (1)Mr. Morgan, age 63, has been Chief Executive Officer since 1977 and Chairman of the Board of Directors since 1987. Mr. Morgan also served as President from 1976 to 1987. (2)Dr. Maydan, age 66, was appointed President in December 1993 and has been a member of the Board of Directors since 1992. Dr. Maydan served as Executive Vice President from 1990 to December 1993. Prior to that, Dr. Maydan had been Group Vice President since February 1989. Dr. Maydan joined Applied in 1980 as Director of Technology. (3)Mr. Bronson, age 53, was appointed Executive Vice President in December 2000 and has been a member of the Office of the President and Chief Financial Officer since January 1998. Mr. Bronson also served as Senior Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer from 1998 to 2000 and Group Vice President from 1994 to 1998. Prior to that, Mr. Bronson had been Vice President since November 1990. Mr. Bronson joined Applied in 1984 as Corporate Controller. (4)Dr. Somekh, age 55, was appointed Executive Vice President in December 2000 and has been a member of the Office of the President since January 1998. Dr. Somekh served as Senior Vice President from 1993 to 2000 and Group Vice President from 1990 to 1993. Prior to that, Dr. Somekh had been a divisional Vice President. Dr. Somekh joined Applied in 1980 as a Project Manager. (5)Dr. Wang, age 55, was appointed Executive Vice President in December 2000 and has been a member of the Office of the President since January 1998. Dr. Wang served as Senior Vice President from 1993 to 2000 and Group Vice President from 1990 to 1993. Prior to that, Dr. Wang had been a divisional Vice President. Dr. Wang joined Applied in 1980 as Manager, Process Engineering and Applications. PART II Item 5: Market for Registrants Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters The following table sets forth the high and low closing sale prices as reported on the Nasdaq National Market, as adjusted to reflect a two for one stock split in the form of a 100 percent stock dividend, effective March 15, 2000. Fiscal year ended 2000 2001 High Low High Low First quarter............. $72.22 $43.88 $53.13 $35.38 Second quarter............ $114.88 $68.63 $58.73 $37.81 Third quarter............. $101.88 $71.88 $57.52 $41.95 Fourth quarter............ $86.31 $42.06 $50.00 $27.50 Applieds common stock is traded on the Nasdaq National Market. As of December 23, 2001, there were approximately 6,671 directly registered holders of record of the common stock. To date, Applied has not declared or paid cash dividends to its stockholders. Applied has no plans to declare and pay cash dividends in the near future. Item 6: Selected Consolidated Financial Data Fiscal year ended (1) 1997 (2) 1998 (2) 1999 (2) 2000 (2) 2001 (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) Net sales..................................$4,315,189 $4,330,014 $5,096,302 $9,564,412 $7,343,248 Gross margin...............................$2,017,552 $2,016,313 $2,419,219 $4,855,728 $3,252,033 (% of net sales)....................... 46.8 46.6 47.5 50.8 44.3 Research, development and engineering...... $601,985 $697,291 $740,114 $1,107,922 $1,198,799 (% of net sales)....................... 14.0 16.1 14.5 11.6 16.3 Marketing, selling, general and administrative......................... $594,534 $626,311 $695,296 $960,753 $901,924 (% of net sales)....................... 13.8 14.5 13.6 10.0 12.3 Income from continuing operations before income taxes, equity in net income/(loss) of joint venture and cumulative effect of change in accounting principle................ $852,195 $508,693 $1,023,344 $2,947,844 $1,103,802 Effective tax rate (%)..................... 37.5 34.0 32.3 30.0 29.8 Income from continuing operations before cumulative effect of change in accounting principle (3)............ $532,913 $298,665 $726,679 $2,063,552 $775,228 (% of net sales)....................... 12.3 6.9 14.3 21.6 10.6 Net income (4)............................. $532,913 $277,669 $747,675 $2,063,552 $507,829 Earnings per diluted share: Continuing operations.................. $0.68 $0.38 $0.88 $2.40 $0.91 Discontinued operations................ (0.03) 0.03 Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle............. (0.31) Total.................................. $0.68 $0.35 $0.91 $2.40 $0.60 Weighted average common shares and equivalents (in thousands)............. 784,236 786,596 820,580 859,169 847,329 Order backlog..............................$1,880,311 $1,045,567 $1,739,270 $4,381,768 $2,725,406 Working capital............................$2,524,572 $2,595,741 $3,579,223 $6,079,436 $6,249,358 Current ratio.............................. 2.7 3.1 3.1 3.2 5.1 Long term debt............................. $623,090 $616,572 $584,357 $573,126 $564,805 Stockholders equity.......................$3,139,812 $3,367,290 $4,575,258 $7,104,348 $7,606,737 Book value per share....................... $4.12 $4.41 $5.77 $8.74 $9.32 Total assets...............................$5,355,309 $5,288,206 $7,014,510 $10,545,730 $9,828,510 Capital expenditures, net.................. $364,994 $464,372 $219,657 $383,255 $710,620 Regular employees.......................... 14,826 13,179 13,831 19,220 17,365 (1)Each fiscal year ended on the last Sunday in October. (2)For periods prior to fiscal 2001, data was not available to provide pro forma information as if the change in accounting principle was applied retroactively. (3)Income from continuing operations before cumulative effect of change in accounting principle included net one time items, on an after tax basis, of: $27,969 expense for fiscal 1997, $165,093 expense for fiscal 1998, $30,248 expense for fiscal 1999, $9,911 income for fiscal 2000 and $158,871 expense for fiscal 2001. (4)In addition to the net one time items included in income from continuing operations before cumulative effect of change in accounting principle, net income also included after tax expense of $20,996 from discontinued operations for fiscal 1998, after tax income of $20,996 from the reversal of provision for discontinuance of joint venture subsequently retained for fiscal 1999 and after tax expense of $267,399 from a cumulative effect of change in accounting principle for fiscal 2001. Item 7: Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Applied develops, manufactures, markets and services semiconductor wafer fabrication equipment and related spare parts for the worldwide semiconductor industry. Demand for Applieds products can change significantly from period to period as a result of numerous factors, including, but not limited to, changes in: 1) global economic conditions; 2) supply and demand for semiconductors; 3) the profitability of semiconductor manufacturers; and 4) advanced technology and or capacity requirements of semiconductor manufacturers. For this and other reasons, Applieds results of operations for fiscal 1999, 2000 and 2001 may not necessarily be indicative of future operating results. During the fourth fiscal quarter of 2001, Applied implemented the Securities and Exchange Commissions Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 101 (SAB 101), "Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements," retroactively effective to the beginning of fiscal 2001. Accordingly, the first three fiscal quarters of 2001 have been restated (see Note 15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). Amounts prior to fiscal 2001 have not been restated. Net Sales Applieds business was subject to cyclical industry conditions in fiscal 1999, 2000 and 2001. As a result of these conditions, there were significant fluctuations in Applieds quarterly new orders and net sales, both within and across fiscal years. Demand for semiconductor manufacturing equipment has historically been volatile as a result of sudden changes in semiconductor supply and demand and other factors, including rapid technological advances in both semiconductor devices and wafer fabrication processes. Quarterly new orders and net sales were as follows: Quarter Fiscal First Second Third Fourth Year (In millions) 1999: New orders... $1,058 $1,461 $1,514 $1,688 $5,721 Net sales.... $821 $1,171 $1,491 $1,613 $5,096 2000: New orders... $2,454 $2,928 $3,275 $3,601 $12,258 Net sales.... $1,722 $2,190 $2,732 $2,920 $9,564 2001: New orders... $2,430 $1,353 $1,208 $1,106 $6,097 Net sales.... $2,363 $2,139 $1,576 $1,265 $7,343 Each region in the global semiconductor equipment market exhibits unique characteristics that can cause, and in the past have caused, capital equipment investment patterns to vary significantly from period to period. Net sales by geographic region were as follows: Fiscal year ended 1999 2000 2001 (In millions) North America*.... $1,756 $2,598 $2,131 Taiwan............ 1,016 2,317 1,109 Japan............. 875 1,509 1,876 Europe............ 802 1,430 1,085 Korea............. 345 868 449 Asia Pacific...... 302 842 693 $5,096 $9,564 $7,343 * Primarily the United States. In early fiscal 1999, the semiconductor and semiconductor manufacturing equipment industries were beginning to emerge from a downturn and entered a period of expansion. As a result of the industry expansion, new orders and net sales increased sequentially each quarter during fiscal 1999 and fiscal 2000. Strong demand for Applieds products was driven by semiconductor manufacturers needs for additional capacity and new technology to meet consumer demand for Internet, computing, communications and digital devices. In addition, the semiconductor industry was continuing the transition to smaller device feature sizes, new materials, such as copper, and 300mm wafer processing, which required new manufacturing equipment. For fiscal 2000, Applied was able to achieve record levels of new orders, net sales and net income as a result of these factors. During the first fiscal quarter of 2001, slowing worldwide demand for semiconductors resulted in a rapid decline in demand for manufacturing equipment. Inventory buildups in telecommunication products, slower than expected personal computer sales and slower global economic growth caused semiconductor companies to reevaluate their capital spending and reschedule or cancel existing orders. This decline in demand deepened sequentially throughout the remainder of fiscal 2001 into a severe industry downturn due to continued weakness in the macro economic climate and consumption of electronic goods, which resulted in further capital spending cutbacks by Applieds customers. Gross Margin Gross margin as a percentage of net sales increased from 47.5 percent for fiscal 1999 to 50.8 percent for fiscal 2000, and decreased to 44.3 percent for fiscal 2001. The increase in gross margin as a percentage of net sales for fiscal 2000 was due primarily to higher business volume, reduced manufacturing cycle times and the favorable effects of operational programs emphasizing productivity improvements and cost reduction. The decrease in gross margin as a percentage of net sales for fiscal 2001 was caused primarily by decreased business volume, which resulted in factory underabsorption, and changes in product mix with start up costs of new 300mm products. Research, Development and Engineering Applieds future operating results depend, to a considerable extent, on its ability to maintain a competitive advantage in the products and services it provides. Applied believes that it is critical to continue to make substantial investments in RD&E to ensure the availability of innovative technology that meets the current and projected requirements of its customers most advanced chip designs. RD&E expenses increased for each of the last three years, from $740 million (14.5 percent of net sales) for fiscal 1999 to $1.1 billion (11.6 percent of net sales) for fiscal 2000 and to $1.2 billion (16.3 percent of net sales) for fiscal 2001. Applied increased its RD&E spending for fiscal 1999 and 2000 to address customers requirements for shrinking device feature sizes, the use of new materials, such as copper, and the transition from 200mm to 300mm wafer processing. Applieds investment in research and development for copper based devices resulted in a broad line of copper based products available for sale in fiscal 1999 and 2000. Additionally, Applied developed and launched many new products and enhanced versions of its existing products and technologies in fiscal 2000, including 22 new systems for 300mm wafer processing. During fiscal 2001, Applied continued its development of technologies for copper and low based chips and 300mm wafers, as well as focusing efforts on the core technologies that will be required for chipmakers to begin development of 0.10 micron generation devices. Areas of increased investment include maskmaking technology, metrology and inspection, ion implantation, and products for depositing and etching new materials. In addition, significant investments were made to develop Applieds Process Module concept, the integration of multiple individual systems with metrology and inspection capabilities and specialized software for feedforward/feedback process control. These systems operate as a single, highly automated unit to perform a particular wafer processing application in a customers manufacturing process to a specified level of performance. Marketing, Selling, General and Administrative Marketing, selling, general and administrative (MSG&A) expenses increased from $695 million (13.6 percent of net sales) for fiscal 1999 to $961 million (10.0 percent of net sales) for fiscal 2000, and decreased to $902 million (12.3 percent of net sales) for fiscal 2001. The increase for fiscal 2000 was primarily caused by higher costs of incentive and benefit programs, increased investments in various information technology programs, and increased costs to support higher net sales. The decrease for fiscal 2001 was due primarily to cost reduction actions and lower business volume. Non recurring Items Non recurring items for fiscal 1999 consisted of $5 million of merger expenses related to the acquisition of Consilium, Inc., $43 million of acquired in process research and development expense incurred in connection with the acquisitions of AKT and Obsidian, Inc. and $3 million of restructuring charges associated with Etecs headcount reductions and consolidation of facilities prior to its acquisition by Applied. Non recurring items for fiscal 2000 consisted of $40 million of merger expenses related to the acquisition of Etec. During fiscal 2001, Applied recorded pre tax restructuring charges of $211 million, consisting of $105 million for headcount reductions, $45 million for consolidation of facilities and $61 million for asset write offs, primarily for fixed assets. These restructuring actions occurred in Applieds second, third and fourth fiscal quarters, and were taken to better align Applieds cost structure with prevailing market conditions. During the second fiscal quarter of 2001, Applied completed a voluntary separation plan that resulted in a headcount reduction of approximately 1,000 employees, or three percent of its global workforce, for a cost of $47 million. During the third fiscal quarter of 2001, Applied recorded a pre tax restructuring charge of $4 million associated with severance and benefit costs. During the fourth fiscal quarter of 2001, Applied eliminated approximately 2,000 additional positions, or 10 percent of its global workforce, for a cost of $54 million. The majority of the affected employees were based in Santa Clara, California and Austin, Texas, and represented multiple company activities and functions. Non recurring items for fiscal 2001 also included $10 million of acquired in process research and development expense incurred in connection with the acquisition of Oramir Semiconductor Equipment Ltd. (Oramir). For further details, see Note 6 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Non recurring Income, Net Net non recurring income of $30 million for fiscal 1999 and $68 million for fiscal 2000 were related to a 1998 litigation settlement with ASM International, N.V. For further details, see Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Net Interest Income Net interest income was $60 million for fiscal 1999, $133 million for fiscal 2000 and $174 million for fiscal 2001. The increases from year to year can be attributed primarily to increasing cash and investment balances over the three year period. Provision for Income Taxes Applieds effective income tax rate was 32.3 percent for fiscal 1999, 30.0 percent for fiscal 2000 and 29.8 percent for fiscal 2001. Applieds actual effective income tax rate for fiscal 1999 of 32.3 percent differed from the expected effective income tax rate of 31.0 percent due to the non tax deductible nature of $43 million of acquired in process research and development expense. The reduction to a 30.0 percent effective income tax rate for fiscal 2000 resulted primarily from a shift in the geographic composition of pre tax income to entities operating in countries with lower tax rates. Applied expected an effective income tax rate of 29.5 percent for fiscal 2001, which decreased from the fiscal 2000 effective rate due to a shift in the geographic composition of Applieds pre tax income. The actual effective income tax rate for fiscal 2001 of 29.8 percent differed from the expected rate of 29.5 percent due to the non tax deductible nature of $10 million of acquired in process research and development expense. Applieds future effective income tax rate depends on various factors, such as tax legislation, the geographic composition of Applieds pre tax income, non tax deductible expenses incurred in connection with acquisitions and the effectiveness of its tax planning strategies. Business Combinations On June 27, 2001, Applied acquired Oramir, a supplier of advanced laser cleaning technologies for semiconductor wafers, in a purchase business combination for $21 million in cash. For further details, see Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS Business Combinations During the first fiscal quarter of 2002, Applied acquired the assets of Schlumbergers electron beam wafer inspection business. In addition, Applied acquired Global Knowledge Services, Inc., a provider of advanced data mining services to improve semiconductor manufacturing yield and efficiency. These transactions will be accounted for as purchase business combinations. These acquisitions have not had, and are not expected to have, a material effect on Applieds financial condition or results of operations. Restructuring On December 12, 2001, Applied announced a further headcount reduction of approximately 1,700 positions, or 10 percent of its global workforce, in response to the continuing downturn in the semiconductor industry. The majority of the affected employees were based in Santa Clara, California and Austin, Texas, and represented multiple company activities and functions. Applied will record a restructuring charge for the first fiscal quarter of 2002. CHANGE IN ACCOUNTING POLICY Applied implemented SAB 101 for the fourth fiscal quarter of 2001, retroactively effective to the beginning of fiscal 2001. Prior to the implementation of SAB 101, Applied generally recognized revenue for established products upon shipment. The implementation of SAB 101 resulted in the following changes to Applieds revenue recognition practices: 1) for transactions where legal title does not transfer at shipment, revenue will be recognized upon title transfer, which is typically at customer technical acceptance; and 2) for products that have been demonstrated to meet product specifications prior to shipment, a portion of revenue associated with certain installation related tasks will be recognized when the tasks are completed. Since the implementation was retroactively effective to the beginning of fiscal 2001, the first three fiscal quarters of 2001 have been restated (see Note 15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). Applied recorded a cumulative effect of change in accounting principle of $267 million (net of income tax benefit of $112 million), or $0.31 per diluted share, for the restated first fiscal quarter of 2001. This charge represents the after tax difference between the new and previous revenue recognition policies for years prior to fiscal 2001 as of the implementation date at the beginning of fiscal 2001. Therefore, no restatement of years prior to fiscal 2001 is required. For periods prior to fiscal 2001, data was not available to provide pro forma information as if the change in accounting principle was applied retroactively. The cumulative effect of change in accounting principle of $267 million included $651 million of revenue recognized prior to fiscal 2001, of which $642 million was recognized during fiscal 2001. RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS In July 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 141 (SFAS 141), "Business Combinations." SFAS 141 requires the purchase method of accounting for all business combinations initiated after June 30, 2001 and eliminates the pooling of interests method. Applied does not expect the adoption of SFAS 141 to have a material effect on its financial condition or results of operations. In July 2001, the FASB issued SFAS 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets," which requires the discontinuance of goodwill amortization. SFAS 142 is required to be applied for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2001, with certain early adoption permitted. Applied expects to adopt SFAS 142 for its first fiscal quarter of 2002, and does not expect the adoption to have a material effect on its financial condition or results of operations. In August 2001, the FASB issued SFAS 143, "Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations." SFAS 143 addresses financial accounting and reporting for obligations associated with the retirement of tangible long lived assets and the associated retirement costs. Applied is in the process of assessing the effect of adopting SFAS 143, which will be effective for Applieds fiscal 2003. In October 2001, the FASB issued SFAS 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets." SFAS 144 supersedes SFAS 121, "Accounting for the Impairment of Long Lived Assets and for Long Lived Assets to be Disposed Of," and addresses financial accounting and reporting for the impairment of long lived assets and for long lived assets to be disposed of. Applied is in the process of assessing the effect of adopting SFAS 144, which will be effective for Applieds fiscal 2003. For further details regarding the above recent accounting pronouncements, see Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. FINANCIAL CONDITION, LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Applied increased its cash, cash equivalents and short term investments from $4.2 billion at October 29, 2000 to $4.8 billion at October 28, 2001. Applieds financial condition remained strong, with a ratio of current assets to current liabilities of 3.2:1 at October 29, 2000 and 5.1:1 at October 28, 2001. Applied generated cash from continuing operations in each of the last three fiscal years. The primary source of cash from continuing operations has been income from continuing operations, as adjusted to exclude the effect of non cash items, such as depreciation and amortization and acquired in process research and development expense. Income from continuing operations, adjusted to exclude the effect of non cash items, was: $1.2 billion for fiscal 1999; $2.6 billion for fiscal 2000 and $1.4 billion for fiscal 2001. The other source or use of cash from continuing operations has been attributable to changes in assets and liabilities other than those assets and liabilities resulting from investing and financing activities. Net changes in assets and liabilities tend to represent a use of cash during periods of revenue growth because Applied generally incurs costs and expends cash in advance of receiving cash from its customers. Likewise, during periods of declining revenue or slowed revenue growth, net changes in assets and liabilities tend to represent a source of cash because expenditures for inventory and other purchases decrease while receivables from prior periods, which were higher revenue periods, are collected. The cash effect of changes in assets and liabilities was: a $116 million use for fiscal 1999; a $923 million use for fiscal 2000; and a $139 million source for fiscal 2001. In addition to being driven by revenue and profitability performance, the cash effect of changes in assets and liabilities is subject to operational efficiency and productivity. For example, earlier collection of accounts receivable and increased inventory turnover both have a positive effect on cash flow. Applied utilized programs to sell accounts receivable of $953 million for fiscal 1999, $1.5 billion for fiscal 2000 and $1.2 billion for fiscal 2001. These receivable sales had the effect of increasing cash and reducing accounts receivable and days sales outstanding. Applied has not experienced any losses under these programs, and receivables sold under these programs have terms and credit risk characteristics similar to Applieds overall receivables portfolio. For further details regarding accounts receivable sales, see Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Applied used $982 million of cash for investing activities for fiscal 1999, $1.0 billion for fiscal 2000 and $1.6 billion for fiscal 2001. Investing activities typically consist of purchases and sales of short term investments, purchases of capital assets to support long term growth and acquisitions of technology or of other companies to allow Applied to access new market segments or emerging technology. Applied generated $127 million of cash from financing activities for fiscal 1999, generated $149 million for fiscal 2000 and used $261 million for fiscal 2001. Financing activities typically include sales and repurchases of Applieds common stock, as well as borrowings and repayments of debt. Net debt activity used $17 million of cash for fiscal 1999, generated $50 million of cash for fiscal 2000 and used $92 million of cash for fiscal 2001. Net common stock activity generated $144 million of cash for fiscal 1999 and $99 million for fiscal 2000 as a result of a significant increase in stock sales to employees, reflecting Applieds higher average stock price, partially offset by stock repurchases. During fiscal 2001, net common stock activity used $169 million of cash as stock repurchases increased and stock sales to employees decreased, reflecting Applieds lower average stock price in fiscal 2001. Since March 1996, Applied has systematically repurchased shares of its common stock in the open market to partially fund its stock based employee benefit and incentive plans. At October 28, 2001, Applieds principal sources of liquidity consisted of $4.8 billion of cash, cash equivalents and short term investments, and approximately $686 million of available credit facilities. For further details regarding Applieds credit facilities, see Note 4 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In addition to cash and available credit facilities, Applied may from time to time raise additional capital in the debt and equity markets. Applieds liquidity is affected by many factors, some of which are based on the normal ongoing operations of the business, and others of which relate to the uncertainties of global economies and the semiconductor and semiconductor manufacturing equipment industries. Although cash requirements will fluctuate based on the timing and extent of these factors, Applieds management believes that cash generated from operations, together with the liquidity provided by existing cash balances and borrowing capability, will be sufficient to satisfy Applieds liquidity requirements for the next 12 months. TRENDS, RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES The highly cyclical semiconductor equipment industry is currently experiencing a severe, prolonged downturn. As suppliers to the semiconductor industry, the semiconductor equipment industry is characterized by up and down business cycles, the timing, length and volatility of which are difficult to predict. The semiconductor industry has historically been cyclical because of sudden changes in demand for semiconductors and capacity requirements, including capacity utilizing the latest technology. These changes have affected the timing and amounts of customers capital equipment purchases and investments in new technology. These industry cycles create pressure on Applieds net sales, gross margin and net income. In addition to affecting Applieds suppliers, these cycles challenge key management, engineering and other employees who are vital to Applieds success. Management believes that the current industry downturn may be the steepest decline in history, and cannot predict when a recovery will begin. During periods of declining demand for semiconductor manufacturing equipment, customers typically reduce purchases, delay delivery of products and or cancel orders. During this downturn, Applied must be able to quickly and effectively align its cost structure with prevailing market conditions and motivate and retain key employees. If Applied is unable to achieve its objectives in a timely manner during the current downturn, there could be a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. Applied is exposed to the risks associated with industry overcapacity. Inventory buildups in telecommunication products, slower than expected personal computer sales and slower global economic growth have dramatically decreased demand for semiconductors. This decreased demand has resulted in excess production capacity for semiconductor manufacturers and has caused these manufacturers to reevaluate their capital spending plans. Delays or cancellations of orders by semiconductor manufacturers have caused, and may continue to cause, fluctuations in the utilization of Applieds manufacturing facilities. Continued decreased demand and overcapacity could materially and adversely affect Applieds business, financial condition and results of operations. Applied is exposed to the risks of operating a global business. Currently, a significant percentage of Applieds revenues result from sales outside the U.S. Certain manufacturing facilities and suppliers are also located abroad. Managing Applieds global operations presents challenges, including periodic regional economic downturns, trade balance issues, varying business conditions and demands, political instability, U.S. export restrictions, shipping delays, fluctuations in interest and currency exchange rates and cultural diversities, among other risks. For example, global uncertainties with respect to: 1) decreased growth rates of gross domestic product in various countries; 2) factory capacity utilization; 3) capital spending by semiconductor manufacturers; 4) memory chip price weakness; and 5) political instability in regions where Applied has operations, such as Israel and the Asian region, may affect Applieds business, financial condition and results of operations. Applied operates in a highly competitive industry characterized by increasingly rapid technological changes. Applieds competitive advantage and future success depend on its ability to successfully: 1) develop new products and technologies; 2) develop new markets in the semiconductor industry for its products and services; 3) introduce new products to the marketplace in a timely manner; 4) qualify new products with its customers; and 5) commence and adjust production to meet customer demands. The introduction of an increasingly broader set of new products and technologies, including those to support the transition to smaller device feature sizes, new materials and 300mm wafers, grows increasingly complex over time. Such new product introductions may involve higher costs and reduced efficiencies compared to Applieds more established products, and could adversely affect Applieds gross margins. If Applied does not develop and introduce new products and technologies in a timely and cost effective manner in response to changing market conditions or customer requirements, its competitive position, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Applied is exposed to risks associated with acquisitions. Applied has made, and may in the future make, acquisitions of, or significant investments in, businesses with complementary products, services and or technologies. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including but not limited to: 1) diversion of managements attention from other operational matters; 2) lack of synergy, or the inability to realize expected synergies, resulting from the acquisition; 3) failure to commercialize purchased technology; and 4) acquired intangible assets becoming impaired as a result of technological advancements or worse than expected performance of the acquired company. Mergers and acquisitions are inherently risky and the inability to effectively manage these risks could materially and adversely affect Applieds business, financial condition and results of operations. Applied is exposed to risks associated with a highly concentrated customer base. Applieds customer base is highly concentrated. Orders from a relatively limited number of semiconductor manufacturers have accounted for, and will continue to account for, a substantial portion of Applieds net sales. Sales to any single customer may vary significantly from quarter to quarter. If current customers do not continue to place orders, Applied may not be able to replace these orders with new orders from new customers. The resulting fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on Applieds business, financial condition and results of operations. Applied is subject to risks of non compliance with environmental and safety regulations. Applied is subject to environmental and safety regulations in connection with its business operations, including but not limited to regulations related to the development, manufacturing and use of its products. From time to time, Applied receives notices alleging violations of these regulations. It is Applieds policy to respond promptly to these notices and to take necessary corrective action. Failure or inability to comply with existing or future environmental and safety regulations could result in significant remediation liabilities, the imposition of fines and or the suspension or termination of development, manufacturing or use of certain of its products, each of which could have a material adverse effect on Applieds business, financial condition and results of operations. Manufacturing interruptions or delays could affect Applieds ability to meet customer demand. Applieds business depends on its ability to manufacture products that meet the rapidly changing demands of its customers. Applieds ability to manufacture depends in part on the timely delivery of parts, components, and subassemblies (collectively "parts") from suppliers. Some key parts may be obtained only from a single supplier or a limited group of suppliers. Significant interruptions of manufacturing operations as a result of the failure or inability of suppliers to timely deliver quality parts, natural disasters (such as earthquakes or tornadoes), or other causes (such as software issues or infrastructure failures) could result in delayed product deliveries or manufacturing inefficiencies. Any or all of these could materially and adversely affect Applieds business, financial condition and results of operations. Applied is exposed to various risks related to legal proceedings or claims. Applied currently is, and in the future may be, involved in legal proceedings or claims regarding patent infringement, intellectual property rights, antitrust, environmental regulations, contracts and other matters (see Item 3: Legal Proceedings). These legal proceedings and claims, whether with or without merit, could be time consuming and expensive to prosecute or defend, and could divert managements attention and resources. There can be no assurance regarding the outcome of current or future legal proceedings or claims. In addition, Applieds intellectual property rights may not provide significant competitive advantages if they are circumvented, invalidated or obsoleted by the rapid pace of technological change. Furthermore, the laws of other countries permit the protection of Applieds proprietary rights to varying extents compared to U.S. laws. Applieds success is dependent in part upon the protection of its intellectual property rights. Infringement of Applieds rights by a third party could result in uncompensated lost market and revenue opportunities for Applied. If Applied is not able to resolve a claim, negotiate a settlement of the matter, obtain necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms, and or successfully prosecute or defend its position, Applieds business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Item 7a: Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Interest Rate Risk At October 28, 2001, Applieds investment portfolio included fixed income securities with a fair value of approximately $4.0 billion. These securities are subject to interest rate risk, and will decline in value if interest rates increase. Due to the short duration of Applieds investment portfolio, an immediate 10 percent change in interest rates is not expected to have a material effect on Applieds near term financial condition or results of operations. Applieds long term debt bears interest at fixed rates; therefore, Applieds results of operations would only be affected by interest rate changes to the extent that variable rate short term notes payable are outstanding. Due to the short term nature and insignificant amount of Applieds short term notes payable, an immediate 10 percent change in interest rates is not expected to have a material effect on Applieds near term financial condition or results of operations. Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk Significant operations of Applied are conducted in foreign currencies, primarily Japanese yen. Applied enters into forward exchange and currency option contracts to hedge a portion of, but not all, certain existing and anticipated foreign currency denominated transactions expected to occur within 12 months. Gains and losses on these contracts are generally recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Operations at the time that the related transactions being hedged are recognized. Because the effect of movements in currency exchange rates on forward exchange and currency option contracts generally offsets the related effect on the underlying items being hedged, these financial instruments are not expected to subject Applied to risks that would otherwise result from changes in currency exchange rates. Applied does not use derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. Net foreign currency gains and losses did not have a material effect on Applieds results of operations for fiscal 1999, 2000 or 2001. Forward exchange contracts are denominated in the same currency as the underlying transactions (primarily Japanese yen), and the terms of the forward exchange contracts generally match the terms of the underlying transactions. Applieds outstanding forward exchange contracts are marked to market (see Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements), as are the majority of the related underlying transactions being hedged; therefore, the effect of exchange rate changes on forward exchange contracts is expected to be substantially offset by the effect of these changes on the underlying transactions. The effect of an immediate 10 percent change in exchange rates on forward exchange contracts and the underlying hedged transactions is not expected to be material to Applieds near term financial condition or results of operations. Applieds downside risk with respect to currency option contracts is limited to the premium paid for the right to exercise the option. Premiums paid for options outstanding at October 28, 2001 were not material. 
 
Item 7: Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Applied develops, manufactures, markets and services semiconductor wafer fabrication equipment and related spare parts for the worldwide semiconductor industry. Demand for Applieds products can change significantly from period to period as a result of numerous factors, including, but not limited to, changes in: 1) global economic conditions; 2) supply and demand for semiconductors; 3) the profitability of semiconductor manufacturers; and 4) advanced technology and or capacity requirements of semiconductor manufacturers. For this and other reasons, Applieds results of operations for fiscal 1999, 2000 and 2001 may not necessarily be indicative of future operating results. During the fourth fiscal quarter of 2001, Applied implemented the Securities and Exchange Commissions Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 101 (SAB 101), "Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements," retroactively effective to the beginning of fiscal 2001. Accordingly, the first three fiscal quarters of 2001 have been restated (see Note 15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). Amounts prior to fiscal 2001 have not been restated. Net Sales Applieds business was subject to cyclical industry conditions in fiscal 1999, 2000 and 2001. As a result of these conditions, there were significant fluctuations in Applieds quarterly new orders and net sales, both within and across fiscal years. Demand for semiconductor manufacturing equipment has historically been volatile as a result of sudden changes in semiconductor supply and demand and other factors, including rapid technological advances in both semiconductor devices and wafer fabrication processes. Quarterly new orders and net sales were as follows: Quarter Fiscal First Second Third Fourth Year (In millions) 1999: New orders... $1,058 $1,461 $1,514 $1,688 $5,721 Net sales.... $821 $1,171 $1,491 $1,613 $5,096 2000: New orders... $2,454 $2,928 $3,275 $3,601 $12,258 Net sales.... $1,722 $2,190 $2,732 $2,920 $9,564 2001: New orders... $2,430 $1,353 $1,208 $1,106 $6,097 Net sales.... $2,363 $2,139 $1,576 $1,265 $7,343 Each region in the global semiconductor equipment market exhibits unique characteristics that can cause, and in the past have caused, capital equipment investment patterns to vary significantly from period to period. Net sales by geographic region were as follows: Fiscal year ended 1999 2000 2001 (In millions) North America*.... $1,756 $2,598 $2,131 Taiwan............ 1,016 2,317 1,109 Japan............. 875 1,509 1,876 Europe............ 802 1,430 1,085 Korea............. 345 868 449 Asia Pacific...... 302 842 693 $5,096 $9,564 $7,343 * Primarily the United States. In early fiscal 1999, the semiconductor and semiconductor manufacturing equipment industries were beginning to emerge from a downturn and entered a period of expansion. As a result of the industry expansion, new orders and net sales increased sequentially each quarter during fiscal 1999 and fiscal 2000. Strong demand for Applieds products was driven by semiconductor manufacturers needs for additional capacity and new technology to meet consumer demand for Internet, computing, communications and digital devices. In addition, the semiconductor industry was continuing the transition to smaller device feature sizes, new materials, such as copper, and 300mm wafer processing, which required new manufacturing equipment. For fiscal 2000, Applied was able to achieve record levels of new orders, net sales and net income as a result of these factors. During the first fiscal quarter of 2001, slowing worldwide demand for semiconductors resulted in a rapid decline in demand for manufacturing equipment. Inventory buildups in telecommunication products, slower than expected personal computer sales and slower global economic growth caused semiconductor companies to reevaluate their capital spending and reschedule or cancel existing orders. This decline in demand deepened sequentially throughout the remainder of fiscal 2001 into a severe industry downturn due to continued weakness in the macro economic climate and consumption of electronic goods, which resulted in further capital spending cutbacks by Applieds customers. Gross Margin Gross margin as a percentage of net sales increased from 47.5 percent for fiscal 1999 to 50.8 percent for fiscal 2000, and decreased to 44.3 percent for fiscal 2001. The increase in gross margin as a percentage of net sales for fiscal 2000 was due primarily to higher business volume, reduced manufacturing cycle times and the favorable effects of operational programs emphasizing productivity improvements and cost reduction. The decrease in gross margin as a percentage of net sales for fiscal 2001 was caused primarily by decreased business volume, which resulted in factory underabsorption, and changes in product mix with start up costs of new 300mm products. Research, Development and Engineering Applieds future operating results depend, to a considerable extent, on its ability to maintain a competitive advantage in the products and services it provides. Applied believes that it is critical to continue to make substantial investments in RD&E to ensure the availability of innovative technology that meets the current and projected requirements of its customers most advanced chip designs. RD&E expenses increased for each of the last three years, from $740 million (14.5 percent of net sales) for fiscal 1999 to $1.1 billion (11.6 percent of net sales) for fiscal 2000 and to $1.2 billion (16.3 percent of net sales) for fiscal 2001. Applied increased its RD&E spending for fiscal 1999 and 2000 to address customers requirements for shrinking device feature sizes, the use of new materials, such as copper, and the transition from 200mm to 300mm wafer processing. Applieds investment in research and development for copper based devices resulted in a broad line of copper based products available for sale in fiscal 1999 and 2000. Additionally, Applied developed and launched many new products and enhanced versions of its existing products and technologies in fiscal 2000, including 22 new systems for 300mm wafer processing. During fiscal 2001, Applied continued its development of technologies for copper and low based chips and 300mm wafers, as well as focusing efforts on the core technologies that will be required for chipmakers to begin development of 0.10 micron generation devices. Areas of increased investment include maskmaking technology, metrology and inspection, ion implantation, and products for depositing and etching new materials. In addition, significant investments were made to develop Applieds Process Module concept, the integration of multiple individual systems with metrology and inspection capabilities and specialized software for feedforward/feedback process control. These systems operate as a single, highly automated unit to perform a particular wafer processing application in a customers manufacturing process to a specified level of performance. Marketing, Selling, General and Administrative Marketing, selling, general and administrative (MSG&A) expenses increased from $695 million (13.6 percent of net sales) for fiscal 1999 to $961 million (10.0 percent of net sales) for fiscal 2000, and decreased to $902 million (12.3 percent of net sales) for fiscal 2001. The increase for fiscal 2000 was primarily caused by higher costs of incentive and benefit programs, increased investments in various information technology programs, and increased costs to support higher net sales. The decrease for fiscal 2001 was due primarily to cost reduction actions and lower business volume. Non recurring Items Non recurring items for fiscal 1999 consisted of $5 million of merger expenses related to the acquisition of Consilium, Inc., $43 million of acquired in process research and development expense incurred in connection with the acquisitions of AKT and Obsidian, Inc. and $3 million of restructuring charges associated with Etecs headcount reductions and consolidation of facilities prior to its acquisition by Applied. Non recurring items for fiscal 2000 consisted of $40 million of merger expenses related to the acquisition of Etec. During fiscal 2001, Applied recorded pre tax restructuring charges of $211 million, consisting of $105 million for headcount reductions, $45 million for consolidation of facilities and $61 million for asset write offs, primarily for fixed assets. These restructuring actions occurred in Applieds second, third and fourth fiscal quarters, and were taken to better align Applieds cost structure with prevailing market conditions. During the second fiscal quarter of 2001, Applied completed a voluntary separation plan that resulted in a headcount reduction of approximately 1,000 employees, or three percent of its global workforce, for a cost of $47 million. During the third fiscal quarter of 2001, Applied recorded a pre tax restructuring charge of $4 million associated with severance and benefit costs. During the fourth fiscal quarter of 2001, Applied eliminated approximately 2,000 additional positions, or 10 percent of its global workforce, for a cost of $54 million. The majority of the affected employees were based in Santa Clara, California and Austin, Texas, and represented multiple company activities and functions. Non recurring items for fiscal 2001 also included $10 million of acquired in process research and development expense incurred in connection with the acquisition of Oramir Semiconductor Equipment Ltd. (Oramir). For further details, see Note 6 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Non recurring Income, Net Net non recurring income of $30 million for fiscal 1999 and $68 million for fiscal 2000 were related to a 1998 litigation settlement with ASM International, N.V. For further details, see Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Net Interest Income Net interest income was $60 million for fiscal 1999, $133 million for fiscal 2000 and $174 million for fiscal 2001. The increases from year to year can be attributed primarily to increasing cash and investment balances over the three year period. Provision for Income Taxes Applieds effective income tax rate was 32.3 percent for fiscal 1999, 30.0 percent for fiscal 2000 and 29.8 percent for fiscal 2001. Applieds actual effective income tax rate for fiscal 1999 of 32.3 percent differed from the expected effective income tax rate of 31.0 percent due to the non tax deductible nature of $43 million of acquired in process research and development expense. The reduction to a 30.0 percent effective income tax rate for fiscal 2000 resulted primarily from a shift in the geographic composition of pre tax income to entities operating in countries with lower tax rates. Applied expected an effective income tax rate of 29.5 percent for fiscal 2001, which decreased from the fiscal 2000 effective rate due to a shift in the geographic composition of Applieds pre tax income. The actual effective income tax rate for fiscal 2001 of 29.8 percent differed from the expected rate of 29.5 percent due to the non tax deductible nature of $10 million of acquired in process research and development expense. Applieds future effective income tax rate depends on various factors, such as tax legislation, the geographic composition of Applieds pre tax income, non tax deductible expenses incurred in connection with acquisitions and the effectiveness of its tax planning strategies. Business Combinations On June 27, 2001, Applied acquired Oramir, a supplier of advanced laser cleaning technologies for semiconductor wafers, in a purchase business combination for $21 million in cash. For further details, see Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS Business Combinations During the first fiscal quarter of 2002, Applied acquired the assets of Schlumbergers electron beam wafer inspection business. In addition, Applied acquired Global Knowledge Services, Inc., a provider of advanced data mining services to improve semiconductor manufacturing yield and efficiency. These transactions will be accounted for as purchase business combinations. These acquisitions have not had, and are not expected to have, a material effect on Applieds financial condition or results of operations. Restructuring On December 12, 2001, Applied announced a further headcount reduction of approximately 1,700 positions, or 10 percent of its global workforce, in response to the continuing downturn in the semiconductor industry. The majority of the affected employees were based in Santa Clara, California and Austin, Texas, and represented multiple company activities and functions. Applied will record a restructuring charge for the first fiscal quarter of 2002. CHANGE IN ACCOUNTING POLICY Applied implemented SAB 101 for the fourth fiscal quarter of 2001, retroactively effective to the beginning of fiscal 2001. Prior to the implementation of SAB 101, Applied generally recognized revenue for established products upon shipment. The implementation of SAB 101 resulted in the following changes to Applieds revenue recognition practices: 1) for transactions where legal title does not transfer at shipment, revenue will be recognized upon title transfer, which is typically at customer technical acceptance; and 2) for products that have been demonstrated to meet product specifications prior to shipment, a portion of revenue associated with certain installation related tasks will be recognized when the tasks are completed. Since the implementation was retroactively effective to the beginning of fiscal 2001, the first three fiscal quarters of 2001 have been restated (see Note 15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). Applied recorded a cumulative effect of change in accounting principle of $267 million (net of income tax benefit of $112 million), or $0.31 per diluted share, for the restated first fiscal quarter of 2001. This charge represents the after tax difference between the new and previous revenue recognition policies for years prior to fiscal 2001 as of the implementation date at the beginning of fiscal 2001. Therefore, no restatement of years prior to fiscal 2001 is required. For periods prior to fiscal 2001, data was not available to provide pro forma information as if the change in accounting principle was applied retroactively. The cumulative effect of change in accounting principle of $267 million included $651 million of revenue recognized prior to fiscal 2001, of which $642 million was recognized during fiscal 2001. RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS In July 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 141 (SFAS 141), "Business Combinations." SFAS 141 requires the purchase method of accounting for all business combinations initiated after June 30, 2001 and eliminates the pooling of interests method. Applied does not expect the adoption of SFAS 141 to have a material effect on its financial condition or results of operations. In July 2001, the FASB issued SFAS 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets," which requires the discontinuance of goodwill amortization. SFAS 142 is required to be applied for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2001, with certain early adoption permitted. Applied expects to adopt SFAS 142 for its first fiscal quarter of 2002, and does not expect the adoption to have a material effect on its financial condition or results of operations. In August 2001, the FASB issued SFAS 143, "Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations." SFAS 143 addresses financial accounting and reporting for obligations associated with the retirement of tangible long lived assets and the associated retirement costs. Applied is in the process of assessing the effect of adopting SFAS 143, which will be effective for Applieds fiscal 2003. In October 2001, the FASB issued SFAS 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets." SFAS 144 supersedes SFAS 121, "Accounting for the Impairment of Long Lived Assets and for Long Lived Assets to be Disposed Of," and addresses financial accounting and reporting for the impairment of long lived assets and for long lived assets to be disposed of. Applied is in the process of assessing the effect of adopting SFAS 144, which will be effective for Applieds fiscal 2003. For further details regarding the above recent accounting pronouncements, see Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. FINANCIAL CONDITION, LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Applied increased its cash, cash equivalents and short term investments from $4.2 billion at October 29, 2000 to $4.8 billion at October 28, 2001. Applieds financial condition remained strong, with a ratio of current assets to current liabilities of 3.2:1 at October 29, 2000 and 5.1:1 at October 28, 2001. Applied generated cash from continuing operations in each of the last three fiscal years. The primary source of cash from continuing operations has been income from continuing operations, as adjusted to exclude the effect of non cash items, such as depreciation and amortization and acquired in process research and development expense. Income from continuing operations, adjusted to exclude the effect of non cash items, was: $1.2 billion for fiscal 1999; $2.6 billion for fiscal 2000 and $1.4 billion for fiscal 2001. The other source or use of cash from continuing operations has been attributable to changes in assets and liabilities other than those assets and liabilities resulting from investing and financing activities. Net changes in assets and liabilities tend to represent a use of cash during periods of revenue growth because Applied generally incurs costs and expends cash in advance of receiving cash from its customers. Likewise, during periods of declining revenue or slowed revenue growth, net changes in assets and liabilities tend to represent a source of cash because expenditures for inventory and other purchases decrease while receivables from prior periods, which were higher revenue periods, are collected. The cash effect of changes in assets and liabilities was: a $116 million use for fiscal 1999; a $923 million use for fiscal 2000; and a $139 million source for fiscal 2001. In addition to being driven by revenue and profitability performance, the cash effect of changes in assets and liabilities is subject to operational efficiency and productivity. For example, earlier collection of accounts receivable and increased inventory turnover both have a positive effect on cash flow. Applied utilized programs to sell accounts receivable of $953 million for fiscal 1999, $1.5 billion for fiscal 2000 and $1.2 billion for fiscal 2001. These receivable sales had the effect of increasing cash and reducing accounts receivable and days sales outstanding. Applied has not experienced any losses under these programs, and receivables sold under these programs have terms and credit risk characteristics similar to Applieds overall receivables portfolio. For further details regarding accounts receivable sales, see Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Applied used $982 million of cash for investing activities for fiscal 1999, $1.0 billion for fiscal 2000 and $1.6 billion for fiscal 2001. Investing activities typically consist of purchases and sales of short term investments, purchases of capital assets to support long term growth and acquisitions of technology or of other companies to allow Applied to access new market segments or emerging technology. Applied generated $127 million of cash from financing activities for fiscal 1999, generated $149 million for fiscal 2000 and used $261 million for fiscal 2001. Financing activities typically include sales and repurchases of Applieds common stock, as well as borrowings and repayments of debt. Net debt activity used $17 million of cash for fiscal 1999, generated $50 million of cash for fiscal 2000 and used $92 million of cash for fiscal 2001. Net common stock activity generated $144 million of cash for fiscal 1999 and $99 million for fiscal 2000 as a result of a significant increase in stock sales to employees, reflecting Applieds higher average stock price, partially offset by stock repurchases. During fiscal 2001, net common stock activity used $169 million of cash as stock repurchases increased and stock sales to employees decreased, reflecting Applieds lower average stock price in fiscal 2001. Since March 1996, Applied has systematically repurchased shares of its common stock in the open market to partially fund its stock based employee benefit and incentive plans. At October 28, 2001, Applieds principal sources of liquidity consisted of $4.8 billion of cash, cash equivalents and short term investments, and approximately $686 million of available credit facilities. For further details regarding Applieds credit facilities, see Note 4 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. In addition to cash and available credit facilities, Applied may from time to time raise additional capital in the debt and equity markets. Applieds liquidity is affected by many factors, some of which are based on the normal ongoing operations of the business, and others of which relate to the uncertainties of global economies and the semiconductor and semiconductor manufacturing equipment industries. Although cash requirements will fluctuate based on the timing and extent of these factors, Applieds management believes that cash generated from operations, together with the liquidity provided by existing cash balances and borrowing capability, will be sufficient to satisfy Applieds liquidity requirements for the next 12 months. TRENDS, RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES The highly cyclical semiconductor equipment industry is currently experiencing a severe, prolonged downturn. As suppliers to the semiconductor industry, the semiconductor equipment industry is characterized by up and down business cycles, the timing, length and volatility of which are difficult to predict. The semiconductor industry has historically been cyclical because of sudden changes in demand for semiconductors and capacity requirements, including capacity utilizing the latest technology. These changes have affected the timing and amounts of customers capital equipment purchases and investments in new technology. These industry cycles create pressure on Applieds net sales, gross margin and net income. In addition to affecting Applieds suppliers, these cycles challenge key management, engineering and other employees who are vital to Applieds success. Management believes that the current industry downturn may be the steepest decline in history, and cannot predict when a recovery will begin. During periods of declining demand for semiconductor manufacturing equipment, customers typically reduce purchases, delay delivery of products and or cancel orders. During this downturn, Applied must be able to quickly and effectively align its cost structure with prevailing market conditions and motivate and retain key employees. If Applied is unable to achieve its objectives in a timely manner during the current downturn, there could be a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. Applied is exposed to the risks associated with industry overcapacity. Inventory buildups in telecommunication products, slower than expected personal computer sales and slower global economic growth have dramatically decreased demand for semiconductors. This decreased demand has resulted in excess production capacity for semiconductor manufacturers and has caused these manufacturers to reevaluate their capital spending plans. Delays or cancellations of orders by semiconductor manufacturers have caused, and may continue to cause, fluctuations in the utilization of Applieds manufacturing facilities. Continued decreased demand and overcapacity could materially and adversely affect Applieds business, financial condition and results of operations. Applied is exposed to the risks of operating a global business. Currently, a significant percentage of Applieds revenues result from sales outside the U.S. Certain manufacturing facilities and suppliers are also located abroad. Managing Applieds global operations presents challenges, including periodic regional economic downturns, trade balance issues, varying business conditions and demands, political instability, U.S. export restrictions, shipping delays, fluctuations in interest and currency exchange rates and cultural diversities, among other risks. For example, global uncertainties with respect to: 1) decreased growth rates of gross domestic product in various countries; 2) factory capacity utilization; 3) capital spending by semiconductor manufacturers; 4) memory chip price weakness; and 5) political instability in regions where Applied has operations, such as Israel and the Asian region, may affect Applieds business, financial condition and results of operations. Applied operates in a highly competitive industry characterized by increasingly rapid technological changes. Applieds competitive advantage and future success depend on its ability to successfully: 1) develop new products and technologies; 2) develop new markets in the semiconductor industry for its products and services; 3) introduce new products to the marketplace in a timely manner; 4) qualify new products with its customers; and 5) commence and adjust production to meet customer demands. The introduction of an increasingly broader set of new products and technologies, including those to support the transition to smaller device feature sizes, new materials and 300mm wafers, grows increasingly complex over time. Such new product introductions may involve higher costs and reduced efficiencies compared to Applieds more established products, and could adversely affect Applieds gross margins. If Applied does not develop and introduce new products and technologies in a timely and cost effective manner in response to changing market conditions or customer requirements, its competitive position, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Applied is exposed to risks associated with acquisitions. Applied has made, and may in the future make, acquisitions of, or significant investments in, businesses with complementary products, services and or technologies. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including but not limited to: 1) diversion of managements attention from other operational matters; 2) lack of synergy, or the inability to realize expected synergies, resulting from the acquisition; 3) failure to commercialize purchased technology; and 4) acquired intangible assets becoming impaired as a result of technological advancements or worse than expected performance of the acquired company. Mergers and acquisitions are inherently risky and the inability to effectively manage these risks could materially and adversely affect Applieds business, financial condition and results of operations. Applied is exposed to risks associated with a highly concentrated customer base. Applieds customer base is highly concentrated. Orders from a relatively limited number of semiconductor manufacturers have accounted for, and will continue to account for, a substantial portion of Applieds net sales. Sales to any single customer may vary significantly from quarter to quarter. If current customers do not continue to place orders, Applied may not be able to replace these orders with new orders from new customers. The resulting fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on Applieds business, financial condition and results of operations. Applied is subject to risks of non compliance with environmental and safety regulations. Applied is subject to environmental and safety regulations in connection with its business operations, including but not limited to regulations related to the development, manufacturing and use of its products. From time to time, Applied receives notices alleging violations of these regulations. It is Applieds policy to respond promptly to these notices and to take necessary corrective action. Failure or inability to comply with existing or future environmental and safety regulations could result in significant remediation liabilities, the imposition of fines and or the suspension or termination of development, manufacturing or use of certain of its products, each of which could have a material adverse effect on Applieds business, financial condition and results of operations. Manufacturing interruptions or delays could affect Applieds ability to meet customer demand. Applieds business depends on its ability to manufacture products that meet the rapidly changing demands of its customers. Applieds ability to manufacture depends in part on the timely delivery of parts, components, and subassemblies (collectively "parts") from suppliers. Some key parts may be obtained only from a single supplier or a limited group of suppliers. Significant interruptions of manufacturing operations as a result of the failure or inability of suppliers to timely deliver quality parts, natural disasters (such as earthquakes or tornadoes), or other causes (such as software issues or infrastructure failures) could result in delayed product deliveries or manufacturing inefficiencies. Any or all of these could materially and adversely affect Applieds business, financial condition and results of operations. Applied is exposed to various risks related to legal proceedings or claims. Applied currently is, and in the future may be, involved in legal proceedings or claims regarding patent infringement, intellectual property rights, antitrust, environmental regulations, contracts and other matters (see Item 3: Legal Proceedings). These legal proceedings and claims, whether with or without merit, could be time consuming and expensive to prosecute or defend, and could divert managements attention and resources. There can be no assurance regarding the outcome of current or future legal proceedings or claims. In addition, Applieds intellectual property rights may not provide significant competitive advantages if they are circumvented, invalidated or obsoleted by the rapid pace of technological change. Furthermore, the laws of other countries permit the protection of Applieds proprietary rights to varying extents compared to U.S. laws. Applieds success is dependent in part upon the protection of its intellectual property rights. Infringement of Applieds rights by a third party could result in uncompensated lost market and revenue opportunities for Applied. If Applied is not able to resolve a claim, negotiate a settlement of the matter, obtain necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms, and or successfully prosecute or defend its position, Applieds business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Item 7a: Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Interest Rate Risk At October 28, 2001, Applieds investment portfolio included fixed income securities with a fair value of approximately $4.0 billion. These securities are subject to interest rate risk, and will decline in value if interest rates increase. Due to the short duration of Applieds investment portfolio, an immediate 10 percent change in interest rates is not expected to have a material effect on Applieds near term financial condition or results of operations. Applieds long term debt bears interest at fixed rates; therefore, Applieds results of operations would only be affected by interest rate changes to the extent that variable rate short term notes payable are outstanding. Due to the short term nature and insignificant amount of Applieds short term notes payable, an immediate 10 percent change in interest rates is not expected to have a material effect on Applieds near term financial condition or results of operations. Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk Significant operations of Applied are conducted in foreign currencies, primarily Japanese yen. Applied enters into forward exchange and currency option contracts to hedge a portion of, but not all, certain existing and anticipated foreign currency denominated transactions expected to occur within 12 months. Gains and losses on these contracts are generally recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Operations at the time that the related transactions being hedged are recognized. Because the effect of movements in currency exchange rates on forward exchange and currency option contracts generally offsets the related effect on the underlying items being hedged, these financial instruments are not expected to subject Applied to risks that would otherwise result from changes in currency exchange rates. Applied does not use derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. Net foreign currency gains and losses did not have a material effect on Applieds results of operations for fiscal 1999, 2000 or 2001. Forward exchange contracts are denominated in the same currency as the underlying transactions (primarily Japanese yen), and the terms of the forward exchange contracts generally match the terms of the underlying transactions. Applieds outstanding forward exchange contracts are marked to market (see Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements), as are the majority of the related underlying transactions being hedged; therefore, the effect of exchange rate changes on forward exchange contracts is expected to be substantially offset by the effect of these changes on the underlying transactions. The effect of an immediate 10 percent change in exchange rates on forward exchange contracts and the underlying hedged transactions is not expected to be material to Applieds near term financial condition or results of operations. Applieds downside risk with respect to currency option contracts is limited to the premium paid for the right to exercise the option. Premiums paid for options outstanding at October 28, 2001 were not material. 
 
