Item 7: Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Trends, Risks and Uncertainties." These and many other factors could affect Applieds future financial and operating results, and could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations based on forward looking statements made in this document or elsewhere by Applied or on its behalf. All references to fiscal year apply to Applieds fiscal year, which ends on the last Sunday in October. PART I Item 1: Business Organized in 1967, Applied, a Delaware corporation, develops, manufactures, markets and services semiconductor wafer fabrication equipment for the worldwide semiconductor industry. Customers for these products include semiconductor wafer manufacturers and semiconductor integrated circuit (or chip) manufacturers, who either use the chips they manufacture in their own products or sell them to other companies for use in advanced electronic components. Most chips are built on a silicon wafer base and include a variety of circuit components, such as transistors and other devices, that are connected by multiple layers of wiring (interconnects). As the density of the circuit components is increased to enable greater computing power in the same or smaller area, the complexity of building the chip also increases, necessitating the formation of smaller structures and more intricate wiring schemes. To build a chip, the transistors, capacitors and other circuit components are first created on the surface of the wafer by performing a series of processes to deposit and remove selected film layers. Similar processes are then used to build the layers of wiring structures on the wafer. A typical, simplified process sequence for building the wiring portion of copper based chips involves initially depositing a dielectric film layer onto the base layer of circuit components using a chemical vapor deposition (CVD) system. An etch system is then used to create openings and patterns in the dielectric layer. To form the metal wiring, these openings and patterns are subsequently filled with conducting material using physical vapor deposition (PVD) and or electroplating technologies. A chemical mechanical polishing (CMP) step then polishes the wafer to maintain a flat surface. Additional deposition, etch and CMP steps are then performed to build up the layers of wiring needed to complete the interconnection of the circuit elements to form the chip. Advanced chip designs require about 500 steps involving these and other processes to complete the manufacturing of the wafer. Applied operates primarily in a single industry segment for the manufacture, marketing and servicing of semiconductor wafer fabrication equipment. Applied currently manufactures systems that perform most of the primary steps in the chip fabrication process, including: atomic layer deposition (ALD), CVD, PVD, electroplating, etch, ion implantation, rapid thermal processing (RTP), CMP, wafer wet cleaning, metrology and wafer inspection. Applieds subsidiary, AKT, Inc. (AKT), manufactures CVD systems used to make flat panel displays (FPDs) that are used in notebook computers, desktop monitors, televisions and other applications. Applieds subsidiary, Etec Systems, Inc. (Etec), is a leading manufacturer of systems used to generate, etch and inspect circuit patterns on reticles used in the photolithography process. Applied also provides manufacturing facility (fab) management software to the semiconductor industry, as well as services to enhance manufacturing yields. Most of Applieds products are single wafer systems with multiple process chambers attached to a base platform. The simultaneous processing of several wafers enables high manufacturing productivity and precise control of the process. Applied sells most of its single wafer, multi chamber systems based on three main platforms: the Centura, the Endura and the Producer. These platforms currently support ALD, CVD, PVD, etch and RTP technologies. Throughout its history, the semiconductor industry has migrated to increasingly larger wafers to build chips, from 25 millimeter (mm), or one inch, wafers to 300mm, or 12 inch, wafers. The predominant size for capacity production today is 200mm, or eight inch, wafers. To gain the economic advantages of a larger surface area, however, the industry has begun using 300mm wafers. Applied has developed and launched a comprehensive line of systems for 300mm wafer processing for all of its core technologies, supporting more than 90 process applications. These new systems encompass almost 75 percent of the processes needed to fabricate advanced 130 nanometer (nm) and below devices on the wafer, including deposition, etch, RTP, CMP, wafer wet cleaning, ion implantation and inspection technologies. Products The following summarizes Applieds portfolio of products and process technologies, most of which are available for both 200mm and 300mm wafer processing. Deposition Deposition is a fundamental step in fabricating a chip. During deposition, a layer of either dielectric (material used as insulation between conductors) or electrically conductive (material used to carry current, typically metals) film is deposited or grown on a wafer. Applied currently provides equipment to perform the four main types of deposition: ALD, CVD, PVD and electroplating. Applied also offers certain types of dielectric deposition processes using its RTP systems. Atomic Layer Deposition ALD is an emerging technology in which single layers of atoms are used to build the chip. This technology enables chipmakers to deposit a very thin layer of either conducting or insulating material with uniform coverage on small, 65nm and below features. Applied offers ALD process chambers for depositing tungsten, titanium nitride (TiN) and tantulum nitride (TaN) films. In 2002, Applied introduced the Endura iCuB/S product, the industrys first system to integrate ALD and PVD chambers on a single platform for depositing the critical barrier and seed layers in copper interconnects. Chemical Vapor Deposition CVD is used by chipmakers to deposit dielectric and metal films on a wafer. During the CVD process, gases that contain atoms of the material to be deposited react on the wafer surface, forming a thin film of solid material. Films deposited by CVD may be silicon oxide, single crystal epitaxial silicon, silicon nitride, dielectric anti reflective coatings, low k dielectric (highly efficient insulating materials), high k dielectric (electrical charge storing materials), aluminum, titanium (Ti), TiN, polysilicon, tungsten, refractory metals or silicides. Applied offers the following CVD products and technologies: Producer The Producer CVD platforms feature Twin Chamber modules that have two single wafer process chambers per unit. Up to three Twin Chamber modules can be mounted on each Producer platform, giving it a maximum processing capacity of six wafers at a time for high throughput manufacturing. Many of Applieds dielectric CVD processes can be performed on this platform. In 2002, Applied introduced Advanced Patterning Film, an innovative CVD hardmask film deposited with the Producer system that enables chipmakers to fabricate sub 50nm transistor gates and contact structures using standard lithography. Ultima HDP CVD Centura High density plasma CVD (HDP CVD) is used to fill very small, deep spaces with dielectric film. One of the processes offered on the system is fluorinated silicate glass (FSG), a film with higher insulating value than traditionally used silicon dioxide material that enables faster chip performance. Applieds Ultima HDP CVD Centura product is used by a number of major chipmakers for gap fill applications, including the deposition of FSG in their advanced interconnect structures. Low k Dielectric Films Throughout fiscal 2002, Applied continued its programs for developing dielectric films with low k values to complement the trend of using copper material for even faster chip speeds. Applied offers several low k dielectric materials using its established CVD technologies. Black Diamond , a silicon based low k dielectric film is designed for copper based interconnect structures. A second low k dielectric, called BLOk (Barrier Low k ), provides a low k solution for critical barrier layers in semiconductor devices, enabling the complete, multi layer dielectric chip structure to benefit from low k technology. Epitaxial Deposition Epitaxial silicon (epitaxy or epi), used in some semiconductor devices, is a layer of pure silicon grown in a uniform crystalline structure on the wafer to form a high quality base for the device circuitry. Applied has manufactured epitaxial deposition systems for over 30 years. Applieds Epi Centura integrates pre and post epi processes on the system to reduce total epi production costs. In addition to silicon applications, Applied offers an Epi Centura system for silicon germanium (SiGe) epi process technology, which can reduce power usage and increase speed in certain kinds of advanced chips. Polysilicon Deposition Polysilicon is a type of silicon used to form portions of the transistor structure within the semiconductor device. Applieds PolyGen Centura is a single wafer, multi chamber product that deposits thin polysilicon films at high temperatures with high productivity and process control. A variant of the system, the Polycide Centura, combines chambers for polysilicon and tungsten silicide deposition on the Centura platform in an integrated process to create transistor gate structures in memory chips. To address the challenging requirements of 130nm and below devices, Applied offers its RTP oxidation and polysilicon deposition technologies on one system called the Gate Stack Centura, which provides superior film quality, material properties and process control. Silicon Nitride Deposition Applied offers a single wafer, high temperature system to deposit silicon nitride films, called the SiNgen Centura. This system minimizes the amount of time the wafer is exposed to high temperatures and reduces particles while improving many areas of operating cost and productivity in critical transistor nitride layers for sub 130nm devices. Tungsten Deposition Tungsten is used to connect the multiple layers of wiring on aluminum based chips. Applieds Sprint Plus Centura was the first system to provide integrated ALD and CVD technologies on the same platform for fabricating advanced tungsten contact structures. Physical Vapor Deposition PVD, also called sputtering, is a physical process in which atoms of a gas, such as argon, are accelerated at a metal target. The metal atoms chip off, or sputter away, and are then deposited on the wafer. The Endura PVD platform offers a broad range of advanced deposition processes, including aluminum, cobalt, Ti/TiN, Ta/TaN and copper (Cu). The Enduras highly flexible, multi chamber architecture allows the integration of multiple PVD processes or combinations of metal CVD and PVD technologies on the same system. In addition to the integrated iCuB/S (ALD TaN and PVD seed) system discussed in the Atomic Layer Deposition section, the Enduras PVD Ti technology can be combined with either CVD TiN, ALD TiN or PVD TiN processes to form the critical lining layers of interconnect structures. These structures are subsequently filled with tungsten, aluminum, copper or other film materials. Advanced SIP (self ionized plasma) technology for depositing critical barrier/seed films in copper based devices and liner/barrier films in aluminum based chips extends PVD to sub 100nm geometries. Systems for Copper Based Devices A majority of process steps used in chipmaking are performed to build the interconnect, a complex matrix of microscopic wires that carry electrical signals to connect the transistor and capacitor components of a chip. Chipmakers are transitioning from using aluminum as the main conducting material for the interconnect to copper, which has lower resistance than aluminum and can carry more current in a smaller area. Applied is a leading supplier of systems for copper based chipmaking, with products that perform deposition of the barrier and seed layers (Endura Electra Cu Barrier & Seed), copper fill by electroplating (Electra Cu ECP), and copper planarization by CMP (Mirra Mesa system). In addition, Applied makes a full line of systems for depositing and etching the dielectric layers used in the copper interconnect and for inspection and metrology. The Endura Electra Cu Barrier & Seed system, launched in fiscal 1998, is widely used by chipmakers for fabricating copper based chips. Using PVD technology, the system sequentially deposits the critical layers that prevent copper material from entering other areas of the device and prime the structure for subsequent deposition of bulk copper material by electroplating. Electroplating Electroplating is a process by which metal atoms from a chemical fluid (an electrolyte) are deposited on the surface of an object immersed in the electrolyte. Its main application is to deposit copper in interconnect wiring structures following the deposition of barrier and seed layers. The Electra Cu ECP (electrochemical plating) system offers automated ECP chemical management technology, and its high throughput system architecture allows the simultaneous processing of four wafers. The Electra Cu ECP product combines copper deposition with critical heat treatment and wafer edge clean processes on a single platform. Etch Etching is used many times throughout the semiconductor manufacturing process to selectively remove material from the surface of a wafer. Before etching begins, the wafer is coated with a light sensitive film, called photoresist, and is exposed to a circuit pattern during a photolithography process step that projects the circuit pattern onto the wafer. Etching removes material only from areas dictated by the photoresist pattern. Applied offers systems for etching three basic types of materials: metal, silicon and dielectric films. For etching dielectric films, Applied introduced the Dielectric Etch eMax Entek Centura system in fiscal 2002. This system, an extension of Applieds eMax technology, etches low k dielectric materials found in high performance copper based chips. For etching advanced conducting films, Applieds Metal Etch DPS II and Silicon Etch DPS II Centura systems offer customers the technology, productivity and reliability required for 100nm and below processing. The Transforma etch patterning system combines silicon etch technology with new integrated metrology capability to enable chipmakers to improve process control, device yield and overall fab cycle time for building transistor gate structures. Ion Implantation During ion implantation, silicon wafers are bombarded by a beam of ions, called dopants, that penetrate (or implant) the film surface to a desired depth. Implantation occurs in the transistor structure and changes the properties of the material in which the dopants are implanted to achieve a particular electrical performance. Low energy implant technology enables the fabrication of smaller structures and contributes to faster transistor performance. Applieds Quantum LEAP (low energy advanced processing) system enables chipmakers to create thinner, more advanced transistor structures. An enhanced performance line of high current implanters, the Quantum II, was introduced in 2002 for sub 100nm applications. Applieds Swift system combines the functions of two traditional implant technologies high energy and medium current in one system. This system introduces several advances in doping accuracy and wafer positioning required for the 100nm device generation. Rapid Thermal Processing RTP subjects a wafer to a very brief burst of intense heat that can take the wafer from room temperature to more than 1,000 degrees Celsius in less than 10 seconds. RTP is used mainly for modifying the properties of deposited films. Applieds RTP systems offer advances in temperature and ramp rate control as well as other features aimed at providing leading edge capability for sub 130nm micron generations. These single wafer systems are also used for growing high quality oxide and oxynitride films, deposition steps that have traditionally been assigned to furnaces. This trend to single wafer processing versus batch furnaces is expected to continue as the industry transitions to larger 300mm wafers. In 2002, Applied introduced the Radiance Vantage system, a new streamlined platform designed for high volume 300mm manufacturing. Chemical Mechanical Polishing CMP removes material from a wafer to create a flat (planarized) surface. This allows subsequent photolithography patterning steps to take place with greater accuracy and enables film layers to build up with minimal height variations. CMP is performed primarily in the interconnect structure of the chip, where it is used multiple times, and is crucial to fabricating copper based chips to define the circuit wires that create the interconnect. Applied entered the CMP market in 1995 with its Mirra system and has since added several important features to this product, including integrated film measurement and inspection capabilities. The Mirra Mesa system also provides customers with integrated cleaning technology. In 2002, Applied introduced a unique fixed abrasive technology on the Reflexion platform, enabling a slurry free process that offers improved performance for certain polishing applications. Wafer Wet Cleaning Applied entered the wafer wet cleaning market in fiscal 2002 with its Oasis Clean system, which uses single wafer technology to clean wafers of contaminants. The Oasis Clean system utilizes proprietary megasonics technology with unique cleaning chemistry and system architecture to offer chipmakers improved cleaning performance and reduced operating costs over batch type systems. Metrology and Wafer/Reticle Inspection Applied produces several types of products that are used to inspect the wafer during various stages of the fabrication process. Critical Dimension and Defect Review Scanning Electron Microscopes (CD SEMs and DR SEMs) Scanning electron microscopes (SEMs) use an electron beam to form images of microscopic features of a semiconductor wafer at extremely high magnification. Applied provides chipmakers with full automation, along with the high accuracy and sensitivity needed for measuring advanced generation feature sizes. Introduced in fiscal 2002, the NanoSEM 3D system extends CD SEM technology beyond the measurement of critical dimensions to enable the three dimensional imaging of chip features to more precisely control their lithography and etch processes. DR SEMs review defects on the wafer (i.e., particles, scratches or residues) that are first located by other detection systems and then classify the defects to identify their source. Applieds high throughput, fully automatic SEMVision G2 DR SEM enables customers to use its technology as an integral part of their production lines to analyze defects as small as 80nm. Wafer Inspection Using laser based technology, defects can be detected on patterned wafers (wafers with circuit images printed on them) as they move between processing steps. Defects may include particles, open circuit lines, shorts between lines or other problems. Applied introduced the Compass Pro system in 2002 for detecting critical defects in devices with design rules as small as 100nm and below. The system operates with the high speed required for chipmakers volume production lines, especially for copper based chip manufacturing. Process Modules Process modules are designed to link certain Applied equipment to provide customers with a qualified, integrated and optimized production process for building microstructures on advanced chips. Applied expects these products to save customers critical process development and facility start up time, enabling them to bring new chip technologies to market more quickly. During fiscal 2002, Applied opened a 166,000 square foot facility in Sunnyvale, California, the Maydan Process Module Technology Center, to develop its Process Module products. Flat Panel Displays The most advanced FPDs are manufactured using technologies similar to those for making semiconductors. One difference is the vastly larger area of the substrate (panel). Compared to todays largest wafers (300mm diameter), the panels can be up to 15 times larger. Applied began development of FPD process technology in 1990, beginning with a CVD process. In fiscal 2002, AKT introduced its latest CVD system, the AKT 15K CVD, which addresses FPD fab requirements for substrates larger than one square meter. Maskmaking Mask pattern generation systems use precision lasers or electron beams to write (or pattern) each layer of a semiconductor chips design onto a piece of chrome coated quartz glass. Introduced in 2001, the advanced MEBES eXara is an electron beam system for leading edge maskmaking. The latest ALTA 4000, a laser beam system launched in 2001, provides mainstream, high throughput production capability. A new system was introduced in fiscal 2001 for etching photomasks, the Tetra Photomask Etch system. This product uses dry etch technology to fabricate the most advanced photomasks for 100nm and below chipmaking. Applied also supplies an inspection system to photomask manufacturers that is used to detect defects on quartz plates, called masks. These masks are used by photolithography systems to transfer microscopic circuit designs onto wafers. Since any imperfection will be replicated on the wafer, the mask must be defect free with perfect image fidelity. The ARIS 100i system is an automated, ultraviolet wavelength based advanced inspection system for masks used in 130nm and below generation devices. This system features enhanced image acquisition technology, data handling capabilities and sensitivity for advanced mask designs. Factory Management Software Applieds WorkStream and FAB300 products are designed for semiconductor and FPD manufacturers to control and optimize facility operations. FAB300 is a wafer fab management software package specifically designed to meet the requirements of a 300mm wafer production facility. It integrates a full complement of operating modules, enabling chipmakers to manage 300mm wafer movement and equipment operation in a single, fully automated, fab wide solution. Customer Service and Support Applieds customer service organization plays a critical role in Applieds ability to continuously satisfy its customers production requirements. Approximately 3,700 trained customer engineers and process support engineers are deployed in more than a dozen countries. These engineers are usually located at or near the customers fab sites and service over 17,500 Applied systems. Applieds line of service products offers an innovative approach to maintaining and servicing Applied equipment in customers fabs. With the Total Parts Management (TPM) program, Applied offers an inventory management service for the spare parts used in its equipment at customers fab sites. Under TPM, chipmakers no longer need to own or manage inventory for their Applied systems. A second product, called Total Support Package (TSP), is a comprehensive equipment service solution that includes parts inventory management and maintenance with operating cost reduction and system performance improvement targets for their Applied equipment. SparesSolutions is an on line customer support application that provides a simple, fast and cost effective way for customers to obtain spare parts for their Applied systems. Launched in 2002, the Total Kit Management program provides customers with a convenient, cost effective way to manage their systems process kit service requirements. Applied also introduced in December 2002 its new Process Excursion Control service that combines automated data mining software with highly evolved data collection and analysis capabilities to locate and correct customers critical yield production issues. In addition, Applieds customer service organization refurbishes, markets and sells previously used Applied systems. Backlog Applieds backlog increased from $2.7 billion at October 28, 2001 to $3.2 billion at October 27, 2002. Applied schedules production of its systems based on order backlog and customer commitments. Backlog includes only orders for which written authorizations have been accepted, shipment dates within 12 months have been assigned and revenue has not been recognized. In addition, backlog includes service revenue and maintenance fees to be earned within the next 12 months. However, customers may delay delivery of products or cancel orders suddenly and without notice, subject to possible cancellation penalties. Backlog adjustments for fiscal 2002 included cancellations of $473 million and currency and other adjustments of $149 million. Due to possible customer changes in delivery schedules and cancellations of orders, Applieds backlog at any particular date is not necessarily indicative of actual sales for any succeeding period. Delays in delivery schedules and or a reduction of backlog during any particular period could have a material adverse effect on Applieds business and results of operations. Manufacturing, Raw Materials and Supplies Applieds manufacturing activities consist primarily of assembling various commercial and proprietary components into finished systems in Austin, Texas. Applied also has manufacturing operations in Santa Clara, California; Hayward, California; Hillsboro, Oregon; Horsham, England; and Rehovot, Israel. Production requires some raw materials and a wide variety of mechanical and electrical components to be manufactured to Applieds specifications. Applied uses numerous vendors to supply parts, components and subassemblies (collectively, "parts") for the manufacture and support of its products. Although Applied makes reasonable efforts to assure that parts are available from multiple qualified suppliers, this is not always possible; accordingly, some key parts may be obtained only from a single supplier or a limited group of suppliers. Applied has sought, and will continue to seek, to minimize the risk of production and service interruptions and or shortages of key parts by: 1) selecting and qualifying alternative suppliers for key parts; 2) monitoring the financial stability of key suppliers; and 3) maintaining appropriate inventories of key parts. Research, Development and Engineering Applieds long term growth strategy requires continued development of new manufacturing products. Applieds significant investment in research, development and engineering (RD&E) has generally enabled it to deliver new products and technologies before the emergence of strong demand, thus allowing customers to incorporate these products into their manufacturing plans at an early stage in the technology selection cycle. Applied works closely with its global customers to design systems and processes that meet their planned technical and production requirements. Engineering organizations are located in the United States, the United Kingdom, Israel and Japan, with process support and customer demonstration laboratories in the United States, the United Kingdom, Israel, Japan and Taiwan. Applied invested $1.1 billion (11.6 percent of net sales) for fiscal 2000, $1.2 billion (16.3 percent of net sales) for fiscal 2001 and $1.1 billion (20.8 percent of net sales) for fiscal 2002 in RD&E for product development and engineering programs to create new product lines and improve existing technologies. Applied has spent an average of 15.3 percent of net sales on RD&E over the last five years. In addition to RD&E for specific product technologies, Applied maintains ongoing programs in software, automation control systems, materials research and environmental control that have applications to its products. Key activities during fiscal 2002 included development of wafer fabrication equipment for smaller chip feature sizes, copper based devices and 300mm wafers. Marketing and Sales Because of the highly technical nature of its products, Applied markets and sells its products worldwide through a direct sales force. For fiscal 2002, net sales to customers in each region as a percentage of Applieds total net sales were: North America (primarily the United States) 26 percent, Taiwan 24 percent, Japan 15 percent, Europe 13 percent, Asia Pacific (including China) 13 percent and Korea nine percent. Applieds business is usually not seasonal in nature, but it is cyclical based on the capital equipment investment patterns of major semiconductor manufacturers. These expenditure patterns are based on many factors, including anticipated market demand for integrated circuits, the development of new technologies and global and regional economic conditions. Information on net sales to unaffiliated customers and long lived assets attributable to Applieds geographic regions is included in Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. No individual customer accounted for more than 10 percent of Applieds net sales for fiscal 2000. Intel Corporation accounted for 12.2 percent of Applieds net sales for fiscal 2001 and 10.1 percent of Applieds net sales for fiscal 2002. Competition The global semiconductor equipment industry is highly competitive and is characterized by increasingly rapid technological advancements and demanding worldwide service requirements. Applieds ability to compete depends on its ability to commercialize its technology and continually improve its products, processes and services, as well as its ability to develop new products that meet constantly evolving customer requirements. Significant competitive factors for succeeding in the semiconductor manufacturing equipment market include the equipments technical capability, productivity and cost effectiveness, overall reliability, ease of use and maintenance, contamination and defect control, and the level of technical service and support provided by the vendor. The importance of each of these factors varies depending on the specific customers needs and criteria, including considerations such as the customers process application, product requirements, timing of the purchase and particular circumstances of the purchasing decision. The pace of technological change is rapid, with customers continually moving to smaller critical dimensions and larger wafer sizes and adopting new materials for use in semiconductor manufacturing. Sometimes, existing technology can be adapted to the new requirements; however, these requirements sometimes create the need for an entirely new technical approach. The rapid pace of technological change continually creates opportunities for existing competitors and start ups, and can quickly diminish the value of existing technologies. Substantial competition exists for each of Applieds products. Competitors range from small companies that compete with a single innovative product to companies with a large and diverse line of semiconductor processing products. Competitors in a given technology tend to have different degrees of market presence in the various regional markets. Management believes that Applied is a strong competitor and that its competitive position is based on the ability of its products and services to continue to address customer requirements. Success for Applied will require a continued high level of investment in RD&E and in sales, marketing and customer support activities. Patents and Licenses Management believes that Applieds competitive position is significantly dependent upon skills in engineering, manufacturing and marketing, and not just on its patent position. However, protection of Applieds technology assets by obtaining and enforcing patents is important. Therefore, Applied has a program to file patent applications in the U.S. and other countries for inventions that Applied considers significant. Applied has a number of patents in the U.S. and other countries, and additional applications are pending for new developments in its equipment and processes. Applied does not consider its business materially dependent upon any one patent, although taken as a whole, the rights of Applied and the products made and sold under patents are a significant element of Applieds business. In addition to patents, Applied also possesses other proprietary intellectual property, including trademarks, know how, trade secrets and copyrights. Applied enters into patent and technology licensing agreements with other companies when management determines that it is in its best interest to do so. Applied pays royalties under existing patent license agreements for the use, in several of its products, of certain patented technologies that are licensed to Applied for the life of the patents. Applied also receives royalties from licenses granted to third parties. Royalties received from third parties are not expected to be material. In the normal course of business, Applied from time to time receives and makes inquiries regarding possible patent infringement. In dealing with such inquiries, it may become necessary or useful for Applied to obtain or grant licenses or other rights. However, there can be no assurance that such licenses or rights will be available to Applied on commercially reasonable terms. If Applied is not able to resolve a claim, negotiate a settlement of the matter, obtain necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms and or successfully prosecute or defend its position, Applieds business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Environmental Matters Two of Applieds locations have been designated as environmental cleanup sites. In 1987, the United States Environmental Protection Agency designated one of the locations, in Santa Clara, California, as a Superfund site and named Applied as a "Responsible Party." Cleanup activities have been underway since 1984. The California Regional Water Quality Control Board has designated Applied as a "Discharger" with respect to the other site in Sunnyvale, California. Applied was named a Discharger at the Sunnyvale site because it currently owns the site in question, although prior owners and operators are being required to perform cleanup and monitoring activities. Neither compliance with federal, state and local provisions regulating discharge of materials into the environment, nor remedial agreements or other actions relating to the environment, has had, or is expected to have, a material effect on Applieds capital expenditures, competitive position, financial condition or results of operations. Employees None of Applieds employees are represented by a trade union, and management considers its relations with employees to be good. In the high technology industry, competition for highly skilled employees is intense. Applied believes that its future success is highly dependent upon on its continued ability to attract and retain qualified employees. There can be no assurance that Applied will be able to attract, hire, assimilate and retain a sufficient number of qualified people. At October 27, 2002, Applied employed 16,077 regular employees. On November 4, 2002, Applied announced a headcount reduction of approximately 1,750 positions, or 11 percent of its global workforce, in response to the continuing downturn in the semiconductor industry. Available Information Applieds Web site is http://www.appliedmaterials.com. Applied makes available free of charge, on or through its Web site, its annual, quarterly and current reports, and any amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after electronically filing such reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Information contained on Applieds Web site is not part of this report. Item 2: Properties Information concerning Applieds principal properties at October 27, 2002 is set forth below: Square Owner Location Type Principal Use Footage ship Santa Clara, CA.... Office, plant Headquarters, Marketing, 1,465,000 Owned & Warehouse Manufacturing, 2,457,000 (1) Leased Distribution, Research and Engineering Austin, TX......... Office, plant Manufacturing 1,696,000 Owned & Warehouse 523,000 Leased Rehovot, Israel.... Office, plant Manufacturing, Research 385,000 Owned & Warehouse and Engineering Hsinchu, Taiwan.... Office, plant Research and Engineering, 81,000 Owned & Warehouse Customer Support 290,000 Leased Hayward, CA........ Office, plant Manufacturing, Research 360,000 Leased & Warehouse and Engineering Narita, Japan...... Office, plant Research and Engineering, 227,000 (2) Owned & Warehouse Customer Support Singapore.......... Office & plant Customer Support 200,000 Owned Hillsboro, OR...... Office, plant Manufacturing, Research 177,000 Leased & Warehouse and Engineering Tainan, Taiwan..... Office, plant Customer Support 148,000 Owned & Warehouse Horsham, England... Office, plant Manufacturing, Research 127,000 Leased & Warehouse and Engineering Chunan, Korea...... Office, plant Customer Support 114,000 Owned & Warehouse (1) Includes approximately 459,000 square feet that is currently being subleased. (2) Subject to loans of $21 million, collateralized by property and equipment with a net book value of $46 million at October 27, 2002. In addition to the above properties, Applied leases office space for sales and customer support offices in 97 locations throughout the world: 32 in North America (primarily the United States), two in Taiwan, 27 in Japan, 20 in Europe, eight in Korea and eight in Asia Pacific (including China). At October 27, 2002, the following facilities have not yet been completed and placed in service: 1) 380,000 square feet in Austin, Texas; 2) 280,000 square feet in Danvers, Massachusetts; and 3) buildable land that can accommodate up to 855,000 square feet in Santa Clara, California. In addition, Applied owns: 1) 96 acres of buildable land in Texas that can accommodate approximately 1,464,000 square feet of additional building space; 2) 26 acres in Oregon that can accommodate approximately 396,000 square feet of additional building space; 3) 13 acres in California that can accommodate approximately 392,000 square feet of additional building space; and 4) nine acres in Japan that can accommodate approximately 766,000 square feet of additional building space. Applied also leases: 1) 13 acres in Taiwan that can accommodate approximately 271,000 square feet of additional building space; and 2) 10 acres in Israel that can accommodate approximately 159,000 square feet of additional building space. This additional building space is intended to satisfy Applieds current and future needs. Applied is productively utilizing substantially all of the above facilities, and considers the above facilities suitable and adequate to meet its requirements. Item 3: Legal Proceedings Novellus After Varian Associates, Inc. (Varian) failed to respond to requests by Applied to discuss certain patent issues, on June 13, 1997, Applied filed a lawsuit against Varian captioned Applied Materials, Inc. v. Varian Associates, Inc. (case no. C 97 20523 RMW) in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California, alleging infringement of several of Applieds patents concerning PVD technology. On July 7, 1997, Applied amended that action to allege infringement of those same Applied PVD patents against Novellus Systems, Inc. (Novellus) and to add Novellus as a defendant, as a result of Novellus acquisition of Varians thin film systems PVD business. On June 23, 1997, Novellus filed a separate lawsuit against Applied captioned Novellus Systems, Inc. v. Applied Materials, Inc. (case no. C 97 20551 EAI) in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California, alleging infringement by Applied of several PVD technology patents that were formerly owned by Varian. Novellus seeks damages for past infringement, a permanent injunction, treble damages for willful infringement, pre judgment interest and attorneys fees. In September 2000, Applied and Varian settled their disputes, and on October 3, 2000, Applieds claims against Varian and Varians claims and counterclaims against Applied were dismissed with prejudice with respect to the Inova system as it was made and sold as of May 7, 1997. The litigation with Novellus continues. Fact discovery has closed in the actions. The court has set a trial date of May 27, 2003. Applied believes it has meritorious claims and defenses and intends to pursue them vigorously. Plasma Physics On April 17, 2000, Applied filed a lawsuit against Plasma Physics Corp. (PPC) and Solar Physics Corp. (SPC) in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York, captioned Applied Materials, Inc. v. Plasma Physics Corp., Solar Physics Corp. and John Coleman (case no. 00 2199(LDW)). The lawsuit sought a judicial declaration that Applieds CVD equipment does not infringe two patents owned by PPC and exclusively licensed to SPC and or that those patents are invalid or unenforceable. On July 31, 2000, PPC and SPC answered the complaint and filed a conditional counterclaim alleging that Applied had contributed to or induced others to infringe the two patents. PPC and SPC sought an injunction prohibiting infringement by Applied and an award of costs, expenses and attorneys fees. The counterclaim was conditional because PPC and SPC stated that they would not sue Applied for infringement of the two patents if the Court dismisses the lawsuit initiated by Applied for lack of subject matter jurisdiction. The Court subsequently denied without prejudice PPCs and SPCs motion to dismiss the lawsuit for lack of subject matter jurisdiction, but stated that PPC and SPC could renew the motion to dismiss, if appropriate, after further discovery. On September 13, 2001, Applied filed an amended complaint adding two new causes of action to the existing declaratory judgment claims. The new claims alleged that PPC and SPC violated the Lanham Act and engaged in unfair competition by willfully making false or misleading statements about Applieds equipment. On April 30, 2002, the parties settled the case and the Court dismissed with prejudice the claims that were brought in the litigation and any claim or counterclaim that could have been brought in the litigation. U.S. Department of Justice, Antitrust Division In September 2000, Applied received notice from the Department of Justice, Antitrust Division, that it had begun an investigation into Applieds licensing of technology. On February 25, 2002, the Department of Justice notified Applied that the investigation has been closed. Axcelis Technologies On January 8, 2001, Axcelis Technologies, Inc. (Axcelis), formerly a subsidiary of Eaton Corporation, filed a lawsuit in the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts, captioned Axcelis Technologies, Inc. v. Applied Materials, Inc. (case no. 01 10029 DPW). The lawsuit alleges that Applied infringes a patent concerning ion implantation owned by Axcelis. The complaint also alleges various Massachusetts state and common law tortious interference and unfair competition claims. Axcelis seeks a preliminary and permanent injunction, damages, costs and attorneys fees. On April 12, 2001, Applied answered the complaint by denying all allegations and counterclaimed for declaratory judgment of invalidity and non infringement, and violations of various unfair and deceptive trade practices laws. Applied seeks damages, a permanent injunction, costs and attorneys fees. Fact and expert discovery have closed. On December 10, 2002, the Court issued a ruling interpreting the claims of the patent. Summary judgment motions have been filed and are pending before the Court. No trial date has been set. Applied believes it has meritorious defenses and counterclaims to the action and intends to pursue them vigorously. Linear Technology On March 2, 2001, Linear Technology Corp. (LTC) filed a third party complaint against Applied in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas, captioned Texas Instruments, Inc. v. Linear Technology Corp. v. Applied Materials, Inc. (case no. 2 01 CV4 (DF)). The complaint against Applied alleged that Applied is obligated to indemnify LTC and defend LTC for certain claims in the underlying patent infringement lawsuit brought by Texas Instruments, Inc. (TI) against LTC. The complaint also alleged claims for breach of contract, breach of warranty, and various unfair business practices. In the complaint, LTC alleged that, before LTC purchased certain equipment from Applied, Applied failed to disclose to LTC that TI previously had won a jury verdict against Hyundai Electronics Industries Co., Ltd. (Hyundai) for patent infringement based on Hyundais use of certain semiconductor equipment including some Applied tools. LTCs Texas lawsuit against Applied sought indemnification and damages from Applied and an order requiring Applied to defend LTC in the underlying lawsuit with TI. On January 15, 2002, the Court granted TIs motion to sever Applied and the other third party defendants from the action and dismissed LTCs action against Applied and the other third party defendants without prejudice. On March 12, 2002, LTC filed a complaint against Applied in the Superior Court for the County of Santa Clara, captioned Linear Technology Corp. v. Applied Materials, Inc., Novellus Systems, Inc. and Tokyo Electron Ltd., (case no. CV806004) alleging claims for breach of contract, fraud and deceit, negligent misrepresentation, suppression of fact, unfair competition, breach of warranty, express contractual indemnity, implied equitable indemnity and declaratory relief. On November 12, 2002, LTC filed an amended complaint in the Santa Clara action asserting essentially the same claims as in the original complaint but adding an additional assertion that LTC and TI have settled their litigation. In the amended compliant, LTC seeks damages, punitive damages, injunctive relief and restitution. LTC also seeks costs and attorneys fees including costs and attorneys fees for the TI litigation. LTC has also asserted similar claims against certain other semiconductor equipment manufacturers. Applied has answered the complaint by denying all allegations. No trial date has been set. Applied believes that it has meritorious defenses and intends to pursue them vigorously. Semitool On June 11, 2001, Semitool, Inc. (Semitool) filed a lawsuit against Applied in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California, captioned Semitool, Inc. v. Applied Materials, Inc. (case no. CV 01 2277 CRB). The lawsuit alleged that Applied infringed a patent concerning seed repair and electroplating owned by Semitool. Semitool sought a preliminary and permanent injunction, damages, costs and attorneys fees. On July 12, 2001, before Applied had answered the complaint, Semitool voluntarily dismissed its action against Applied in the Northern District of California. On the same day, Semitool filed a substantially identical action against Applied in the United States District Court for the District of Oregon captioned Semitool, Inc. v. Applied Materials, Inc. (case no. CV01 1066 AS). On July 13, 2001, Applied filed a declaratory judgment action against Semitool in the Northern District of California captioned Applied Materials, Inc. v. Semitool, Inc. (case no. CV 01 2673 BZ). In that action, Applied seeks a declaration that Applied has not infringed the Semitool patent and that Semitools patent is invalid and unenforceable. Applied also seeks costs and attorneys fees. The California Court has ordered Applieds action against Semitool transferred to the District of Oregon. The actions are proceeding together in Oregon. Semitool has also asserted similar claims against certain other semiconductor equipment manufacturers. Discovery is ongoing. The Oregon Court has issued an order interpreting the patent claims and has rescheduled the trial date from June 30, 2003 to February 3, 2004. Applied believes it has meritorious claims and defenses and intends to pursue them vigorously. David Scharf On July 31, 2001, David Scharf, an individual, filed a lawsuit against Applied in the United States District Court for the Central District of California, captioned David Scharf v. Applied Materials, Inc. (case no. 01 06580 AHM). The lawsuit alleges that Applied has infringed, has induced others to infringe and has contributed to others infringement of a patent concerning color synthesizing scanning electron microscope technology. Mr. Scharf seeks a preliminary and permanent injunction, damages and costs. Applied has answered the complaint and counterclaimed for declaratory judgment of non infringement and invalidity. On May 10, 2002, Mr. Scharf filed a request for re examination of his own patent. On June 26, 2002, the case was removed from the Courts active docket after the parties stipulated to stay the case pending the results of that re examination. On July 11, 2002, Applied filed its own request for re examination of Mr. Scharfs patent with the Patent and Trademark Office, which was granted on September 19, 2002. Applied believes it has meritorious defenses and counterclaims and intends to pursue them vigorously. ASMI On August 27, 2002, ASM America, Inc. and ASM International, N.V. (collectively "ASMI") filed a lawsuit against Applied in the United States District Court for the District of Arizona, captioned ASM America, Inc. and ASM International, N.V. v. Applied Materials, Inc. (case no. Civ02 1660 PHX SMM). The lawsuit seeks a judicial declaration that ASMI does not infringe six patents belonging to Applied that relate to remote cleaning of CVD chambers and to deposition of silicon nitride. The suit also seeks a judicial declaration that two of those six patents are invalid. On December 16, 2002, Applied responded to the complaint by denying the allegations and counterclaimed by seeking a declaratory judgment of infringement and validity of two of the patents related to remote cleaning of CVD chambers. Applied seeks damages, a preliminary and permanent injunction, costs and attorneys fees. Applied also moved to dismiss the complaint with respect to four of the patents and moved for a more definitive statement with respect to two of ASMIs causes of action. No trial date has been set. Applied believes it has meritorious defenses and counterclaims and intends to pursue them vigorously. Robert Bosch GmbH On October 10, 2002, Robert Bosch GmbH (Bosch), a German company, filed a lawsuit against Applied in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware, captioned Robert Bosch GmbH v. Applied Materials, Inc. (civil action no. 02 1523). The lawsuit alleges that Applied infringes two patents owned by Bosch related to anisotrophic etching. Bosch seeks a preliminary and permanent injunction, damages, costs and attorneys fees. Applied has not been served with the complaint and has therefore not answered. No trial date has been set. Applied believes it has meritorious defenses and intends to pursue them vigorously. From time to time, Applied receives notification from customers claiming that such customers are entitled to indemnification or other obligations from Applied related to infringement claims made against the customers by third parties. In addition, Applied is subject to various other legal proceedings and claims, either asserted or unasserted, that arise in the ordinary course of business. Although the outcome of these claims cannot be predicted with certainty, Applied does not believe that any of these other existing legal matters will have a material adverse effect on its financial condition or results of operations. Item 4: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders in the Fourth Fiscal Quarter of 2002 None. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT The following table and notes set forth information about Applieds five executive officers: Name of Individual Capacities in which Served James C. Morgan(1).... Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Dan Maydan(2)......... President and Director Joseph R. Bronson(3).. Executive Vice President, Global Executive Committee and Chief Financial Officer Sasson Somekh(4)...... Executive Vice President, Chairman, Global Executive Committee David N.K. Wang(5).... Executive Vice President, Global Executive Committee (1)Mr. Morgan, age 64, has been Chief Executive Officer since 1977 and Chairman of the Board of Directors since 1987. Mr. Morgan also served as President from 1976 to 1987. (2) Dr. Maydan, age 67, was appointed President in December 1993 and has been a member of the Board of Directors since 1992. Dr. Maydan served as Executive Vice President from 1990 to December 1993. Prior to that, Dr. Maydan had been Group Vice President since February 1989. Dr. Maydan joined Applied in 1980 as Director of Technology. (3) Mr. Bronson, age 54, was appointed Executive Vice President in December 2000 and to the Global Executive Committee, which took the place of the Office of the President in October 2002, and has been Chief Financial Officer since January 1998. Mr. Bronson also served in the Office of the President from January 1998 to October 2002, as Senior Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer from 1998 to 2000 and Group Vice President from 1994 to 1998. Prior to that, Mr. Bronson had been Vice President since November 1990. Mr. Bronson joined Applied in 1984 as Corporate Controller. (4) Dr. Somekh, age 56, was appointed Executive Vice President in December 2000 and Chairman, Global Executive Committee, which took the place of the Office of the President in October 2002. Dr. Somekh served in the Office of the President from January 1998 to October 2002, as Senior Vice President from 1993 to 2000 and Group Vice President from 1990 to 1993. Prior to that, Dr. Somekh had been a divisional Vice President. Dr. Somekh joined Applied in 1980 as a Project Manager. (5) Dr. Wang, age 56, was appointed Executive Vice President in December 2000 and to the Global Executive Committee, which took the place of the Office of the President in October 2002. Dr. Wang served in the Office of the President from January 1998 to October 2002, as Senior Vice President from 1993 to 2000 and Group Vice President from 1990 to 1993. Prior to that, Dr. Wang had been a divisional Vice President. Dr. Wang joined Applied in 1980 as Manager, Process Engineering and Applications. PART II Item 5: Market for Registrants Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters The following table sets forth the high and low closing sale prices as reported on the Nasdaq National Market, as adjusted to reflect a two for one stock split in the form of a 100 percent stock dividend, effective April 16, 2002. Fiscal year ended 2001 2002 High Low High Low First quarter............. $26.56 $17.69 $23.34 $16.63 Second quarter............ $29.37 $18.91 $27.76 $20.66 Third quarter............. $28.76 $20.98 $27.31 $14.23 Fourth quarter............ $25.00 $13.75 $16.17 $10.35 Applieds common stock is traded on the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol AMAT. As of December 20, 2002, there were approximately 6,977 directly registered holders of record of the common stock. To date, Applied has not declared or paid cash dividends to its stockholders. Applied has no plans to declare and pay cash dividends. Item 6: Selected Financial Data Fiscal year ended(1) 1998(2) 1999(2) 2000(2) 2001 2002 (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts) Net sales..................................$4,330,014 $5,096,302 $9,564,412 $7,343,248 $5,062,312 Gross margin...............................$2,016,313 $2,419,219 $4,855,728 $3,252,033 $2,056,661 (% of net sales)....................... 46.6 47.5 50.8 44.3 40.6 Research, development and engineering...... $697,291 $740,114 $1,107,922 $1,198,799 $1,052,269 (% of net sales)....................... 16.1 14.5 11.6 16.3 20.8 Marketing, selling, general and administrative......................... $626,311 $695,296 $960,753 $901,924 $708,955 (% of net sales)....................... 14.5 13.6 10.0 12.3 14.0 Income from continuing operations before income taxes, equity in net income/(loss) of joint venture and cumulative effect of change in accounting principle................ $508,693 $1,023,344 $2,947,844 $1,103,802 $340,511 Effective tax rate (%)..................... 34.0 32.3 30.0 29.8 21.0 Income from continuing operations before cumulative effect of change in accounting principle(3)............. $298,665 $726,679 $2,063,552 $775,228 $269,004 (% of net sales)....................... 6.9 14.3 21.6 10.6 5.3 Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle, net of tax(2)............... $ $ $ ($267,399) $ Net income(4).............................. $277,669 $747,675 $2,063,552 $507,829 $269,004 Earnings per diluted share(5): Continuing operations.................. $0.19 $0.44 $1.20 $0.46 $0.16 Discontinued operations................ (0.01) 0.01 Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle............. (0.16) Total.................................. $0.18 $0.45 $1.20 $0.30 $0.16 Weighted average common shares and equivalents(5) (in thousands).......... 1,573,192 1,641,160 1,718,338 1,694,658 1,701,557 Order backlog..............................$1,045,567 $1,739,270 $4,381,768 $2,725,406 $3,190,459 Working capital............................$2,595,741 $3,579,223 $6,079,436 $6,249,358 $6,571,337 Current ratio.............................. 3.1 3.1 3.2 5.1 5.4 Long term debt............................. $616,572 $584,357 $573,126 $564,805 $573,853 Stockholders equity.......................$3,367,290 $4,575,258 $7,104,348 $7,606,737 $8,019,649 Book value per share(5).................... $2.20 $2.88 $4.37 $4.66 $4.87 Total assets...............................$5,288,206 $7,014,510 $10,545,730 $9,828,510 $10,224,765 Capital expenditures, net of retirements... $464,372 $219,657 $383,255 $710,620 $417,080 Regular employees.......................... 13,179 13,831 19,220 17,365 16,077 (1)Each fiscal year ended on the last Sunday in October. (2) Effective the first fiscal quarter of 2001, Applied implemented the Securities and Exchange Commissions Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 101 (SAB 101), "Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements." For periods prior to fiscal 2001, data was not available to provide pro forma information as if the change in accounting principle were applied retroactively. For further details, see Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. (3) Income from continuing operations before cumulative effect of change in accounting principle included net one time items, on an after tax basis, of: $165,093 expense for fiscal 1998 related to restructuring charges, write down of impaired asset and acquired in process research and development expense, offset by income from a litigation settlement; $30,248 expense for fiscal 1999 related to acquired in process research and development expense, acquisition expenses and restructuring charges, offset by income from a litigation settlement; $9,911 income for fiscal 2000 related to income from a litigation settlement, offset by acquisition expenses; $158,871 expense for fiscal 2001 related to restructuring charges and acquired in process research and development expense; and $67,528 expense for fiscal 2002 related to restructuring charges and acquired in process research and development expense. For further details, see Notes 6 and 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. (4) In addition to the net one time items included in income from continuing operations before cumulative effect of change in accounting principle, net income also included after tax expense of $20,996 from discontinued operations for fiscal 1998, after tax income of $20,996 from the reversal of provision for discontinuance of joint venture subsequently retained for fiscal 1999 and after tax expense of $267,399 from a cumulative effect of change in accounting principle related to the implementation of SAB 101 for fiscal 2001. (5) Amounts prior to fiscal 2002 have been restated to reflect a two for one stock split in the form of a 100 percent stock dividend, effective April 16, 2002. Item 7: Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Applied develops, manufactures, markets and services semiconductor wafer fabrication equipment for the worldwide semiconductor industry. Demand for Applieds products can change significantly from period to period as a result of numerous factors, including, but not limited to, changes in: 1) global economic conditions; 2) supply and demand for semiconductors; 3) the profitability of semiconductor manufacturers; 4) advanced technology and or capacity requirements of semiconductor manufacturers; and 5) relative competitiveness of Applieds products and services. For this and other reasons, Applieds results of operations for fiscal 2000, 2001 and 2002 may not necessarily be indicative of future operating results. Effective the first fiscal quarter of 2001, Applied implemented the Securities and Exchange Commissions Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 101, "Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements." For periods prior to fiscal 2001, data was not available to provide pro forma information as if the change in accounting principle were applied retroactively. For further details, see Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Net Sales Applieds business was subject to cyclical industry conditions in fiscal 2000, 2001 and 2002. As a result of these conditions, there were significant fluctuations in Applieds quarterly new orders and net sales, both within and across fiscal years. Demand for semiconductor manufacturing equipment has historically been volatile as a result of sudden changes in semiconductor supply and demand and other factors, including rapid technological advances in both semiconductor devices and wafer fabrication processes. Quarterly financial information follows: Fiscal Quarter Fiscal First Second Third Fourth Year (In millions, except per share amounts) 2000(1): New orders.................. $2,454 $2,928 $3,275 $3,601 $12,258 Net sales................... $1,722 $2,190 $2,732 $2,920 $9,564 Gross margin................ $857 $1,098 $1,392 $1,509 $4,856 Net income(2)............... $327 $469 $604 $664 $2,064 Earnings per diluted share.. $0.19 $0.27 $0.35 $0.39 $1.20 2001: New orders.................. $2,430 $1,353 $1,208 $1,106 $6,097 Net sales................... $2,363 $2,139 $1,576 $1,265 $7,343 Gross margin................ $1,143 $985 $655 $469 $3,252 Income/(loss) from operations before cumulative effect of change in accounting principle(3)... $424 $318 $115 ($82) $775 Net income/(loss)(4)........ $157 $318 $115 ($82) $508 Earnings/(loss) per diluted share............. $0.09 $0.19 $0.07 ($0.05) $0.30 2002: New orders.................. $1,119 $1,688 $1,778 $1,557 $6,142 Net sales................... $1,000 $1,156 $1,460 $1,446 $5,062 Gross margin................ $386 $463 $606 $602 $2,057 Net income/(loss)(3)........ ($45) $52 $115 $147 $269 Earnings/(loss) per diluted share............. ($0.03) $0.03 $0.07 $0.09 $0.16 (1) Fiscal 2000 amounts have not been restated in accordance with SAB 101, which was implemented in fiscal 2001. Data was not available to provide pro forma information as if the change in accounting principle was applied retroactively. (2) Net income included one time items, on an after tax basis, of $10 million of income for the second fiscal quarter of 2000. (3) Income/(loss) from operations before cumulative effect of change in accounting principle included one time expenses, on an after tax basis, of $41 million for the second fiscal quarter of 2001, $13 million for the third fiscal quarter of 2001 and $105 million for the fourth fiscal quarter of 2001. Net income/(loss) included one time expenses, on an after tax basis, of $68 million for the first fiscal quarter of 2002. (4) In addition to the net one time items included in income/(loss) from operations before cumulative effect of change in accounting principle, net income/(loss) also included an after tax expense of $267 million from a cumulative effect of change in accounting principle for the first fiscal quarter of 2001. Net sales by geographic region were as follows: Fiscal year ended 2000 2001 2002 (In millions) North America*.... $2,598 $2,131 $1,328 Taiwan............ 2,317 1,109 1,238 Japan............. 1,509 1,876 757 Europe............ 1,430 1,085 660 Korea............. 868 449 443 Asia Pacific**.... 842 693 636 $9,564 $7,343 $5,062 * Primarily the United States. ** Includes China In fiscal 2000, the semiconductor and semiconductor manufacturing equipment industries were in a period of expansion, and Applied achieved record levels of new orders, net sales and net income for this period. However, during the first fiscal quarter of 2001, slowing worldwide demand for semiconductors resulted in a rapid decline in demand for manufacturing equipment. Inventory buildups in telecommunication products, slower than expected personal computer sales and slower global economic growth caused semiconductor companies to reevaluate their capital spending and reschedule or cancel existing orders. This decline in demand deepened sequentially throughout fiscal 2001 and the first fiscal quarter of 2002 into a severe industry downturn due to continued weakness in the macro economic climate and consumption of electronic goods, which resulted in further capital spending cutbacks by Applieds customers. As a result of these factors, net sales declined 23 percent from $9.6 billion for fiscal 2000 to $7.3 billion for fiscal 2001. Also included in fiscal 2001 net sales was $642 million of revenue that was recognized as part of the cumulative effect of implementing the Securities and Exchange Commissions Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 101 (SAB 101), "Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements." Net sales declined 31 percent from $7.3 billion for fiscal 2001 to $5.1 billion for fiscal 2002. The decline in demand for Applieds products continued into the first fiscal quarter of 2002. In the second fiscal quarter of 2002, customers began to order equipment for 200mm advanced capacity to satisfy demand driven by consumer related and wireless devices. Customers ordered 200mm capacity for this increase in demand as their transition to 300mm equipment was not yet complete. Customers also continued to place technology orders to invest in 300mm wafer processing, copper and smaller line width technologies. However, second quarter demand levels proved to be unsustainable as the global economic environment weakened through the middle of the year, and customers reduced their level of capacity spending accordingly while maintaining advanced technology spending. Net sales peaked in the third fiscal quarter of 2002 and flattened in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2002. Included in fiscal 2002 net sales was the remaining $9 million of revenue that was recognized as part of the cumulative effect of implementing SAB 101. Gross Margin Gross margin as a percentage of net sales decreased from 50.8 percent for fiscal 2000 to 44.3 percent for fiscal 2001, and to 40.6 percent for fiscal 2002. During fiscal 1999 and 2000, Applied experienced unprecedented new order and revenue growth. Accordingly, Applied expanded its manufacturing facilities during these periods to accommodate current and anticipated growth. The decreased business volume for fiscal 2001 and 2002 due to the industry downturn was insufficient to fully absorb the overhead costs of these facilities, resulting in lower gross margins for fiscal 2001 and 2002. The decrease in fiscal 2002 gross margin was also attributable to customer service and support activities, primarily startup costs associated with a new spare parts distribution system and excess overhead resulting from the decline in system installations. Research, Development and Engineering Applieds future operating results depend, to a considerable extent, on its ability to maintain a competitive advantage in the products and services it provides. Applied believes that it is critical to continue to make substantial investments in RD&E to assure the availability of innovative technology that meets the current and projected requirements of its customers most advanced chip designs. Applied has historically maintained its commitment to investing in RD&E, especially during industry downturns, in order to continue to offer new products and technologies. As a result, RD&E expenses remained relatively flat at $1.1 billion (11.6 percent of net sales) for fiscal 2000, $1.2 billion (16.3 percent of net sales) for fiscal 2001, and $1.1 billion (20.8 percent of net sales) for fiscal 2002. Product development cycles range from 12 to 36 months depending on whether the tool development is an enhancement of existing technology or a new product area. Most of Applieds existing product lines are the result of internal product development activities. In certain instances, Applied acquires technologies in either existing areas of development or new product opportunities to complement its existing technology capabilities and to reduce time to market for market entry and penetration. Throughout the periods covered by this report, Applied has been investing in its new Process Module products to provide customers with a qualified, integrated and optimized production process flow for building microstructures on advanced chips. Process modules are designed to link certain Applied equipment to deliver an integrated process application to the customer for wafer processing. During fiscal 2001, Applied continued its development of technologies for copper and low k based chips and 300mm wafers, as well as focused efforts on the core technologies that will be required for chipmakers to begin development of 100nm generation devices. Areas of increased investment included maskmaking technology, metrology and inspection, ion implantation, and products for depositing and etching new materials. In fiscal 2002, Applied invested in critical development activities to meet customers rapid move to sub 100nm dimensions in their most advanced designs, which are expected to begin entering production in fiscal 2003. This difficult and challenging dimensional shift is matched by the need to provide much of the technology for both 200mm and 300mm wafers, requiring additional process and hardware development. For the sub 100nm chip generations, inspection and metrology tools have become more important to assure enhanced device performance as well as adequate manufacturing yields. Accordingly, Applied focused its RD&E resources on these technologies. In addition, development of new technologies such as advanced wafer wet cleaning and atomic layer deposition, which deposits materials in increasingly smaller structures, addresses new market opportunities for Applied in coming years. Within virtually all of the technology areas, including fab and yield management, Applied invested in more advanced software capabilities. Marketing, Selling, General and Administrative Marketing, selling, general and administrative expenses decreased from $961 million (10.0 percent of net sales) for fiscal 2000 to $902 million (12.3 percent of net sales) for fiscal 2001, and to $709 million (14.0 percent of net sales) for fiscal 2002. The decreases for fiscal 2001 and 2002 were due primarily to cost reduction activities limiting discretionary expenditures and to lower business volume. Non recurring Items Non recurring items for fiscal 2000 totaled $40 million, or $0.02 per diluted share after tax, related to merger expenses for the acquisition of Etec. Non recurring items for fiscal 2001 totaled $221 million, or $0.09 per diluted share after tax, consisting of a pre tax charge of $10 million for acquired in process research and development and pre tax restructuring charges of $211 million. During fiscal 2001, Applied recorded pre tax restructuring charges of $211 million, consisting of $105 million for headcount reductions, $45 million for consolidation of facilities and $61 million for other costs, primarily fixed asset write offs. These restructuring actions occurred in Applieds second, third and fourth fiscal quarters, and were taken to better align Applieds cost structure with prevailing market conditions. During the second fiscal quarter of 2001, Applied completed a voluntary separation plan that resulted in a headcount reduction of approximately 1,000 employees, or three percent of its global workforce, for a cost of $47 million. During the third fiscal quarter of 2001, Applied recorded a pre tax restructuring charge of $4 million associated with severance and benefit costs. During the fourth fiscal quarter of 2001, Applied eliminated approximately 2,000 additional positions, or 10 percent of its global workforce, for a cost of $54 million. The majority of the affected employees were based in Santa Clara, California and Austin, Texas, and represented multiple company activities and functions. Non recurring items for fiscal 2002 totaled $85 million, or $0.04 per diluted share after tax, consisting of a pre tax charge of $8 million for acquired in process research and development and a pre tax restructuring charge of $77 million. The pre tax restructuring charge, which was recorded in the first fiscal quarter of 2002, consisted of $39 million for headcount reductions, $16 million for consolidation of facilities and $22 million for other costs, primarily fixed asset write offs. This restructuring action was taken to better align Applieds cost structure with prevailing market conditions due to the prolonged industry downturn, and it reduced Applieds global workforce by approximately 1,100 employees, or six percent. The majority of the affected employees were based in Santa Clara, California and Austin, Texas, and represented multiple company activities and functions. For further details, see Note 6 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Non recurring Income Non recurring income of $68 million for fiscal 2000 was related to a 1998 litigation settlement with ASM International, N.V. For further details, see Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Net Interest Income Net interest income was $133 million for fiscal 2000, $174 million for fiscal 2001 and $131 million for fiscal 2002. The increase for fiscal 2001 was due primarily to higher average cash and investment balances. The decrease for fiscal 2002 was due primarily to lower average interest rates. Provision for Income Taxes Applieds effective income tax rate was 30.0 percent for fiscal 2000, 29.8 percent for fiscal 2001 and 21.0 percent for fiscal 2002. Applied expected an effective rate of 29.5 percent for fiscal 2001, which decreased from the fiscal 2000 effective rate due to a shift in the geographic composition of Applieds pre tax income. The actual effective rate for fiscal 2001 of 29.8 percent differed from the expected rate of 29.5 percent due to the non tax deductible nature of $10 million of acquired in process research and development expense. Applieds actual effective rate of 21.0 percent for fiscal 2002 differed from the anticipated effective rate of 29.5 percent primarily due to significant Foreign Sales Corporation and extraterritorial income tax benefits. Absent these additional benefits, earnings per diluted share would have been reduced by $0.02 for fiscal 2002. Applieds future effective income tax rate depends on various factors, such as tax legislation, the geographic composition of Applieds pre tax income, non tax deductible expenses incurred in connection with acquisitions and the effectiveness of its tax planning strategies. Business Combinations On November 20, 2001, Applied acquired the assets of Schlumbergers electron beam wafer inspection business for $66 million in cash. On December 3, 2001, Applied acquired Global Knowledge Services, Inc., a provider of advanced data mining services to improve semiconductor manufacturing yield and efficiency, for $16 million in cash. On April 8, 2002, Applied acquired Electron Vision Corporation, a designer, manufacturer and seller of e beam stabilization and curing tools for the semiconductor, thin film head and micro fabrication industries, for $26 million in cash. Applied also made acquisitions in fiscal 2000 and fiscal 2001. For further details, see Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. SUBSEQUENT EVENT On November 4, 2002, Applied announced a headcount reduction of approximately 1,750 positions, or 11 percent of its global workforce, in response to the continuing downturn in the semiconductor industry. The majority of the affected employees were based in Santa Clara, California and Austin, Texas, and represented multiple company activities and functions. As a result of these activities, Applied will record a restructuring charge for the first fiscal quarter of 2003. RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS In August 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 143, "Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations." SFAS No. 143 addresses financial accounting and reporting for obligations associated with the retirement of tangible long lived assets and the associated retirement costs. Applied does not expect the adoption of SFAS No. 143, which will be effective for Applieds fiscal 2003, to have a material effect on its financial condition or results of operations. In October 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets." SFAS No. 144 supersedes SFAS No. 121, "Accounting for the Impairment of Long Lived Assets and for Long Lived Assets to be Disposed Of," and Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 30, "Reporting the Results of Operations Reporting the Effects of Disposal of a Segment of Business, and Extraordinary, Unusual and Infrequently Occurring Events and Transactions." Applied does not expect the adoption of SFAS No. 144, which will be effective for Applieds fiscal 2003, to have a material effect on its financial condition or results of operations. In April 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 145, "Rescission of FASB Statements No. 4, 44 and 64, Amendment of FASB Statement No. 13, and Technical Corrections." Applied does not expect the adoption of SFAS No. 145, which will become effective at varying dates from May 2002 to Applieds fiscal 2003, to have a material effect on its financial condition or results of operations. In June 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 146, "Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities." SFAS No. 146 addresses financial accounting and reporting for costs associated with exit or disposal activities and supersedes Emerging Issues Task Force Issue No. 94 3, "Liability Recognition for Certain Employee Termination Benefits and Other Costs to Exit an Activity (including Certain Costs Incurred in a Restructuring)." SFAS No. 146 is effective for exit or disposal activities initiated after December 31, 2002. Applied does not expect the adoption of SFAS No. 146 to have a material effect on its financial condition or results of operations. For further details regarding the above recent accounting pronouncements, see Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. FINANCIAL CONDITION, LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Applied increased its cash, cash equivalents and short term investments from $4.8 billion at October 28, 2001 to $4.9 billion at October 27, 2002. Applied has generated $3.7 billion of cash from operating activities during the past three years, primarily from net income and working capital management. Applied has not undertaken any significant external financing activities for several years. Applied generated cash from operating activities of $1.7 billion for fiscal 2000, $1.6 billion for fiscal 2001 and $492 million for fiscal 2002. The primary sources of cash from operating activities have been net income, as adjusted to exclude the effect of non cash charges, and changes in working capital requirements, including accounts receivable and inventories. Applied utilized programs to sell accounts receivable of $1.5 billion for fiscal 2000, $1.2 billion for fiscal 2001 and $689 million for fiscal 2002. These receivable sales had the effect of increasing cash and reducing accounts receivable and days sales outstanding. Days sales outstanding was 66 days at the end of fiscal 2002, compared to 56 days at the end of fiscal 2001 and 73 days at the end of fiscal 2000. Applied has not experienced any losses under these programs, and receivables sold under these programs have terms and credit risk characteristics similar to Applieds overall receivables portfolio. For further details regarding accounts receivable sales, see Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Inventories were reduced by $139 million in fiscal 2002 due to lower systems inventories, partially offset by an increase in customer service spares inventories to support new 300mm products shipped to customers. Applied used $1.0 billion of cash for investing activities for fiscal 2000, $1.6 billion for fiscal 2001 and $693 million for fiscal 2002. Capital expenditures, net of retirements, were $383 million for fiscal 2000, $711 million for fiscal 2001 and $417 million for fiscal year 2002, totaling $1.5 billion for the past three years. Application laboratories, equipment and related facilities comprised most of the capital spending. The largest capital expenditure for the last three years was the construction and fit up of the Maydan Process Module Technology Center where Applieds demonstration laboratories for new technology applications are located. Fiscal 2002 capital expenditures also included $65 million for the purchase of properties in Santa Clara, California that were previously held under a synthetic lease. Investing activities also included purchases and sales of short term investments and acquisitions of technology or of other companies to allow Applied to access new market segments or emerging technology. Applied generated $149 million of cash from financing activities for fiscal 2000, used $261 million for fiscal 2001 and generated $131 million for fiscal 2002. Net common stock activities (issuances of common stock under employee stock plans, offset by share repurchases) generated $99 million for fiscal 2000 as a result of a significant increase in option exercises by employees, reflecting Applieds higher average stock price, partially offset by stock repurchases. During fiscal 2001, net common stock activity used $169 million of cash as stock repurchases increased and stock sales to employees decreased, reflecting Applieds lower average stock price in fiscal 2001. During fiscal 2002, net common stock activity generated $75 million of cash due to stock sales to employees and lower stock repurchases. Since March 1996, Applied has systematically repurchased shares of its common stock in the open market to partially fund its stock based employee benefit and incentive plans. Financing activities also included borrowings and repayments of debt. Changes in debt generated $50 million of cash for fiscal 2000, used $92 million of cash for fiscal 2001 and generated $56 million of cash for fiscal 2002. To date, Applied has not declared or paid cash dividends to its stockholders due to a number of factors, including the volatile nature of the semiconductor industry and the potential requirements to finance working capital in the event of a significant upturn in business. Applied reevaluates this practice from time to time but is not contemplating the payment of a cash dividend. On March 21, 2002, Applieds Board of Directors approved a two for one stock split of Applieds common stock, which was distributed in the form of a 100 percent stock dividend on or about April 16, 2002 to stockholders of record as of April 1, 2002. Although cash requirements will fluctuate based on the timing and extent of these factors, Applieds management believes that cash generated from operations, together with the liquidity provided by existing cash balances and borrowing capability, will be sufficient to satisfy Applieds liquidity requirements for the next 12 months. For further details regarding Applieds operating, investing and financing activities for each of the three years in the period ended October 27, 2002, see the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. The following table summarizes the effect on Applieds liquidity and cash flows from contractual obligations of debt arrangements and noncancellable leases as of October 27, 2002: Fiscal year ended 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 Thereafter Total (In millions) Debt maturities...... $9 $109 $50 $7 $202 $206 $583 Noncancellable operating leases... 133 110 81 38 32 115 509 $142 $219 $131 $45 $234 $321 $1,092 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires management to make judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect the amounts reported. Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements describes the significant accounting policies used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements. Certain of these significant accounting policies are considered to be critical accounting policies, as defined below. A critical accounting policy is defined as one that is both material to the presentation of Applieds financial statements and requires management to make difficult, subjective or complex judgments that could have a material effect on Applieds financial condition and results of operations. Specifically, critical accounting estimates have the following attributes: 1) Applied is required to make assumptions about matters that are highly uncertain at the time of the estimate; and 2) different estimates Applied could reasonably have used, or changes in the estimate that are reasonably likely to occur, would have a material effect on Applieds financial condition or results of operations. Estimates and assumptions about future events and their effects cannot be determined with certainty. Applied bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions believed to be applicable and reasonable under the circumstances. These estimates may change as new events occur, as additional information is obtained and as Applieds operating environment changes. These changes have historically been minor and have been included in the consolidated financial statements as soon as they became known. In addition, management is periodically faced with uncertainties, the outcomes of which are not within its control and will not be known for prolonged periods of time. These uncertainties are discussed in the section below entitled "Trends, Risks and Uncertainties." Based on a critical assessment of its accounting policies and the underlying judgments and uncertainties affecting the application of those policies, management believes that Applieds consolidated financial statements are fairly stated in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, and present a meaningful presentation of Applieds financial condition and results of operations. Management believes that the following are critical accounting policies: Warranty Costs Applied provides for the estimated cost of warranty when revenue is recognized. Estimated warranty costs are determined by analyzing specific product and configuration experience statistics and regional warranty support costs. Applieds warranty obligation is affected by product failure rates, material usage, and labor costs incurred in correcting product failures during the warranty period. As Applieds customer engineers and process support engineers are highly trained and deployed globally, labor availability is a significant factor in determining labor costs. The quantity and availability of critical replacement parts is another significant factor in estimating warranty costs. Unforeseen component failures or exceptional component performance can also result in changes to warranty costs. If actual warranty costs differ substantially from Applieds estimates, revisions to the estimated warranty liability would be required, which could have a material adverse effect on Applieds business, financial condition and results of operations. Inventories Inventories are generally stated at the lower of cost or market, with cost determined on a first in, first out basis. The carrying value of inventory is reduced for estimated obsolescence by the difference between its cost and the estimated market value based upon assumptions about future demand. Applied evaluates the inventory carrying value for potential excess and obsolete inventory exposures by analyzing historical and anticipated demand. In addition, known and anticipated engineering change orders are evaluated for potential obsolescence. If actual demand were to be substantially lower than estimated, additional inventory adjustments for excess or obsolete inventory may be required, which could have a material adverse effect on Applieds business, financial condition and results of operations. Goodwill and Intangible Assets Applied reviews goodwill and intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of these assets may not be recoverable, and also reviews goodwill annually in accordance with SFAS No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets." Intangible assets, such as purchased technology, are generally recorded in connection with a business acquisition. The value assigned to intangible assets is determined by an independent valuation firm based on estimates and judgment regarding expectations for the success and life cycle of products and technology acquired. If actual product acceptance differs significantly from the estimates, Applied may be required to record an impairment charge to write down the asset to its realizable value. In addition, SFAS No. 142 requires that goodwill be tested annually using a two step process. The first step is to identify any potential impairment by comparing the carrying value of the reporting unit to its fair value. If a potential impairment is identified, the second step is to compare the implied fair value of goodwill with its carrying amount to measure the impairment loss. The fair value of a reporting unit is estimated using the market multiples approach, and is dependent on market values for companies in a similar industry. A severe decline in market value could result in an unexpected impairment charge to goodwill, which could have a material adverse effect on Applieds business, financial condition and results of operations. Income Taxes Applied accounts for income taxes in accordance with SFAS No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes," which requires that deferred tax assets and liabilities be recognized using enacted tax rates for the effect of temporary differences between the book and tax bases of recorded assets and liabilities. SFAS No. 109 also requires that deferred tax assets be reduced by a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that a portion of the deferred tax asset will not be realized. Management has determined that it is more likely than not that its future taxable income will be sufficient to realize its deferred tax assets. Applied provides for income taxes based upon an annual estimated effective income tax rate. The effective tax rate is highly dependent upon the geographic composition of worldwide earnings, tax regulations governing each region, non tax deductible expenses incurred in connection with acquisitions, availability of tax credits and the effectiveness of Applieds tax planning strategies. Management carefully monitors the changes in many factors and adjusts the effective income tax rate on a timely basis. If actual results differ from these estimates, Applied could be required to record a valuation allowance on deferred tax assets or adjust its effective income tax rate, which could have a material effect on Applieds financial condition and results of operations. TRENDS, RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES The industry that Applied serves is highly volatile and unpredictable. As a supplier to the semiconductor industry, Applied is subject to the business cycles that characterize the industry the timing, length and volatility of these cycles are difficult to predict. The semiconductor industry has historically been cyclical because of sudden changes in demand for semiconductors and capacity requirements, including capacity utilizing the latest technology. The rate of changes in demand, including end demand, is accelerating, and the effect of these changes upon Applied is occurring sooner, exacerbating the volatility of these cycles. These changes have affected the timing and amounts of customers capital equipment purchases and investments in new technology. These industry cycles create pressure on Applieds net sales, gross margin and net income. In addition to affecting Applieds customers and suppliers, these cycles challenge key management, engineering and other employees of Applied who are vital to Applieds success. During periods of declining demand for semiconductor manufacturing equipment, customers typically reduce purchases, delay delivery of products and or cancel orders. During downturns, Applied must be able to timely and effectively align its cost structure with prevailing market conditions, to manage its inventory levels to reduce the possibility of future inventory write downs resulting from obsolescence and liability to suppliers for order cancellations, and to motivate and retain key employees. During periods of rapid growth, Applied must be able to acquire and or develop sufficient manufacturing capacity and inventory to meet customer demand, and to attract, hire, assimilate and retain a sufficient number of qualified people. If Applied is unable to achieve its objectives in a timely manner during changes in business conditions, there could be a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. The semiconductor equipment industry is currently experiencing a continued and prolonged downturn. Management believes that this current downturn may be the most severe decline in history and cannot predict when a recovery will begin or what the industrys rate of growth will be in such a recovery. Applied is exposed to the risks of operating a global business. Currently, 74 percent of Applieds revenues result from sales outside the U.S., with an increasing percentage of sales to customers headquartered in Asia. Certain manufacturing facilities and suppliers are also located outside the U.S. Managing Applieds global operations presents challenges, including periodic regional economic downturns, trade balance issues, varying business conditions and demands, political instability, variations in enforcement of intellectual property and contract rights in different jurisdictions, differences in the ability to develop relationships with suppliers and other local businesses, changes in U.S. and international laws and regulations including U.S. export restrictions, fluctuations in interest and currency exchange rates, the ability to provide sufficient levels of technical support in different locations, cultural differences, shipping delays and terrorist acts or acts of war, among other risks. Many of these challenges are present in China, which represents a large potential market for semiconductor equipment and where Applied anticipates significant opportunity for growth. Global uncertainties with respect to: 1) economic growth rates in various countries; 2) sustainability of demand for electronics products; 3) capital spending by semiconductor manufacturers; 4) price weakness for certain semiconductor devices; and 5) political instability in regions where Applied has operations, such as Israel and Asia, may also affect Applieds business, financial condition and results of operations. Applied operates in a highly competitive industry characterized by increasingly rapid technological changes. Applieds future success depends on performing better than its competitors in a number of ways, including its ability to timely and cost effectively: 1) develop new products, services and technologies, including those utilizing new materials, such as copper; 2) develop improvements to existing products, services and technologies; 3) develop new markets in the semiconductor industry for its products and services; 4) introduce new products and services to the marketplace; 5) achieve market acceptance; 6) qualify new or improved products for volume manufacturing with its customers; 7) commence and adjust production to meet customer demands; and 8) price products and services appropriately. The development, introduction of and the ability to support an increasingly broader set of new or improved products and technologies, including those enabling the transition to smaller device feature sizes, new materials and 300mm wafers, grows increasingly complex and expensive over time. Such new or improved products may involve higher costs and reduced efficiencies compared to Applieds more established products and could adversely affect Applieds gross margins. If Applied does not develop and introduce new or improved products, services and technologies in a timely and cost effective manner in response to changing market conditions or customer requirements, its competitive position, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Applied is exposed to risks as a result of ongoing changes in the semiconductor industry. Ongoing changes in the semiconductor industry, including more complex technology requirements, the growth in Asia, increasing pressure on semiconductor manufacturers to allocate resources to activities that enhance their competitive advantage, the increasing significance of consumer electronics as a driver for demand for semiconductors and the related focus on lower costs, have in turn resulted in the increasing importance of spares and service as a growing percentage of semiconductor equipment suppliers business. These changes are also requiring semiconductor manufacturing equipment suppliers to provide increasing levels of process integration support. If Applied does not successfully manage the risks resulting from these changes in the semiconductor industry, its business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Applied is exposed to risks associated with a highly concentrated customer base. Applieds customer base is highly concentrated. Orders from a relatively limited number of semiconductor manufacturers have accounted for, and likely will continue to account for, a substantial portion of Applieds net sales, which may lead customers to demand pricing and other terms less favorable to Applied. In addition, sales to any single customer may vary significantly from quarter to quarter. If current customers delay, cancel or do not place orders, Applied may not be able to replace these orders with new orders. As Applieds products are configured to customer specifications, changing, rescheduling or canceling orders may result in significant and often non recoverable costs. The resulting fluctuations in the amount of or terms for orders could have a material adverse effect on Applieds business, financial condition and results of operations. Manufacturing interruptions or delays could affect Applieds ability to meet customer demand. Applieds business depends on its ability to manufacture products that meet the rapidly changing demands of its customers. Applieds ability to manufacture depends in part on the timely delivery of parts, components, and subassemblies (collectively "parts") from suppliers. Some key parts may be obtained only from a single supplier or a limited group of suppliers. Significant interruptions of manufacturing operations as a result of the failure or inability of suppliers to timely deliver quality parts, natural disasters (such as earthquakes or tornadoes), or other causes (such as information technology or infrastructure failures, regional economic downturns, political instability or terrorist acts or acts of war) could result in delayed product deliveries or manufacturing inefficiencies. Any or all of these factors could materially and adversely affect Applieds business, financial condition and results of operations. Applied is subject to risks of non compliance with environmental and safety regulations. Applied is subject to environmental and safety regulations in connection with its business operations, including but not limited to regulations related to the development, manufacturing and use of its products. Failure or inability to comply with existing or future environmental and safety regulations could result in significant remediation liabilities, the imposition of fines and or the suspension or termination of development, manufacturing or use of certain of its products, each of which could have a material adverse effect on Applieds business, financial condition and results of operations. Applied is exposed to risks associated with acquisitions. Applied has made, and may in the future make, acquisitions of, or significant investments in, businesses with complementary products, services and or technologies. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including but not limited to: 1) diversion of managements attention from other operational matters; 2) the inability to realize expected synergies resulting from the acquisition; 3) failure to commercialize purchased technology; and 4) impairment of acquired intangible assets as a result of technological advancements or worse than expected performance of the acquired company. Mergers and acquisitions are inherently subject to multiple significant risks, and the inability to effectively manage these risks could materially and adversely affect Applieds business, financial condition and results of operations. Applied is exposed to various risks related to the regulatory environment. Applied is subject to various risks related to: 1) new, different, inconsistent or even conflicting laws, rules and regulations that may be enacted by legislative bodies and or regulatory agencies in the countries in which Applied operates and with which Applied must comply; and 2) disagreements or disputes between national or regional regulatory agencies related to international trade. For example, the World Trade Organization (WTO) has determined that the U.S. Foreign Sales Corporation (FSC) and Extraterritorial Income (ETI) exclusion constitute a prohibited export subsidy warranting the possible imposition of trade sanctions on certain goods, including semiconductor manufacturing equipment. Applied has benefited from FSC and ETI tax provisions. The elimination of these tax benefits or imposition of sanctions could materially and adversely affect Applieds business, financial condition and results of operations. During fiscal 2002, Applied filed an application with the SEC for an exemptive order confirming that it is not subject to the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the Act), which requires companies primarily engaged in the business of investing in securities to comply with additional rules and regulations. Largely due to the industry downturn, Applieds ratios of investments to total assets and of interest income to net income have increased, resulting in the risk that Applied could be deemed to be covered by the Act. If the SEC does not grant the exemption, Applied may have to take other actions that could adversely affect its results of operations in order not to be subject to the Act. Applied is exposed to various risks related to legal proceedings or claims. Applied currently is, and in the future may be, involved in legal proceedings or claims regarding patent infringement, intellectual property rights, antitrust, environmental regulations, securities, contracts and other matters (see Item 3: Legal Proceedings). In addition, from time to time, Applied receives notification from customers who believe that Applied owes them indemnification or other obligations related to infringement claims made against the customers by third parties. These legal proceedings and claims, whether with or without merit, are time consuming and expensive to prosecute or defend and divert managements attention and resources. There can be no assurance regarding the outcome of current or future legal proceedings or claims. In addition, Applieds intellectual property rights may not provide significant competitive advantages if they are circumvented, invalidated or obsoleted by the rapid pace of technological change. Furthermore, the laws of other countries permit the protection of Applieds proprietary rights to varying extents, compared to U.S. laws. Applieds success is dependent in part upon the protection of its intellectual property rights. Infringement of Applieds rights by a third party could result in uncompensated lost market and revenue opportunities for Applied. If Applied is not able to resolve a claim, negotiate a settlement of the matter, obtain necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms, and or successfully prosecute or defend its position, Applieds business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Item 7a: Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Interest Rate Risk At October 27, 2002, Applieds investment portfolio included fixed income securities with a fair value of approximately $4.2 billion. These securities are subject to interest rate risk and will decline in value if interest rates increase. Due to the short duration of Applieds investment portfolio, an immediate 10 percent change in interest rates is not expected to have a material effect on Applieds near term financial condition or results of operations. Applieds long term debt bears interest primarily at fixed rates; therefore, Applieds results of operations would be affected by interest rate changes only to the extent that variable rate short term notes payable are outstanding. Due to the short term nature and relatively insignificant amount of Applieds short term notes payable, an immediate 10 percent change in interest rates is not expected to have a material effect on Applieds near term financial condition or results of operations. Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk Certain operations of Applied are conducted in foreign currencies, such as Japanese yen, euro and British pounds. Applied enters into forward exchange and currency option contracts to hedge a portion of, but not all, existing and anticipated foreign currency denominated transactions expected to occur within 12 months. Gains and losses on these contracts are generally recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Operations at the time that the related transactions being hedged are recognized. Because the effect of movements in currency exchange rates on forward exchange and currency option contracts generally offsets the related effect on the underlying items being hedged, these financial instruments are not expected to subject Applied to risks that would otherwise result from changes in currency exchange rates. Applied does not use derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. Net foreign currency gains and losses did not have a material effect on Applieds results of operations for fiscal 2000, 2001 or 2002. Forward exchange contracts are denominated in the same currency as the underlying transactions (primarily Japanese yen, euro and British pounds), and the terms of the forward exchange contracts generally match the terms of the underlying transactions. Applieds outstanding forward exchange contracts are marked to market (see Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements), as are the majority of the related underlying transactions being hedged; therefore, the effect of exchange rate changes on forward exchange contracts is expected to be substantially offset by the effect of these changes on the underlying transactions. The effect of an immediate 10 percent change in exchange rates on forward exchange contracts and the underlying hedged transactions is not expected to be material to Applieds near term financial condition or results of operations. Applieds downside risk with respect to currency option contracts is limited to the premium paid for the right to exercise the option. Premiums paid for options outstanding at October 27, 2002 were not material. 
 
Item 7: Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Applied develops, manufactures, markets and services semiconductor wafer fabrication equipment for the worldwide semiconductor industry. Demand for Applieds products can change significantly from period to period as a result of numerous factors, including, but not limited to, changes in: 1) global economic conditions; 2) supply and demand for semiconductors; 3) the profitability of semiconductor manufacturers; 4) advanced technology and or capacity requirements of semiconductor manufacturers; and 5) relative competitiveness of Applieds products and services. For this and other reasons, Applieds results of operations for fiscal 2000, 2001 and 2002 may not necessarily be indicative of future operating results. Effective the first fiscal quarter of 2001, Applied implemented the Securities and Exchange Commissions Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 101, "Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements." For periods prior to fiscal 2001, data was not available to provide pro forma information as if the change in accounting principle were applied retroactively. For further details, see Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Net Sales Applieds business was subject to cyclical industry conditions in fiscal 2000, 2001 and 2002. As a result of these conditions, there were significant fluctuations in Applieds quarterly new orders and net sales, both within and across fiscal years. Demand for semiconductor manufacturing equipment has historically been volatile as a result of sudden changes in semiconductor supply and demand and other factors, including rapid technological advances in both semiconductor devices and wafer fabrication processes. Quarterly financial information follows: Fiscal Quarter Fiscal First Second Third Fourth Year (In millions, except per share amounts) 2000(1): New orders.................. $2,454 $2,928 $3,275 $3,601 $12,258 Net sales................... $1,722 $2,190 $2,732 $2,920 $9,564 Gross margin................ $857 $1,098 $1,392 $1,509 $4,856 Net income(2)............... $327 $469 $604 $664 $2,064 Earnings per diluted share.. $0.19 $0.27 $0.35 $0.39 $1.20 2001: New orders.................. $2,430 $1,353 $1,208 $1,106 $6,097 Net sales................... $2,363 $2,139 $1,576 $1,265 $7,343 Gross margin................ $1,143 $985 $655 $469 $3,252 Income/(loss) from operations before cumulative effect of change in accounting principle(3)... $424 $318 $115 ($82) $775 Net income/(loss)(4)........ $157 $318 $115 ($82) $508 Earnings/(loss) per diluted share............. $0.09 $0.19 $0.07 ($0.05) $0.30 2002: New orders.................. $1,119 $1,688 $1,778 $1,557 $6,142 Net sales................... $1,000 $1,156 $1,460 $1,446 $5,062 Gross margin................ $386 $463 $606 $602 $2,057 Net income/(loss)(3)........ ($45) $52 $115 $147 $269 Earnings/(loss) per diluted share............. ($0.03) $0.03 $0.07 $0.09 $0.16 (1) Fiscal 2000 amounts have not been restated in accordance with SAB 101, which was implemented in fiscal 2001. Data was not available to provide pro forma information as if the change in accounting principle was applied retroactively. (2) Net income included one time items, on an after tax basis, of $10 million of income for the second fiscal quarter of 2000. (3) Income/(loss) from operations before cumulative effect of change in accounting principle included one time expenses, on an after tax basis, of $41 million for the second fiscal quarter of 2001, $13 million for the third fiscal quarter of 2001 and $105 million for the fourth fiscal quarter of 2001. Net income/(loss) included one time expenses, on an after tax basis, of $68 million for the first fiscal quarter of 2002. (4) In addition to the net one time items included in income/(loss) from operations before cumulative effect of change in accounting principle, net income/(loss) also included an after tax expense of $267 million from a cumulative effect of change in accounting principle for the first fiscal quarter of 2001. Net sales by geographic region were as follows: Fiscal year ended 2000 2001 2002 (In millions) North America*.... $2,598 $2,131 $1,328 Taiwan............ 2,317 1,109 1,238 Japan............. 1,509 1,876 757 Europe............ 1,430 1,085 660 Korea............. 868 449 443 Asia Pacific**.... 842 693 636 $9,564 $7,343 $5,062 * Primarily the United States. ** Includes China In fiscal 2000, the semiconductor and semiconductor manufacturing equipment industries were in a period of expansion, and Applied achieved record levels of new orders, net sales and net income for this period. However, during the first fiscal quarter of 2001, slowing worldwide demand for semiconductors resulted in a rapid decline in demand for manufacturing equipment. Inventory buildups in telecommunication products, slower than expected personal computer sales and slower global economic growth caused semiconductor companies to reevaluate their capital spending and reschedule or cancel existing orders. This decline in demand deepened sequentially throughout fiscal 2001 and the first fiscal quarter of 2002 into a severe industry downturn due to continued weakness in the macro economic climate and consumption of electronic goods, which resulted in further capital spending cutbacks by Applieds customers. As a result of these factors, net sales declined 23 percent from $9.6 billion for fiscal 2000 to $7.3 billion for fiscal 2001. Also included in fiscal 2001 net sales was $642 million of revenue that was recognized as part of the cumulative effect of implementing the Securities and Exchange Commissions Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 101 (SAB 101), "Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements." Net sales declined 31 percent from $7.3 billion for fiscal 2001 to $5.1 billion for fiscal 2002. The decline in demand for Applieds products continued into the first fiscal quarter of 2002. In the second fiscal quarter of 2002, customers began to order equipment for 200mm advanced capacity to satisfy demand driven by consumer related and wireless devices. Customers ordered 200mm capacity for this increase in demand as their transition to 300mm equipment was not yet complete. Customers also continued to place technology orders to invest in 300mm wafer processing, copper and smaller line width technologies. However, second quarter demand levels proved to be unsustainable as the global economic environment weakened through the middle of the year, and customers reduced their level of capacity spending accordingly while maintaining advanced technology spending. Net sales peaked in the third fiscal quarter of 2002 and flattened in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2002. Included in fiscal 2002 net sales was the remaining $9 million of revenue that was recognized as part of the cumulative effect of implementing SAB 101. Gross Margin Gross margin as a percentage of net sales decreased from 50.8 percent for fiscal 2000 to 44.3 percent for fiscal 2001, and to 40.6 percent for fiscal 2002. During fiscal 1999 and 2000, Applied experienced unprecedented new order and revenue growth. Accordingly, Applied expanded its manufacturing facilities during these periods to accommodate current and anticipated growth. The decreased business volume for fiscal 2001 and 2002 due to the industry downturn was insufficient to fully absorb the overhead costs of these facilities, resulting in lower gross margins for fiscal 2001 and 2002. The decrease in fiscal 2002 gross margin was also attributable to customer service and support activities, primarily startup costs associated with a new spare parts distribution system and excess overhead resulting from the decline in system installations. Research, Development and Engineering Applieds future operating results depend, to a considerable extent, on its ability to maintain a competitive advantage in the products and services it provides. Applied believes that it is critical to continue to make substantial investments in RD&E to assure the availability of innovative technology that meets the current and projected requirements of its customers most advanced chip designs. Applied has historically maintained its commitment to investing in RD&E, especially during industry downturns, in order to continue to offer new products and technologies. As a result, RD&E expenses remained relatively flat at $1.1 billion (11.6 percent of net sales) for fiscal 2000, $1.2 billion (16.3 percent of net sales) for fiscal 2001, and $1.1 billion (20.8 percent of net sales) for fiscal 2002. Product development cycles range from 12 to 36 months depending on whether the tool development is an enhancement of existing technology or a new product area. Most of Applieds existing product lines are the result of internal product development activities. In certain instances, Applied acquires technologies in either existing areas of development or new product opportunities to complement its existing technology capabilities and to reduce time to market for market entry and penetration. Throughout the periods covered by this report, Applied has been investing in its new Process Module products to provide customers with a qualified, integrated and optimized production process flow for building microstructures on advanced chips. Process modules are designed to link certain Applied equipment to deliver an integrated process application to the customer for wafer processing. During fiscal 2001, Applied continued its development of technologies for copper and low k based chips and 300mm wafers, as well as focused efforts on the core technologies that will be required for chipmakers to begin development of 100nm generation devices. Areas of increased investment included maskmaking technology, metrology and inspection, ion implantation, and products for depositing and etching new materials. In fiscal 2002, Applied invested in critical development activities to meet customers rapid move to sub 100nm dimensions in their most advanced designs, which are expected to begin entering production in fiscal 2003. This difficult and challenging dimensional shift is matched by the need to provide much of the technology for both 200mm and 300mm wafers, requiring additional process and hardware development. For the sub 100nm chip generations, inspection and metrology tools have become more important to assure enhanced device performance as well as adequate manufacturing yields. Accordingly, Applied focused its RD&E resources on these technologies. In addition, development of new technologies such as advanced wafer wet cleaning and atomic layer deposition, which deposits materials in increasingly smaller structures, addresses new market opportunities for Applied in coming years. Within virtually all of the technology areas, including fab and yield management, Applied invested in more advanced software capabilities. Marketing, Selling, General and Administrative Marketing, selling, general and administrative expenses decreased from $961 million (10.0 percent of net sales) for fiscal 2000 to $902 million (12.3 percent of net sales) for fiscal 2001, and to $709 million (14.0 percent of net sales) for fiscal 2002. The decreases for fiscal 2001 and 2002 were due primarily to cost reduction activities limiting discretionary expenditures and to lower business volume. Non recurring Items Non recurring items for fiscal 2000 totaled $40 million, or $0.02 per diluted share after tax, related to merger expenses for the acquisition of Etec. Non recurring items for fiscal 2001 totaled $221 million, or $0.09 per diluted share after tax, consisting of a pre tax charge of $10 million for acquired in process research and development and pre tax restructuring charges of $211 million. During fiscal 2001, Applied recorded pre tax restructuring charges of $211 million, consisting of $105 million for headcount reductions, $45 million for consolidation of facilities and $61 million for other costs, primarily fixed asset write offs. These restructuring actions occurred in Applieds second, third and fourth fiscal quarters, and were taken to better align Applieds cost structure with prevailing market conditions. During the second fiscal quarter of 2001, Applied completed a voluntary separation plan that resulted in a headcount reduction of approximately 1,000 employees, or three percent of its global workforce, for a cost of $47 million. During the third fiscal quarter of 2001, Applied recorded a pre tax restructuring charge of $4 million associated with severance and benefit costs. During the fourth fiscal quarter of 2001, Applied eliminated approximately 2,000 additional positions, or 10 percent of its global workforce, for a cost of $54 million. The majority of the affected employees were based in Santa Clara, California and Austin, Texas, and represented multiple company activities and functions. Non recurring items for fiscal 2002 totaled $85 million, or $0.04 per diluted share after tax, consisting of a pre tax charge of $8 million for acquired in process research and development and a pre tax restructuring charge of $77 million. The pre tax restructuring charge, which was recorded in the first fiscal quarter of 2002, consisted of $39 million for headcount reductions, $16 million for consolidation of facilities and $22 million for other costs, primarily fixed asset write offs. This restructuring action was taken to better align Applieds cost structure with prevailing market conditions due to the prolonged industry downturn, and it reduced Applieds global workforce by approximately 1,100 employees, or six percent. The majority of the affected employees were based in Santa Clara, California and Austin, Texas, and represented multiple company activities and functions. For further details, see Note 6 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Non recurring Income Non recurring income of $68 million for fiscal 2000 was related to a 1998 litigation settlement with ASM International, N.V. For further details, see Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Net Interest Income Net interest income was $133 million for fiscal 2000, $174 million for fiscal 2001 and $131 million for fiscal 2002. The increase for fiscal 2001 was due primarily to higher average cash and investment balances. The decrease for fiscal 2002 was due primarily to lower average interest rates. Provision for Income Taxes Applieds effective income tax rate was 30.0 percent for fiscal 2000, 29.8 percent for fiscal 2001 and 21.0 percent for fiscal 2002. Applied expected an effective rate of 29.5 percent for fiscal 2001, which decreased from the fiscal 2000 effective rate due to a shift in the geographic composition of Applieds pre tax income. The actual effective rate for fiscal 2001 of 29.8 percent differed from the expected rate of 29.5 percent due to the non tax deductible nature of $10 million of acquired in process research and development expense. Applieds actual effective rate of 21.0 percent for fiscal 2002 differed from the anticipated effective rate of 29.5 percent primarily due to significant Foreign Sales Corporation and extraterritorial income tax benefits. Absent these additional benefits, earnings per diluted share would have been reduced by $0.02 for fiscal 2002. Applieds future effective income tax rate depends on various factors, such as tax legislation, the geographic composition of Applieds pre tax income, non tax deductible expenses incurred in connection with acquisitions and the effectiveness of its tax planning strategies. Business Combinations On November 20, 2001, Applied acquired the assets of Schlumbergers electron beam wafer inspection business for $66 million in cash. On December 3, 2001, Applied acquired Global Knowledge Services, Inc., a provider of advanced data mining services to improve semiconductor manufacturing yield and efficiency, for $16 million in cash. On April 8, 2002, Applied acquired Electron Vision Corporation, a designer, manufacturer and seller of e beam stabilization and curing tools for the semiconductor, thin film head and micro fabrication industries, for $26 million in cash. Applied also made acquisitions in fiscal 2000 and fiscal 2001. For further details, see Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. SUBSEQUENT EVENT On November 4, 2002, Applied announced a headcount reduction of approximately 1,750 positions, or 11 percent of its global workforce, in response to the continuing downturn in the semiconductor industry. The majority of the affected employees were based in Santa Clara, California and Austin, Texas, and represented multiple company activities and functions. As a result of these activities, Applied will record a restructuring charge for the first fiscal quarter of 2003. RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS In August 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 143, "Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations." SFAS No. 143 addresses financial accounting and reporting for obligations associated with the retirement of tangible long lived assets and the associated retirement costs. Applied does not expect the adoption of SFAS No. 143, which will be effective for Applieds fiscal 2003, to have a material effect on its financial condition or results of operations. In October 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets." SFAS No. 144 supersedes SFAS No. 121, "Accounting for the Impairment of Long Lived Assets and for Long Lived Assets to be Disposed Of," and Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 30, "Reporting the Results of Operations Reporting the Effects of Disposal of a Segment of Business, and Extraordinary, Unusual and Infrequently Occurring Events and Transactions." Applied does not expect the adoption of SFAS No. 144, which will be effective for Applieds fiscal 2003, to have a material effect on its financial condition or results of operations. In April 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 145, "Rescission of FASB Statements No. 4, 44 and 64, Amendment of FASB Statement No. 13, and Technical Corrections." Applied does not expect the adoption of SFAS No. 145, which will become effective at varying dates from May 2002 to Applieds fiscal 2003, to have a material effect on its financial condition or results of operations. In June 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 146, "Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities." SFAS No. 146 addresses financial accounting and reporting for costs associated with exit or disposal activities and supersedes Emerging Issues Task Force Issue No. 94 3, "Liability Recognition for Certain Employee Termination Benefits and Other Costs to Exit an Activity (including Certain Costs Incurred in a Restructuring)." SFAS No. 146 is effective for exit or disposal activities initiated after December 31, 2002. Applied does not expect the adoption of SFAS No. 146 to have a material effect on its financial condition or results of operations. For further details regarding the above recent accounting pronouncements, see Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. FINANCIAL CONDITION, LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Applied increased its cash, cash equivalents and short term investments from $4.8 billion at October 28, 2001 to $4.9 billion at October 27, 2002. Applied has generated $3.7 billion of cash from operating activities during the past three years, primarily from net income and working capital management. Applied has not undertaken any significant external financing activities for several years. Applied generated cash from operating activities of $1.7 billion for fiscal 2000, $1.6 billion for fiscal 2001 and $492 million for fiscal 2002. The primary sources of cash from operating activities have been net income, as adjusted to exclude the effect of non cash charges, and changes in working capital requirements, including accounts receivable and inventories. Applied utilized programs to sell accounts receivable of $1.5 billion for fiscal 2000, $1.2 billion for fiscal 2001 and $689 million for fiscal 2002. These receivable sales had the effect of increasing cash and reducing accounts receivable and days sales outstanding. Days sales outstanding was 66 days at the end of fiscal 2002, compared to 56 days at the end of fiscal 2001 and 73 days at the end of fiscal 2000. Applied has not experienced any losses under these programs, and receivables sold under these programs have terms and credit risk characteristics similar to Applieds overall receivables portfolio. For further details regarding accounts receivable sales, see Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Inventories were reduced by $139 million in fiscal 2002 due to lower systems inventories, partially offset by an increase in customer service spares inventories to support new 300mm products shipped to customers. Applied used $1.0 billion of cash for investing activities for fiscal 2000, $1.6 billion for fiscal 2001 and $693 million for fiscal 2002. Capital expenditures, net of retirements, were $383 million for fiscal 2000, $711 million for fiscal 2001 and $417 million for fiscal year 2002, totaling $1.5 billion for the past three years. Application laboratories, equipment and related facilities comprised most of the capital spending. The largest capital expenditure for the last three years was the construction and fit up of the Maydan Process Module Technology Center where Applieds demonstration laboratories for new technology applications are located. Fiscal 2002 capital expenditures also included $65 million for the purchase of properties in Santa Clara, California that were previously held under a synthetic lease. Investing activities also included purchases and sales of short term investments and acquisitions of technology or of other companies to allow Applied to access new market segments or emerging technology. Applied generated $149 million of cash from financing activities for fiscal 2000, used $261 million for fiscal 2001 and generated $131 million for fiscal 2002. Net common stock activities (issuances of common stock under employee stock plans, offset by share repurchases) generated $99 million for fiscal 2000 as a result of a significant increase in option exercises by employees, reflecting Applieds higher average stock price, partially offset by stock repurchases. During fiscal 2001, net common stock activity used $169 million of cash as stock repurchases increased and stock sales to employees decreased, reflecting Applieds lower average stock price in fiscal 2001. During fiscal 2002, net common stock activity generated $75 million of cash due to stock sales to employees and lower stock repurchases. Since March 1996, Applied has systematically repurchased shares of its common stock in the open market to partially fund its stock based employee benefit and incentive plans. Financing activities also included borrowings and repayments of debt. Changes in debt generated $50 million of cash for fiscal 2000, used $92 million of cash for fiscal 2001 and generated $56 million of cash for fiscal 2002. To date, Applied has not declared or paid cash dividends to its stockholders due to a number of factors, including the volatile nature of the semiconductor industry and the potential requirements to finance working capital in the event of a significant upturn in business. Applied reevaluates this practice from time to time but is not contemplating the payment of a cash dividend. On March 21, 2002, Applieds Board of Directors approved a two for one stock split of Applieds common stock, which was distributed in the form of a 100 percent stock dividend on or about April 16, 2002 to stockholders of record as of April 1, 2002. Although cash requirements will fluctuate based on the timing and extent of these factors, Applieds management believes that cash generated from operations, together with the liquidity provided by existing cash balances and borrowing capability, will be sufficient to satisfy Applieds liquidity requirements for the next 12 months. For further details regarding Applieds operating, investing and financing activities for each of the three years in the period ended October 27, 2002, see the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. The following table summarizes the effect on Applieds liquidity and cash flows from contractual obligations of debt arrangements and noncancellable leases as of October 27, 2002: Fiscal year ended 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 Thereafter Total (In millions) Debt maturities...... $9 $109 $50 $7 $202 $206 $583 Noncancellable operating leases... 133 110 81 38 32 115 509 $142 $219 $131 $45 $234 $321 $1,092 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires management to make judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect the amounts reported. Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements describes the significant accounting policies used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements. Certain of these significant accounting policies are considered to be critical accounting policies, as defined below. A critical accounting policy is defined as one that is both material to the presentation of Applieds financial statements and requires management to make difficult, subjective or complex judgments that could have a material effect on Applieds financial condition and results of operations. Specifically, critical accounting estimates have the following attributes: 1) Applied is required to make assumptions about matters that are highly uncertain at the time of the estimate; and 2) different estimates Applied could reasonably have used, or changes in the estimate that are reasonably likely to occur, would have a material effect on Applieds financial condition or results of operations. Estimates and assumptions about future events and their effects cannot be determined with certainty. Applied bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions believed to be applicable and reasonable under the circumstances. These estimates may change as new events occur, as additional information is obtained and as Applieds operating environment changes. These changes have historically been minor and have been included in the consolidated financial statements as soon as they became known. In addition, management is periodically faced with uncertainties, the outcomes of which are not within its control and will not be known for prolonged periods of time. These uncertainties are discussed in the section below entitled "Trends, Risks and Uncertainties." Based on a critical assessment of its accounting policies and the underlying judgments and uncertainties affecting the application of those policies, management believes that Applieds consolidated financial statements are fairly stated in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, and present a meaningful presentation of Applieds financial condition and results of operations. Management believes that the following are critical accounting policies: Warranty Costs Applied provides for the estimated cost of warranty when revenue is recognized. Estimated warranty costs are determined by analyzing specific product and configuration experience statistics and regional warranty support costs. Applieds warranty obligation is affected by product failure rates, material usage, and labor costs incurred in correcting product failures during the warranty period. As Applieds customer engineers and process support engineers are highly trained and deployed globally, labor availability is a significant factor in determining labor costs. The quantity and availability of critical replacement parts is another significant factor in estimating warranty costs. Unforeseen component failures or exceptional component performance can also result in changes to warranty costs. If actual warranty costs differ substantially from Applieds estimates, revisions to the estimated warranty liability would be required, which could have a material adverse effect on Applieds business, financial condition and results of operations. Inventories Inventories are generally stated at the lower of cost or market, with cost determined on a first in, first out basis. The carrying value of inventory is reduced for estimated obsolescence by the difference between its cost and the estimated market value based upon assumptions about future demand. Applied evaluates the inventory carrying value for potential excess and obsolete inventory exposures by analyzing historical and anticipated demand. In addition, known and anticipated engineering change orders are evaluated for potential obsolescence. If actual demand were to be substantially lower than estimated, additional inventory adjustments for excess or obsolete inventory may be required, which could have a material adverse effect on Applieds business, financial condition and results of operations. Goodwill and Intangible Assets Applied reviews goodwill and intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of these assets may not be recoverable, and also reviews goodwill annually in accordance with SFAS No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets." Intangible assets, such as purchased technology, are generally recorded in connection with a business acquisition. The value assigned to intangible assets is determined by an independent valuation firm based on estimates and judgment regarding expectations for the success and life cycle of products and technology acquired. If actual product acceptance differs significantly from the estimates, Applied may be required to record an impairment charge to write down the asset to its realizable value. In addition, SFAS No. 142 requires that goodwill be tested annually using a two step process. The first step is to identify any potential impairment by comparing the carrying value of the reporting unit to its fair value. If a potential impairment is identified, the second step is to compare the implied fair value of goodwill with its carrying amount to measure the impairment loss. The fair value of a reporting unit is estimated using the market multiples approach, and is dependent on market values for companies in a similar industry. A severe decline in market value could result in an unexpected impairment charge to goodwill, which could have a material adverse effect on Applieds business, financial condition and results of operations. Income Taxes Applied accounts for income taxes in accordance with SFAS No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes," which requires that deferred tax assets and liabilities be recognized using enacted tax rates for the effect of temporary differences between the book and tax bases of recorded assets and liabilities. SFAS No. 109 also requires that deferred tax assets be reduced by a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that a portion of the deferred tax asset will not be realized. Management has determined that it is more likely than not that its future taxable income will be sufficient to realize its deferred tax assets. Applied provides for income taxes based upon an annual estimated effective income tax rate. The effective tax rate is highly dependent upon the geographic composition of worldwide earnings, tax regulations governing each region, non tax deductible expenses incurred in connection with acquisitions, availability of tax credits and the effectiveness of Applieds tax planning strategies. Management carefully monitors the changes in many factors and adjusts the effective income tax rate on a timely basis. If actual results differ from these estimates, Applied could be required to record a valuation allowance on deferred tax assets or adjust its effective income tax rate, which could have a material effect on Applieds financial condition and results of operations. TRENDS, RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES The industry that Applied serves is highly volatile and unpredictable. As a supplier to the semiconductor industry, Applied is subject to the business cycles that characterize the industry the timing, length and volatility of these cycles are difficult to predict. The semiconductor industry has historically been cyclical because of sudden changes in demand for semiconductors and capacity requirements, including capacity utilizing the latest technology. The rate of changes in demand, including end demand, is accelerating, and the effect of these changes upon Applied is occurring sooner, exacerbating the volatility of these cycles. These changes have affected the timing and amounts of customers capital equipment purchases and investments in new technology. These industry cycles create pressure on Applieds net sales, gross margin and net income. In addition to affecting Applieds customers and suppliers, these cycles challenge key management, engineering and other employees of Applied who are vital to Applieds success. During periods of declining demand for semiconductor manufacturing equipment, customers typically reduce purchases, delay delivery of products and or cancel orders. During downturns, Applied must be able to timely and effectively align its cost structure with prevailing market conditions, to manage its inventory levels to reduce the possibility of future inventory write downs resulting from obsolescence and liability to suppliers for order cancellations, and to motivate and retain key employees. During periods of rapid growth, Applied must be able to acquire and or develop sufficient manufacturing capacity and inventory to meet customer demand, and to attract, hire, assimilate and retain a sufficient number of qualified people. If Applied is unable to achieve its objectives in a timely manner during changes in business conditions, there could be a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. The semiconductor equipment industry is currently experiencing a continued and prolonged downturn. Management believes that this current downturn may be the most severe decline in history and cannot predict when a recovery will begin or what the industrys rate of growth will be in such a recovery. Applied is exposed to the risks of operating a global business. Currently, 74 percent of Applieds revenues result from sales outside the U.S., with an increasing percentage of sales to customers headquartered in Asia. Certain manufacturing facilities and suppliers are also located outside the U.S. Managing Applieds global operations presents challenges, including periodic regional economic downturns, trade balance issues, varying business conditions and demands, political instability, variations in enforcement of intellectual property and contract rights in different jurisdictions, differences in the ability to develop relationships with suppliers and other local businesses, changes in U.S. and international laws and regulations including U.S. export restrictions, fluctuations in interest and currency exchange rates, the ability to provide sufficient levels of technical support in different locations, cultural differences, shipping delays and terrorist acts or acts of war, among other risks. Many of these challenges are present in China, which represents a large potential market for semiconductor equipment and where Applied anticipates significant opportunity for growth. Global uncertainties with respect to: 1) economic growth rates in various countries; 2) sustainability of demand for electronics products; 3) capital spending by semiconductor manufacturers; 4) price weakness for certain semiconductor devices; and 5) political instability in regions where Applied has operations, such as Israel and Asia, may also affect Applieds business, financial condition and results of operations. Applied operates in a highly competitive industry characterized by increasingly rapid technological changes. Applieds future success depends on performing better than its competitors in a number of ways, including its ability to timely and cost effectively: 1) develop new products, services and technologies, including those utilizing new materials, such as copper; 2) develop improvements to existing products, services and technologies; 3) develop new markets in the semiconductor industry for its products and services; 4) introduce new products and services to the marketplace; 5) achieve market acceptance; 6) qualify new or improved products for volume manufacturing with its customers; 7) commence and adjust production to meet customer demands; and 8) price products and services appropriately. The development, introduction of and the ability to support an increasingly broader set of new or improved products and technologies, including those enabling the transition to smaller device feature sizes, new materials and 300mm wafers, grows increasingly complex and expensive over time. Such new or improved products may involve higher costs and reduced efficiencies compared to Applieds more established products and could adversely affect Applieds gross margins. If Applied does not develop and introduce new or improved products, services and technologies in a timely and cost effective manner in response to changing market conditions or customer requirements, its competitive position, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Applied is exposed to risks as a result of ongoing changes in the semiconductor industry. Ongoing changes in the semiconductor industry, including more complex technology requirements, the growth in Asia, increasing pressure on semiconductor manufacturers to allocate resources to activities that enhance their competitive advantage, the increasing significance of consumer electronics as a driver for demand for semiconductors and the related focus on lower costs, have in turn resulted in the increasing importance of spares and service as a growing percentage of semiconductor equipment suppliers business. These changes are also requiring semiconductor manufacturing equipment suppliers to provide increasing levels of process integration support. If Applied does not successfully manage the risks resulting from these changes in the semiconductor industry, its business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Applied is exposed to risks associated with a highly concentrated customer base. Applieds customer base is highly concentrated. Orders from a relatively limited number of semiconductor manufacturers have accounted for, and likely will continue to account for, a substantial portion of Applieds net sales, which may lead customers to demand pricing and other terms less favorable to Applied. In addition, sales to any single customer may vary significantly from quarter to quarter. If current customers delay, cancel or do not place orders, Applied may not be able to replace these orders with new orders. As Applieds products are configured to customer specifications, changing, rescheduling or canceling orders may result in significant and often non recoverable costs. The resulting fluctuations in the amount of or terms for orders could have a material adverse effect on Applieds business, financial condition and results of operations. Manufacturing interruptions or delays could affect Applieds ability to meet customer demand. Applieds business depends on its ability to manufacture products that meet the rapidly changing demands of its customers. Applieds ability to manufacture depends in part on the timely delivery of parts, components, and subassemblies (collectively "parts") from suppliers. Some key parts may be obtained only from a single supplier or a limited group of suppliers. Significant interruptions of manufacturing operations as a result of the failure or inability of suppliers to timely deliver quality parts, natural disasters (such as earthquakes or tornadoes), or other causes (such as information technology or infrastructure failures, regional economic downturns, political instability or terrorist acts or acts of war) could result in delayed product deliveries or manufacturing inefficiencies. Any or all of these factors could materially and adversely affect Applieds business, financial condition and results of operations. Applied is subject to risks of non compliance with environmental and safety regulations. Applied is subject to environmental and safety regulations in connection with its business operations, including but not limited to regulations related to the development, manufacturing and use of its products. Failure or inability to comply with existing or future environmental and safety regulations could result in significant remediation liabilities, the imposition of fines and or the suspension or termination of development, manufacturing or use of certain of its products, each of which could have a material adverse effect on Applieds business, financial condition and results of operations. Applied is exposed to risks associated with acquisitions. Applied has made, and may in the future make, acquisitions of, or significant investments in, businesses with complementary products, services and or technologies. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including but not limited to: 1) diversion of managements attention from other operational matters; 2) the inability to realize expected synergies resulting from the acquisition; 3) failure to commercialize purchased technology; and 4) impairment of acquired intangible assets as a result of technological advancements or worse than expected performance of the acquired company. Mergers and acquisitions are inherently subject to multiple significant risks, and the inability to effectively manage these risks could materially and adversely affect Applieds business, financial condition and results of operations. Applied is exposed to various risks related to the regulatory environment. Applied is subject to various risks related to: 1) new, different, inconsistent or even conflicting laws, rules and regulations that may be enacted by legislative bodies and or regulatory agencies in the countries in which Applied operates and with which Applied must comply; and 2) disagreements or disputes between national or regional regulatory agencies related to international trade. For example, the World Trade Organization (WTO) has determined that the U.S. Foreign Sales Corporation (FSC) and Extraterritorial Income (ETI) exclusion constitute a prohibited export subsidy warranting the possible imposition of trade sanctions on certain goods, including semiconductor manufacturing equipment. Applied has benefited from FSC and ETI tax provisions. The elimination of these tax benefits or imposition of sanctions could materially and adversely affect Applieds business, financial condition and results of operations. During fiscal 2002, Applied filed an application with the SEC for an exemptive order confirming that it is not subject to the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the Act), which requires companies primarily engaged in the business of investing in securities to comply with additional rules and regulations. Largely due to the industry downturn, Applieds ratios of investments to total assets and of interest income to net income have increased, resulting in the risk that Applied could be deemed to be covered by the Act. If the SEC does not grant the exemption, Applied may have to take other actions that could adversely affect its results of operations in order not to be subject to the Act. Applied is exposed to various risks related to legal proceedings or claims. Applied currently is, and in the future may be, involved in legal proceedings or claims regarding patent infringement, intellectual property rights, antitrust, environmental regulations, securities, contracts and other matters (see Item 3: Legal Proceedings). In addition, from time to time, Applied receives notification from customers who believe that Applied owes them indemnification or other obligations related to infringement claims made against the customers by third parties. These legal proceedings and claims, whether with or without merit, are time consuming and expensive to prosecute or defend and divert managements attention and resources. There can be no assurance regarding the outcome of current or future legal proceedings or claims. In addition, Applieds intellectual property rights may not provide significant competitive advantages if they are circumvented, invalidated or obsoleted by the rapid pace of technological change. Furthermore, the laws of other countries permit the protection of Applieds proprietary rights to varying extents, compared to U.S. laws. Applieds success is dependent in part upon the protection of its intellectual property rights. Infringement of Applieds rights by a third party could result in uncompensated lost market and revenue opportunities for Applied. If Applied is not able to resolve a claim, negotiate a settlement of the matter, obtain necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms, and or successfully prosecute or defend its position, Applieds business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Item 7a: Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Interest Rate Risk At October 27, 2002, Applieds investment portfolio included fixed income securities with a fair value of approximately $4.2 billion. These securities are subject to interest rate risk and will decline in value if interest rates increase. Due to the short duration of Applieds investment portfolio, an immediate 10 percent change in interest rates is not expected to have a material effect on Applieds near term financial condition or results of operations. Applieds long term debt bears interest primarily at fixed rates; therefore, Applieds results of operations would be affected by interest rate changes only to the extent that variable rate short term notes payable are outstanding. Due to the short term nature and relatively insignificant amount of Applieds short term notes payable, an immediate 10 percent change in interest rates is not expected to have a material effect on Applieds near term financial condition or results of operations. Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk Certain operations of Applied are conducted in foreign currencies, such as Japanese yen, euro and British pounds. Applied enters into forward exchange and currency option contracts to hedge a portion of, but not all, existing and anticipated foreign currency denominated transactions expected to occur within 12 months. Gains and losses on these contracts are generally recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Operations at the time that the related transactions being hedged are recognized. Because the effect of movements in currency exchange rates on forward exchange and currency option contracts generally offsets the related effect on the underlying items being hedged, these financial instruments are not expected to subject Applied to risks that would otherwise result from changes in currency exchange rates. Applied does not use derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. Net foreign currency gains and losses did not have a material effect on Applieds results of operations for fiscal 2000, 2001 or 2002. Forward exchange contracts are denominated in the same currency as the underlying transactions (primarily Japanese yen, euro and British pounds), and the terms of the forward exchange contracts generally match the terms of the underlying transactions. Applieds outstanding forward exchange contracts are marked to market (see Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements), as are the majority of the related underlying transactions being hedged; therefore, the effect of exchange rate changes on forward exchange contracts is expected to be substantially offset by the effect of these changes on the underlying transactions. The effect of an immediate 10 percent change in exchange rates on forward exchange contracts and the underlying hedged transactions is not expected to be material to Applieds near term financial condition or results of operations. Applieds downside risk with respect to currency option contracts is limited to the premium paid for the right to exercise the option. Premiums paid for options outstanding at October 27, 2002 were not material. 
 
