Item 7: Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Introduction Managements Discussion and Analysis (MD&A) is intended to facilitate an understanding of Applieds business and results of operations. This MD&A should be read in conjunction with Applieds Consolidated Financial Statements and the accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this report. MD&A consists of the following sections: Overview: a summary of Applieds business, measurements and opportunities. Results of Operations: a discussion of operating results. Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources: an analysis of cash flows, sources and uses of cash, contractual obligations and financial position. Critical Accounting Policies: a discussion of critical accounting policies that require the exercise of judgments and estimates. Trends, Risks and Uncertainties: a discussion of significant risks that could affect Applieds operating results. Overview Applied develops, manufactures, markets and services integrated circuit fabrication equipment for the worldwide semiconductor industry. Product development and manufacturing activities occur in North America, the United Kingdom and Israel. Applieds broad range of equipment and service products are highly technical and, as a result, are sold through a direct sales force. Customer demand for spare parts and services is fulfilled through a global spare parts distribution system and trained service engineers located around the world in close proximity to customer sites. As a supplier to the global semiconductor industry, Applieds results are primarily driven by worldwide demand for integrated circuits, which in turn depends on end user demand for electronic products. The global semiconductor industry is volatile. The downturn that began in fiscal 2001 and continued into fiscal 2003 constituted what management believes to be the longest and most severe downturn experienced by the semiconductor equipment industry. A recovery began in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2003 and continued throughout fiscal 2004. Applieds results in fiscal 2002 through 2004 reflect this volatility. The following table presents certain significant measurements of the past three fiscal years: Fiscal year 2002 2003 2004 (In millions, except per share amounts and percentages) New orders $ 6,142 $ 4,318 $ 8,982 Net sales $ 5,062 $ 4,477 $ 8,013 Gross margin $ 2,057 $ 1,604 $ 3,701 Gross margin percent 40.6 % 35.8 % 46.2 % Net income/(loss) $ 269 $ (149 ) $ 1,351 Earnings/(loss) per share $ 0.16 $ (0.09 ) $ 0.78 During fiscal 2002 and 2003, lower sales volume and under absorption of manufacturing and field service costs resulted in lower gross margins. In response to the difficult economic environment that began in fiscal 2001, Applied implemented a series of actions that were intended to better align Applieds cost structure with anticipated business conditions. During fiscal 2003, when business conditions did not improve significantly, 19 Table of Contents Applied implemented a realignment plan, which concluded in the first fiscal quarter of 2004. Fiscal 2002 and 2003 operating results were negatively affected by lower net sales, reduced gross margins and charges related to realignment activities. Operating results for fiscal 2004 reflected a recovery in the semiconductor industry and the global economy, as well as Applieds realized savings from completed realignment activities. In addition, Applied gained market share in critical areas, including 300mm equipment and copper interconnect, improved operational efficiencies, and increased its strong cash position. Applieds long term opportunities depend in part on successful execution of a growth strategy, including increasing market share in existing markets, expanding into related markets, and cultivating new markets and business models. These opportunities are also subject to: (1) global economic conditions; (2) advanced technology and or capacity requirements of semiconductor manufacturers and their capital investment trends; (3) the profitability of semiconductor manufacturers; (4) supply and demand for semiconductors; (5) continued investment in RD&E and (6) relative competitiveness of Applieds equipment and service products. For this and other reasons set forth in the section entitled Trends, Risks and Uncertainties, Applieds prior results of operations may not necessarily be indicative of future operating results. Results of Operations Applieds fiscal year ends on the last Sunday in October of each year. Fiscal 2004 contained 53 weeks, whereas fiscal 2002 and 2003 each contained 52 weeks. The first fiscal quarter of 2004 contained 14 weeks, whereas the first fiscal quarter of 2002 and 2003 each contained 13 weeks. Net Sales Applieds business was subject to cyclical industry conditions in fiscal 2002, 2003 and 2004. As a result of these conditions, there were significant fluctuations in Applieds quarterly new orders and net sales, both within and across fiscal years. Demand for semiconductor manufacturing equipment has historically been volatile as a result of sudden changes in semiconductor supply and demand and other factors, including rapid technological advances in both semiconductor devices and wafer fabrication processes. Quarterly and full fiscal year financial information follows: Fiscal Quarter Fiscal First Second Third Fourth Year (In millions, except per share amounts) 2002: New orders $ 1,119 $ 1,688 $ 1,778 $ 1,557 $ 6,142 Net sales $ 1,000 $ 1,156 $ 1,460 $ 1,446 $ 5,062 Gross margin $ 386 $ 463 $ 606 $ 602 $ 2,057 Net income/(loss) $ (45 ) $ 52 $ 115 $ 147 $ 269 Earnings/(loss) per share $ (0.03 ) $ 0.03 $ 0.07 $ 0.09 $ 0.16 2003: New orders $ 1,016 $ 971 $ 1,054 $ 1,277 $ 4,318 Net sales $ 1,054 $ 1,107 $ 1,095 $ 1,221 $ 4,477 Gross margin $ 390 $ 373 $ 347 $ 494 $ 1,604 Net income/(loss) $ (65 ) $ (62 ) $ (37 ) $ 15 $ (149 ) Earnings/(loss) per share $ (0.04 ) $ (0.04 ) $ (0.02 ) $ 0.01 $ (0.09 ) 2004: New orders $ 1,683 $ 2,214 $ 2,462 $ 2,623 $ 8,982 Net sales $ 1,556 $ 2,018 $ 2,236 $ 2,203 $ 8,013 Gross margin $ 676 $ 939 $ 1,059 $ 1,027 $ 3,701 Net income $ 82 $ 373 $ 441 $ 455 $ 1,351 Earnings per share $ 0.05 $ 0.22 $ 0.26 $ 0.27 $ 0.78 20 Table of Contents Net sales by geographic region, which were attributed to the location of the customers facilities, were as follows: Fiscal Year 2002 2003 2004 (In millions) Taiwan $ 1,238 $ 583 $ 2,006 Asia Pacific(1) 636 527 1,580 Japan 757 827 1,417 North America(2) 1,328 1,179 1,337 Korea 443 666 879 Europe 660 695 794 $ 5,062 $ 4,477 $ 8,013 (1) Includes China. (2) Primarily the United States. During fiscal year 2001, slowing worldwide demand for semiconductors resulted in a rapid decline in demand for semiconductor manufacturing equipment. Inventory buildups in telecommunication products, slower than expected personal computer sales and slower global economic growth caused semiconductor companies to reduce their capital spending and reschedule or cancel existing orders. This decline in demand deepened sequentially throughout fiscal 2001 into a severe industry downturn due to continued weakness in the macro economic climate and reduced consumption of electronic products, which resulted in further capital spending cutbacks by Applieds customers. This industry downturn extended from 2001 through the third fiscal quarter of 2003. Beginning with the fourth fiscal quarter of 2003 and continuing into fiscal 2004, customers made increased investments in capital equipment for capacity and technology, responding to higher spending for consumer electronics and business information technology and an increase in semiconductor demand. Applied experienced a decline in demand for its products in the first fiscal quarter of 2002. In the second fiscal quarter of 2002, customers ordered equipment for 200mm advanced capacity to satisfy demand driven by consumer related and wireless devices. Customers also continued to place technology orders to invest in 300mm wafer processing, copper and smaller line width technologies. However, second quarter demand levels proved to be unsustainable as the global economic environment weakened through the middle of the year, and customers reduced their level of capacity spending accordingly, while maintaining advanced technology spending. Net sales peaked in the third fiscal quarter of 2002 and flattened in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2002. Included in fiscal 2002 net sales was the remaining $9 million of revenue that was recognized as part of the cumulative effect of implementing SAB 101. Net sales declined 12 percent from $5.1 billion for fiscal 2002 to $4.5 billion for fiscal 2003. New orders declined from $1.6 billion for the fourth fiscal quarter of 2002 to $1.0 billion for each of the first and second fiscal quarters of 2003, reflecting the continued and prolonged downturn in the semiconductor industry. However, new orders increased to $1.1 billion for the third fiscal quarter and $1.3 billion for the fourth fiscal quarter of 2003, reflecting customers continued investments in DRAM and logic and their transition to 300mm, along with the increased capacity utilization in both advanced and established technologies. Following these new order trends, net sales decreased to approximately $1.1 billion for each of the first three fiscal quarters of 2003, reflecting the impact of the prolonged industry downturn. Net sales increased to $1.2 billion for the fourth fiscal quarter of 2003, indicating the beginning of an industry recovery. Net sales increased 79 percent from $4.5 billion for fiscal 2003 to $8.0 billion for fiscal 2004. Orders increased from $4.3 billion for fiscal 2003 to $9.0 billion for fiscal 2004, reflecting a broad based increase in capital investment by both DRAM and logic manufacturers for 300mm technology to meet rising demand for semiconductors. Following the new order trends, net sales increased to approximately $8.0 billion for fiscal 2004, reflecting the fulfillment of higher levels of orders for capital equipment received in prior quarters to support customers manufacturing capacity expansion and new technology requirements. 21 Table of Contents Realignment Activities During fiscal 2003, in response to the continuing difficult business conditions, Applied implemented a series of activities to better align Applieds cost structure with prevailing economic conditions. Realignment activities consisted of consolidation of facilities, reductions in workforce, and refocused product efforts, such as the electron beam mask pattern product line and implementation of the global spare parts distribution system (which included the closure of a central warehouse). As a result of the realignment activities, Applied vacated approximately two million square feet and reduced approximately 3,800 positions during 2003. Realignment activities resulted in charges across multiple categories, as incurred, including cost of products sold, research, development and engineering (RD&E) expenses, and restructuring and asset impairment charges. During the first fiscal quarter of 2004, realignment activities were completed and reported as restructuring, asset impairments and other charges as discussed below. Gross Margin Gross margin as a percentage of net sales decreased from 40.6 percent for fiscal 2002 to 35.8 percent for fiscal 2003, and then increased to 46.2 percent for fiscal 2004. In fiscal 2000, Applied experienced unprecedented new order and revenue growth. Accordingly, Applied expanded its manufacturing facilities to accommodate anticipated growth. The decreased business volume in fiscal 2001, 2002 and 2003, due to the industry downturn, was insufficient to fully absorb the overhead costs of these facilities, resulting in lower gross margins for all respective periods. The continued decline in gross margin for fiscal 2003 was principally attributable to under absorption of manufacturing and field service costs as a result of prolonged lower business volumes, and inventory writeoffs and charges associated with refocused product efforts, including an electron beam mask pattern product and implementation of the global spare parts distribution system. The increase in gross margin from fiscal 2003 to fiscal 2004 was principally attributable to improved revenue levels, changes in product mix, decreased product costs, and increased manufacturing volume, resulting in higher absorption of manufacturing and field service costs and the completion of refocused product efforts discussed previously. The improvement in gross margin was partially offset by increased variable compensation costs as a result of improved operating performance. Research, Development and Engineering Applieds future operating results depend, to a considerable extent, on its ability to maintain a competitive advantage in the products and services it provides. Applied believes that it is critical to continue to make substantial investments in RD&E to assure the availability of innovative technology that meets the current and projected requirements of its customers most advanced semiconductor designs. Applied has historically maintained its commitment to investing in RD&E in order to continue to offer new products and technologies. As a result, RD&E expenses were $1.1 billion (21 percent of net sales) for fiscal 2002, $921 million (21 percent of net sales) for fiscal 2003 and $992 million (12 percent of net sales) for fiscal 2004. Development cycles range from 12 to 36 months depending on whether the product is an enhancement of existing technology or a new product. Most of Applieds existing product lines are the result of internal product development activities. In certain instances, Applied acquires technologies either in its existing areas of development or through new product opportunities to complement its existing technology capabilities and to reduce time to market. Throughout the periods covered by this report, Applied has developed products designed to enable our customers to fabricate chips with 65nm and below feature sizes, to make use of new materials such as copper and low k dielectrics, and to transition to 300mm wafer processing. In fiscal 2002, Applied invested in critical development activities to meet its customers rapid move to sub 100nm dimensions in their most advanced designs, which began entering production in fiscal 2003. This difficult and challenging dimensional shift was compounded by the need to provide much of the technology for both 200mm and 300mm wafers, requiring additional process and hardware development. For the sub 100nm chip generations, inspection and metrology tools became more important to assure enhanced device performance as well as adequate manufacturing yields. Accordingly, Applied focused its RD&E resources on these technologies. In addition, development of innovations such as atomic layer deposition, which deposits materials in increasingly smaller structures, and advanced wafer wet cleaning, addressed new market opportunities for Applied. Within virtually all of the technology areas, including fab and yield management, Applied invested in more advanced software capabilities. 22 Table of Contents In fiscal 2003, Applied refocused its product efforts and made investments in strategic products. Applied focused on the development of several important processing technologies to enable the production of new chips using copper and low k dielectric materials, as well as to meet the challenges of smaller, 65nm and below, feature sizes. In addition to interconnect solutions, Applied continued to invest resources in the development of systems for advanced transistor designs with smaller gate structures that enable faster signal propagation and reduced power. Applied also continued the development of its process diagnostic and control capabilities with systems to inspect and measure smaller dimensions and defects. In fiscal 2004, Applied continued its investment in developing new technologies for future generation manufacturing. Advances were made in several key areas, including technology for enhancing transistor and interconnect performance. Applied introduced ten major new products in these areas, including the Endura2, Ecmp, Quantum X andG2 FIB systems, all targeted for 65nm and below chip manufacturing. In addition, Applied introduced the Gen7 AKT flat panel system. Marketing, Selling, General and Administrative Marketing, selling, general and administrative expenses decreased from $709 million (14 percent of net sales) for fiscal 2002 to $626 million (14 percent of net sales) for fiscal 2003, and increased to $752 million (9 percent of net sales) for fiscal 2004. The decrease from fiscal 2002 to 2003 was due primarily to headcount reductions and cost reduction activities, limiting discretionary expenditures to align costs to lower business volumes. The increase from fiscal 2003 to 2004 correlated to the increase in business volume, as well as increases in variable compensation as a result of improved operating performance. Restructuring, Asset Impairments and Other Charges The restructuring actions taken in fiscal 2002, 2003 and 2004 were intended to better align Applieds cost structure with prevailing market conditions due to the industry downturn at the time. These actions, which were necessary as a result of reduced business volume, reduced Applieds global workforce and consolidated global facilities. Restructuring, asset impairments and other charges for fiscal 2002 totaled $85 million, consisting of a charge of $8 million for acquired in process research and development and $77 million for restructuring and asset impairment charges. The restructuring and asset impairment charges consisted of $39 million for headcount reductions, $16 million for consolidation of facilities and $22 million for other costs, primarily fixed asset writeoffs due to facility consolidation. Restructuring, asset impairments and other charges for fiscal 2003 totaled $372 million, consisting of $186 million for headcount reductions, $86 million for consolidation of facilities and $100 million for other costs, primarily fixed asset writeoffs due to facility consolidation. As of October 31, 2004, the majority of the fiscal 2002 and 2003 restructuring actions have been completed, and restructuring reserve balances consist principally of remaining lease commitments associated with facilities. Restructuring, asset impairments and other charges for fiscal 2004 totaled $167 million, consisting of $65 million for facility consolidations, $6 million for severance and benefits, and $96 million for other costs, primarily fixed asset writeoffs due to facility consolidations. For further details, see Note 6 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Litigation Settlements, Net Litigation settlements, net were $27 million for fiscal 2004 and included costs of $28 million related to two separate patent litigation settlements, net of a gain of $1 million related to a legal settlement in favor of Applied. Net Interest Income Net interest income was $131 million for fiscal 2002, $102 million for fiscal 2003 and $66 million for fiscal 2004. The decrease in net interest income in fiscal 2003 and 2004 was due primarily to lower average 23 Table of Contents portfolio yields. While there were increases in interest rates during fiscal 2004, the benefit to interest income on Applieds investment portfolio was limited by the moderate rate of portfolio turnover throughout the year. Income Taxes Applieds effective income tax provision/(benefit) rate was 21.0 percent for fiscal 2002, (29.5) percent for fiscal 2003 and 26.1 percent for fiscal 2004. Applieds actual effective rate of 21.0 percent for fiscal 2002 differed from the anticipated effective rate of 29.5 percent primarily due to significant export tax benefits, which resulted from an increase in qualified export sales. Applied expected and experienced an actual effective benefit rate of (29.5) percent in fiscal 2003. Applieds actual effective rate of 26.1 percent for fiscal 2004 differed from the anticipated effective rate of 29.5 percent primarily due to a change in estimates with respect to foreign tax credits, export tax benefits and the geographical composition of worldwide earnings. Applieds future effective income tax rate depends on various factors, such as tax legislation, the geographic composition of Applieds pre tax income and non tax deductible expenses incurred in connection with acquisitions. In October 2004, the United States enacted The American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the Act). The Act provides for a three year phase out of current extraterritorial income tax (ETI) benefits and replaces ETI with a phased in nine percent domestic production activity deduction that will not be fully effective until 2010. The Act will not fully replace Applieds current ETI tax benefits. The Act also includes a deduction of 85% for certain foreign earnings that are repatriated, as defined in the Act. Applied may elect to apply this provision to qualifying earnings repatriations. Applied is evaluating the effects of the repatriation provision. This provision of the Act is not expected to have a material effect on Applieds results of operations or financial position in the period of implementation. Business Combinations On June 14, 2004, Applied acquired Torrex Equipment Corporation, a developer of a multi wafer system that utilizes chemical vapor deposition and atomic layer deposition processes to address front end semiconductor manufacturing applications, for $7 million in cash. On April 18, 2003, Applied acquired Boxer Cross, Inc., a producer of in line monitoring systems that provide customers with critical electrical measurement data for controlling semiconductor processes, for $14 million in cash. On April 8, 2002, Applied acquired Electron Vision Corporation, a designer, manufacturer and seller of e beam stabilization and curing tools for the semiconductor, thin film head and micro fabrication industries, for $26 million in cash. For further details, see Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Recent Accounting Pronouncement In June 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) ratified Emerging Issues Task Force Issue No. 03 1 (EITF 03 1), The Meaning of Other Than Temporary Impairment and Its Application to Certain Investments. EITF 03 1 includes new guidance for evaluating and recording impairment losses on debt and equity investments, as well as new disclosure requirements for investments that are deemed to be temporarily impaired. Adoption of the recognition and measurement guidance of EITF 03 1 has been temporarily deferred by the FASB, but the disclosure requirements of EITF 03 1 are effective for Applieds fiscal 2004 annual consolidated financial statements. Accordingly, additional disclosures as required by EITF 03 1 are included in Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources Applied increased its cash, cash equivalents and short term investments from $5.5 billion at October 26, 2003 to $6.6 billion at October 31, 2004. Applied has not undertaken any significant external financing activities for several years. Applied generated cash from operating activities of $552 million for fiscal 2002, $855 million for fiscal 2003 and $1.6 billion for fiscal 2004. The primary sources of cash from operating activities have been net income, as adjusted to exclude the effect of non cash charges, and changes in working capital levels, including accounts receivable and inventories. Applied utilized programs to sell accounts receivable of $689 million for fiscal 2002, $556 million for fiscal 2003 and $859 million for fiscal 2004. The sales of these accounts 24 Table of Contents receivables increased cash and reduced accounts receivable and days sales outstanding. Days sales outstanding was 66 days at the end of fiscal 2002, compared to 68 days at the end of fiscal 2003 and 69 days at the end of fiscal 2004. A portion of these sold accounts receivable is subject to certain limited recourse provisions. However, Applied has not experienced any losses under these programs. Availability and usage of these accounts receivable sale agreements depend on many factors, including the willingness of financial institutions to purchase receivables and the cost of such arrangements. For further details regarding accounts receivable sales, see Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Inventories increased by $188 million in fiscal 2004, which corresponds to the increase in business volume and sales activity from fiscal 2003 to fiscal 2004. Applied used $752 million of cash for investing activities for fiscal 2002, $785 million for fiscal 2003 and $353 million for fiscal 2004. Capital expenditures were $476 million for fiscal 2002, $265 million for fiscal 2003 and $191 million for fiscal 2004, totaling $932 million for the past three years. Application laboratories, equipment and related facilities have comprised the majority of the capital spending. Fiscal 2002 capital expenditures also included $65 million for the purchase of properties in Santa Clara, California that were previously held under a synthetic lease. Fiscal 2003 capital expenditures also included $52 million for the purchase of facilities in Hillsboro, Oregon that were previously held under a synthetic lease. Investing activities also included purchases and sales of short term investments and acquisitions of technology or of other companies to allow Applied to access new market opportunities or emerging technologies. Fiscal 2004 capital expenditures consisted principally of laboratory and demonstration equipment. Applied generated cash of $131 million from financing activities for fiscal 2002 and $8 million for fiscal 2003, and used cash of $359 million for fiscal 2004. Financing activities included issuances and repurchases of common stock. Since March 1996, Applied has systematically repurchased shares of its common stock in the open market to partially fund its stock based employee benefit and incentive plans. Cash used to repurchase shares totaled $125 million for fiscal 2002, $250 million for fiscal 2003 and $650 million for fiscal 2004. Cash generated from issuances of common stock totaled $199 million for fiscal 2002, $323 million for fiscal 2003 and $397 million for fiscal 2004. Financing activities also included borrowings and repayments of debt. Applied generated cash of $88 million in fiscal 2002 from debt borrowings, and did not borrow any cash in fiscal years 2003 and 2004. Cash used for debt repayments totaled $32 million for fiscal 2002, $64 million for fiscal 2003 and $105 million for fiscal 2004. On March 21, 2002, Applieds Board of Directors approved a two for one stock split of Applieds common stock, which was distributed in the form of a 100 percent stock dividend on or about April 16, 2002 to stockholders of record as of April 1, 2002. Although cash requirements will fluctuate based on the timing and extent of factors such as those discussed above, Applieds management believes that cash generated from operations, together with the liquidity provided by existing cash balances and borrowing capability, will be sufficient to satisfy Applieds liquidity requirements for the next 12 months. For further details regarding Applieds operating, investing and financing activities for each of the three years in the period ended October 31, 2004, see the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements During the ordinary course of business, Applied provides standby letters of credit or other guarantee instruments to certain parties as required for certain transactions initiated by either Applied or its subsidiaries. As of October 31, 2004, the maximum potential amount of future payments that Applied could be required to make under these guarantee agreements was approximately $55 million. Applied has not recorded any liability in connection with these guarantee arrangements beyond that required to appropriately account for the underlying transaction being guaranteed. Applied does not believe, based on historical experience and information currently available, that it is probable that any amounts will be required to be paid under these guarantee arrangements. Applied also has additional guarantee arrangements on behalf of certain subsidiaries. As of October 31, 2004, Applied has not recorded any liability related to guarantees of subsidiary obligations. Applied does not expect, based on historical experience and information currently available, that it is probable that any amounts will be required to be paid under these arrangements. Subsidiary guarantees as of October 31, 2004 totaled 25 Table of Contents approximately $202 million and were associated with the following types of arrangements: short term borrowing facilities, overdraft facilities, customs guarantees and leases. In the event of use and subsequent default of these facilities by Applieds subsidiaries, such arrangements would be guaranteed by Applied. In addition, certain subsidiaries have lease arrangements guaranteed by Applied. These leases will expire between 2009 and 2014. In the event that the subsidiaries do not make the required payments, Applied could be required to pay the leases on behalf of the subsidiaries. As of October 31, 2004, annual lease obligations under these arrangements approximated $11 million. Applied Materials Ventures I, L.P. (the Fund) invests in privately held, early stage companies engaged in developing systems, components and devices based on nanotechnology and or communications technology for specific applications and products. The Fund is a limited partnership, with Applied as the sole limited partner and an independent party as the general partner. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004, Applied exercised its right to limit capital contributions to the Fund to $25 million and to elect to terminate the partnership. As a result, under the provisions of the partnership agreement, the partnership will be dissolved, and the activities of the partnership will be concluded six months following the election to terminate the partnership. Applieds cumulative capital contributions to the Fund totaled approximately $16 million through October 26, 2003 and $23 million through October 31, 2004. See Note 14 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details on the Fund. Applied also has operating leases for various facilities. Total rental expense for operating leases was $140 million for fiscal 2002, $134 million for fiscal 2003 and $88 million for fiscal 2004. Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes Applieds contractual obligations as of October 31, 2004: Payments Due by Period Less Than 1 3 3 5 More Than Contractual obligations Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Long term debt obligations $ 456 $ 46 $ 204 $ 4 $ 202 Operating lease obligations 327 84 116 48 79 Purchase obligations* 704 699 5 Other long term liabilities 133 15 7 111 $ 1,620 $ 829 $ 340 $ 59 $ 392 * Represents Applieds agreements to purchase goods and services consisting of Applieds: (a) outstanding purchase orders for goods and services; (b) contractual requirements to make specified minimum payments even if Applied does not take delivery of the contracted goods; and (c) contractual requirements to pay a penalty if the contract is cancelled. While the amount above represents Applieds purchase agreements as of October 31, 2004, the actual amounts to be paid by Applied may be less in the event that any agreements are renegotiated, cancelled or terminated. Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of consolidated financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect the amounts reported. Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements describes the significant accounting policies used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements. Certain of these significant accounting policies are considered to be critical accounting policies, as defined below. A critical accounting policy is defined as one that is both material to the presentation of Applieds consolidated financial statements and requires management to make difficult, subjective or complex judgments that could have a material effect on Applieds financial condition and results of operations. Specifically, these policies have the following attributes: (1) Applied is required to make assumptions about matters that are highly uncertain at the time of the estimate; and (2) different estimates Applied could reasonably have 26 Table of Contents used, or changes in the estimate that are reasonably likely to occur, would have a material effect on Applieds financial condition or results of operations. Estimates and assumptions about future events and their effects cannot be determined with certainty. Applied bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions believed to be applicable and reasonable under the circumstances. These estimates may change as new events occur, as additional information is obtained and as Applieds operating environment changes. These changes have historically been minor and have been included in the consolidated financial statements as soon as they became known. In addition, management is periodically faced with uncertainties, the outcomes of which are not within its control and will not be known for prolonged periods of time. These uncertainties are discussed in the section below entitled Trends, Risks and Uncertainties. Based on a critical assessment of its accounting policies and the underlying judgments and uncertainties affecting the application of those policies, management believes that Applieds consolidated financial statements are fairly stated in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, and provide a meaningful presentation of Applieds financial condition and results of operations. Management believes that the following are critical accounting policies: Warranty Costs Applied provides for the estimated cost of warranty when revenue is recognized. Estimated warranty costs are determined by analyzing specific product and historical configuration statistics and regional warranty support costs. Applieds warranty obligation is affected by product failure rates, material usage and labor costs incurred in correcting product failures during the warranty period. As Applieds customer engineers and process support engineers are highly trained and deployed globally, labor availability is a significant factor in determining labor costs. The quantity and availability of critical replacement parts is another significant factor in estimating warranty costs. Unforeseen component failures or exceptional component performance can also result in changes to warranty costs. If actual warranty costs differ substantially from Applieds estimates, revisions to the estimated warranty liability would be required, which could have a material adverse effect on Applieds business, financial condition and results of operations. Inventory Valuation Inventories are generally stated at the lower of cost or market, with cost determined on a first in, first out basis. The carrying value of inventory is reduced for estimated obsolescence by the difference between its cost and the estimated market value based upon assumptions about future demand. Applied evaluates the inventory carrying value for potential excess and obsolete inventory exposures by analyzing historical and anticipated demand. In addition, inventories are evaluated for potential obsolescence due to the effect of known and anticipated engineering change orders and new products. If actual demand were to be substantially lower than estimated, additional inventory adjustments for excess or obsolete inventory might be required, which could have a material adverse effect on Applieds business, financial condition and results of operations. Goodwill and Intangible Assets Applied reviews goodwill and intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of these assets may not be recoverable, and also reviews goodwill annually in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 142 (SFAS 142), Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. Intangible assets, such as purchased technology, are generally recorded in connection with a business acquisition. The value assigned to intangible assets is usually based on estimates and judgments regarding expectations for the success and life cycle of products and technology acquired. If actual product acceptance differs significantly from the estimates, Applied may be required to record an impairment charge to write down the asset to its realizable value. The fair value of a reporting unit is estimated using the market multiples approach, and is dependent on market values for companies in a similar industry. A severe decline in market value could result in an unexpected impairment charge for impaired goodwill, which could have a material adverse effect on Applieds business, financial condition and results of operations. 27 Table of Contents Income Taxes Applied accounts for income taxes in accordance with SFAS No. 109 (SFAS 109), Accounting for Income Taxes, which requires that deferred tax assets and liabilities be recognized using enacted tax rates for the effect of temporary differences between the book and tax bases of recorded assets and liabilities. SFAS 109 also requires that deferred tax assets be reduced by a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that a portion of the deferred tax asset will not be realized. Management has determined that it is more likely than not that its future taxable income will be sufficient to realize its deferred tax assets. Applied provides for income taxes based upon an annual estimated effective income tax rate. The effective tax rate is highly dependent upon the geographic composition of worldwide earnings, tax regulations governing each region, non tax deductible expenses incurred in connection with acquisitions and availability of tax credits. Management carefully monitors the changes in many factors and adjusts the effective income tax rate on a timely basis. If actual results differ from these estimates, Applied could be required to record a valuation allowance on deferred tax assets or adjust its effective income tax rate, which could have a material adverse effect on Applieds business, financial condition and results of operations. The calculation of tax liabilities involves significant judgment in estimating the impact of uncertainties in the application of complex tax laws. Resolution of these uncertainties in a manner inconsistent with Applieds expectations could have a material impact on Applieds results of operations and financial condition. Applied accounts for income tax contingencies in accordance with SFAS No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies. Legal Matters Applied is subject to various legal proceedings and claims, either asserted or unasserted, that arise in the ordinary course of business. Applied evaluates, among other factors, the degree of probability of an unfavorable outcome and reasonably estimates the amount of the loss. Significant judgment is required in both the determination of the probability and as to whether an exposure can be reasonably estimated. When Applied determines that it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount is reasonably estimable, the effect is recorded in the consolidated financial statements. Although the outcome of these claims cannot be predicted with certainty, Applied does not believe that any of the existing legal matters will have a material adverse effect on its financial condition or results of operations. However, significant changes in legal proceedings and claims or the factors considered in the evaluation of those matters could have a material adverse effect on Applieds business, financial condition and results of operations. Trends, Risks and Uncertainties The industry that Applied serves is volatile and unpredictable. As a supplier to the global semiconductor industry, Applied is subject to the industrys business cycles, the timing, length and volatility of which are difficult to predict. The semiconductor industry has historically been cyclical due to sudden changes in demand for semiconductors and manufacturing capacity, including capacity using the latest technology. The rate of changes in demand, including end customer demand, is accelerating, and the effect of these changes on Applied is occurring sooner, exacerbating the volatility of these cycles. These changes have affected the timing and amounts of customers capital equipment purchases and investments in technology, and continue to affect Applieds orders, net sales, gross margin and results of operations. During periods of decreasing demand for integrated circuit manufacturing equipment, Applied must be able to appropriately align its cost structure with prevailing market conditions and effectively motivate and retain key employees. Conversely, during periods of increasing demand, Applied must have sufficient manufacturing capacity and inventory to meet customer demand, and must be able to attract, retain and motivate a sufficient number of qualified individuals. If Applied is not able to timely align its cost structure with business conditions and or to effectively manage its resources and production capacity during changes in demand, Applieds business, financial condition or results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. 28 Table of Contents Applied is exposed to risks as a result of ongoing changes in the semiconductor industry. The semiconductor industry is characterized by rapid ongoing changes, including: (1) changes in customers capacity requirements and capital spending, which depend in part on customers inventory levels relative to demand for their products; (2) the importance of driving down cost of ownership of systems; (3) more complex technology requirements; (4) the increasing significance of consumer electronics as a driver for chip demand and the related focus on lower prices; (5) varying levels of business information technology spending; (6) the growing types and varieties of integrated circuits and applications; (7) an increasing number of applications across multiple substrate sizes in the semiconductor industry, resulting in divergent interests among semiconductor manufacturers; (8) a rising percentage of business from customers in Asia and emergence of customers and competitors in new geographical regions; (9) customer demands for shorter lead times for the manufacture and installation of semiconductor manufacturing equipment; and (10) higher capital requirements for new semiconductor fabrication plants. These changes, individually or in combination, are increasing the need for customer partnering, use of foundries, collaborative research and development efforts and process integration support. These changes also heighten the importance of spare parts and service product offerings as a competitive advantage for semiconductor equipment manufacturers, even though service products historically have resulted, and may in the future result, in lower gross margins than system products. In addition, key integrated circuit manufacturers have become influential in technology decisions made by their global partners. If Applied does not successfully manage the risks resulting from the ongoing changes occurring in the semiconductor industry, its business, financial condition and results of operation could be materially and adversely affected. Applied is exposed to the risks of operating a global business. In fiscal 2004, more than 80 percent of Applieds net sales were to regions outside the United States. Certain manufacturing facilities and suppliers of Applied are also located outside the United States. Managing Applieds global operations presents challenges including, but not limited to, those arising from periodic regional economic downturns, global trade issues, varying regional and geopolitical business conditions and demands, variations in protection of intellectual property and other legal rights in different jurisdictions, differences in the ability to develop relationships with suppliers and other local businesses, changes in United States and international laws and regulations, including United States export restrictions, fluctuations in interest and currency exchange rates, the need to provide sufficient levels of technical support in different locations, cultural differences and shipping delays. Many of these challenges are present in China, a large potential market for integrated circuit equipment and an area that Applied anticipates will continue to present a significant opportunity for growth over the long term. These challenges, as well as global uncertainties with respect to: (1) economic growth rates in various countries; (2) consumer confidence; (3) sustainability, timing, rate and amount of demand for electronics products and semiconductors; (4) capital spending by semiconductor manufacturers; (5) price trends for certain semiconductor devices; and (6) political instability, terrorism or acts of war where Applied has operations or sales, including Asia, Israel and the United States, may materially and adversely affect Applieds business, financial condition and results of operations. Applied operates in a highly competitive industry characterized by increasingly rapid technological changes. As Applied operates in a highly competitive environment, Applieds future success is heavily dependent on effective development, commercialization and customer acceptance of its new products and services over those of its competitors. In addition, Applied must also successfully execute its growth strategy, including increasing market share in existing markets, expanding into related markets, and cultivating new markets and business models. Applieds success is subject to many risks, including, but not limited to, its ability to timely and cost effectively: (1) develop and market new products, services and technologies; (2) improve existing products, services and technologies; (3) expand into or develop related and new markets for integrated circuit products and services; (4) achieve market acceptance and accurately forecast demand for its products and services; (5) achieve cost efficiencies across product offerings; (6) qualify new or improved products for volume manufacturing with its customers; (7) commence and adjust production to meet customer demands; (8) price products and services appropriately; and (9) lower customers cost of ownership. The development, introduction and support of an increasingly broad set of new or improved products, services and technologies, 29 Table of Contents including those enabling the transition to smaller device feature sizes, new materials and 300mm wafers, have grown increasingly complex and expensive over time. Such new or improved products and services may involve higher costs and reduced efficiencies compared to Applieds more established products and services and could adversely affect Applieds gross margins. In addition, Applied must successfully implement changes in its design engineering methodology, including changes that result in: significant decreases in material costs and cycle time; greater commonality of platforms and types of parts used in different systems; and more effective product life cycle management. If Applied does not: (1) develop and introduce new or improved products, services and technologies in a timely and cost effective manner in response to changing market conditions or customer requirements; (2) price such products and services appropriately to reflect changes in costs; or (3) successfully implement changes in its product design processes, its business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Applied is exposed to risks associated with a highly concentrated customer base. Applieds customer base is and has been highly concentrated. Although no single customer accounted for 10 percent or more of Applieds consolidated net sales in fiscal 2004, orders from a relatively limited number of manufacturers of integrated circuits have accounted for, and likely will continue to account for, a substantial portion of Applieds net sales. During fiscal 2002 and 2003, there were one and two customers, respectively, that individually accounted for 10 percent or more of Applieds consolidated net sales. In addition, sales to any single customer may vary significantly from quarter to quarter and from year to year. If customers do not place orders, or delay or cancel orders, Applied may not be able to replace this business. As Applieds products are configured to customer specifications, changing, rescheduling or canceling orders may result in significant, non recoverable costs. Major customers may also demand and receive pricing, payment terms or other conditions which are less favorable to Applied. In addition, certain customers have formed strategic alliances or collaborative efforts that result in additional complexities in managing individual customer relationships and transactions. These factors could have a material adverse effect on Applieds business, financial condition and results of operations. Applied is exposed to risks associated with expanded service product offerings and strategic transactions. In order to improve customers manufacturing productivity and efficiency, Applied has entered into, and may in the future enter into, agreements that expand its service product offerings beyond those relating to Applieds systems. These service products include on site support as well as supply chain and spare parts management. These new service products are offered in part through strategic relationships and alliances formed with, or acquisitions of, other suppliers to the semiconductor industry. In order to develop this market opportunity, Applied must cultivate new business models, form and maintain strategic relationships with appropriate companies, achieve customer acceptance, and successfully and cost effectively provide these services. Applieds inability to achieve any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on Applieds business, financial condition and results of operations. Applied is exposed to risks associated with acquisitions. Applied has made, and may in the future make, acquisitions of, or significant investments in, businesses with complementary or aligned products, services and or technologies. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including but not limited to: (1) diversion of managements attention from other operational matters; (2) inability to complete acquisitions as anticipated or at all; (3) inability to realize synergies expected to result from an acquisition; (4) failure to commercialize purchased technologies; (5) ineffectiveness of an acquired companys internal controls; (6) impairment of acquired intangible assets as a result of technological advancements or worse than expected performance of the acquired company or its product offerings; (7) unknown and or undisclosed commitments or liabilities; (8) failure to integrate and retain key employees; and (9) ineffective integration of operations. Mergers and acquisitions are inherently subject to significant risks, and the inability to effectively manage these risks could materially and adversely affect Applieds business, financial condition and results of operations. 30 Table of Contents Manufacturing interruptions or delays could affect Applieds ability to meet customer demand, while the failure to estimate customer demand accurately could result in excess or obsolete inventory. Applieds business depends on its ability to supply products and services that meet the rapidly changing requirements of its customers, which depends in part on the timely delivery of parts, components and subassemblies (collectively, parts) from suppliers. Some key parts may be obtained only from a single supplier or a limited group of suppliers. In addition, Applied outsources certain manufacturing activities. Significant interruptions of manufacturing operations as a result of the failure or inability of suppliers to timely deliver quality parts, outsourcing difficulties, natural disasters (such as earthquakes or tornadoes), or other causes (such as information technology or infrastructure failures, regional economic downturns, political instability, terrorism or acts of war) could result in delayed product or service deliveries or manufacturing inefficiencies. Moreover, if actual demand for Applieds products and services is different than expected, Applied may purchase more/ fewer parts than necessary or incur costs for canceling, postponing or expediting delivery of parts. Any or all of these factors could materially and adversely affect Applieds business, financial condition and results of operations. The failure to successfully implement outsourcing activities could adversely affect results of operations. To better align costs with market conditions and to increase productivity and operational efficiency, Applied outsources certain functions to third parties, including companies in India and China. These functions include engineering, manufacturing, customer support and administrative activities. The expanding role of third party providers has required changes to Applieds existing operations and its adoption of new procedures and processes for retaining and managing these providers. If Applied does not effectively develop and implement its outsourcing strategy, or if third party providers do not perform as anticipated, Applied may not realize productivity improvements or cost efficiencies and may experience operational difficulties and increased costs, which could materially and adversely affect Applieds business, financial condition and results of operations. The ability to attract, retain, and motivate key employees is vital to Applieds success. Applieds success depends in large part on its ability to attract, retain and motivate key employees, including those in managerial, technical, marketing and support roles. Achieving this objective may be difficult due to changes in the global economy, the industry, Applieds management and proposed changes in accounting rules that would require expensing of stock options. If Applied does not successfully attract, retain and motivate key employees, Applieds operating results and ability to capitalize on its opportunities may be materially and adversely affected. Changes in tax rates or tax liabilities could affect future results. As a global company, Applied is subject to taxation in the United States and various other countries. Significant judgment is required to determine worldwide tax liabilities. Applieds future tax rates could be affected by changes in the composition of earnings in countries with differing tax rates, changes in the valuation of Applieds deferred tax assets and liabilities, or changes in the tax laws. For example, recent U.S. legislation governing taxation of extraterritorial income (ETI) repealed certain export subsidies that were prohibited by the World Trade Organization and enacted different tax provisions. These new tax provisions are not expected to fully offset the loss of the repealed tax provisions and, as a result, Applieds U.S. tax liability may increase. In addition, Applied is subject to regular examination of its income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. Applied regularly assesses the likelihood of favorable or unfavorable outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of its provision for income taxes. Although Applied believes its tax estimates are reasonable, there can be no assurance that any final determination will not be materially different than the treatment reflected in Applieds historical income tax provisions and accruals. 31 Table of Contents Applied is exposed to various risks related to legal proceedings or claims and protection of intellectual property rights. Applied from time to time is, and in the future may be, involved in legal proceedings or claims regarding patent infringement, intellectual property rights, antitrust, environmental regulations, securities, contracts, product performance, product liability, unfair competition, employment and other matters. In addition, Applied on occasion receives notification from customers who believe that Applied owes them indemnification or other obligations related to infringement claims made against the customers by third parties. These legal proceedings and claims, whether with or without merit, are time consuming and expensive to prosecute or defend and divert managements attention and resources. There can be no assurance regarding the outcome of current or future legal proceedings or claims. The Company has entered into a mutual covenant not to sue arrangement with one of its competitors to avoid patent infringement lawsuits in the future. There can be no assurance that the intended results of this arrangement will be achieved or that Applied will be able to adequately protect its intellectual property rights with the restrictions associated with such a covenant. In addition, Applieds intellectual property rights may not provide significant competitive advantages if they are circumvented, invalidated, rendered obsolete by the rapid pace of technological change, or Applied does not adequately assert these rights. Furthermore, the laws of other countries permit the protection of Applieds rights to varying extents, compared to United States laws. Applieds success is dependent in part upon the protection of its intellectual property and other rights. Infringement of Applieds rights by a third party could result in uncompensated lost market and revenue opportunities for Applied. If Applied is not able to resolve a claim, negotiate a settlement of the matter, obtain necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms, and or successfully prosecute or defend its position, Applieds business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Applied will become subject to internal controls evaluations and attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002. Beginning in fiscal 2005, pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002, Applied must perform and report on its evaluation of internal controls over financial reporting, and its independent registered public accounting firm must publicly attest to the adequacy of managements evaluation and the effectiveness of such controls, on an annual basis. Applied has prepared and is implementing a plan of action for compliance. Compliance with these requirements is complex and time consuming. If Applied fails to timely or successfully comply with the requirements of Section 404, or if Applieds independent registered public accounting firm does not timely attest to the evaluation, Applied could be subject to increased regulatory scrutiny and the publics perception of Applied may change. Applied is exposed to various risks related to the regulatory environment. Applied is subject to various risks related to: (1) new, different, inconsistent or even conflicting laws, rules and regulations that may be enacted by legislative bodies and or regulatory agencies in the countries in which Applied operates and with which Applied must comply; and (2) disagreements or disputes between national or regional regulatory agencies related to international trade. In addition, during fiscal 2002, Applied filed an application with the SEC for an exemptive order confirming that it is not subject to the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the Investment Company Act), which requires companies primarily engaged in the business of investing in securities to comply with certain additional rules and regulations. Based on Applieds ratios of investments to total assets and of interest income to net income, Applied could be deemed to be covered by the Investment Company Act. In March 2004, Applied responded to the SECs request for additional and updated information. If the SEC does not grant the exemption, Applied may have to take other actions that could adversely affect its results of operations in order not to be subject to the Investment Company Act. Applied is subject to risks of non compliance with environmental and safety regulations. Applied is subject to environmental and safety regulations in connection with its business operations, including, but not limited to, regulations related to the development, manufacture and use of its products. Failure or inability to comply with existing or future environmental and safety regulations could result in 32 Table of Contents significant remediation liabilities, the imposition of fines and or the suspension or termination of development, manufacture or use of certain of its products, each of which could have a material adverse effect on Applieds business, financial condition and results of operations. Item 7A: Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Interest Rate Risk At October 31, 2004, Applieds investment portfolio included fixed income securities with a fair value of approximately $5.8 billion. Applieds primary objective for investing in fixed income securities is to preserve principal while maximizing returns and minimizing risk. These securities are subject to interest rate risk and will decline in value if interest rates increase. Based on Applieds investment portfolio at October 31, 2004 and October 26, 2003, an immediate 100 basis point increase in interest rates would result in a decrease in the fair value of the portfolio of approximately $49 million and $52 million, respectively. While an increase in interest rates reduces the fair value of the investment portfolio, Applied will not realize the losses in the Consolidated Statement of Operations unless the individual fixed income securities are sold prior to recovery. Applieds long term debt bears interest primarily at fixed rates. As such, Applieds interest expense would increase only to the extent that Applied significantly increased the amount of variable rate obligations outstanding. Due to the short term nature and relatively low amount of Applieds variable rate obligations, an immediate 100 basis point increase in interest rates would not be expected to have a material effect on Applieds near term financial condition or results of operations. Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk Certain operations of Applied are conducted in foreign currencies, such as Japanese yen, British pound, euro and Israeli shekel. Applied enters into forward exchange and currency option contracts to hedge a portion of, but not all, existing and anticipated foreign currency denominated transactions expected to occur within 12 months. Gains and losses on these contracts are generally recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Operations at the time that the related transactions being hedged are recognized. Because the effect of movements in currency exchange rates on forward exchange and currency option contracts generally offsets the related effect on the underlying items being hedged, these financial instruments are not expected to subject Applied to risks that would otherwise result from changes in currency exchange rates. Applied does not use derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. Net foreign currency gains and losses did not have a material effect on Applieds results of operations for fiscal 2002, 2003 or 2004. Forward exchange contracts are denominated in the same currency as the underlying transactions (primarily Japanese yen, British pound, euro and Israeli shekel), and the terms of the forward exchange contracts generally match the terms of the underlying transactions. Applieds outstanding forward exchange contracts are marked to market (see Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements), as are the majority of the related underlying transactions being hedged; therefore, the effect of exchange rate changes on forward exchange contracts is expected to be substantially offset by the effect of these changes on the underlying transactions. The effect of an immediate 10 percent change in exchange rates on forward exchange contracts and the underlying hedged transactions is not expected to be material to Applieds near term financial condition or results of operations. Applieds risk with respect to currency option contracts is limited to the premium paid for the right to exercise the option. Premiums paid for options outstanding at October 31, 2004 were not material. 
 
