Item 7: Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Introduction Managements Discussion and Analysis (MD&A) is intended to facilitate an understanding of Applieds business and results of operations. This MD&A should be read in conjunction with Applieds Consolidated Financial Statements and the accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this report. MD&A consists of the following sections: Overview: a summary of Applieds business, measurements and opportunities. Results of Operations: a discussion of operating results. Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources: an analysis of cash flows, sources and uses of cash, contractual obligations and financial position. Critical Accounting Policies: a discussion of critical accounting policies that require the exercise of judgments and estimates. Trends, Risks and Uncertainties: a discussion of significant risks that could affect Applieds financial condition and or operating results. 16 Table of Contents Overview Applied develops, manufactures, markets and services integrated circuit fabrication equipment for the global semiconductor and semiconductor related industry. Product development and manufacturing activities occur in North America, the United Kingdom and Israel. Applieds broad range of equipment and service products are highly technical and, as a result, are sold through a direct sales force. Customer demand for spare parts and services is fulfilled through a global spare parts distribution system and trained service engineers located around the world in close proximity to customer sites. As a supplier to this industry, Applieds results are primarily driven by worldwide demand for integrated circuits, which in turn depends on end user demand for electronic products. The industry in which the Company operates is volatile. The downturn that began in fiscal 2001 and continued into fiscal 2003 constituted what management believes to be the longest and most severe downturn experienced by the industry. A recovery began in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2003 and continued into fiscal 2004. The growth peaked in the second half of 2004 and slowed thereafter through fiscal 2005. Applieds results in fiscal 2003 through 2005 reflect the volatility of the industry. The following table presents certain significant measurements of the past three fiscal years: Fiscal Year 2003 2004 2005 (In millions, except per share amounts and percentages) New orders $ 4,318 $ 8,982 $ 6,389 Net sales $ 4,477 $ 8,013 $ 6,992 Gross margin $ 1,604 $ 3,701 $ 3,086 Gross margin percent 35.8 % 46.2 % 44.1 % Net income/(loss) $ (149 ) $ 1,351 $ 1,210 Earnings/(loss) per share $ (0.09 ) $ 0.78 $ 0.73 During fiscal 2003, lower sales volume and under absorption of manufacturing and service costs resulted in lower gross margins. In response to the continued difficult economic environment, Applied implemented a realignment plan in fiscal 2003, which concluded in the first fiscal quarter of 2004. Fiscal 2003 operating results were negatively affected by lower net sales, reduced gross margins and charges related to realignment activities. Operating results for fiscal 2004 reflected a recovery in the semiconductor industry and the global economy, as well as Applieds realized savings from the completed realignment activities. In addition, Applied gained market share in critical areas, including 300mm equipment and copper interconnect, improved operational efficiencies, and further strengthened its cash position. Fiscal 2005 results reflected a challenging environment as Applieds customers decreased fab utilization globally and reduced or delayed capacity additions as a result of excess inventories and slowing demand for integrated circuits. During this period, Applied focused on lowering costs, improving efficiencies, reducing cycle time and bringing new products to market. Applied also generated strong cash flow, and returned value to stockholders by repurchasing stock and paying cash dividends. Applieds long term opportunities depend in part on successful execution of its growth strategy, including increasing market share in existing markets, expanding into related markets, and cultivating new markets and new business models. These opportunities are also subject to many factors, including: (1) global economic conditions; (2) advanced technology and or capacity requirements of integrated circuit manufacturers and their capital investment trends; (3) the profitability of integrated circuit manufacturers; (4) supply and demand for integrated circuits; (5) Applieds investment in RD&E; and (6) the relative competitiveness of Applieds equipment and service products. For this and other reasons set forth in the section entitled Trends, Risks and Uncertainties, Applieds prior results of operations are not necessarily indicative of future operating results. 17 Table of Contents Results of Operations Applieds fiscal year ends on the last Sunday in October of each year. Fiscal 2005 and 2003 each contained 52 weeks, whereas fiscal 2004 contained 53 weeks. The first fiscal quarter of 2005 and 2003 each contained 13 weeks, whereas the first fiscal quarter of 2004 contained 14 weeks. Net Sales Applieds business was subject to cyclical industry conditions in fiscal 2003, 2004 and 2005. As a result of these conditions, there were significant fluctuations in Applieds quarterly new orders and net sales, both within and across the fiscal years. Demand for integrated circuit manufacturing equipment has historically been volatile as a result of sudden changes in integrated circuit supply and demand and other factors, including rapid technological advances in integrated circuit fabrication processes. Quarterly and full fiscal year financial information was as follows: Fiscal Quarter Fiscal First Second Third Fourth Year (In millions, except per share amounts) 2003: New orders $ 1,016 $ 971 $ 1,054 $ 1,277 $ 4,318 Net sales $ 1,054 $ 1,107 $ 1,095 $ 1,221 $ 4,477 Gross margin $ 390 $ 373 $ 347 $ 494 $ 1,604 Net income/(loss) $ (65 ) $ (62 ) $ (37 ) $ 15 $ (149 ) Earnings/(loss) per share $ (0.04 ) $ (0.04 ) $ (0.02 ) $ 0.01 $ (0.09 ) 2004: New orders $ 1,683 $ 2,214 $ 2,462 $ 2,623 $ 8,982 Net sales $ 1,556 $ 2,018 $ 2,236 $ 2,203 $ 8,013 Gross margin $ 676 $ 939 $ 1,059 $ 1,027 $ 3,701 Net income $ 82 $ 373 $ 441 $ 455 $ 1,351 Earnings per share $ 0.05 $ 0.22 $ 0.26 $ 0.27 $ 0.78 2005: New orders $ 1,675 $ 1,553 $ 1,468 $ 1,693 $ 6,389 Net sales $ 1,781 $ 1,861 $ 1,632 $ 1,718 $ 6,992 Gross margin $ 790 $ 818 $ 717 $ 761 $ 3,086 Net income $ 289 $ 305 $ 370 $ 246 $ 1,210 Earnings per share $ 0.17 $ 0.18 $ 0.23 $ 0.15 $ 0.73 18 Table of Contents Net sales by geographic region, which were attributed to the location of the customers facilities, were as follows: Fiscal Year 2003 2004 2005 (In millions) Taiwan $ 583 $ 2,006 $ 1,608 North America(1) 1,179 1,337 1,472 Japan 827 1,417 1,396 Korea 666 879 1,021 Europe 695 794 883 Asia Pacific(2) 527 1,580 612 $ 4,477 $ 8,013 $ 6,992 (1) Primarily the United States. (2) Includes China. From fiscal 2001 through the third quarter of 2003, slowing worldwide demand for integrated circuits resulted in a rapid decline in demand for integrated circuit manufacturing equipment. Inventory buildups in telecommunication products, slower than expected personal computer sales and slower global economic growth caused integrated circuit companies to reduce their capital spending and reschedule or cancel existing orders. The decline in demand further deepened into a severe industry downturn due to continued weakness in the macro economic climate and reduced consumption of electronic products, which resulted in further capital spending cutbacks by Applieds customers. However, beginning with the fourth fiscal quarter of 2003 and continuing into fiscal 2004, customers increased their investments in capital equipment for capacity and technology, responding to higher spending for consumer electronics and business information technology and an increase in integrated circuit demand. The growth peaked in the second half of 2004 and slowed thereafter into fiscal 2005. As a result of excess inventories and slowing demand for integrated circuits, customers reduced production and delayed capacity additions in fiscal 2005. New orders in the first half of 2003 declined to $1.0 billion per quarter, reflecting the continued and prolonged downturn in the integrated circuit industry. However, new orders increased during the second half of 2003, reflecting customers continued investments in advanced memory and logic and transition to 300mm, along with the increased capacity utilization in both advanced and established technologies. Following these new order trends, net sales decreased to approximately $1.1 billion for each of the first three fiscal quarters of 2003, reflecting the impact of the industry downturn. Net sales increased to $1.2 billion for the fourth fiscal quarter of 2003, indicating the beginning of an industry recovery. Net sales for fiscal 2003 were $4.5 billion. New orders increased from $4.3 billion for fiscal 2003 to $9.0 billion for fiscal 2004, reflecting a broad based increase in capital investment by both advanced memory and logic manufacturers for 300mm technology to meet rising demand for integrated circuits. Following the new order trends, net sales increased 79 percent from $4.5 billion for fiscal 2003 to $8.0 billion for fiscal 2004, reflecting the fulfillment of higher levels of orders for capital equipment received in prior quarters to support customers manufacturing capacity expansion and new technology requirements. New orders decreased 29 percent from $9.0 billion for fiscal 2004 to $6.4 billion for fiscal 2005, as integrated circuit manufacturers reduced their capital investments to bring inventories in line with demand. Following the trend of decreasing orders during fiscal 2005, net sales decreased by 13 percent from $8.0 billion for fiscal 2004 to $7.0 billion for fiscal 2005, reflecting lower demand for integrated circuit products. Realignment Activities During fiscal 2003, in response to the continuing difficult business conditions, Applied implemented a series of activities to better align Applieds cost structure with prevailing economic conditions. Realignment activities consisted of consolidation of facilities, reductions in workforce, and refocused product efforts. As a result of the 19 Table of Contents realignment activities, Applied vacated approximately two million square feet and reduced approximately 3,800 positions during fiscal 2003. Realignment activities resulted in charges across multiple categories, as incurred, including cost of products sold, RD&E expenses, and restructuring and asset impairment charges. During the first fiscal quarter of 2004, realignment activities were completed and reported as restructuring, asset impairments and other charges, as discussed below. There were no realignment charges during fiscal 2005. Gross Margin Gross margin as a percentage of net sales increased from 35.8 percent for fiscal 2003 to 46.2 percent for fiscal 2004, and decreased to 44.1 percent for fiscal 2005. In fiscal 2000, Applied experienced unprecedented new order and revenue growth. Accordingly, Applied expanded its manufacturing facilities to accommodate anticipated growth. The lower business volume in fiscal 2001 through fiscal 2003, due to the industry downturn, was insufficient to fully absorb the overhead costs of these facilities, resulting in lower gross margins for all respective periods. The continued decline in gross margin for fiscal 2003 was principally attributable to under absorption of manufacturing and field service costs as a result of prolonged low business volumes, and inventory writeoffs and charges associated with refocused product efforts. The increase in gross margin from fiscal 2003 to fiscal 2004 was principally attributable to improved revenue levels, changes in product mix, decreased product costs, and increased manufacturing volume, resulting in higher absorption of manufacturing and field service costs and the completion of refocused product efforts discussed previously. The improvement in gross margin was partially offset by increased variable compensation costs as a result of improved operating performance. The decrease in gross margin from fiscal 2004 to fiscal 2005 was due to lower revenue levels, lower manufacturing absorption and changes in product mix, which were partially offset by initiatives for cost reduction and efficiency improvement, such as common platform architecture and parts, lower cost sourcing and cycle time reduction. Research, Development and Engineering Applieds future operating results depend, to a considerable extent, on its ability to maintain a competitive advantage in the products and services it provides. Applied believes that it is critical to continue to make substantial investments in RD&E to assure the availability of innovative technology that meets the current and projected requirements of its customers most advanced integrated circuit designs. Applied has historically maintained its commitment to investing in RD&E in order to continue to offer new products and technologies. As a result, RD&E expenses were $921 million (21 percent of net sales) for fiscal 2003, $992 million (12 percent of net sales) for fiscal 2004 and $941 million (13 percent of net sales) for fiscal 2005. Development cycles range from 12 to 36 months depending on whether the product is an enhancement of an existing product or a new product. Most of Applieds existing products resulted from internal development activities and innovations involving new technologies, materials and processes. In certain instances, Applied acquires technologies either in its existing areas of development or through new product opportunities to complement its existing technology capabilities and to reduce time to market. In fiscal 2003, Applied refocused its product efforts and made investments in strategic products. Applied concentrated on the development of several important processing technologies to enable the production of chips using copper and low k dielectric materials, as well as to meet the challenges of smaller feature sizes, such as 65nm and below. In addition to interconnect solutions, Applied continued to invest resources in the development of systems for advanced transistor designs with smaller gate structures that enable faster signal propagation and reduced power. Applied also continued the development of its process diagnostic and control capabilities with systems to inspect and measure smaller dimensions and defects. In fiscal 2004, Applied continued its investment in developing technologies for future generation manufacturing. Advances were made in several key areas, including technology for enhancing transistor and interconnect performance. Applied introduced ten major products in these areas, including the Endura2, Ecmp, Quantum X and G2 FIB systems, all targeted for 65nm and below chip manufacturing. In addition, Applied introduced the Gen7 AKT flat panel system. In fiscal 2005, Applied focused on developing systems for customers advanced chip designs, including systems to enable smaller and faster interconnect and transistor structures with 65nm, 45nm and below geometries. 20 Table of Contents For copper interconnect applications, the Company introduced the Applied Endura CuB/S system with advanced copper barrier/seed technology and the Applied Producer Black Diamond II system for next generation low k dielectric layers. For leading edge transistor gate applications, Applied launched the Applied AdvantEdge Etch system and the Applied Vantage RadOx RTP. New applications in strain engineering, which involves creating localized areas of stress in the transistor structure, were also developed for existing systems to meet customers requirements for faster transistors. In the area of inspection and metrology, Applied launched UVision, the industrys first laser 3D brightfield inspection tool. The Applied OPC Check software is designed to automate critical OPC mask verification for customers. Applieds AKT subsidiary developed the Gen 8 AKT 50K PECVD system for manufacturing flat panel displays. The system processes 2.2m x 2.4m glass substrates and doubles the capacity of previous Gen 7 systems for producing 52 inch LCD TV screens. Marketing, Selling, General and Administrative Marketing, selling, general and administrative expenses were $626 million (14 percent of net sales) for fiscal 2003, increased to $752 million (9 percent of net sales) for fiscal 2004, and decreased to $697 million (10 percent of net sales) for fiscal 2005. The increase from fiscal 2003 to 2004 correlated to the increase in business volume, as well as increases in variable compensation as a result of improved operating performance. The decrease from fiscal 2004 to 2005 was due to lower business volume, reductions in variable compensation and Applieds continued focus on cost controls. Restructuring, Asset Impairments and Other Charges The restructuring actions taken in fiscal 2003 and 2004 were intended to better align Applieds cost structure with prevailing market conditions due to the industry downturn at the time. These actions, which were necessary as a result of reduced business volume, reduced Applieds global workforce and consolidated global facilities. Restructuring, asset impairments and other charges for fiscal 2003 totaled $372 million, consisting of $186 million for headcount reductions, $86 million for consolidation of facilities and $100 million for other costs, primarily fixed asset writeoffs due to facility consolidations. Restructuring, asset impairments and other charges for fiscal 2004 totaled $167 million, consisting of $65 million for facility consolidations, $6 million for severance and benefits, and $96 million for other costs, primarily fixed asset writeoffs due to facility consolidations. As of October 30, 2005, the fiscal 2003 and 2004 restructuring actions have been completed, and restructuring reserve balances consist principally of remaining lease commitments associated with facilities. For further details, see Note 6 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Litigation Settlements, Net Litigation settlements, net were $27 million for fiscal 2004 and consisted of costs of $28 million related to two separate patent litigation settlements, net of a gain of $1 million related to a legal settlement in favor of Applied. During fiscal 2003 or 2005, there were no significant litigation settlements. Net Interest Income Net interest income was $102 million for fiscal 2003, $66 million for fiscal 2004 and $134 million for fiscal 2005. The decrease in net interest income from fiscal 2003 to 2004 was due primarily to lower average portfolio yields. The increase in net interest income in 2005 was due to a substantial increase in interest rates and a decrease in interest expense associated with scheduled debt maturities in September 2004 and September 2005. Income Taxes Applieds effective income tax provision/(benefit) rate was (29.5) percent for fiscal 2003, 26.1 percent for fiscal 2004 and 23.5 percent for fiscal 2005. Applieds effective tax rate of 26.1 percent for fiscal 2004 differed from (29.5 percent) for fiscal 2003 due to increased export tax benefits and foreign tax credits. Applieds effective rate of 21 Table of Contents 23.5 percent for fiscal 2005 differed from 26.1 percent for fiscal 2004 primarily due to the favorable resolution of a multi year Internal Revenue Service (IRS) tax examination of $118 million and a change in estimate with respect to export tax benefits of $14 million, partially offset by a charge of $32 million relating to the distribution of foreign earnings under the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the Jobs Creation Act). Applieds future effective income tax rate depends on various factors, such as tax legislation, the geographic composition of Applieds pre tax income and non tax deductible expenses incurred in connection with acquisitions. Management carefully monitors these factors and timely adjusts the effective income tax rate accordingly. In October 2004, the United States Congress enacted the Jobs Creation Act which provides for a three year phase out of current extraterritorial income tax (ETI) benefits and replaces ETI with a phased in nine percent domestic production activity deduction that will not be fully effective until 2010. The Jobs Creation Act will not fully replace Applieds current ETI tax benefits. Business Combinations On June 28, 2005, Applied purchased certain assets of SCP Global Technology, Inc. (SCP), consisting of single wafer HF last immersion technology and Marangoni clean/dry intellectual property, for approximately $24 million in cash. On December 16, 2004, Applied acquired the assets of ATMI, Inc.s Treatment Systems business (EcoSys), which supports the gas abatement requirements of process equipment for integrated circuit manufacturing and other industrial applications, for approximately $16 million in cash. On December 14, 2004, Applied acquired substantially all of the operating subsidiaries and businesses of Metron Technology N.V. (Metron), a provider of a range of products and services for fab wide operations and integrated circuit manufacturing equipment, for approximately $85 million in cash. On June 14, 2004, Applied acquired Torrex Equipment Corporation, a developer of a multi wafer system that utilizes chemical vapor deposition and atomic layer deposition processes to address front end semiconductor manufacturing applications, for $7 million in cash. On April 18, 2003, Applied acquired Boxer Cross, Inc., a producer of in line monitoring systems that provide customers with critical electrical measurement data for controlling semiconductor processes, for $14 million in cash. For further details, see Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In May 2005, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued SFAS No. 154, Accounting Changes and Error Corrections a Replacement of APB Opinion No. 20 and FASB Statement No. 3 (SFAS 154), which requires retrospective application to prior periods financial statements of every voluntary change in accounting principal unless it is impracticable to do so. SFAS 154 is effective for accounting changes and corrections of errors beginning in fiscal 2007. Applied does not expect the adoption of this standard to have a material effect on Applieds financial position or results of operations. In March 2005, the SEC released SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 107 (SAB 107). SAB 107 provides the SEC staff position regarding the application of SFAS 123R, Share Based Payment. SAB 107 contains interpretive guidance relating to the interaction between SFAS 123R and certain SEC rules and regulations, as well as the staffs views regarding the valuation of share based payment arrangements for public companies. SAB 107 also highlights the importance of disclosures made related to the accounting for share based payment transactions. Applied is currently evaluating SAB 107 and will be incorporating it as part of its adoption of SFAS 123R in the first fiscal quarter of 2006. In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123R, Share Based Payment, which requires companies to measure and recognize compensation expense for all stock based payments at fair value. In April 2005, the SEC extended the compliance requirement date of SFAS 123R, with the result that this requirement will be effective for Applied beginning with the first fiscal quarter of 2006. Applied is currently evaluating the expected impact of 22 Table of Contents SFAS 123R to its Consolidated Financial Statements. See Note 1 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information related to the pro forma effect on Applieds reported net income and net earnings per share of applying the fair value provisions of the SFAS 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation, to stock based employee compensation. In November 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 151, Inventory Costs, an amendment of ARB No. 43, Chapter 4, (SFAS 151). SFAS 151 clarifies that abnormal inventory costs such as costs of idle facilities, excess freight and handling costs, and wasted materials (spoilage) are required to be recognized as current period charges. SFAS 151 will be effective in fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2005. The adoption of SFAS 151 is not expected to have a material effect on Applieds financial position or results of operations. In March 2004, the FASB Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) reached a consensus on EITF Issue No. 03 1, The Meaning of Other Than Temporary Impairment and Its Application to Certain Investments (EITF 03 1). The guidance prescribes a three step model for determining whether an investment is other than temporarily impaired and requires disclosures about unrealized losses on investments. The accounting guidance became effective for reporting periods beginning after June 15, 2004, while the disclosure requirements became effective for annual reporting periods ending after June 15, 2004. In September 2004, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position (FSP) EITF 03 1 1, Effective Date of Paragraphs 10 20 of EITF Issue No. 03 1 The Meaning of Other Than Temporary Impairment and Its Application to Certain Investments (FSP EITF 03 1 1). FSP EITF 03 1 1 delayed the effective date for the measurement and recognition guidance contained in paragraphs 10 20 of EITF Issue 03 1. In November 2005, the FASB issued FSP FAS 115 1 and FAS 124 1, The Meaning of Other Than Temporary Impairment and its Application to Certain other than temporary Investments. This FSP addresses the determination as to when an investment is considered impaired, whether the impairment is other than temporary and the measurement of an impairment loss. This statement specifically nullifies the requirements of paragraph 10 18 of EITF 03 1 and references existing other than temporary impairment guidance. The guidance under this FSP is effective for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2005. Applied continued to apply relevant other than temporary guidance as provided for in FSP EITF 03 1 1 during fiscal 2005. Applied does not expect the implementation of FSP FAS 115 1 and FAS 124 1 will have a material effect on Applieds financial position or results of operations. Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources Applieds cash, cash equivalents and short term investments decreased from $6.6 billion at October 31, 2004 to $5.9 billion at October 30, 2005 due primarily to repurchases and cash dividend distributions. Applied has not undertaken any significant external financing activities for several years. Applied generated cash from operating activities of $855 million for fiscal 2003, $1.6 billion for fiscal 2004 and $1.2 billion for fiscal 2005. The primary sources of cash from operating activities have been net income, as adjusted to exclude the effect of non cash charges, and changes in working capital levels, including accounts receivable and inventories. Applied utilized programs to sell accounts receivable of $556 million for fiscal 2003, $859 million for fiscal 2004 and $158 million for fiscal 2005. The sales of these accounts receivable increased cash and reduced accounts receivable and days sales outstanding. Days sales outstanding were 68 days at the end of fiscal 2003, compared to 69 days at the end of fiscal 2004 and 85 days at the end of fiscal 2005. A portion of these sold accounts receivable is subject to certain limited recourse provisions. However, Applied has not experienced any losses under these programs Availability and usage of these accounts receivable sale agreements depend on many factors, including the willingness of financial institutions to purchase receivables and the cost of such arrangements. The increase in days sales outstanding in fiscal 2005 is primarily related to the change in the regional sales mix and the resulting relative decrease in the amount of sold accounts receivable. For further details regarding accounts receivable sales, see Note 11 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Inventories decreased by $105 million in fiscal 2005, which corresponds to the decrease in business volume and sales activity from fiscal 2004 to fiscal 2005. Applied used $1.1 billion of cash for investing activities for fiscal 2003, $534 million for fiscal 2004, and $179 million for fiscal 2005. Capital expenditures were $265 million for fiscal 2003, $191 million for fiscal 2004, and $200 million for fiscal 2005, totaling $656 million for the past three years. Application laboratories, equipment and related facilities have comprised the majority of the capital spending. Fiscal 2003 capital expenditures also 23 Table of Contents included $52 million for the purchase of facilities in Hillsboro, Oregon that were previously held under a synthetic lease. Fiscal 2004 capital expenditures consisted principally of laboratory and demonstration equipment. Fiscal 2005 capital expenditures included investment in laboratory equipment and upgrades to Applieds enterprise resource planning software and network architecture. Investing activities also included purchases and sales of short term investments and acquisitions of technology or companies to allow Applied to access new market opportunities or emerging technologies. During fiscal 2005, Applied paid $102 million, net of cash acquired, for the Metron and EcoSys acquisitions, as discussed in Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Applied generated cash of $8 million from financing activities for fiscal 2003, used cash of $359 million for fiscal 2004 and used cash for $1.6 billion for 2005. Financing activities included issuances and repurchases of common stock and payment of dividends. Since March 1996, Applied has systematically repurchased shares of its common stock in the open market to partially fund its stock based employee benefit and incentive plans. Cash used to repurchase shares totaled $250 million for fiscal 2003, $650 million for fiscal 2004 and $1.7 billion for fiscal 2005. Beginning in the second fiscal quarter of 2005, Applieds Board of Directors declared three consecutive quarterly cash dividends, in the amount of $0.03 per share per declaration. The first two declared cash dividends totaling $98 million were paid during fiscal 2005. The declaration of any future cash dividend is at the discretion of the Board of Directors and will depend on the Companys financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, business conditions and other factors. Financing activities also included borrowings and repayments of debt. Applied did not borrow any cash in fiscal years 2003, 2004 or 2005. Cash used for debt repayments totaled $64 million for fiscal 2003, $105 million for fiscal 2004 and $62 million for fiscal 2005. Cash generated from issuances of common stock pursuant to Applieds equity compensation programs totaled $323 million for fiscal 2003, $397 million for fiscal 2004 and $266 million for fiscal 2005. Although cash requirements will fluctuate based on the timing and extent of factors such as those discussed above, Applieds management believes that cash generated from operations, together with the liquidity provided by existing cash balances and borrowing capability, will be sufficient to satisfy Applieds liquidity requirements for the next 12 months. For further details regarding Applieds operating, investing and financing activities for each of the three years in the period ended October 30, 2005, see the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows in this report. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements During the ordinary course of business, Applied provides standby letters of credit or other guarantee instruments to third parties as required for certain transactions initiated by either Applied or its subsidiaries. As of October 30, 2005, the maximum potential amount of future payments that Applied could be required to make under these guarantee agreements was approximately $60 million. Applied has not recorded any liability in connection with these guarantee arrangements beyond that required to appropriately account for the underlying transaction being guaranteed. Applied does not believe, based on historical experience and information currently available, that it is probable that any amounts will be required to be paid under these guarantee arrangements. In 2001, Applied formed Applied Materials Ventures I, L.P. (the Fund) to invest in privately held, early stage companies engaged in developing systems, components and devices based on nanotechnology and or communications technology for specific applications and products. The Fund was a limited partnership, with Applied as the sole limited partner and an independent party as the general partner. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004, Applied exercised its right to limit capital contributions to the Fund to $25 million and to elect to terminate the partnership. As a result, under the provisions of the partnership agreement, the activities of the partnership concluded and the partnership was dissolved in March 2005. Applieds cumulative capital contributions to the Fund totaled approximately $23 million through October 31, 2004 and $24 million through October 30, 2005. The Funds assets, which primarily consisted of shares of portfolio companies, were distributed between Applied and the general partner during fiscal 2005. See Note 14 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details on the Fund. Applied also has operating leases for various facilities. Total rental expense for operating leases was $134 million for fiscal 2003, $88 million for fiscal 2004 and $87 million for fiscal 2005. 24 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes Applieds contractual obligations as of October 30, 2005: Payments Due by Period Less Than 1 3 3 5 More Than Contractual Obligations Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years (In millions) Long term debt obligations $ 415 $ 8 $ 205 $ 2 $ 200 Interest expense associated with long term debt obligations 199 28 42 29 100 Operating lease obligations 272 74 87 45 66 Purchase obligations* 751 739 7 5 Other long term liabilities 168 8 14 11 135 $ 1,805 $ 857 $ 355 $ 92 $ 501 * Represents Applieds agreements to purchase goods and services consisting of Applieds (a) outstanding purchase orders for goods and services; (b) contractual requirements to make specified minimum payments even if Applied does not take delivery of the contracted goods; and (c) contractual requirements to pay a penalty if the contract is cancelled. While the amount above represents Applieds purchase agreements as of October 30, 2005, the actual amounts to be paid by Applied may be less in the event that any agreements are renegotiated, cancelled or terminated. Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of consolidated financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect the amounts reported. Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements describes the significant accounting policies used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements. Certain of these significant accounting policies are considered to be critical accounting policies, as defined below. A critical accounting policy is defined as one that is both material to the presentation of Applieds consolidated financial statements and requires management to make difficult, subjective or complex judgments that could have a material effect on Applieds financial condition or results of operations. Specifically, these policies have the following attributes: (1) Applied is required to make assumptions about matters that are highly uncertain at the time of the estimate; and (2) different estimates Applied could reasonably have used, or changes in the estimate that are reasonably likely to occur, would have a material effect on Applieds financial condition or results of operations. Estimates and assumptions about future events and their effects cannot be determined with certainty. Applied bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions believed to be applicable and reasonable under the circumstances. These estimates may change as new events occur, as additional information is obtained and as Applieds operating environment changes. These changes have historically been minor and have been included in the consolidated financial statements as soon as they became known. In addition, management is periodically faced with uncertainties, the outcomes of which are not within its control and will not be known for prolonged periods of time. These uncertainties are discussed in the section below entitled Trends, Risks and Uncertainties. Based on a critical assessment of its accounting policies and the underlying judgments and uncertainties affecting the application of those policies, management believes that Applieds consolidated financial statements are fairly stated in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, and provide a meaningful presentation of Applieds financial condition and results of operations. Management believes that the following are critical accounting policies: Warranty Costs Applied provides for the estimated cost of warranty when revenue is recognized. Estimated warranty costs are determined by analyzing specific product and historical configuration statistics and regional warranty support costs. 25 Table of Contents Applieds warranty obligation is affected by product and component failure rates, material usage and labor costs incurred in correcting product failures during the warranty period. As Applieds customer engineers and process support engineers are highly trained and deployed globally, labor availability is a significant factor in determining labor costs. The quantity and availability of critical replacement parts is another significant factor in estimating warranty costs. Unforeseen component failures or exceptional component performance can also result in changes to warranty costs. If actual warranty costs differ substantially from Applieds estimates, revisions to the estimated warranty liability would be required, which could have a material adverse effect on Applieds business, financial condition and results of operations. Inventory Valuation Inventories are generally stated at the lower of cost or market, with cost determined on a first in, first out basis. The carrying value of inventory is reduced for estimated obsolescence by the difference between its cost and the estimated market value based upon assumptions about future demand. Applied evaluates the inventory carrying value for potential excess and obsolete inventory exposures by analyzing historical and anticipated demand. In addition, inventories are evaluated for potential obsolescence due to the effect of known and anticipated engineering change orders and new products. If actual demand were to be substantially lower than estimated, additional inventory adjustments for excess or obsolete inventory might be required, which could have a material adverse effect on Applieds business, financial condition and results of operations. Goodwill and Intangible Assets Applied reviews goodwill and intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of these assets may not be recoverable, and also reviews goodwill and intangibles with indefinite lives annually for impairment. Intangible assets, such as purchased technology, are generally recorded in connection with a business acquisition. The value assigned to intangible assets is usually based on estimates and judgments regarding expectations for the success and life cycle of products and technology acquired. If actual product acceptance differs significantly from the estimates, Applied may be required to record an impairment charge to write down the asset to its realizable value. The fair value of a reporting unit is estimated using the market multiples approach, and is dependent on market values for companies in a similar industry. A severe decline in market value could result in an unexpected impairment charge for impaired goodwill, which could have a material adverse effect on Applieds business, financial condition and results of operations. Income Taxes Applied accounts for income taxes by recognizing deferred tax assets and liabilities using statutory tax rates for the effect of temporary differences between the book and tax bases of recorded assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets are also reduced by a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that a portion of the deferred tax asset will not be realized. Management has determined that it is more likely than not that its future taxable income will be sufficient to realize its deferred tax assets. The effective tax rate is highly dependent upon the geographic composition of worldwide earnings, tax regulations governing each region, non tax deductible expenses incurred in connection with acquisitions and availability of tax credits. Management carefully monitors the changes in many factors and adjusts the effective income tax rate on a timely basis. If actual results differ from these estimates, Applied could be required to record a valuation allowance on deferred tax assets or adjust its effective income tax rate, which could have a material adverse effect on Applieds business, financial condition and results of operations. The calculation of tax liabilities involves significant judgment in estimating the impact of uncertainties in the application of complex tax laws. Resolution of these uncertainties in a manner inconsistent with Applieds expectations could have a material impact on Applieds results of operations and financial condition. Legal Matters Applied is subject to various legal proceedings and claims, either asserted or unasserted, that arise in the ordinary course of business. Applied evaluates, among other factors, the degree of probability of an unfavorable 26 Table of Contents outcome and reasonably estimates the amount of the loss. Significant judgment is required in both the determination of the probability and as to whether an exposure can be reasonably estimated. When Applied determines that it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount is reasonably estimable, the effect is recorded in the consolidated financial statements. Although the outcome of these claims cannot be predicted with certainty, Applied does not believe that any of the existing legal matters will have a material adverse effect on its financial condition or results of operations. However, significant changes in legal proceedings and claims or the factors considered in the evaluation of those matters could have a material adverse effect on Applieds business, financial condition and results of operations. Trends, Risks and Uncertainties The industry that Applied serves is volatile and unpredictable. As a supplier to the global semiconductor and semiconductor related industry, Applied is subject to the industrys business cycles, the timing, length and volatility of which are difficult to predict. The industry has historically been cyclical due to sudden changes in demand for integrated circuits and manufacturing capacity, including capacity using the latest technology. The effect on Applied of these changes in demand, including end customer demand, is occurring more rapidly, exacerbating the volatility of these cycles. These changes have affected the timing and amounts of customers capital equipment purchases and investments in technology, and continue to affect Applieds orders, net sales, gross margin and results of operations. Applied must effectively manage its resources and production capacity to meet changing demand. During periods of decreasing demand for integrated circuit manufacturing equipment, Applied must be able to appropriately align its cost structure with prevailing market conditions, effectively motivate and retain key employees, and effectively manage its supply chain. During periods of increasing demand, Applied must have sufficient manufacturing capacity and inventory to meet customer demand and must be able to attract, retain and motivate a sufficient number of qualified individuals and effectively manage its supply chain. If Applied is not able to timely and appropriately align its cost structure with business conditions and or to effectively manage its resources and production capacity, including its supply chain during changes in demand, Applieds business, financial condition or results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Applied is exposed to risks as a result of ongoing changes in the industry. The industry is characterized by ongoing changes, including: (1) changes in customers capacity requirements, capacity utilization and capital spending, which depend in part on the demand for customers products and customers inventory levels relative to demand; (2) the importance of reducing the cost of system ownership, due in part to the increasing significance of consumer electronics as a driver for integrated circuit demand and the related focus on lower prices; (3) varying levels of business information technology spending; (4) increasingly complex technology requirements, including a significant rise in the number and importance of new materials; (5) the growing types and varieties of integrated circuits and applications; (6) an expanding number of applications across multiple substrate sizes, resulting in divergent demands among integrated circuit manufacturers; (7) customers varying adoption rates of new technology; (8) a rising percentage of business from customers in Asia and the emergence of customers, competitors and suppliers in new geographical regions; (9) customer demands for shorter lead times for the manufacture and installation of integrated circuit manufacturing equipment; (10) the heightened importance to customers of system reliability and productivity; (11) the effect on system demand as a result of the increasing productivity and reliability of integrated circuit manufacturing equipment; (12) the increasing pace of changes in the mix of investments by customers in integrated circuit manufacturing equipment; (13) customers increasing use of partnerships, alliances, joint ventures and industry consortia that has increased the influence of key integrated circuit manufacturers in technology decisions made by their global partners; (14) higher capital requirements for new integrated circuit fabrication plants; (15) the rising importance of speed of product development and time to market; (16) the increasing difficulty for customers to move from product design to volume manufacturing; (17) the challenge to customers of moving volume manufacturing from one technology node to the next smaller technology node; (18) the rate of growth in the industry; (19) a heightening concern among certain U.S. governmental agencies regarding possible national commercial and or security issues posed by the growing manufacturing business in Asia, especially China; (20) the need to effectively manage a growing number of 27 Table of Contents existing and new products in more varied competitive environments; and (21) the increasing importance of operating flexibility to enable different responses to different markets, customers and applications. These changes, individually or in combination, are increasing the need for customer partnering, use of foundries, collaborative research and development efforts, and process integration support. Certain of these changes also heighten the importance of spare parts and service product offerings as a competitive advantage for integrated circuit equipment manufacturers, even though service products typically result in lower gross margins than system products. In response to these ongoing changes, Applied must regularly reassess the size, capability and location of its global infrastructure. If Applied does not successfully manage the risks resulting from the ongoing changes occurring in the industry, its business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Applied operates in a highly competitive industry characterized by increasingly rapid technological changes. As Applied operates in a highly competitive environment, Applieds future success heavily depends on effective development, commercialization and customer acceptance of its new equipment, service and related products. In addition, Applied must successfully execute its growth strategy, including increasing market share in existing markets, expanding into related markets, and cultivating new markets and new business models, while constantly improving its operational performance. Applieds success is subject to many risks, including, but not limited to, its ability to timely and cost effectively: (1) develop and market new products and price products appropriately; (2) improve existing products and increase market share in its existing markets; (3) expand into or develop related and new markets for its technology; (4) achieve market acceptance of, and accurately forecast demand and meet production schedules for, its products; (5) achieve cost efficiencies across product offerings; (6) adapt to technology changes in related markets, such as lithography; (7) adapt to changes in value offered by companies in different parts of the supply chain; (8) qualify products for volume manufacturing with its customers; and (9) successfully implement improvements in its manufacturing process. The development, introduction and support of an increasingly broad set of products, including those enabling the transition to smaller device feature sizes and incorporation of new materials, have grown increasingly complex and expensive over time. Furthermore, new or improved products may involve higher costs and reduced efficiencies compared to Applieds more established products and could adversely affect Applieds gross margins. In addition, Applied must successfully implement changes in its design engineering methodology, including changes that result in: significant decreases in material costs and cycle time; greater commonality of platforms and types of parts used in different systems; and effective product life cycle management. If Applied does not successfully manage these challenges, its business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Applied is exposed to the risks of operating a global business. In fiscal 2005, approximately 80 percent of Applieds net sales were to regions outside the United States. Certain manufacturing facilities and suppliers of Applied are also located outside the United States. Managing Applieds global operations presents challenges including, but not limited to, those arising from: (1) varying regional and geopolitical business conditions and demands; (2) global trade issues; (3) variations in protection of intellectual property and other legal rights in different countries; (4) rising raw material and energy costs; (5) variations in the ability to develop relationships with suppliers and other local businesses; (6) changes in laws and regulations of the United States (including export restrictions) and other countries, as well as their interpretation and application; (7) fluctuations in interest rates and currency exchange rates; (8) the need to provide sufficient levels of technical support in different locations; (9) political instability, natural disasters (such as earthquakes, hurricanes or floods), pandemics, terrorism or acts of war where Applied has operations, suppliers or sales; (10) cultural differences; (11) special government supported efforts to promote local integrated circuit manufacturing equipment companies; and (12) shipping delays. Many of these challenges are present in China, a large potential market for integrated circuit equipment and an area that Applied anticipates will continue to present a significant opportunity for growth over the long term. China is also experiencing significant growth of suppliers and potential competitors to Applied. These challenges, as well as global uncertainties with respect to: (1) economic growth rates in various countries; (2) consumer confidence; (3) the sustainability, timing, rate and amount of demand for electronics products and integrated circuits; (4) capital spending by integrated circuit manufacturers; 28 Table of Contents and (5) price trends for certain integrated circuit devices, may materially and adversely affect Applieds business, financial condition and results of operations. Applied is exposed to risks associated with a highly concentrated customer base. Applieds customer base is and has been highly concentrated. Orders from a relatively limited number of manufacturers of integrated circuits have accounted for, and likely will continue to account for, a substantial portion of Applieds net sales. In addition, the mix and type of customers, and sales to any single customer, may vary significantly from quarter to quarter and from year to year. If customers do not place orders, or delay or cancel orders, Applied may not be able to replace the business. As Applieds products are configured to customer specifications, changing, rescheduling or canceling orders may result in significant non recoverable costs. Major customers may also seek and on occasion receive pricing, payment terms or other conditions that are less favorable to Applied. In addition, certain customers have formed strategic alliances or collaborative efforts that result in additional complexities in managing individual customer relationships and transactions. These factors could have a material adverse effect on Applieds business, financial condition and results of operations. The ability to attract, retain and motivate key employees is vital to Applieds success. Applieds success and competitiveness depend in large part on its ability to attract, retain and motivate key employees. Achieving this objective may be difficult due to many factors, including fluctuations in global economic and industry conditions, changes in Applieds management or leadership, the effectiveness of Applieds compensation programs, including its equity based programs, and competitors hiring practices. Applied has made adjustments to its equity compensation programs, such as implementation of a broad based program providing for grants of restricted stock units (referred to as performance shares in the Applied Materials, Inc. Employee Stock Incentive Plan) beginning in fiscal 2006. These changes, as well as other changes in compensation practices or employee benefit programs, may reduce the effectiveness of the equity compensation programs as incentives to employees and or may be disruptive to operations. Beginning in its first fiscal quarter of 2006, Applied will record a charge to earnings for equity based compensation, such as stock options and restricted stock units (performance shares), in accordance with SFAS 123R. This requirement reduces the attractiveness of granting equity based compensation as the expense associated with these grants will decrease Applieds profitability. If Applied does not successfully attract, retain and motivate key employees as a result of these or other factors, Applieds operating results and ability to capitalize on its opportunities may be materially and adversely affected. Manufacturing interruptions or delays could affect Applieds ability to meet customer demand, while the failure to estimate customer demand accurately could result in excess or obsolete inventory. Applieds business depends on its ability to supply equipment, services and related products that meet the rapidly changing requirements of its customers, which depends in part on the timely delivery of parts, components and subassemblies (collectively, parts) from suppliers. Some key parts may be obtained only from a single supplier or a limited group of suppliers, and some sourcing or subassembly is provided by suppliers in developing regions, including China. Additionally, Applied plans to transition to a single vendor enterprise resource planning (ERP) software system to perform various functions, including order management and manufacturing control. Significant interruptions of manufacturing operations or the delivery of services as a result of (1) the failure or inability of suppliers to timely deliver quality parts; (2) volatility in the availability and cost of materials; (3) difficulties or delays in obtaining required export approvals; (4) information technology or infrastructure failures; (5) difficulties in implementing the ERP system; (6) natural disasters (such as earthquakes, hurricanes or floods); or (7) other causes (such as regional economic downturns, epidemics, political instability, terrorism or acts of war), could result in delayed deliveries, manufacturing inefficiencies, increased costs or order cancellations. Moreover, if actual demand for Applieds products is different than expected, Applied may purchase more/fewer parts than necessary or incur costs for canceling, postponing or expediting delivery of parts. Any or all of these factors could materially and adversely affect Applieds business, financial condition and results of operations. 29 Table of Contents The failure to successfully implement outsourcing activities could adversely affect results of operations. To better align costs with market conditions and to increase productivity and operational efficiency, Applied outsources certain functions to third parties, including companies in India, China and other countries. These functions include engineering, manufacturing, customer support, software development and administrative activities. The expanding role of third party providers has required changes to Applieds existing operations and the adoption of new procedures and processes for retaining and managing these providers in order to protect its intellectual property. If Applied does not effectively develop and implement its outsourcing strategy, if required export approvals are not timely obtained, or if third party providers do not perform as anticipated, Applied may not realize productivity improvements or cost efficiencies and may experience operational difficulties, increased costs, manufacturing interruptions or delays and or loss of its intellectual property rights, which could materially and adversely affect Applieds business, financial condition and results of operations. Applied is exposed to risks associated with acquisitions. Applied has made, and may in the future make, acquisitions of, or significant investments in, businesses with complementary or aligned products, services and or technologies. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including but not limited to: (1) diversion of managements attention from other operational matters; (2) inability to complete acquisitions as anticipated or at all; (3) inability to realize synergies expected to result from an acquisition; (4) failure to commercialize purchased technologies; (5) ineffectiveness of an acquired companys internal controls; (6) impairment of acquired intangible assets as a result of technological advancements or worse than expected performance of the acquired company or its product offerings; (7) unknown, underestimated and or undisclosed commitments or liabilities; (8) failure to integrate and retain key employees; and (9) ineffective integration of operations. Mergers and acquisitions are inherently subject to significant risks, and the inability to effectively manage these risks could materially and adversely affect Applieds business, financial condition and results of operations. Applied is exposed to various risks related to legal proceedings or claims and protection of intellectual property rights. Applied from time to time is, and in the future may be, involved in legal proceedings or claims regarding patent infringement, intellectual property rights, antitrust, environmental regulations, securities, contracts, product performance, product liability, unfair competition, employment and other matters. In addition, Applied on occasion receives notification from customers who believe that Applied owes them indemnification or other obligations related to claims made against customers by third parties. These legal proceedings and claims, whether with or without merit, may be time consuming and expensive to prosecute or defend and divert managements attention and resources. There can be no assurance regarding the outcome of current or future legal proceedings or claims. Applied previously entered into a mutual covenant not to sue arrangement with one of its competitors to decrease the risk of patent infringement lawsuits in the future. There can be no assurance that the intended results of this arrangement will be achieved or that Applied will be able to adequately protect its intellectual property rights with the restrictions associated with such a covenant. In addition, Applieds success depends in part on the protection of its intellectual property and other rights. Infringement of Applieds rights by a third party, such as the unauthorized manufacture or sale of equipment or spare parts, could result in uncompensated lost market and revenue opportunities for Applied. Applieds intellectual property rights may not provide significant competitive advantages if they are circumvented, invalidated, rendered obsolete by the rapid pace of technological change, or if Applied does not adequately assert these rights. Furthermore, the laws of other countries, including China, permit the protection and enforcement of Applieds rights to varying extents, which may not be sufficient to protect Applieds rights. If Applied is not able to resolve a claim, negotiate a settlement of the matter, obtain necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms, and or successfully prosecute or defend its position, Applieds business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Changes in tax rates or tax liabilities could affect future results. As a global company, Applied is subject to taxation in the United States and various other countries. Significant judgment is required to determine and estimate worldwide tax liabilities. Applieds future tax rates 30 Table of Contents could be affected by changes in the composition of earnings in countries with differing tax rates, changes in the valuation of Applieds deferred tax assets and liabilities, or changes in the tax laws. For example, U.S. legislation governing taxation of extraterritorial income (ETI) repealed certain export subsidies that were prohibited by the World Trade Organization and enacted different tax provisions. These tax provisions will not fully offset the loss of the repealed tax provisions and, as a result, Applieds U.S. tax liability may increase. In addition, Applied is subject to regular examination of its income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. Applied regularly assesses the likelihood of favorable or unfavorable outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of its provision for income taxes. Although Applied believes its tax estimates are reasonable, there can be no assurance that any final determination will not be materially different from the treatment reflected in Applieds historical income tax provisions and accruals, which could materially and adversely affect Applieds results of operations. Applied is subject to internal control evaluations and attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002, Applieds management must perform evaluations of Applieds internal control over financial reporting. Beginning as of the end of fiscal 2005 and annually thereafter, Applieds Form 10 K must include a report of its managements assessment of the adequacy of such internal control, and Applieds independent registered public accounting firm must publicly attest to the adequacy of managements assessment and the effectiveness of Applieds internal control. Ongoing compliance with these requirements is complex, costly and time consuming. If Applied fails to maintain an effective internal control over financial reporting, if Applieds management does not timely assess the adequacy of such internal control, or if Applieds independent registered public accounting firm does not timely attest to the evaluation, Applied could be subject to regulatory sanctions and the publics perception of Applied may decline. Applied is exposed to risks associated with expanded service product offerings and strategic transactions. In order to improve customers manufacturing productivity and efficiency and as part of its growth strategy, Applied is expanding its service product offerings for both Applied and non Applied products. These new service products, which include on site support as well as supply chain and spare parts management, are offered in part through strategic relationships and alliances formed with, or acquisitions of, other suppliers to the semiconductor industry. In order to develop this market opportunity, Applied must cultivate new business models, form and maintain strategic relationships with appropriate companies, achieve customer acceptance, and successfully and cost effectively provide these service products. Applieds inability to achieve any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. Applied is subject to risks of non compliance with environmental and safety regulations. Applied is subject to environmental and safety regulations in connection with its global business operations, including, but not limited to, regulations related to the development, manufacture and use of its products, the operation of its facilities, and the use of its real property. Failure or inability to comply with existing or future environmental and safety regulations could result in significant remediation liabilities, the imposition of fines and or the suspension or termination of development, manufacture or use of certain of its products, or may affect the operation of its facilities or use of its real property, each of which could have a material adverse effect on Applieds business, financial condition and results of operations. Applied is exposed to various risks related to the regulatory environment. Applied is subject to various risks related to: (1) new, different, inconsistent or even conflicting laws, rules and regulations that may be enacted by legislative bodies and or regulatory agencies in the countries in which Applied operates and with which Applied must comply; (2) disagreements or disputes between national or regional regulatory agencies related to international trade; and (3) the interpretation and application of laws, rules and regulations. If Applied is found by a court or regulatory agency not to be in compliance with applicable laws, rules or regulations, Applieds business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 31 Table of Contents Item 7A: Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Interest Rate Risk At October 30, 2005, Applieds investment portfolio included fixed income securities with a fair value of approximately $5.6 billion. Applieds primary objective for investing in fixed income securities is to preserve principal while maximizing returns and minimizing risk. These securities are subject to interest rate risk and will decline in value if interest rates increase. Based on Applieds investment portfolio at October 30, 2005 and October 31, 2004, an immediate 100 basis point increase in interest rates would result in a decrease in the fair value of the portfolio of approximately $65 million and $49 million, respectively. While an increase in interest rates reduces the fair value of the investment portfolio, Applied will not realize the losses in the Consolidated Statement of Operations unless the individual fixed income securities are sold prior to recovery or the loss is determined to be other than temporarily impaired. Applieds long term debt bears interest at fixed rates. As such, Applieds interest expense would increase only to the extent that Applied significantly increased the amount of variable rate obligations outstanding. Due to the short term nature and relatively low amount of Applieds variable rate obligations, an immediate 100 basis point increase in interest rates would not be expected to have a material effect on Applieds near term financial condition or results of operations. Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk Certain operations of Applied are conducted in foreign currencies, such as Japanese yen, British pound, euro and Israeli shekel. Applied enters into forward exchange and currency option contracts to hedge a portion of, but not all, existing and anticipated foreign currency denominated transactions expected to occur within 12 months. Gains and losses on these contracts are generally recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Operations at the time that the related transactions being hedged are recognized. Because the effect of movements in currency exchange rates on forward exchange and currency option contracts generally offsets the related effect on the underlying items being hedged, these financial instruments are not expected to subject Applied to risks that would otherwise result from changes in currency exchange rates. Applied does not use derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. Net foreign currency gains and losses did not have a material effect on Applieds results of operations for fiscal 2003, 2004 or 2005. Forward exchange contracts are denominated in the same currency as the underlying transactions (primarily Japanese yen, British pound, euro and Israeli shekel), and the terms of the forward exchange contracts generally match the terms of the underlying transactions. Applieds outstanding forward exchange contracts are marked to market (see Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements), as are the majority of the related underlying transactions being hedged; therefore, the effect of exchange rate changes on forward exchange contracts is expected to be substantially offset by the effect of these changes on the underlying transactions. The effect of an immediate 10 percent change in exchange rates on forward exchange contracts and the underlying hedged transactions is not expected to be material to Applieds near term financial condition or results of operations. Applieds risk with respect to currency option contracts is limited to the premium paid for the right to exercise the option. Premiums paid for options outstanding at October 30, 2005 were not material. 
 
