FILE:COG/COG-8K-20020701172340.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report (date of earliest event reported): July 1, 2002 CABOT OIL & GAS CORPORATION (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) Delaware 1-10447 04-3072771 (State or other jurisdiction (Commission File Number) (I.R.S. Employer of incorporation) Identification No.) 1200 Enclave Parkway Houston, Texas 77077 (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code) Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (281) 589-4600
Item 5. Other Events. On June __, 2002 Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation (the "Company") filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware (i) an amendment to its Certificate of Incorporation, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 3.1, and (ii) a Certificate of Increase of Shares Designated Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 3.2. These filings (i) eliminated the Company's Class B Common Stock from the Company's Certificate of Incorporation and changed the name of the Company's Class A Common Stock to simply "Common Stock" and (ii) increased the authorized Common Stock from the 40,000,000 shares of Class A Common Stock previously authorized to 80,000,000 shares of Common Stock, par value $.10 per share. Each issued share of Class A Common Stock prior to the filing of the amendment to the Certificate of Incorporation is now a share of Common Stock. Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits (c) Exhibits. 3.1 -- Certificate of Amendment of Certificate of Incorporation. 3.2 -- Certificate of Increase of Shares Designated Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock.
SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. CABOT OIL & GAS CORPORATION By: /s/ Scott C. Schroeder ---------------------------------------- Scott C. Schroeder Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer Date: July 1, 2002
EXHIBIT INDEX 3.1 -- Certificate of Amendment of Certificate of Incorporation. 3.2 -- Certificate of Increase of Shares Designated Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock.

EXHIBIT 3.1 CERTIFICATE OF AMENDMENT of CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation (the "Corporation"), a corporation organized and existing under and by virtue of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the "DGCL"), hereby adopts this Certificate of Amendment (this "Certificate of Amendment"), which amends its Certificate of Incorporation (the "Certificate of Incorporation"), as described below, and does hereby further certify that: FIRST: The Board of Directors of the Corporation duly adopted a resolution proposing and declaring advisable the amendment to the Certificate of Incorporation as described herein, and the Corporation's stockholders duly adopted such amendment, all in accordance with the provisions of Section 242 of the DGCL. SECOND: The amendment so adopted is as follows: The first paragraph of Article IV of the Certificate of Incorporation is amended and restated to read in its entirety as follows: The aggregate number of shares of all classes of stock which the Company shall have authority to issue is 85,000,000, divided into 5,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock, par value $.10 per share ("Preferred Stock"), and 80,000,000 shares of Common Stock, par value $.10 per share (the "Common Stock"). Section II of Article IV of the Certificate of Incorporation is amended and restated to read in its entirety as follows: SECTION II. COMMON STOCK (1) Dividends. After the requirements with respect to preferential dividends on Preferred Stock, if any, shall have been met and after the Company shall have complied with all the requirements, if any, with respect to the setting aside of sums as sinking funds or redemption or purchase accounts and subject further to any other conditions which may be fixed in accordance with the provisions of this Certificate of Incorporation, then, but not otherwise, the holders of Common Stock shall be entitled to receive such dividends, if any, as may be declared from time to time by the Board of Directors on the Common Stock, which dividends shall be paid out of assets legally available for payment of dividends and shall be distributed among the holders of shares pro rata in accordance with the number of shares of such stock held by each such holder. (2) Liquidation. After distribution in full of the preferential amount, if any, to be distributed to the holders of Preferred Stock in the event of voluntary or involuntary liquidation, distribution or sale of assets, dissolution or winding-up of
the Company, the holders of the Common Stock shall be entitled to receive all the remaining assets of the Company, tangible and intangible, of whatever kind available for distribution to stockholders, which assets shall be distributed pro rata in accordance with the number of shares of such stock held by each such holder. (3) Voting. Except as may otherwise be required by law, this Certificate of Incorporation or the provisions of the resolution or resolutions as may be adopted by the Board of Directors pursuant to Section I of this Article IV, each holder of Common Stock shall have one vote in respect of each share of Common Stock held by such holder on each matter voted upon by the stockholders. Cumulative voting of shares of Common Stock is prohibited. THIRD: As a result of the amendment set forth above, the name of the Class A Common Stock of the Corporation is changed to Common Stock, and each issued share of Class A Common Stock prior to the filing of this certificate of amendment is now a share of Common Stock. CABOT OIL & GAS CORPORATION Dated: June 28, 2002 By: /s/ Scott C. Schroeder ------------------------------------- Scott C. Schroeder Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer

EXHIBIT 3.2 CERTIFICATE OF INCREASE of SHARES DESIGNATED as SERIES A JUNIOR PARTICIPATING PREFERRED STOCK of CABOT OIL & GAS CORPORATION Pursuant to Section 151 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware CABOT OIL & GAS CORPORATION, a corporation organized and existing under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the "Corporation"), in accordance with the provisions of Section 103 thereof, DOES HEREBY CERTIFY: FIRST: No shares of the series of Preferred Stock of the Corporation designated as "Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock" have been issued. SECOND: That pursuant to the authority vested in the Board of Directors in accordance with the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, of the Corporation, the Board of Directors on February 19, 2002 adopted the following resolutions to increase the number of authorized shares of the series of Preferred Stock of the Corporation designated as "Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock": RESOLVED, that the Board of Directors hereby adopts and approves an amendment to the resolution adopted by the Board of Directors on January 21, 1991 establishing the terms of a series of Preferred Stock designated as the "Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock" to change all references to the number of shares constituting the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock from 408,000 shares to 800,000 shares; and further RESOLVED, that the Certificate of Designations with respect to the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock be amended by replacing the number "408,000" in the resolution included in, and in Section 1 of, such Certificate of Designations with the number "800,000" so that, as amended, the first sentence of said Section shall be and read as follows: There shall be a series of Preferred Stock that shall be designated "Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock," and the number of shares constituting such series shall be 800,000. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Certificate and does affirm the foregoing as true this 28th day of June, 2002. CABOT OIL & GAS COMPANY Date: June 28, 2002 By: /s/ Lisa A. Machesney ----------------------------- Vice President, Managing Counsel and Corporate Secretary 1


