FILE:COG/COG-8K-20040729214826.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On July 29, 2004, we issued a press release with respect to our 2004 Second quarter earnings. The press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report and incorporated by reference herein. The press release contains certain measures (discussed below) which may be deemed "non-GAAP financial measures" as defined in Item 10 of Regulation S-K of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. In each case, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure and information reconciling the GAAP and non-GAAP measures is also included in the press release.
 
The information furnished pursuant to this Item 12, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated therein by reference.
 
From time to time management discloses Discretionary Cash Flow and Net Income excluding selected items and Earnings Per Share excluding selected items. These non-GAAP financial measures and reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP financial measure are included in Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report, furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
Discretionary Cash Flow is defined as Net Income plus non-cash charges and Exploration Expense. Discretionary Cash Flow is widely accepted as a financial indicator of an oil and gas company's ability to generate cash which is used to internally fund exploration and development activities, pay dividends and service debt. Discretionary Cash Flow is presented based on management's belief that this non-GAAP measure is useful information to investors when comparing our cash flows with the cash flows of other companies that use the Full Cost method of accounting for oil and gas producing activities or have different financing and capital structures or tax rates. Discretionary Cash Flow is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to cash flows from operating activities, as defined by GAAP, or as a measure of liquidity, or an alternative to Net Income.
 
Net Income excluding selected items and Earnings Per Share excluding selected items are presented based on managements belief that these non-GAAP measures enable a user of the financial information to understand the impact of these items on reported results. Additionally, this presentation provides a beneficial comparison to similarly adjusted measurements of prior periods. Net Income and Earnings Per Share excluding selected items is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to Net Income and Earnings Per Share, as defined by GAAP.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: July 29, 2004
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
HOUSTON, July 29, 2004  Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation (NYSE: COG) today announced quarterly net income of $19.3 million, or $0.59 per share, surpassing by 8 percent last year's second quarter record when Cabot reported net income of $17.9 million, or $0.56 per share. In terms of cash flow comparisons, the Company reported discretionary cash flow of $60.2 million versus $62.5 million in last year's comparable quarter essentially flat with last year's record level. Cash flow from operations was $45.7 million, down from the $80.3 million reported in the same period last year due entirely to changes in assets and liabilities between periods.
 
Contributing to the improvement in net income were higher realized commodity prices, the impact of which was offset somewhat by lower production levels primarily in crude oil, and lower overall expenses. For the quarter, natural gas price realizations increased 12 percent to $5.02 per mcf compared to last year's second quarter, while oil realizations were $31.10 compared to $ 29.27 per barrel. Production in the second quarter was 20.7 Bcfe compared to 22.3 Bcfe in last year's comparable quarter, consistent in total with published guidance. While down overall, the Company saw gains in natural gas production in its East and Gulf Coast regions between comparable periods.
 
"I am pleased with the continued growth coming from our East region drilling program and the larger diversity we are seeing in our Gulf Coast production profile," said Dan O. Dinges, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. "The West region's production profile continues to be impacted by declines in expenditures in 2002 and 2003. We are pleased however by our exploration success in the region that (assuming timely permitting) is expected to have a positive impact on production later in 2004 and in 2005. Our overall production is expected to ramp up during the third and fourth quarters."
 
Lower natural gas brokering activity and reduced exploration expense, resulting from lower dry hole expense and a smaller investment in seismic for the quarter, were the main contributors to the quarter's lower expense amount. Offsetting part of the cost savings was higher general and administrative (G&A) expense, primarily due to a $2.2 million increase in stock compensation expense and an incremental $0.7 million in compliance costs for Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404. Stock compensation includes $1.8 million associated with the mark-to-market accounting treatment for performance shares awarded by the Company to employees in lieu of stock options.
 
"Our goal has been to align our compensation programs with our shareholders and the advent of performance shares accomplishes this objective," commented Dinges. "These shares vest at the end of three years and provide payout, (between zero and 200 percent) measured against a predetermined group of peers in total shareholder return. With the stock's recent upward movement, Cabot ranks favorably among its peer group, determining the level of the expense."
 
During the second quarter, the Company reinitiated its stock repurchase program. Cabot bought 158,100 shares at an average price of $33.79 per share in the open market. "This will remain a focus of our investment strategy, especially when compared to the deal economics in the current marketplace," stated Dinges.
 
Year-to-Date
 
For the first six months of 2004 Cabot recorded net income of $38.3 million, or $1.18 per share, cash flow from operations of $143.3 million and discretionary cash flow of $132.5 million. Last year's first half results were a net loss of $21.3 million, or $.67 per share, cash flow from operations of $139.8 million and discretionary cash flow of $130.1 million. The 2003 six month period includes the first quarter effects of the Kurten field impairment and the adoption of SFAS No. 143 "Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations," totaling $54.4 million and $6.8 million after tax, respectively.
 
At June 30, 2004, Cabot had long-term debt of $270 million, comprised of private placements with varying maturities, consistent with the year-end level for a debt to total capitalization ratio of 40.8 percent. The Company's cash position was $21.4 million at the end of the second quarter. "With the continued strength in prices and our solid financial position, we are increasing our capital program for 2004 to $228 million from $217 million," said Dinges. "So far $131.7 million has been reinvested in our business during the first six months of 2004."
 
Subsequent to the end of the quarter, Cabot added to its 2005 hedge position with the addition of a costless collar covering 10,000 Mmbtu per day of East region production at $5.25 per Mmbtu floor and an $8.75 per Mmbtu ceiling for all of 2005. Cabot also secured a range swap for oil during 2005 whereby the Company receives $42.50 per barrel unless the monthly average oil price is below $32 per barrel. The oil range swap covers 1,000 barrels of oil per day. "While we don't expect any significant weakness in commodity prices, we thought it was prudent to protect another layer of production at these levels," added Dinges.
 
Conference Call
 
Listen in live to Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation's 2004 second quarter financial and operating results discussion with financial analysts on Friday, July 30, at 9:30 AM EDT (8:30 AM CDT) at . A teleconference replay will also be available at (800) 642-1687 (international (706) 645-9291), passcode 8713083. A replay will be available through Friday, August 6, 2004.
www.cabotog.com
 
The latest financial guidance, including the Company's hedge positions, along with a replay of the webcast, which will be archived for one year, are available in the investor relations section of the Company's website at .
www.cabotog.com
 
Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation, headquartered in Houston, Texas, is a leading independent natural gas producer with substantial interests in the Gulf Coast, including Texas and Louisiana; the West, with the Rocky Mountains and Mid-Continent; the East and an expansion effort in Canada. For additional information, visit the Company's Internet homepage at .
www.cabotog.com
 
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
The statements regarding future financial performance and results and the other statements which are not historical facts contained in this release are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, market factors, the market price (including regional basis differentials) of natural gas and oil, results of future drilling and marketing activity, future production and costs, and other factors detailed in the Company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
 
CABOT OIL & GAS RESULTS  Page 4
 
 
 
CABOT OIL & GAS RESULTS  Page 5
 
 
 
CABOT OIL & GAS RESULTS  Page 6
 
 
 
 
CABOT OIL & GAS RESULTS  Page 7
 
 
 
 
CABOT OIL & GAS RESULTS  Page 8
 
 


