FILE:COG/COG-8K-20041216113813.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
Item 2.03. Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
 
On December 10, 2004, Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation (the "Company") amended its $250 million revolving Credit Agreement with Fleet National Bank, as Administrative Agent and eight other Banks dated October 28, 2002. The following significant revisions to the Credit Agreement were made:
 
 
 
 
Under Original Credit Agreement:
 
As Amended:
 
 
 
 
 
As amended all borrowings outstanding are due and payable to the banks on December 9, 2009. The available credit line is subject to adjustment from time to time on the basis of the projected present value (as determined by the bank's petroleum engineer) of estimated future net cash flows from certain proved oil and gas reserves and other assets of the Company. While the Company does not expect a reduction in the available credit line, in the event that it is adjusted below the outstanding level of borrowings the Company has a period of six (6) months to reduce its outstanding debt to the adjusted credit line available with a requirement to provide additional borrowing base assets or pay down one-sixth of the excess during each of the six months.
 
As amended, the Credit Agreement provides for a commitment fee on the unused available balance at an annual rate of one-quarter of 1% (reduced from three-eights of 1%). The Credit Agreement also contains customary restrictions, which include the following:
 
 
 
The Company was in compliance with all covenants on December 10, 2004.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: December 10, 2004


