FILE:COG/COG-8K-20041028204000.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On October 28, 2004, we issued a press release with respect to our 2004 third quarter earnings. The press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report and incorporated by reference herein. The press release contains certain measures (discussed below) which may be deemed "non-GAAP financial measures" as defined in Item 10 of Regulation S-K of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. In each case, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure and information reconciling the GAAP and non-GAAP measures is also included in the press release.
 
The information furnished pursuant to this Item 12, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated therein by reference.
 
From time to time management discloses Discretionary Cash Flow and Net Income excluding selected items and Earnings Per Share excluding selected items. These non-GAAP financial measures and reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP financial measure are included in Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report, furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
Discretionary Cash Flow is defined as Net Income plus non-cash charges and Exploration Expense. Discretionary Cash Flow is widely accepted as a financial indicator of an oil and gas company's ability to generate cash which is used to internally fund exploration and development activities, pay dividends and service debt. Discretionary Cash Flow is presented based on management's belief that this non-GAAP measure is useful information to investors when comparing our cash flows with the cash flows of other companies that use the Full Cost method of accounting for oil and gas producing activities or have different financing and capital structures or tax rates. Discretionary Cash Flow is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to cash flows from operating activities, as defined by GAAP, or as a measure of liquidity, or an alternative to Net Income.
 
Net Income excluding selected items and Earnings Per Share excluding selected items are presented based on managements belief that these non-GAAP measures enable a user of the financial information to understand the impact of these items on reported results. Additionally, this presentation provides a beneficial comparison to similarly adjusted measurements of prior periods. Net Income and Earnings Per Share excluding selected items is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to Net Income and Earnings Per Share, as defined by GAAP.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: October 28, 2004
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation (NYSE: COG) today announced third quarter net income of $17.8 million, or $0.55 per share, compared to $22.7 million, or $0.70 per share, in last year's comparable quarter. Cash flow from operations in the third quarter increased to $70.1 million in 2004 from $65.9 million in 2003, while discretionary cash flow increased to $77.0 million in 2004 versus $63.9 million in 2003.
HOUSTON, October 28, 2004
 
"Highlights for the quarter were increased equivalent production in each of our regions versus the 2004 second quarter and record third quarter level of operating cash flow," said Dan O. Dinges, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. "The net income figure, which was impacted by two non-cash items, does not reflect the full positive impact of the quarter. The largest impact was the $4.3 million after tax mark-to-market requirement (see attached Impact of Mark-to-Market Accounting Requirements for details) for derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting. The rules specify that the Company record not only the current period impact of derivatives, but also the impact on all future periods. These instruments cover a portion of Cabot's oil production. The other item was a $2.1 million after tax impairment of a two-well field in South Louisiana," added Dinges. Excluding the non-cash impact of the mark-to-market on derivative positions not qualifying as hedges, the impairment, and a small gain on the sale of assets, the net income comparison would have been $24.2 million, or $0.75 per share, versus $21.2 million, or $0.66 per share, for the third quarters of 2004 and 2003, respectively (see attached Selected Item Review and Reconciliation for details).
 
Increased natural gas production and higher realized commodity prices between comparable third quarter periods were offset by lower oil production and an unrealized mark-to-market loss on oil positions, resulting in an overall reduction to operating revenues between periods. On the expense side of the equation, lower exploration expense, interest expense, and brokered natural gas cost led the way to lower overall operating expenses between comparable third quarters. Of note, general and administrative expense continues to experience growing costs associated with Sarbanes-Oxley section 404 compliance in the amount of $0.6 million
for the quarter, compared to zero last year. Also, the impact of the stock compensation plans (performance shares and restricted stock awards) has been separated from G&A for press release financial statement purposes to better reflect its impact. In addition, the mark-to-market impact of the performance shares is highlighted in an attached table.
 
"Operationally, I am pleased with our continued progress, particularly the increase in production quarter over quarter," stated Dinges. "While the Gulf of Mexico hurricanes did not dramatically impact the Company, we did shut-in, deferring approximately .5 Bcfe of production leading up to and immediately following the storm." Dinges added, "Our production guidance for the fourth quarter of 2004 has been adjusted to reflect higher expected oil volumes and lower gas volumes which have been impacted by completion delays on some of our outside operated properties, but we still anticipate sequential growth over the third quarter." New guidance for 2005 has been posted to the Company's website and will be discussed on the conference call on October 29.
 
Year-to-Date
 
For the nine months ended September 2004, Cabot reported net income of $56.2 million, or $1.73 per share, along with cash flow from operations of $215.9 million and discretionary cash flow of $211.3 million. These figures compare favorably with last year's nine month net income of $1.3 million, or $0.04 per share, cash flows from operations of $205.7 million and discretionary cash flow of $194.1 million.
 
Again, both time frames were impacted by some of the same non-cash selected items (mark-to-market of derivatives and impairments). Taking these into account, the net income comparison would have been $66.5 million, or $2.05 per share, versus $61.5 million, or $1.92 per share last year, (see attached Selected Item Review and Reconciliation for details).
 
Higher realized commodity prices were offset by lower production for the comparable periods making revenues essentially flat. Removing the impairments, expenses were driven down by lower brokered natural gas costs, reduced exploration expenses and lower interest, which were partially offset by higher general and administrative, and depreciation, depletion and amortization expense.
 
"Last year, we were pleased to return to profitability following the first quarter impairment. This year, we have already surpassed our highest record net income for any year, highlighting the excellent results we are having both operationally and financially," commented Dinges.
 
During the third quarter of 2004, the Company continued to repurchase stock under its stock purchase program. Cabot bought 86,000 shares in the third quarter at an average price of $39.42 per share in the open market. Cabot has purchased 244,100 shares during 2004 at an average price of $35.77 per share in the open market.
"Cabot will continue to focus on the repurchase of its stock as an investment strategy. We believe our stock is an attractive investment, especially when compared to the alternative investment opportunities in the current marketplace," stated Dinges.
 
Late in the third quarter, Cabot added to its hedge positions five natural gas collars and one oil collar covering production in 2005. The natural gas collars cover either the first quarter or entire year, while the oil collar is for the entire year. Prices range from a $4.75 by $7.00 per Mmbtu for a full-year Rocky Mountain collar to a $7.00 by $10.35 per Mmbtu for a first quarter Henry Hub trade. During this same time frame a full-year 2005 oil trade received a $40.00 floor and a $50.50 per barrel ceiling. Details of the entire 2005 hedge program can be accessed on the Company website at .
www.cabotog.com
 
"Because of the volatility in the commodity markets and our recent experience with range swaps, we will target future hedge positions towards products that qualify for hedge accounting to avoid earnings swings of the magnitude we experienced in the third quarter," added Dinges.
 
Conference Call
 
Listen in live to Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation's 2004 third quarter financial and operating results discussion with financial analysts on Friday, October 29, at 9:30 AM EDT (8:30 AM CDT) at . A teleconference replay will also be available at (800) 642-1687, (U.S./Canada) or (706) 645-9291 (International), passcode 1430138. A replay will be available from Friday, October 29 through Friday, November 5, 2004. The latest financial guidance, including the Company's hedge positions, along with a replay of the webcast, which will be archived for one year, are available in the investor relations section of the Company's website at .
www.cabotog.com
www.cabotog.com
 
 
Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation, headquartered in Houston, Texas, is a leading independent natural gas producer with substantial interests in the Gulf Coast, including Texas and Louisiana; the West, with the Rocky Mountains and Mid-Continent; the East and an expansion effort in Canada. For additional information, visit the Company's Internet homepage at www.cabotog.com.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
The statements regarding future financial performance and results and the other statements which are not historical facts contained in this release are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, market factors, the market price (including regional basis differentials) of natural gas and oil, results of future drilling and marketing activity, future production and costs, and other factors detailed in the Company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
CABOT OIL & GAS RESULTS  Page 4
 
 
{CABOT OIL & GAS RESULTS  Page 5
 
 
 
CABOT OIL & GAS RESULTSPage 6
 
 
 
 
 
CABOT OIL & GAS RESULTS  Page 7
 
 
 
 
CABOT OIL & GAS RESULTS  Page 8
 
 
 
 


