FILE:COG/COG-8K-20040429183316.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On April 29, 2004, we issued a press release with respect to our 2004 first quarter earnings. The press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report and incorporated by reference herein. The press release contains certain measures (discussed below) which may be deemed "non-GAAP financial measures" as defined in Item 10 of Regulation S-K of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. In each case, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure and information reconciling the GAAP and non-GAAP measures is also included in the press release.
 
The information furnished pursuant to this Item 12, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated therein by reference.
 
From time to time management discloses Discretionary Cash Flow and Net Income excluding selected items and Earnings Per Share excluding selected items. These non-GAAP financial measures and reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP financial measure are included in Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report, furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
Discretionary Cash Flow is defined as Net Income plus non-cash charges and Exploration Expense. Discretionary Cash Flow is widely accepted as a financial indicator of an oil and gas company's ability to generate cash which is used to internally fund exploration and development activities, pay dividends and service debt. Discretionary Cash Flow is presented based on management's belief that this non-GAAP measure is useful information to investors when comparing our cash flows with the cash flows of other companies that use the Full Cost method of accounting for oil and gas producing activities or have different financing and capital structures or tax rates. Discretionary Cash Flow is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to cash flows from operating activities, as defined by GAAP, or as a measure of liquidity, or an alternative to Net Income.
 
Net Income excluding selected items and Earnings Per Share excluding selected items are presented based on managements belief that these non-GAAP measures enable a user of the financial information to understand the impact of these items on reported results. Additionally, this presentation provides a beneficial comparison to similarly adjusted measurements of prior periods. Net Income and Earnings Per Share excluding selected items is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to Net Income and Earnings Per Share, as defined by GAAP.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: April 29, 2004
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
HOUSTON, April 29, 2004  Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation (NYSE: COG) today announced results for the first quarter of 2004 including net income of $19.0 million, or $0.59 per share, cash flow from operations of $97.6 million and discretionary cash flow of $72.3 million. These results compare favorably with the first quarter results of 2003 when the Company reported a net loss of $39.2 million, or $1.23 per share, cash flow from operations of $59.5 million and discretionary cash flow of $67.6 million. Last year's first quarter loss was driven by the Kurten field impairment ($54.4 million after tax) and the adoption of SFAS No. 143 "Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations" ($6.8 million after tax). When analyzed another way, 2004's first quarter net income per share of $0.59 compares very favorably to the full-year 2003 net income figure of $0.66 per share.
 
Higher realized commodity prices (after the impact of commodity hedges) offset the slight decline in equivalent production providing Cabot with a slight increase in quarterly revenue as in the comparable 2003 quarter. Specifically, the Company realized $5.21 per Mcf, a 15 percent increase over the comparable period in 2003. Oil prices were comparable with last year's first quarter with a $30.99 per barrel realization in 2004 versus $30.88 per barrel for the first quarter of 2003.
 
Natural gas production rose between comparable periods, driven by a 1 Bcf Gulf Coast increase. In total, equivalent production for the quarter was 20.9 Bcfe (consistent with the Company's published guidance) down slightly from the 21.9 Bcfe in the first quarter of last year. Overall production was lower due to reduced capital investment in our West Region for 2002 and 2003 and the previously disclosed decline in production (predominately oil) from the CL&F properties in south Louisiana.
 
Management Comments
 
Dan O. Dinges, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer said: "With our drilling success in the first quarter, we anticipate a positive impact on our production expectations for the remainder of the year. Presently we have nine successful wells waiting for completion or facilities in our Gulf Coast region. Because of this success, we increased our 2004 capital program $10 million to $217 million for investments in facilities related to the recent discoveries and for the increasing cost of steel."
 
Dinges added: "With our improved balance sheet, Cabot re-initiated its stock buyback program. In early April the Company repurchased 46,200 shares at a weighted average cost of $30.79 per share. In light of the recent reserve valuations surrounding asset acquisition opportunities, we believe our own stock is a better investment."
 
Overall for the quarter, expenses were in line with expectations. The largest increase occurred in exploration expense where the Company made a sizeable investment in seismic for its Gulf Coast region. This data covers South Louisiana and offshore. Additionally, direct operations and DD&A expense increased $1.2 million and $1.0 million respectively.
 
Conference Call
 
Listen in live to Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation's 2004 first quarter financial and operating results discussion with financial analysts on April 30, 2004, at 9:30 AM EDT (8:30 AM CDT) at . A teleconference replay will also be available at (800) 642-1687 (international (706) 645-9291), passcode 6683448. A replay will be available from Friday, April 30 through Friday, May 7, 2004.
www.cabotog.com
 
The latest financial guidance, including the Company's hedge positions, along with a replay of the webcast, which will be archived for one year, are available in the investor relations section of the Company's website at .
www.cabotog.com
 
Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation, headquartered in Houston, Texas, is a leading independent natural gas producer with substantial interests in the Gulf Coast, including Texas and Louisiana; the West, with the Rocky Mountains and Mid-Continent; the East and an expansion effort in Canada. For additional information, visit the Company's Internet homepage at .
www.cabotog.com
 
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
The statements regarding future financial performance and results and the other statements which are not historical facts contained in this release are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, market factors, the market price (including regional basis differentials) of natural gas and oil, results of future drilling and marketing activity, future production and costs, and other factors detailed in the Company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


