FILE:COG/COG-8K-20050728200818.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On July 28, 2005, we issued a press release with respect to our 2005 second quarter earnings. The press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report. The press release contains certain measures (discussed below) which may be deemed "non-GAAP financial measures" as defined in Item 10 of Regulation S-K of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. In each case, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure and information reconciling the GAAP and non-GAAP measures is also included in the press release.
 
Exhibit 99.1 shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated therein by reference.
 
From time to time management discloses Discretionary Cash Flow, Net Income excluding selected items, Earnings per Share excluding selected items and Net Debt calculations and ratios. These non-GAAP financial measures, to the extent included in Exhibit 99.1, are reconciled to the most comparable GAAP financial measure in Exhibit 99.1.
 
Discretionary Cash Flow is defined as Net Income plus non-cash charges and Exploration Expense. Discretionary Cash Flow is widely accepted as a financial indicator of an oil and gas company's ability to generate cash which is used to internally fund exploration and development activities, pay dividends and service debt. Discretionary Cash Flow is presented based on management's belief that this non-GAAP measure is useful information to investors when comparing our cash flows with the cash flows of other companies that use the Full Cost method of accounting for oil and gas producing activities or have different financing and capital structures or tax rates. Discretionary Cash Flow is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to cash flows from operating activities, as defined by GAAP, or as a measure of liquidity, or an alternative to Net Income.
 
Net Income excluding selected items and Earnings per Share excluding selected items are presented based on management's belief that these non-GAAP measures enable a user of the financial information to understand the impact of these items on reported results. Additionally, this presentation provides a beneficial comparison to similarly adjusted measurements of prior periods. Net Income and Earnings per Share excluding selected items is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to Net Income and Earnings per Share, as defined by GAAP.
 
The total Debt to total Capital ratio is calculated by dividing total Debt by the sum of total Debt and total Stockholders' Equity. This ratio is a GAAP measurement which is presented in our annual and interim filings and management believes this ratio is useful to investors in determining the Company's leverage. Net Debt and the Net Debt to total Capital ratio are non-GAAP measures which have been presented in Exhibit 99.1. Net Debt is calculated by subtracting Cash and Cash Equivalents from Total Debt. Management believes that these measurements are also useful to investors since the Company has the ability to and may decide to use a portion of its Cash and Cash Equivalents to retire Debt. Additionally, as the Company may incur additional expenditures without increasing debt, it is appropriate to apply Cash and Cash Equivalents to Debt in calculating the Net Debt to total Capital ratio.
Item 9. 01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: July 28, 2005
 
99.1        Press release issued by Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation dated July 28, 2005.

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
 
 
Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation (NYSE: COG) today announced record second quarter earnings and discretionary cash flow. Net income for the quarter rose 83 percent to $35.4 million, or $0.72 per share, versus $19.3 million, or $0.40 per share for the same period last year. In terms of cash flow, the Company reported cash flow from operations of $80.1 million compared to $45.7 million in last year's second quarter. Discretionary cash flow rose 32 percent to $79.6 million for the quarter. Before giving effect to the non-cash selected items related to the comparable second quarters, Cabot would have reported $33.0 million of net income, or $0.67 per share versus $19.8 million or $0.41 per share last year, still record performance levels (see Selected Items table for details). All information has been adjusted for the first quarter 2005 3-for-2 stock split.
HOUSTON, July 28, 2005
-
 
The record financial results are attributable to higher realized commodity prices and improved production for the year-over-year quarterly comparison, the consecutive quarter periods and for the comparative year-to-date periods. Natural gas price realizations reached $6.02 per mcf for the 2005 second quarter, a 20 percent increase over last year's comparable period. Realized oil price quarterly comparisons were $43.76 per barrel for 2005 versus $31.10 per barrel for 2004. Production improvements were driven by results from the West region, where the Company experienced a nine percent increase between comparable quarters. Advances were also made in the East region with a five percent increase in equivalent production and to a lesser extent new production from Canada. This was offset by a four percent decline in the Gulf Coast region equivalent production.
"Cabot's financial metrics continue to improve as do the underlying operational prospects," stated Dan O. Dinges, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. "We anticipate year-over-year production and reserve growth in 2005; the magnitude of any increases, however, will be impacted by timely execution of projects due to the up-tick of business in the service sector."
 
In regards to costs, the Company experienced upward pressure in several expense categories in the second quarter, the leader being "Taxes Other Than Income," which is substantially price driven, followed by higher DD&A, which is a function of the higher cost in the areas in which Cabot does business. Dinges added, "We continue to work hard to manage the cost creep (including goods and services, along with personnel costs) in our industry and its overall impact on our operating results."
 
Year-to-Date
 
For the first six months of 2005, Cabot Oil & Gas reported a new high for net income, cash flow from operations and discretionary cash flow. Reported numbers included: $56.2 million or $1.15 per share, for net income; $188.1 million for cash flow from operations; and $162.3 million for discretionary cash flow. Higher realized commodity prices and higher production drove the improvement.
 
At June 30, 2005, Cabot had long-term debt of $250 million and a positive working capital position of $14.7 million (which includes $51.9 million of cash and cash equivalents, and $20 million related to the current portion of long-term debt and $42.1 million of mark-to-market liability associated with unrealized derivative losses).
 
"With the inflationary pressure in drilling costs, accretive opportunities and our strong financial position, we have increased our capital program to $330 million from the original $280 million level," said Dinges. "This figure includes the increment required for the acquisitions disclosed in the Operations Update press release."
 
Late in the second quarter and early in the third quarter, the Company executed two hedges covering 2006 production. Both hedges were wide collars, one covering oil production and one covering natural gas production. The oil hedge consists of 1,000 barrels per day with a $50.00 floor and a $76.00 ceiling for all of 2006. The natural gas hedge is for 25,000 Mmbtu per day, with a floor of $7.00 per Mmbtu and a ceiling of $11.00 per Mmbtu. "These volumes represent only a small portion of the full year anticipated production total," added Dinges.
Conference Call
 
Listen in live to Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation's 2005 second quarter financial and operating results discussion with financial analysts on Friday, July 29, at 9:30am EDT (8:30am CDT) at . A teleconference replay will also be available at (800) 642-1687, (U.S./Canada) or (706) 645-9291 (International), pass code 8037259. A replay will be available from Friday, July 29 through Friday, August 5, 2005. The latest financial guidance, including the Company's hedge positions, along with a replay of the web cast, which will be archived for one year, are available in the investor relations section of the Company's website at .
www.cabotog.com
www.cabotog.com
 
 
Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation, headquartered in Houston, Texas, is a leading independent natural gas producer with substantial interests in the Gulf Coast, including Texas and Louisiana; the West, including the Rocky Mountains and Mid-Continent; the East, with an expansion effort in Canada. For additional information, visit the Company's Internet homepage at .
www.cabotog.com
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
The statements regarding future financial performance and results and the other statements which are not historical facts contained in this release are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, market factors, the market price (including regional basis differentials) of natural gas and oil, results of future drilling and marketing activity, future production and costs, and other factors detailed in the Company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
CABOT OIL & GAS RESULTS  Page 4
 
 
CABOT OIL & GAS RESULTS  Page 5
 
 
 
CABOT OIL & GAS RESULTS  Page 6
 
 
 
 
 
 
CABOT OIL & GAS RESULTS  Page 7
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CABOT OIL & GAS RESULTS  Page 8
 
 
 


