FILE:COG/COG-8K-20050222175153.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On February 21, 2005, we issued a press release with respect to our 2004 fourth quarter and year-end earnings. The press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report. The press release contains certain measures (discussed below) which may be deemed "non-GAAP financial measures" as defined in Item 10 of Regulation S-K of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. In each case, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure and information reconciling the GAAP and non-GAAP measures is also included in the press release.
 
Exhibit 99.1 shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated therein by reference.
 
From time to time management discloses Discretionary Cash Flow and Net Income excluding selected items and Earnings Per Share excluding selected items. These non-GAAP financial measures and reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP financial measure are included in Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report, furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
Discretionary Cash Flow is defined as Net Income plus non-cash charges and Exploration Expense. Discretionary Cash Flow is widely accepted as a financial indicator of an oil and gas company's ability to generate cash which is used to internally fund exploration and development activities, pay dividends and service debt. Discretionary Cash Flow is presented based on management's belief that this non-GAAP measure is useful information to investors when comparing our cash flows with the cash flows of other companies that use the Full Cost method of accounting for oil and gas producing activities or have different financing and capital structures or tax rates. Discretionary Cash Flow is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to cash flows from operating activities, as defined by GAAP, or as a measure of liquidity, or an alternative to Net Income.
 
Net Income excluding selected items and Earnings Per Share excluding selected items are presented based on management's belief that these non-GAAP measures enable a user of the financial information to understand the impact of these items on reported results. Additionally, this presentation provides a beneficial comparison to similarly adjusted measurements of prior periods. Net Income and Earnings Per Share excluding selected items is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to Net Income and Earnings Per Share, as defined by GAAP.
 
Item 9. 01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: February 21, 2005
 
 
 
99.1  Press release issued by Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation dated February 21, 2005.

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation (NYSE: COG) today announced 2004 net income of $88.4 million, or $2.72 per share, nearly double its previous high set in 2001 and four times last year's $21.1 million, or $0.66 per share. The 2004 cash flow from operations of $273.0 million and discretionary cash flow of $294.3 million exceeded the records of $241.6 million for cash flow from operations and $266.4 million for discretionary cash flow established in 2003.
HOUSTON, February 21, 2005
 
"A continuation of the high commodity price market drove the Company's record results," said Dan O. Dinges, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. "This strong level of cash flow afforded us the opportunity to pursue our largest organic capital program ever, which included 171 wells in the East region and 20 exploration wells overall." Dinges added, "The results also provided Cabot with its best year-end debt to total capitalization ratio at 37.2 percent and a significantly improved working capital position."
 
For the full year period, natural gas price realizations rose 15 percent to $5.20 per mcf, while oil price realizations moved higher by 7 percent to $31.55 per barrel. Overall, total expenses were down year-over-year driven primarily by a large reduction in impairments, lower exploration expense and lower brokered natural gas costs. The lowered brokered costs were the result of lower activity; however, the margin remained strong due to the price environment. These declines were slightly offset by increases due to higher pricing (taxes other than income), increased compliance costs related to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (general and administrative), along with higher benefit costs (direct operations, general and administrative, stock compensation).
 
For the year, Cabot reported a 172 percent reserve replacement and production of 84.8 Bcfe. "The decline in year-over-year production was somewhat magnified by Hurricane Ivan, delays with certain well completions and asset sales late in 2003 that would have provided approximately 2.3 Bcfe to 2004," stated Dinges. "While I am a little disappointed with the overall production level, our natural gas production continued to show
Exhibit 99.1
 
improvement year-over-year. However, we do continue to experience liquid declines primarily in our south Louisiana portfolio." Dinges commented, "Also affecting the decline is our decision to increase investment in our long-life portfolio and to more selectively invest in our short-life portfolio. This selective investment has been driven by our focus on capital efficiency, which also led to the repurchase of 405,100 shares of our stock."
 
Fourth Quarter
 
The Company also established a new fourth quarter record for net income, cash flow from operations and discretionary cash flow. Net income reached $32.2 million, or $0.99 per share, versus $19.2 million, or $0.60 per share in the fourth quarter of 2003, which was the previous record. The cash flow comparisons between fourth quarters included $57.1 million for 2004 versus $35.4 million for 2003 for cash flow from operations and $83.0 million for 2004 versus $71.7 million for 2003 for discretionary cash flow.
 
Higher realized commodity prices led to the record level performance. The resulting increase in revenue was offset partially by pressure on nearly every expense category with compliance costs and benefit costs leading the way.
 
Selected Items
 
Those selected items impacting the fourth quarter of 2004 included primarily the change in derivative fair value. Impacting the full-year comparison included primarily an impairment of long-lived assets in 2003 along with the change in derivative fair value in 2003 and 2004. Taking these into account, the result is a fourth quarter net income before selected items of $25.3 million versus the $32.2 million reported. For the year the results are $91.8 million versus the $88.4 million reported. (See the complete buildup of these figures in the attached Selected Item Table.) "Even with considering these selected items, we still have record performance for both the fourth quarter and full-year," added Dinges.
 
Outlook
 
"For 2005, we expect another good year for commodity pricing and as such we have protected less than half of our anticipated equivalent production through the use of derivatives," commented Dinges. "Much of this protected volume is covered by wide collars, some of which have a ceiling in excess of $10 per mcf. Due to strength in the commodity price, anticipated increase in our production profile, and a large number of opportunities, we will have yet again our largest program with about 300 wells (200 in the East), in addition to budgeting for debt repayment and stock repurchase."
 
 
Exhibit 99.1
 
Conference Call
 
Listen in live to Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation's 2004 year-end/fourth quarter financial and operating results discussion with financial analysts on Tuesday, February 22, at 9:30 AM EDT (8:30 AM CDT) at . A teleconference replay will also be available at (800) 642-1687, (U.S./Canada) or (706) 645-9291 (International), passcode 3378135. A replay will be available from Wednesday, February 23 through Tuesday, March 1, 2005. The latest financial guidance, including the Company's hedge positions, along with a replay of the webcast, which will be archived for one year, are available in the investor relations section of the Company's website at .
www.cabotog.com
www.cabotog.com
 
 
Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation, headquartered in Houston, Texas, is a leading independent natural gas producer with substantial interests in the Gulf Coast, including Texas and Louisiana; the West, with the Rocky Mountains and Mid-Continent; the East and a new position in Canada. For additional information, visit the Company's Internet homepage at www.cabotog.com.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
The statements regarding future financial performance and results and the other statements which are not historical facts contained in this release are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, market factors, the market price (including regional basis differentials) of natural gas and oil, results of future drilling and marketing activity, future production and costs, and other factors detailed in the Company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
CABOT OIL & GAS RESULTS  Page 4
 
 
CABOT OIL & GAS RESULTS  Page 5
 
 
 
CABOT OIL & GAS RESULTSPage 6
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CABOT OIL & GAS RESULTS  Page 7
 
 
 
 
 
CABOT OIL & GAS RESULTS  Page 8
 
 
 
 
 


