FILE:COG/COG-8K-20050428182304.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On April 28, 2005, we issued a press release with respect to our 2005 first quarter earnings. The press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report. The press release contains certain measures (discussed below) which may be deemed "non-GAAP financial measures" as defined in Item 10 of Regulation S-K of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. In each case, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure and information reconciling the GAAP and non-GAAP measures is also included in the press release.
 
Exhibit 99.1 shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated therein by reference.
 
From time to time management discloses Discretionary Cash Flow, Net Income excluding selected items, Earnings per Share excluding selected items and Net Debt calculations and ratios. These non-GAAP financial measures, to the extent included in Exhibit 99.1, are reconciled to the most comparable GAAP financial measure in Exhibit 99.1.
 
Discretionary Cash Flow is defined as Net Income plus non-cash charges and Exploration Expense. Discretionary Cash Flow is widely accepted as a financial indicator of an oil and gas company's ability to generate cash which is used to internally fund exploration and development activities, pay dividends and service debt. Discretionary Cash Flow is presented based on management's belief that this non-GAAP measure is useful information to investors when comparing our cash flows with the cash flows of other companies that use the Full Cost method of accounting for oil and gas producing activities or have different financing and capital structures or tax rates. Discretionary Cash Flow is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to cash flows from operating activities, as defined by GAAP, or as a measure of liquidity, or an alternative to Net Income.
 
Net Income excluding selected items and Earnings per Share excluding selected items are presented based on management's belief that these non-GAAP measures enable a user of the financial information to understand the impact of these items on reported results. Additionally, this presentation provides a beneficial comparison to similarly adjusted measurements of prior periods. Net Income and Earnings per Share excluding selected items is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to Net Income and Earnings per Share, as defined by GAAP.
 
The total Debt to total Capital ratio is calculated by dividing total Debt by the sum of total Debt and total Stockholders' Equity. This ratio is a GAAP measurement which is presented in our annual and interim filings and management believes this ratio is useful to investors in determining the Company's leverage. Net Debt and the Net Debt to total Capital ratio are non-GAAP measures which have been presented in Exhibit 99.1. Net Debt is calculated by subtracting Cash and Cash Equivalents from Total Debt. Management believes that these measurements are also useful to investors since the Company has the ability to and may decide to use a portion of its Cash and Cash Equivalents to retire Debt. Additionally, as the Company may incur additional expenditures without increasing Debt, it is appropriate to apply Cash and Cash Equivalents to Debt in calculating the Net Debt to total Capital ratio.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: April 28, 2005
 
99.1        Press release issued by Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation dated April 28, 2005.

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation (NYSE: COG) today announced first quarter results, including net income of $20.8 million, or $.43 per share, cash flow from operations of $108.0 million and discretionary cash flow of $82.7 million. Each of these compares favorably to the prior year's first quarter when the Company recorded net income totaling $19.0 million, or $.39 per share, cash flow from operations of $97.6 million and discretionary cash flow of $72.3 million. The per share results reflect the three for two split of the Company's common stock on March 31, 2005.
HOUSTON, April 28, 2005 -
 
"Due to the significant rise in the forward curve for oil prices at March 31, 2005, the current quarter net income figure was reduced for this future impact (that includes the expectation of continued high oil prices)," stated Dan O. Dinges, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. "The mark-to-market requirement for derivatives had a $4.6 million, or approximately $.09 per share, after-tax impact on the results," (see attached table on mark-to-market matters).
 
Continued high commodity prices combined with production increases year-over-year drove Company realizations. For natural gas prices Cabot realized $5.71 per mcf, up 10 percent over last year's comparable period. Crude oil prices during the same time period rose 36 percent to an overall realization of $42.11 per barrel. Also contributing to the improved results were increased production levels versus last year's first quarter. Total equivalent production increased 1 percent driven by a 0.7 Bcf increase in natural gas production, primarily from advances in the East region. "In addition to the year-over-year production gains, the daily volume improved over those realized in the fourth quarter of 2004," said Dinges.
Overall operating expenses were up 5 percent between reporting periods, due primarily to increases in DD&A, exploration, operations and G&A expenses. "Employee-related cost was the main factor in the increases for operations and G&A expense as cost associated with retirement benefits continue to escalate," commented Dinges.
 
Dinges added, "Overall I am pleased with our progress that includes a diversified drilling program across North America and a balance sheet that affords us a high degree of flexibility. Our transition towards longer-lived, more predictable opportunities is well underway. Combine this with $59.6 million of cash on the balance sheet that results in a net debt to total capitalization of 31.2 percent, and you have a platform for further value creation."
 
Conference Call
 
Listen in live to Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation's 2005 first quarter financial and operating results discussion with financial analysts on Friday, April 29, at 9:30am EDT (8:30am CDT) at . A teleconference replay will also be available at (800) 642-1687, (U.S./Canada) or (706) 645-9291 (International), passcode 5486532. A replay will be available from Friday, April 29 through Friday, May 6, 2005. The latest financial guidance, including the Company's hedge positions, along with a replay of the webcast, which will be archived for one year, are available in the investor relations section of the Company's website at .
www.cabotog.com
www.cabotog.com
 
 
Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation, headquartered in Houston, Texas, is a leading independent natural gas producer with substantial interests in the Gulf Coast, including Texas and Louisiana; the West, with the Rocky Mountains and Mid-Continent; the East and an expansion effort in Canada. For additional information, visit the Company's Internet homepage at .
www.cabotog.com
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
The statements regarding future financial performance and results and the other statements which are not historical facts contained in this release are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, market factors, the market price (including regional basis differentials) of natural gas and oil, results of future drilling and marketing activity, future production and costs, and other factors detailed in the Company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
CABOT OIL & GAS RESULTS  Page 3
 
 
CABOT OIL & GAS RESULTS  Page 4
 
 
CABOT OIL & GAS RESULTS  Page 5
 
 
CABOT OIL & GAS RESULTS  Page 6
 
 
CABOT OIL & GAS RESULTS  Page 7
 
 


