FILE:COG/COG-8K-20051027204154.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On October 27, 2005, we issued a press release with respect to our 2005 third quarter earnings. The press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report. The press release contains certain measures (discussed below) which may be deemed "non-GAAP financial measures" as defined in Item 10 of Regulation S-K of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. In each case, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure and information reconciling the GAAP and non-GAAP measures is also included in the press release.
 
Exhibit 99.1 shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated therein by reference.
 
From time to time management discloses Discretionary Cash Flow, Net Income excluding selected items, Earnings per Share excluding selected items and Net Debt calculations and ratios. These non-GAAP financial measures, to the extent included in Exhibit 99.1, are reconciled to the most comparable GAAP financial measure in Exhibit 99.1.
 
Discretionary Cash Flow is defined as Net Income plus non-cash charges and Exploration Expense. Discretionary Cash Flow is widely accepted as a financial indicator of an oil and gas company's ability to generate cash which is used to internally fund exploration and development activities, pay dividends and service debt. Discretionary Cash Flow is presented based on management's belief that this non-GAAP measure is useful information to investors when comparing our cash flows with the cash flows of other companies that use the Full Cost method of accounting for oil and gas producing activities or have different financing and capital structures or tax rates. Discretionary Cash Flow is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to cash flows from operating activities, as defined by GAAP, or as a measure of liquidity, or an alternative to Net Income.
 
Net Income excluding selected items and Earnings per Share excluding selected items are presented based on management's belief that these non-GAAP measures enable a user of the financial information to understand the impact of these items on reported results. Additionally, this presentation provides a beneficial comparison to similarly adjusted measurements of prior periods. Net Income and Earnings per Share excluding selected items is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to Net Income and Earnings per Share, as defined by GAAP.
 
The total Debt to total Capitalization ratio is calculated by dividing total Debt by the sum of total Debt and total Stockholders' Equity. This ratio is a GAAP measurement which is presented in our annual and interim filings and management believes this ratio is useful to investors in determining the Company's leverage. Net Debt and the Net Debt to total Capitalization ratio are non-GAAP measures which have been presented in Exhibit 99.1. Net Debt is calculated by subtracting Cash and Cash Equivalents from Total Debt. Management believes that these measurements are also useful to investors since the Company has the ability to and may decide to use a portion of its Cash and Cash Equivalents to retire Debt. Additionally,
as the Company may incur additional expenditures without increasing debt, it is appropriate to apply Cash and Cash Equivalents to Debt in calculating the Net Debt to total Capitalization ratio.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: October 27, 2005
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
 
 
Key highlights include:
 
Record third quarter and nine-month net income and discretionary cash flows, along with increased natural gas production in year-to-date comparable periods.
 
Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation (NYSE: COG) today announced third quarter net income of $33.8 million, or $0.69 per share, nearly double the $17.8 million, or $0.37 per share, reported in last year's third quarter. At the same time, discretionary cash flows also reached new highs, rising to $92.9 million this year versus $77.0 million last year (see attached reconciliation for details). "Unprecedented commodity prices drove these record level financial results for the quarter," said Dan O. Dinges, Chairman, President and CEO. Cash flow from operations for the quarter declined to $59.0 million, compared to $70.1 million in the comparable quarter last year, due to changes in working capital.
HOUSTON, October 27, 2005
 
Compared to last year's third quarter, the Company experienced a 34 percent increase in realized natural gas prices and a 44 percent increase in oil prices. Natural gas price realizations were $6.77 per Mcf for the quarter compared to $5.07 per Mcf last year. The quarterly oil price comparison was $46.05 per barrel in 2005 versus $32.03 per barrel in 2004. "In addition to the increase in price realizations, I am very pleased with the improved production profiles coming from our East, West and Canadian portfolios. The progress with the drill bit in those regions somewhat offset the production deferrals we have experienced in the Gulf Coast region as a result of the recent hurricanes," added Dinges. Production for the quarter was 20.5 Bcfe versus the 21.9 Bcfe recorded from the third quarter of 2004. "The quarterly shortfall includes the hurricane impacts that deferred nearly 1.0 Bcfe of production in the Gulf Coast region," commented Dinges.
 
In terms of quarterly expense comparison, operating expenses grew about 20% with the largest increase coming from an increase in dry hole expense. Also contributing were higher "Taxes Other Than Income" due to the increased price realizations and brokered natural gas cost. "Additionally, stock compensation expense has grown as we have become more aggressive in our retention efforts at all levels in the organization to attract and retain talented individuals," stated Dinges. "The industry experienced many years of lackluster performance and many people left the industry. Talented people are critical for future success."
 
Year-to-Date
 
For the nine months ended September 2005, Cabot reported net income of $89.9 million, or $1.84 per share, versus $56.2 million, or $1.15 per share, for the first nine months of 2004. "This level of net income exceeds the full-year net income figure reported for 2004," commented Dinges. Also setting new benchmarks for the nine months were cash flow from operations of $247.1 million and discretionary cash flow of $255.2 million. Last year's nine-month figures were $215.9 million and $211.3 million, respectively.
 
Higher realized commodity prices provided the improvement in revenues, assisted by increased natural gas production year-to-date. The overall production profile, however, was down less than one percent, with the decline entirely attributable to the hurricane deferrals. Increased expenses offset part of the revenue pickup, with the largest increases occurring in exploration, DD&A, direct operations, and other taxes.
 
In terms of the balance sheet, the Company ended the quarter with a $10 million increase in debt, which together with existing cash was used to fund approximately $60 million in property acquisitions that were discussed in the October 12, 2005 operational press release. Also the current liability level grew primarily due to the mark-to-market for outstanding derivative instruments.
 
For both 2005 reporting periods (the quarter and year-to-date) there were no material selected items. However, the comparable 2004 periods were impacted by certain items, which are highlighted in the Selected Item Review and Reconciliation of Net Income and Earnings Per Share table included with this release.
 
"The strength of the production growth coming from the East, West and to a lesser extent Canada, highlights the impact of our transition toward resource type plays within our portfolio," explained Dinges. "With a plan for 2006 that includes further expansion of these efforts and more resource drilling in our Gulf Coast operation, look for 5 to 10 percent organic production growth in 2006."
 
Conference Call
 
Listen in live to Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation's 2005 third quarter financial and operating results discussion with financial analysts on Friday, October 28, at 9:30 am EDT (8:30 am CDT) at . A teleconference replay will also be available at (800) 642-1687, (U.S./Canada) or (706) 645-9291 (International), pass code #1308115. A replay will be available from Friday, October 28, through Friday, November 4, 2005. The latest financial guidance, including the Company's hedge positions, along with a replay of the web cast, which will be archived for one year, are available in the investor relations section of the Company's website at .
www.cabotog.com
www.cabotog.com
 
 
Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation, headquartered in Houston, Texas, is a leading independent natural gas producer with substantial interests in the Gulf Coast, including Texas and Louisiana; the West, including the Rocky Mountains and Mid-Continent; the East, and Canada. For additional information, visit the Company's Internet homepage at .
www.cabotog.com
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
The statements regarding future financial performance and results, production growth, and the other statements which are not historical facts contained in this release are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, market factors, the market price (including regional basis differentials) of natural gas and oil, results of future drilling and marketing activity, future production and costs, and other factors detailed in the Company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
 
CABOT OIL & GAS RESULTS  Page 4
 
 
CABOT OIL & GAS RESULTS  Page 5
 
 
 
CABOT OIL & GAS RESULTS  Page 6
 
 
 
 
 
CABOT OIL & GAS RESULTS  Page 7
 
 
 
 
 
 
CABOT OIL & GAS RESULTS  Page 8
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


