FILE:COG/COG-8K-20061026143215.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On October 26, 2006, we issued a press release with respect to our 2006 third quarter earnings. The press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report. The press release contains certain measures (discussed below) which may be deemed "non-GAAP financial measures" as defined in Item 10 of Regulation S-K of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. In each case, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure and information reconciling the GAAP and non-GAAP measures is also included in the press release.
Exhibit 99.1 shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated therein by reference.
From time to time management discloses Discretionary Cash Flow, Net Income excluding selected items, Earnings per Share excluding selected items and Net Debt calculations and ratios. These non-GAAP financial measures, to the extent included in Exhibit 99.1, are reconciled to the most comparable GAAP financial measures in Exhibit 99.1.
Discretionary Cash Flow is defined as Net Income plus non-cash charges and Exploration Expense. Discretionary Cash Flow is widely accepted as a financial indicator of an oil and gas company's ability to generate cash which is used to internally fund exploration and development activities, pay dividends and service debt. Discretionary Cash Flow is presented based on management's belief that this non-GAAP measure is useful information to investors when comparing our cash flows with the cash flows of other companies that use the Full Cost method of accounting for oil and gas producing activities or have different financing and capital structures or tax rates. Discretionary Cash Flow is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to cash flows from operating activities, as defined by GAAP, or as a measure of liquidity, or an alternative to Net Income.
Net Income excluding selected items and Earnings per Share excluding selected items are presented based on management's belief that these non-GAAP measures enable a user of the financial information to understand the impact of these items on reported results. Additionally, this presentation provides a beneficial comparison to similarly adjusted measurements of prior periods. Net Income and Earnings per Share excluding selected items is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to Net Income and Earnings per Share, as defined by GAAP.
The total Debt to total Capitalization ratio is calculated by dividing total Debt by the sum of total Debt and total Stockholders' Equity. This ratio is a measurement which is presented in our annual and interim filings and management believes this ratio is useful to investors in determining the Company's leverage. Net Debt and the Net Debt to total Capitalization ratio are non-GAAP measures which have been presented in Exhibit 99.1. Net Debt is calculated by subtracting Cash and Cash Equivalents from Total Debt. Management believes that these measurements are also useful to investors since the Company has the ability to and may decide to use a portion of its Cash and Cash Equivalents to retire Debt. Additionally, as the Company may incur additional expenditures without increasing debt, it is appropriate to apply Cash and Cash Equivalents to Debt in calculating the Net Debt to total Capitalization ratio.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)    Exhibits
99.1    Press release issued by Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation dated October 26, 2006.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: October 26, 2006
99.1        Press release issued by Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation dated October 26, 2006

Exhibit 99.1
 
Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation (NYSE: COG) today announced record third quarter net income, which was a record even before recording a $143.6 million after-tax gain from the strategic sale of its offshore and south Louisiana assets that closed September 29, 2006. Reported financial results for the quarter included net income of $189.0 million or $3.92 per share, cash flow from operations of $86.7 million and discretionary cash flow of $21.5 million. The discretionary cash flow figure was reduced by a $101.4 million tax provision related to the asset sale, to be funded from the sale proceeds.
HOUSTON, October 26, 2006
-
Results for the quarter, after removing the benefit of the sale, would have been: net income of $45.4 million, or $0.94 per share, cash flow from operations of $86.7 million (unchanged) and discretionary cash flow of $122.9 million, all record levels for the third quarter. These results compare favorably to last year's third quarter reported numbers of $33.8 million, or $0.69 per share, $59.0 million and $92.9 million for net income, earnings per share, cash flow from operations and discretionary cash flow, respectively.
Driving the positive results was a 12 percent increase in production, along with increases in oil price realizations. "Each region continues to contribute to the equivalent production increase," said Dan O. Dinges, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. "I am pleased with our production growth and our existing hedge position that improved our gas price realizations by $0.41 per Mcf in the softening commodity price environment we experienced in the third quarter."
For the quarter, natural gas price realizations were essentially flat at $6.76 per Mcf compared to last year's third quarter. Oil prices improved 52 percent to $69.80 per barrel as the absolute oil price strengthened between periods.
The quarterly expense comparison indicates increases in year-over-year direct operations expense, DD&A, G&A expense and interest expense. This was offset by reductions in exploration, stock compensation, brokered natural gas cost and other taxes. The net effect to expenses was an increase of eight percent, in line with expectations.
"The third quarter built on the production momentum we experienced in the second quarter," commented Dinges. "Our fourth quarter production profile will reflect the results of our recent divestiture, but production coming from our remaining Gulf Coast assets is expected to increase in the fourth quarter."
Year-to-Date
The reported numbers year-to-date were $289.0 million for net income, $356.1 million for cash flow from operations and $251.0 million for discretionary cash flow (which includes $101.4 million reduction due to the sale). Without the gain on the sale, these results would have been $145.4, $356.1 (unchanged), and $352.4 million, respectively, which compares to $89.9, $247.1, and $255.2 million for last year's comparable period.
For the nine-months of 2006, Cabot's $145.4 million net income level before the asset sale nearly matched the 2005 full year net income of $148.4 million, which is the current record annual net income level for the Company. Driving the results was an eight percent increase in production, a 17 percent increase in natural gas price realizations and a 51 percent increase in oil price realizations, offset by cost increases.
"Cabot is establishing itself as an industry leader in pure organic production growth," added Dinges. "Though we have sold our non-core south Louisiana and offshore properties, we still expect to see absolute production growth in 2006."
Because of the sale closing at the end of the quarter, Cabot was unable to reduce its debt until early October. Accordingly, the debt balance at September 30, 2006 was $400.0 million with $322.1 million in cash and $909.8 million in equity, giving Cabot a net debt to adjusted total capitalization ratio of 7.9 percent (see attached reconciliation for details of this measurement).
Conference Call
Listen in live to Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation's 2006 third quarter financial and operating results discussion with financial analysts on Thursday, October 26, at 4:00pm EDT (3:00pm CDT) at . A teleconference replay will also be available at (800) 642-1687, (U.S./Canada) or (706) 645-9291 (International), pass code 7016094. A replay will be available through Saturday, October 28, 2006. The latest financial guidance, including the Company's hedge positions, along with a replay of the web cast, which will be archived for one year, are available in the investor relations section of the Company's website at .
www.cabotog.com
www.cabotog.com
Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation, headquartered in Houston, Texas, is a leading independent natural gas producer with substantial interests onshore Gulf Coast; the West, with the Rocky Mountains and Mid-Continent; the East and in Canada. For additional information, visit the Company's Internet homepage at .
www.cabotog.com
Forward-Looking Statements
The statements regarding future financial performance and results and the other statements which are not historical facts contained in this release are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, market factors, the market price (including regional basis differentials) of natural gas and oil, results of future drilling and marketing activity, future production and costs, and other factors detailed in the Company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
CABOT OIL & GAS RESULTS  Page 4
 
CABOT OIL & GAS RESULTS  Page 5
 
CABOT OIL & GAS RESULTS  Page 6
 
 
CABOT OIL & GAS RESULTS  Page 7
 
 
 


