FILE:COG/COG-8K-20060504154417.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On May 4, 2006, we issued a press release with respect to our 2006 first quarter earnings. The press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report. The press release contains certain measures (discussed below) which may be deemed "non-GAAP financial measures" as defined in Item 10 of Regulation S-K of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. In each case, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure and information reconciling the GAAP and non-GAAP measures is also included in the press release.
Exhibit 99.1 shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated therein by reference.
From time to time management discloses Discretionary Cash Flow, Net Income excluding selected items, Earnings per Share excluding selected items and Net Debt calculations and ratios. These non-GAAP financial measures, to the extent included in Exhibit 99.1, are reconciled to the most comparable GAAP financial measures in Exhibit 99.1.
Discretionary Cash Flow is defined as Net Income plus non-cash charges and Exploration Expense. Discretionary Cash Flow is widely accepted as a financial indicator of an oil and gas company's ability to generate cash which is used to internally fund exploration and development activities, pay dividends and service debt. Discretionary Cash Flow is presented based on management's belief that this non-GAAP measure is useful information to investors when comparing our cash flows with the cash flows of other companies that use the Full Cost method of accounting for oil and gas producing activities or have different financing and capital structures or tax rates. Discretionary Cash Flow is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to cash flows from operating activities, as defined by GAAP, or as a measure of liquidity, or an alternative to Net Income.
Net Income excluding selected items and Earnings per Share excluding selected items are presented based on management's belief that these non-GAAP measures enable a user of the financial information to understand the impact of these items on reported results. Additionally, this presentation provides a beneficial comparison to similarly adjusted measurements of prior periods. Net Income and Earnings per Share excluding selected items is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to Net Income and Earnings per Share, as defined by GAAP.
The total Debt to total Capitalization ratio is calculated by dividing total Debt by the sum of total Debt and total Stockholders' Equity. This ratio is a GAAP measurement which is presented in our annual and interim filings and management believes this ratio is useful to investors in determining the Company's leverage. Net Debt and the Net Debt to total Capitalization ratio are non-GAAP measures which have been presented in Exhibit 99.1. Net Debt is calculated by subtracting Cash and Cash Equivalents from Total Debt. Management believes that these measurements are also useful to investors since the Company has the ability to and may decide to use a portion of its Cash and Cash Equivalents to retire Debt. Additionally, as the Company may incur additional expenditures without increasing debt, it is appropriate to apply Cash and Cash Equivalents to Debt in calculating the Net Debt to total Capitalization ratio.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: May 4, 2006
99.1        Press release issued by Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation dated May 4, 2006

Exhibit 99.1
 
Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation (NYSE: COG) today announced first quarter 2006 net income of $53.2 million or $1.09 per share, a 156 percent increase over prior year first quarter net income of $20.8 million or $0.43 per share, and 36 percent above the previous first quarter record set in 2001. The cash flow comparisons between periods also provide new first quarter highs with operating cash flow totaling $155 million, and discretionary cash flow totaling $117.9 million, compared to first quarter 2005 results of $108.0 million and $82.7 million, respectively.
HOUSTON, May 4, 2006
-
The Company's average natural gas sales price for the quarter was $8.22 per Mcf versus $5.71 per Mcf in the comparable quarter last year, while the average price for oil, between comparable first quarters, was $61.11 per barrel versus $42.11 per barrel. Dan O. Dinges, Cabot's Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer said, "As a result of 2005 hedges expiring and a 2006 hedge position focused on wide collars that allow downside protection and upside participation  our overall realizations improved dramatically."
"Production for the quarter was slightly higher than the comparable quarter last year (21.3 Bcfe compared to 21.1 Bcfe) as new wells came on line in late March," added Dinges. "Cabot ended the quarter producing 257.5 Mmcfe per day with all regions exceeding their budgeted production targets as we entered the second quarter of 2006."
Contributing to the higher production has been a strong drilling success rate, which for the first quarter was 97 percent, compared to 86 percent in the first quarter of last year. "Encouraged by
our recent drilling success and an acreage acquisition focus, Cabot has increased its capital spending program by approximately $40 million for 2006 bringing the total to about $435 million," stated Dinges.
Expenses increased in aggregate due to cost pressures, stock compensation (resulting from the adoption of SFAS 123R) and higher other taxes driven by commodity prices. "Despite the overall increase there was a 40 percent decline in exploration expense driven by the changing risk profile of our drilling program," added Dinges. "I am also pleased to report that Cabot's balance sheet remains strong as the Company repaid $45 million of debt during the first quarter bringing our debt to capitalization ratio to 30 percent."
Conference Call
Listen in live to Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation's 2006 first quarter financial and operating results discussion with financial analysts on Thursday, May 4, at 4:00pm EDT (3:00pm CDT) at . A teleconference replay will also be available at (800) 642-1687, (U.S./Canada) or (706) 645-9291 (International), pass code 8219265. A replay will be available through Thursday, May 11, 2006. The latest financial guidance, including the Company's hedge positions, along with a replay of the web cast, which will be archived for one year, are available in the investor relations section of the Company's website at .
www.cabotog.com
www.cabotog.com
Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation, headquartered in Houston, Texas, is a leading independent natural gas producer with substantial interests in the Gulf Coast, including Texas and Louisiana; the West, with the Rocky Mountains and Mid-Continent; the East and an expansion effort in Canada. For additional information, visit the Company's Internet homepage at .
www.cabotog.com
Forward-Looking Statements
The statements regarding future financial performance and results and the other statements which are not historical facts contained in this release are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, market factors, the market price (including regional basis differentials) of natural gas and oil, results of future drilling and marketing activity, future production and costs, and other factors detailed in the Company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
CABOT OIL & GAS RESULTS  Page 3
 
CABOT OIL & GAS RESULTS  Page 4
 
CABOT OIL & GAS RESULTS  Page 5
 
 
CABOT OIL & GAS RESULTS  Page 6
 
 
 
CABOT OIL & GAS RESULTS  Page 7
 
 


