FILE:COG/COG-8K-20060724144312.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On July 24, 2006, we issued a press release with respect to our 2006 second quarter earnings. The press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report. The press release contains certain measures (discussed below) which may be deemed "non-GAAP financial measures" as defined in Item 10 of Regulation S-K of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. In each case, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure and information reconciling the GAAP and non-GAAP measures is also included in the press release.
Exhibit 99.1 shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated therein by reference.
From time to time management discloses Discretionary Cash Flow, Net Income excluding selected items, Earnings per Share excluding selected items and Net Debt calculations and ratios. These non-GAAP financial measures, to the extent included in Exhibit 99.1, are reconciled to the most comparable GAAP financial measures in Exhibit 99.1.
Discretionary Cash Flow is defined as Net Income plus non-cash charges and Exploration Expense. Discretionary Cash Flow is widely accepted as a financial indicator of an oil and gas company's ability to generate cash which is used to internally fund exploration and development activities, pay dividends and service debt. Discretionary Cash Flow is presented based on management's belief that this non-GAAP measure is useful information to investors when comparing our cash flows with the cash flows of other companies that use the Full Cost method of accounting for oil and gas producing activities or have different financing and capital structures or tax rates. Discretionary Cash Flow is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to cash flows from operating activities, as defined by GAAP, or as a measure of liquidity, or an alternative to Net Income.
Net Income excluding selected items and Earnings per Share excluding selected items are presented based on management's belief that these non-GAAP measures enable a user of the financial information to understand the impact of these items on reported results. Additionally, this presentation provides a beneficial comparison to similarly adjusted measurements of prior periods. Net Income and Earnings per Share excluding selected items is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to Net Income and Earnings per Share, as defined by GAAP.
The total Debt to total Capitalization ratio is calculated by dividing total Debt by the sum of total Debt and total Stockholders' Equity. This ratio is a measurement which is presented in our annual and interim filings and management believes this ratio is useful to investors in determining the Company's leverage. Net Debt and the Net Debt to total Capitalization ratio are non-GAAP measures which have been presented in Exhibit 99.1. Net Debt is calculated by subtracting Cash and Cash Equivalents from Total Debt. Management believes that these measurements are also useful to investors since the Company has the ability to and may decide to use a portion of its Cash and Cash Equivalents to retire Debt. Additionally, as the Company may incur additional expenditures without increasing debt, it is appropriate to apply Cash and Cash Equivalents to Debt in calculating the Net Debt to total Capitalization ratio.
Item 9. 01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: July 24, 2006
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation (NYSE: COG) announced today record second quarter financial results and record quarterly equivalent production. "The 23.5 Bcfe of quarterly production is ten percent higher than last year's comparable period and the highest ever recorded by Cabot during a quarter, highlighting the tangible results of our strategic direction," stated Dan O. Dinges, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. "The majority of the increment came from our low-risk resource plays throughout the Company."
HOUSTON, July 24, 2006
-
This strong level for both production and high commodity prices resulted in net income of $46.9 million, or $0.96 per share, compared to $35.4 million, or $0.72 per share, for the same period last year. Cash flow from operations totaled $114.4 million versus $80.1 million in the same period of 2005, while discretionary cash flow reached $111.6 million versus $79.6 million for the comparable quarter last year.
Cabot's 2006 natural gas price realizations outperformed 2005 due to an advantageous hedge position. The Company's 2006 second quarter realized gas price of $6.77 includes a $0.34 per Mcf pick up associated with the hedges versus $6.02 for the same period in 2005, which included a $0.61 loss associated with hedging activities. The realized oil price for the second quarter was $68.32, compared to $43.76 in last year's comparable period. Hedges have not had an impact on 2006 realized oil prices since index prices have been within the range of our collars, while in 2005 the quarterly oil price was reduced by $6.98 per barrel. Cabot has entered into additional 2007 hedges and is approximately one-third hedged for 2007, with a weighted average natural gas floor of $8.83 per Mcf and ceiling of $12.16 per Mcf (including basis differentials), and an oil hedge collar of $60.00 to $80.00 per Bbl. (See Investor Relations tab on the website for hedge details.)
"We are extremely pleased with the operational progress in all regions, with each showing production growth, and with the improved financial results," said Dinges. "The goal we set for 2006, to continue to position the Company toward emphasizing large scale development of reserves through drilling and a focused exploration opportunity, has proven to be a successful strategy for Cabot."
Expenses trended higher in all categories between comparable second quarter periods. This increase was due to the continued inflation in the general industry operations and new accounting rules for stock compensation. This was partially offset by a lower corporate tax rate due to the recognition of a change in Texas state income taxes.
Year-to-Date
On a year-to-date basis, Cabot reported net income of $100.0 million, or $2.05 per share, cash flow from operations of $269.4 million and discretionary cash flow of $229.5 million. All of these compare favorably with last year's reported levels of $56.2 million, or $1.15 per share, for net income, $188.1 million for cash flow from operations and $162.3 million in discretionary cash flow.
The six-month reporting period benefited from higher realized commodity prices along with a six percent increase in production over the first six months of 2005.
Debt increased in the second quarter primarily due to the stock buyback program which netted 666,200 shares for approximately $27.2 million, or a weighted average price of $40.81 per share during the quarter. This leaves a remaining authorization of 819,950 shares. "With the stock market valuation significantly disconnected from recent M&A activity metrics, we felt our stock was a bargain," commented Dinges. "Additionally, we were able to purchase reserves at a level competitive with our all-in finding cost for the last two years."
Conference Call
Listen in live to Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation's 2006 second quarter financial and operating results discussion with financial analysts on Monday, July 24, at 4:00pm EDT (3:00pm CDT) at . A teleconference replay will also be available at (800) 642-1687, (U.S./Canada) or (706) 645-9291 (International), pass code 2397294. A replay will be available through Monday, July 31, 2006. The latest financial guidance, including the Company's hedge positions, along with a replay of the web cast, which will be archived for one year, are available in the investor relations section of the Company's website at .
www.cabotog.com
www.cabotog.com
Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation, headquartered in Houston, Texas, is a leading independent natural gas producer with substantial interests in the Gulf Coast, including Texas and Louisiana; the West, with the Rocky Mountains and Mid-Continent; the East and an expansion effort in Canada. For additional information, visit the Company's Internet homepage at .
www.cabotog.com
Forward-Looking Statements
The statements regarding future financial performance and results and the other statements which are not historical facts contained in this release are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, market factors, the market price (including regional basis differentials) of natural gas and oil, results of future drilling and marketing activity, future production and costs, and other factors detailed in the Company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
CABOT OIL & GAS RESULTS  Page 4
 
 
CABOT OIL & GAS RESULTS  Page 5
 
In addition, the 2006 figure includes expense related to stock options and stock appreciation rights following the adoption of SFAS 123(R).
CABOT OIL & GAS RESULTS  Page 6
 
 
CABOT OIL & GAS RESULTS  Page 7
 
 
 
CABOT OIL & GAS RESULTS  Page 8
 
 
 


