FILE:COG/COG-8K-20070430183936.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2):
see
 
 
 
 
 
On April 30, 2007, we issued a press release with respect to our 2007 first quarter earnings. The press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report. The press release contains certain measures (discussed below) which may be deemed "non-GAAP financial measures" as defined in Item 10 of Regulation S-K of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. In each case, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure and information reconciling the GAAP and non-GAAP measures is also included in the press release.
Exhibit 99.1 shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated therein by reference.
From time to time management discloses Discretionary Cash Flow, Net Income excluding selected items, Earnings per Share excluding selected items and Net Debt calculations and ratios. These non-GAAP financial measures, to the extent included in Exhibit 99.1, are reconciled to the most comparable GAAP financial measures in Exhibit 99.1.
Discretionary Cash Flow is defined as Net Income plus non-cash charges and Exploration Expense. Discretionary Cash Flow is widely accepted as a financial indicator of an oil and gas company's ability to generate cash which is used to internally fund exploration and development activities, pay dividends and service debt. Discretionary Cash Flow is presented based on management's belief that this non-GAAP measure is useful information to investors when comparing our cash flows with the cash flows of other companies that use the Full Cost method of accounting for oil and gas producing activities or have different financing and capital structures or tax rates. Discretionary Cash Flow is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to cash flows from operating activities, as defined by GAAP, or as a measure of liquidity, or an alternative to Net Income.
Net Income excluding selected items and Earnings per Share excluding selected items are presented based on management's belief that these non-GAAP measures enable a user of the financial information to understand the impact of these items on reported results. Additionally, this presentation provides a beneficial comparison to similarly adjusted measurements of prior periods. Net Income and Earnings per Share excluding selected items is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to Net Income and Earnings per Share, as defined by GAAP.
The total Debt to total Capitalization ratio is calculated by dividing total Debt by the sum of total Debt and total Stockholders' Equity. This ratio is a measurement which is presented in our annual and interim filings and management believes this ratio is useful to investors in determining the Company's leverage. Net Debt and the Net Debt to total Capitalization ratio are non-GAAP measures which have been presented in Exhibit 99.1. Net Debt is calculated by subtracting Cash and Cash Equivalents from Total Debt. Management believes that these measurements are also useful to investors since the Company has the ability to and may decide to use a portion of its Cash and Cash Equivalents to retire Debt. Additionally, as the Company may incur additional expenditures without increasing debt, it is appropriate to apply Cash and Cash Equivalents to Debt in calculating the Net Debt to total Capitalization ratio.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: April 30, 2007
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation today announced first quarter 2007 net income of $48.5 million, or $0.50 per share, which includes $4.9 million, or $0.05 per share, of after- tax gain. This gain relates to the closing on certain consents to assign resulting from the third quarter 2006 asset sale. Last year for the first quarter, the Company set a record with $53.2 million in net income, or $0.55 per share.
HOUSTON, April 30, 2007
"The lack of an early winter and continuing high levels of natural gas storage put downward pressure on natural gas prices. Lower gas prices along with reduced oil production due to the sale of assets in the third quarter of 2006 reduced the comparative revenue," said Dan O. Dinges, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer.
The Company's average realized natural gas price for the quarter was $7.42 per Mcf, versus $8.22 per Mcf recorded in the first quarter of 2006. Oil realizations were down by nearly 13 percent in comparable first quarter periods, reporting $53.36 per barrel for the 2007 first quarter.
"Our organic drilling program has been very successful in increasing our production," stated Dinges. "We have almost overcome our loss of production from our third quarter 2006 asset sale; our production in the first quarter of 2007 was 21.0 Bcfe versus 21.3 Bcfe in the first quarter of 2006. When you look at the production for our going forward' assets, this year's first quarter equivalent production was 21.0 Bcfe versus last year's pro forma first quarter level of 16.8 Bcfe, or 25 percent higher this year over last." Dinges added, "Our efforts to ramp up our drilling program, which aided in this increased production, benefited from the milder winter, as we drilled 100 wells in the first
quarter of 2007 with a 99 percent success rate. This well count was 41 percent above the comparable period last year and more successful."
Lower prices also led to lower cash flow levels, as the Company reported discretionary cash flow of $106.7 million, compared to $117.9 million last year. For operating cash flow, the 2007 first quarter number was $135.9 million, compared to 2006 at $155.0 million.
Expenses in total were lower with improvements in exploration, other taxes and interest expense more than offsetting higher levels for depreciation, depletion and amortization, general and administrative and stock compensation expense.
"While I would like to set earnings records quarter after quarter, clearly this pricing environment, while it is still very good, made it difficult to improve year-over-year," commented Dinges. "My excitement comes not from book earnings, but from the program expansion, increased drilling success and our increase in production."
Conference Call
Listen in live to Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation's first quarter financial and operating results discussion with financial analysts on Tuesday, May 1, at 9:30 a.m. EDT (8:30 a.m. CDT) at . A teleconference replay will also be available at (800) 642-1687, (U.S./Canada) or (706) 645-9291 (International), pass code 4857770. A replay will be available through Thursday, May 3, 2007. The latest financial guidance, including the Company's hedge positions, along with a replay of the web cast, which will be archived for one year, are available in the investor relations section of the Company's website at .
www.cabotog.com
www.cabotog.com
Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation, headquartered in Houston, Texas is a leading independent natural gas producer with substantial interests in the Gulf Coast, including Texas and Louisiana; the West, with the Rocky Mountains and Mid-Continent; the East and in Canada. For additional information, visit the Company's Internet homepage at .
www.cabotog.com
 
The statements regarding future financial performance and results and the other statements which are not historical facts contained in this release are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, market factors, the market price (including regional basis differentials) of natural gas and oil, results of future drilling and marketing activity, future production and costs, and other factors detailed in the Company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
CABOT OIL & GAS RESULTS  Page 4
 
CABOT OIL & GAS RESULTS  Page 5
 
CABOT OIL & GAS RESULTS  Page 6
 
 
CABOT OIL & GAS RESULTS  Page 7
 


