FILE:COG/COG-8K-20070215193604.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On February 15, 2007, we issued a press release with respect to our 2006 fourth quarter earnings. The press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report. The press release contains certain measures (discussed below) which may be deemed "non-GAAP financial measures" as defined in Item 10 of Regulation S-K of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. In each case, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure and information reconciling the GAAP and non-GAAP measures is also included in the press release.
Exhibit 99.1 shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated therein by reference.
From time to time management discloses Discretionary Cash Flow, Net Income excluding selected items, Earnings per Share excluding selected items and Net Debt calculations and ratios. These non-GAAP financial measures, to the extent included in Exhibit 99.1, are reconciled to the most comparable GAAP financial measures in Exhibit 99.1.
Discretionary Cash Flow is defined as Net Income plus non-cash charges and Exploration Expense. Discretionary Cash Flow is widely accepted as a financial indicator of an oil and gas company's ability to generate cash which is used to internally fund exploration and development activities, pay dividends and service debt. Discretionary Cash Flow is presented based on management's belief that this non-GAAP measure is useful information to investors when comparing our cash flows with the cash flows of other companies that use the Full Cost method of accounting for oil and gas producing activities or have different financing and capital structures or tax rates. Discretionary Cash Flow is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to cash flows from operating activities, as defined by GAAP, or as a measure of liquidity, or an alternative to Net Income.
Net Income excluding selected items and Earnings per Share excluding selected items are presented based on management's belief that these non-GAAP measures enable a user of the financial information to understand the impact of these items on reported results. Additionally, this presentation provides a beneficial comparison to similarly adjusted measurements of prior periods. Net Income and Earnings per Share excluding selected items is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to Net Income and Earnings per Share, as defined by GAAP.
The total Debt to total Capitalization ratio is calculated by dividing total Debt by the sum of total Debt and total Stockholders' Equity. This ratio is a measurement which is presented in our annual and interim filings and management believes this ratio is useful to investors in determining the Company's leverage. Net Debt and the Net Debt to total Capitalization ratio are non-GAAP measures which have been presented in Exhibit 99.1. Net Debt is calculated by subtracting Cash and Cash Equivalents from Total Debt. Management believes that these measurements are also useful to investors since the Company has the ability to and may decide to use a portion of its Cash and Cash Equivalents to retire Debt. Additionally, as the Company may incur additional expenditures without increasing debt, it is appropriate to apply Cash and Cash Equivalents to Debt in calculating the Net Debt to total Capitalization ratio.
Item 9. 01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: February 15, 2007
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation (NYSE: COG) today announced the results for an excellent 2006 on nearly all of the reported metrics.
HOUSTON, February 15, 2007
 
 
 
 
 
"When I reflect on the year, we made progress in many different areas that culminated with a very successful year," commented Dan O. Dinges, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. "And now with the lower risk portfolio we have, I believe we are positioned for multiple years of successful drilling with growth off of the new base in production and reserves at a very competitive finding cost."
Full year results
Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation reported record net income of $321.2 million, or $6.64 per share, which exceeded the prior year's net income of $148.4 million or $3.04 per share. In addition to the $145.1 million earnings contribution from the sale of certain south Louisiana, offshore and other properties, the year-over-year increase in net income is the result of increased production, along with higher realized prices for both natural gas and crude oil.
Cash flow from operations and discretionary cash flow for the year were $357.1 million and $356.9 million, respectively, both slightly below the figures reported in the prior year. The comparable cash flow figures in 2005 were $364.6 million for cash flow from operations and $374.4 million for discretionary cash flow.
"Our strategy to migrate our portfolio toward a more predictable, lower risk model culminated with the asset sale," said Dinges. "The early success of the transition is evident in Cabot's growing production profile and the high drilling success rate," said Dinges. "We grew total company production (4.6 percent) for the first time since 2002, even after removing a full quarter of production due to the sale. The retained properties in the portfolio experienced production growth of about 17 percent on a comparable basis year-over-year."
For the full year, natural gas price realizations were $7.13 per Mcf, compared to $6.74 per Mcf in 2005, although there was a significant decline in price indexes between 2006 and 2005. A hedge position covering a portion of production with an $8.25 per Mcf floor, led to the better realizations in 2006, versus a reduction from index prices that occurred in 2005. Oil realizations improved due to the expiration of lower price hedges in 2005. The Company realized $65.03 per barrel versus $44.19 per barrel.
"Expenses overall trended higher due to the inflationary pressures in the sector and competition for personnel," stated Dinges. "Operating expenses were up about 10 percent year-over-year with increases occurring in DD&A, G&A, direct operations and stock compensation, offset by lower exploration expense due to the strategic drilling change."
Fourth Quarter
The Company reported net income of $32.1 million, or $0.67 per share, for the fourth quarter compared to last year's record of $58.5 million, or $1.20 per share. The lower results were due to a 19 percent decline in realized natural gas prices, partially offset by increased oil prices, and a decline in the Gulf Coast region production due to the asset sale that removed over 36 Mmcfe per day (3.3 Bcfe), beginning October 1, 2006.
(see attached reconciliation for selected items)
Selected Items
The selected items that impacted the quarter and full year earnings figures, included a gain on sale of assets and an impairment of an oil and gas property in the 2006 full year period. Removing the effect of these items, the net income comparison for 2006 versus 2005 would have been $178.5 million, or $3.69 per share, versus $144.3 million, or $2.95 per share. The quarter comparison for net income would have been $33.3 million, or $0.69 per share, and $53.1 million, or $1.09 per share.
Balance Sheet
Cabot used the proceeds from the sale of the properties to repay outstanding debt on its revolver, repurchase shares, fund its capital program and pay the related tax liability. At year-end, debt totaled $240 million, down from last year's $340 million. Additionally, Cabot repurchased nearly 1.1 million shares at a weighted average price of $42.71 per share during 2006. "When we have seen opportunity in our stock, we have made it a practice to repurchase it in the open market," said Dinges. "The share repurchase in 2006 had the effect of buying reserves in the ground at about $1.80 per Mcfe, which is very competitive with our reported finding cost."
Reserves
Once again, the Company has organically replaced reserves. Cabot's reserves increased six percent to 1,416.1 Bcfe in 2006, up 12 percent, after removing the divestiture of 68 Bcfe in the Gulf Coast from the beginning balance. Finding costs were $1.97 for drilling, $2.09 for drilling and revisions and $2.10 for drilling, revisions and purchases. "Embedded in these numbers are 18.4 Bcfe of negative revisions due to a short-term price drop at year-end, which added $0.15 to the finding cost amount," commented Dinges.
The Company's 273 percent all-in reserve replacement comes primarily from drilling additions of 253 Bcfe that came from a 96 percent successful drilling program. "These favorable results are evidence of a successfully balanced portfolio achieved by divesting non-strategic properties and replacing them with lower cost, repeatable drilling opportunities," stated Dinges. "The PUD percentage rose two percent due to our expanding drilling program."
Conference Call
Listen in live to Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation's 2006 year-end and fourth quarter financial and operating results discussion with financial analysts on Friday, February 16, at 9:30 a.m. EST (8:30 a.m. CST) at . A teleconference replay will also be available at (800) 642-1687, (U.S./Canada) or (706) 645-9291 (International), pass code 6650466. A replay will be available through Monday, February 19, 2007. The latest financial guidance, including the Company's hedge positions, along with a replay of the web cast, which will be archived for one year, are available in the investor relations section of the Company's website at .
www.cabotog.com
www.cabotog.com
 
Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation, headquartered in Houston, Texas is a leading independent natural gas producer with substantial interests in the Gulf Coast, including Texas and Louisiana; the West, with the Rocky Mountains and Mid-Continent; the East and in Canada. For additional information, visit the Company's Internet homepage at .
www.cabotog.com
The statements regarding future financial performance and results and the other statements which are not historical facts contained in this release are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, market factors, the market price (including regional basis differentials) of natural gas and oil, results of future drilling and marketing activity, future production and costs, and other factors detailed in the Company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
CABOT OIL & GAS RESULTS  Page 5
 
6
CABOT OIL & GAS RESULTS  Page
 
include expense related to stock options and stock appreciation rights following the adoption of SFAS 123(R).
CABOT OIL & GAS RESULTS  Page 7
 
 
8
CABOT OIL & GAS RESULTS  Page
 
 
 


