FILE:COG/COG-8K-20070725204125.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2):
see
 
 
 
 
 
On July 25, 2007, we issued a press release with respect to our 2007 second quarter earnings. The press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report. The press release contains certain measures (discussed below) which may be deemed "non-GAAP financial measures" as defined in Item 10 of Regulation S-K of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. In each case, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure and information reconciling the GAAP and non-GAAP measures is also included in the press release.
Exhibit 99.1 shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated therein by reference.
From time to time management discloses Discretionary Cash Flow, Net Income excluding selected items, Earnings per Share excluding selected items and Net Debt calculations and ratios. These non-GAAP financial measures, to the extent included in Exhibit 99.1, are reconciled to the most comparable GAAP financial measures in Exhibit 99.1.
Discretionary Cash Flow is defined as Net Income plus non-cash charges and Exploration Expense. Discretionary Cash Flow is widely accepted as a financial indicator of an oil and gas company's ability to generate cash which is used to internally fund exploration and development activities, pay dividends and service debt. Discretionary Cash Flow is presented based on management's belief that this non-GAAP measure is useful information to investors when comparing our cash flows with the cash flows of other companies that use the Full Cost method of accounting for oil and gas producing activities or have different financing and capital structures or tax rates. Discretionary Cash Flow is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to cash flows from operating activities, as defined by GAAP, or as a measure of liquidity, or an alternative to Net Income.
Net Income excluding selected items and Earnings per Share excluding selected items are presented based on management's belief that these non-GAAP measures enable a user of the financial information to understand the impact of these items on reported results. Additionally, this presentation provides a beneficial comparison to similarly adjusted measurements of prior periods. Net Income and Earnings per Share excluding selected items is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to Net Income and Earnings per Share, as defined by GAAP.
The total Debt to total Capitalization ratio is calculated by dividing total Debt by the sum of total Debt and total Stockholders' Equity. This ratio is a measurement which is presented in our annual and interim filings and management believes this ratio is useful to investors in determining the Company's leverage. Net Debt and the Net Debt to total Capitalization ratio are non-GAAP measures which have been presented in Exhibit 99.1. Net Debt is calculated by subtracting Cash and Cash Equivalents from Total Debt. Management believes that these measurements are also useful to investors since the Company has the ability to and may decide to use a portion of its Cash and Cash Equivalents to retire Debt. Additionally, as the Company may incur additional expenditures without increasing debt, it is appropriate to apply Cash and Cash Equivalents to Debt in calculating the Net Debt to total Capitalization ratio.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: July 25, 2007
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
- Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation today announced second quarter net income of $41.4 million, or $0.43 per share, along with cash flow from operations of $105.9 million and discretionary cash flow of $112.5 million. "These results compare to last year's record second quarter that included higher commodity prices and flush production from several new wells related to the south Louisiana and offshore assets that were sold in the third quarter of 2006," said Dan O. Dinges, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. Net income in the 2006 second quarter was $46.9 million, or $0.48 per share, while cash flow from operations totaled $114.4 million and discretionary cash flow was $111.6 million.
HOUSTON, July 25, 2007
Equivalent production levels in the second quarter grew 13 percent from last year's second quarter with all regions making advances, excluding the benefit of the south Louisiana and offshore production in 2006. "The Company produced 21.2 Bcfe in the 2007 second quarter on the strength of a very successful (98% success rate) organic drilling program," stated Dinges. "When including the sold production for 2006, the Company produced 23.5 Bcfe in last year's second quarter."
The Company's second quarter natural gas price realization benefited from its hedges, adding $0.66 per Mcf, resulting in a $7.24 per Mcf realization for the quarter. This price realization was 7 percent above the comparable 2006 level. Realized oil prices were $61.98 per barrel, 9 percent below the comparable period last year.
Expense levels were generally in line with guidance levels with a slight increase in operating cost and an increase in DD&A, which included a $2.4 million pre-tax increase in amortization of unproved property related to the Company's leasehold. "The DD&A guidance has been adjusted to reflect this increase going forward," commented Dinges. The balance sheet remains strong with an 18.5 percent net debt to total adjusted capitalization rate at quarter's end.
Year-to-date
In the six months ended June 30, 2007, Cabot reported net income of $89.9 million, or $0.93 per share compared to $100.0 million or $1.03 per share last year. The cash flow comparisons included cash flow from operations of $241.8 million in 2007 versus $269.4 million in 2006, while discretionary cash flow was $219.3 million in 2007, compared to $229.5 million in 2006.
Lower realized commodity prices and lower production volumes were the drivers of the results. "Clearly asset sales are going to affect comparisons," commented Dinges. "However, the equivalent pro-forma (or production from the ongoing reserve portfolio) volume comparisons highlight a 19 percent year-over-year increase and solidify our guidance of 12 to 18 percent for the year." The absolute comparison for year-to-date production is 42.2 Bcfe in 2007 versus 44.8 Bcfe in 2006.
Selected Items
Both the 2007 second quarter and the year-to-date figures were positively impacted by a non-cash gain on sale of assets. The non-cash gain on sale of assets, shown in detail in an attached table, had a $0.03 per share positive impact to net income for the second quarter and, combined with a first quarter gain on sale, an $0.08 per share pickup for the six-month year-to-date period. "These all related to small asset packages, which were yet to be closed from last year's south Louisiana and offshore sale," said Dinges.
Conference Call
Listen in live to Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation's second quarter financial and operating results discussion with financial analysts on Thursday, July 26, at 9:30 a.m. EDT (8:30 a.m. CDT) at . A teleconference replay will also be available at (800) 642-1687, (U.S./Canada) or (706) 645-9291 (International), pass code 4159414. The replay will be available through Saturday, July 28, 2007. The latest financial guidance, including the Company's hedge positions, along with a replay of the web cast, which will be archived for one year, are available in the investor relations section of the Company's website at .
www.cabotog.com
www.cabotog.com
Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation, headquartered in Houston, Texas is a leading independent natural gas producer with substantial interests in the Gulf Coast, including Texas and Louisiana; the West, with the Rocky Mountains and Mid-Continent; the East and in Canada. For additional information, visit the Company's Internet homepage at .
www.cabotog.com
The statements regarding future financial performance and results and the other statements which are not historical facts contained in this release are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, market factors, the market price (including regional basis differentials) of natural gas and oil, results of future drilling and marketing activity, future production and costs, and other factors detailed in the Company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
CABOT OIL & GAS RESULTS  Page 4
 
 
 
CABOT OIL & GAS RESULTS  Page 5
 
 
CABOT OIL & GAS RESULTS  Page 6
 
 
 
CABOT OIL & GAS RESULTS  Page 7
 
 
 


