FILE:COG/COG-8K-20071025184246.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On October 25, 2007, we issued a press release with respect to our 2007 third quarter earnings. The press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report. The press release contains certain measures (discussed below) which may be deemed "non-GAAP financial measures" as defined in Item 10 of Regulation S-K of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. In each case, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure and information reconciling the GAAP and non-GAAP measures is also included in the press release.
Exhibit 99.1 shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated therein by reference.
From time to time management discloses Discretionary Cash Flow, Net Income excluding selected items, Earnings per Share excluding selected items and Net Debt calculations and ratios. These non-GAAP financial measures, to the extent included in Exhibit 99.1, are reconciled to the most comparable GAAP financial measures in Exhibit 99.1.
Discretionary Cash Flow is defined as Net Income plus non-cash charges and Exploration Expense. Discretionary Cash Flow is widely accepted as a financial indicator of an oil and gas company's ability to generate cash which is used to internally fund exploration and development activities, pay dividends and service debt. Discretionary Cash Flow is presented based on management's belief that this non-GAAP measure is useful information to investors when comparing our cash flows with the cash flows of other companies that use the Full Cost method of accounting for oil and gas producing activities or have different financing and capital structures or tax rates. Discretionary Cash Flow is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to cash flows from operating activities, as defined by GAAP, or as a measure of liquidity, or an alternative to Net Income.
Net Income excluding selected items and Earnings per Share excluding selected items are presented based on management's belief that these non-GAAP measures enable a user of the financial information to understand the impact of these items on reported results. Additionally, this presentation provides a beneficial comparison to similarly adjusted measurements of prior periods. Net Income and Earnings per Share excluding selected items is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to Net Income and Earnings per Share, as defined by GAAP.
The total Debt to total Capitalization ratio is calculated by dividing total Debt by the sum of total Debt and total Stockholders' Equity. This ratio is a measurement which is presented in our annual and interim filings and management believes this ratio is useful to investors in determining the Company's leverage. Net Debt and the Net Debt to total Capitalization ratio are non-GAAP measures which have been presented in Exhibit 99.1. Net Debt is calculated by subtracting Cash and Cash Equivalents from Total Debt. Management believes that these measurements are also useful to investors since the Company has the ability to and may decide to use a portion of its Cash and Cash Equivalents to retire Debt. Additionally, as the Company may incur additional expenditures without increasing debt, it is appropriate to apply Cash and Cash Equivalents to Debt in calculating the Net Debt to total Capitalization ratio.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: October 25, 2007
99.1  Press release issued by Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation dated October 25, 2007

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation today announced third quarter net income of $35.5 million, or $0.37 per share, cash flow from operations of $86.8 million and discretionary cash flow of $121.7 million. "These results compare favorably to our historical third quarter outcomes," said Dan O. Dinges, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. "The net income figure is Cabot's second highest for a third quarter period, and the cash flow figures are both records for the quarter."
HOUSTON, October 25, 2007
Last year's third quarter results included the sale of the Company's south Louisiana and offshore properties, which generated a large gain, resulting in $189 million of net income, or $1.96 per share, $86.7 million of cash flow from operations and $21.5 million of discretionary cash flow. This year's third quarter includes a $2.9 million, net of tax, charge for impairment. Removing the results of asset sales and impairments in both quarters, the comparative results for net income is $38.4 million, or $0.40 per share for 2007, versus $45.3 million, or $0.47 per share for 2006, with the cash flow comparisons remaining unchanged.
Realized pricing between the comparative third quarters was essentially flat for both oil and natural gas. While oil has strengthened recently, third quarter prices fell within the Company's collared range. For natural gas, where weaker pricing has persisted, the Company realized $28.9 million from its hedge position for the quarter and $59.6 million year-to-date.
Equivalent production for the quarter totaled 21.9 Bcfe, up 14.7 percent over last year's pro forma comparison level of 19.1 Bcfe. The actual reported figure for last year was 23.0 Bcfe, which included production from the divested south Louisiana and offshore
Exhibit 99.1
properties. "Equivalent production for the third quarter remained solidly within our guidance," stated Dinges. "We returned to our pre-asset sale daily production levels at the end of September as we predicted; however, along with other industry players, we shut in Rocky Mountain production when prices fell below economic levels for October."
Operating expenses between quarters grew five percent, but are up less than one percent in total when the impairment is removed from the comparison. The only changes from guidance for the quarter were increased direct operations expense due primarily to lease maintenance activity and slightly higher DD&A.
Year-to-Date
For the first nine months of 2007, the Company reported net income of $125.4 million, or $1.29 per share, cash flow from operations of $328.6 million and discretionary cash flow of $341 million. This compares to $289 million, or $2.98 per share, $356.1 million and $251 million, respectively. Removing the impairment and the gain on the sale, the nine-month comparison for net income is $120.6 million, or $1.24 per share for 2007 versus $145.2 million, or $1.50 per share for 2006. Primarily driving this result is lower absolute oil production between periods, due to the 2006 asset sale.
"Through the nine months ended September 30, 2007, we have been actively drilling (359 gross wells, up 19 percent), acquiring acreage and aggressively developing our portfolio," commented Dinges. "Right now, we have a 22 percent net debt to adjusted capitalization ratio and expect to borrow additional dollars to jump start 2008 with extensive fourth quarter activity in east Texas," Dinges added. Capital investment should approach $600 million for 2007.
Conference Call
Listen in live to Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation's third quarter financial and operating results discussion with financial analysts on Friday, October 26, at 9:30 a.m. EDT (8:30 a.m. CDT) at . A teleconference replay will also be available at (800) 642-1687, (U.S./Canada) or (706) 645-9291 (International), pass code 17100993. The replay will be available through Sunday, October 28, 2007. The latest financial guidance, including the Company's hedge positions, along with a replay of the web cast, which will be archived for one year, are available in the investor relations section of the Company's website at .
www.cabotog.com
www.cabotog.com
 
Exhibit 99.1
Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation, headquartered in Houston, Texas is a leading independent natural gas producer with substantial interests in the Gulf Coast, including Texas and Louisiana; the West, with the Rocky Mountains and Mid-Continent; the East and in Canada. For additional information, visit the Company's Internet homepage at .
www.cabotog.com
The statements regarding future financial performance and results and the other statements which are not historical facts contained in this release are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, market factors, the market price (including regional basis differentials) of natural gas and oil, results of future drilling and marketing activity, future production and costs, and other factors detailed in the Company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
CABOT OIL & GAS RESULTS  Page 4
 
 
CABOT OIL & GAS RESULTS  Page 5
 
CABOT OIL & GAS RESULTS  Page 6
 
 
CABOT OIL & GAS RESULTS  Page 7
 
 
 


