FILE:COG/COG-8K-20080724184229.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On July 24, 2008, we issued a press release with respect to our 2008 second quarter earnings. The press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report. The press release contains certain measures (discussed below) which may be deemed "non-GAAP financial measures" as defined in Item 10 of Regulation S-K of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. In each case, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure and information reconciling the GAAP and non-GAAP measures is also included in the press release.
Exhibit 99.1 shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated therein by reference.
From time to time management discloses Discretionary Cash Flow, Net Income excluding selected items, Earnings per Share excluding selected items and Net Debt calculations and ratios. These non-GAAP financial measures, to the extent included in Exhibit 99.1, are reconciled to the most comparable GAAP financial measures in Exhibit 99.1.
Discretionary Cash Flow is defined as Net Income plus non-cash charges and Exploration Expense. Discretionary Cash Flow is widely accepted as a financial indicator of an oil and gas company's ability to generate cash which is used to internally fund exploration and development activities, pay dividends and service debt. Discretionary Cash Flow is presented based on management's belief that this non-GAAP measure is useful information to investors when comparing our cash flows with the cash flows of other companies that use the Full Cost method of accounting for oil and gas producing activities or have different financing and capital structures or tax rates. Discretionary Cash Flow is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to cash flows from operating activities, as defined by GAAP, or as a measure of liquidity, or an alternative to Net Income.
Net Income excluding selected items and Earnings per Share excluding selected items are presented based on management's belief that these non-GAAP measures enable a user of the financial information to understand the impact of these items on reported results. Additionally, this presentation provides a beneficial comparison to similarly adjusted measurements of prior periods. Net Income and Earnings per Share excluding selected items is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to Net Income and Earnings per Share, as defined by GAAP.
The total Debt to total Capitalization ratio is calculated by dividing total Debt by the sum of total Debt and total Stockholders' Equity. This ratio is a measurement which is presented in our annual and interim filings and management believes this ratio is useful to investors in determining the Company's leverage. Net Debt and the Net Debt to total Capitalization ratio are non-GAAP measures which have been presented in Exhibit 99.1. Net Debt is calculated by subtracting Cash and Cash Equivalents from Total Debt. Management believes that these measurements are also useful to investors since the Company has the ability to and may decide to use a portion of its Cash and Cash Equivalents to retire Debt. Additionally, as the Company may incur additional expenditures without increasing debt, it is appropriate to apply Cash and Cash Equivalents to Debt in calculating the Net Debt to total Capitalization ratio.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: July 24, 2008
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation announced today that on the strength of significantly higher commodity prices and increased production, the Company reported its highest second quarter earnings of $54.6 million, or $0.55 per share. After removing certain selected items related to the gain on sale of assets, stock compensation and unrealized loss on derivatives (see Selected Item Review and Reconciliation of Net Income and Earnings Per Share), the net income figure is $69.9 million, or $0.71 per share, as compared to last year's figures of $41.2 million, or $0.42 per share. The as-reported profit for the second quarter of 2007 was $41.4 million, or $0.43 per share.
HOUSTON, July 24, 2008
During the quarter, the Company recorded cash flow from operations of $143.7 million and discretionary cash flow of $147.1 million, also records for any second quarter period. These results compare to $105.9 million and $112.5 million for cash flow from operations and discretionary cash flow, respectively, in the second quarter of 2007.
"The continued strength in the commodity prices led the significant improvement in results from 2007 to 2008 second quarter," said Dan O. Dinges, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. "This combined with our 9.6 percent increase in production made for the unprecedented quarter." Natural gas price realizations improved 28.5 percent, while oil price realizations grew 59.2 percent between second quarter comparable periods.
Equivalent production of 23.2 Bcfe, or 255 Mmcfe per day, fell within guidance (of 250 to 259 Mmcfe per day), and is comparable to last year's 21.2 Bcfe. "While solidly within guidance, our re-direct of personnel and equipment in the East towards Marcellus activity and new initiatives focused on evaluation of deeper objectives in several of our East Texas fields have limited the acceleration of our growth for the short term," stated Dinges. "We have 22 rigs drilling throughout the company with six rigs focused on new initiatives. We expect to collect new data from several key wells very soon." Expenses in every category grew, with the largest increases occurring in stock compensation expense, as a result of the appreciation in the Company's stock price and DD&A expense in response to industry inflationary pressures.
Year to Date
In the six months ended June 30, 2008, Cabot reported net income of $100.6 million, or $1.03 per share, compared to $89.9 million or $0.93 per share last year. The cash flow comparisons included cash flow from operations of $276.4 million in 2008 versus $241.8 million in 2007, while discretionary cash flow was $285.5 million in 2008, compared to $219.3 million in 2007. "The respective 2008 numbers for the six-month period all created new high water marks for the first half of the year, primarily the result of increased prices and production," added Dinges.
Other News
Cabot has completed its equity offering and the long-term debt portion of the funding for its pending acquisition. "Our expectation remains to close the acquisition in the middle of August," said Dinges.
Conference Call
Listen in live to Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation's second quarter financial and operating results discussion with financial analysts on Friday, July 25, 2008 at 9:30 a.m. EDT (8:30 a.m. CDT) at . A teleconference replay will also be available at (800) 642-1687, (U.S./Canada) or (706) 645-9291 (International), pass code 53829875. The replay will be available through Sunday, July 27, 2008. The latest financial guidance, including the Company's hedge positions, along with a replay of the web cast, which will be archived for one year, are available in the investor relations section of the Company's website at .
www.cabotog.com
www.cabotog.com
Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation, headquartered in Houston, Texas is a leading independent natural gas producer with substantial interests in the Gulf Coast, including Texas and Louisiana; the West, with the Rocky Mountains and Mid-Continent; the East and in Canada. For additional information, visit the Company's Internet homepage at .
www.cabotog.com
The statements regarding future financial performance and results and the other statements which are not historical facts contained in this release are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, market factors, the market price (including regional basis differentials) of natural gas and oil, results of future drilling and marketing activity, future production and costs, and other factors detailed in the Company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
CABOT OIL & GAS RESULTS  Page 3
 
CABOT OIL & GAS RESULTS  Page 4
 
 
 
CABOT OIL & GAS RESULTS  Page 5
 
CABOT OIL & GAS RESULTS  Page 6
 


