FILE:COG/COG-8K-20081029194603.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
General Instruction A.2):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Explanatory Notes:
This Form 8-K/A amends the Current Report on Form 8-K of Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation (the "Company") filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission on August 19, 2008 reporting that, on August 15, 2008, the Company completed the previously announced acquisition of East Texas Properties. The Report is being amended to include financial statements and pro forma information required by Items 9.01(a) and 9.01(b) of Form 8-K and to include exhibits under Item 9.01(d) of Form 8-K.
The acquisition includes certain producing oil and gas properties located in Panola and Rusk counties, Texas comprising approximately 25,000 gross leasehold acres with a 97% average working interest near the Company's existing Minden field. In addition, the acquisition included a natural gas gathering infrastructure of approximately 31 miles of pipeline, 5,400 horsepower of compression and four water disposal wells. Total net cash consideration paid by the Company in the transaction was approximately $603.7 million, which reflects the total gross purchase price of $604.4 million adjusted by $0.7 million comprised of a $1.7 million decrease for the impact of purchase price adjustments, including adjustments based on each party's share of production proceeds received, expenses paid and capital costs incurred for periods before and after the effective date of the acquisition of May 1, 2008, and a $1.0 million increase for the impact of transaction costs, which were primarily legal and accounting costs.
 
 
Attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 are the following:
 
Attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 are the Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Statements of Combined Revenues and Direct Operating Expenses for the six months ended June 30, 2008 and for the year ended December 31, 2007, the Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Balance Sheet as of June 30, 2008, and the related notes showing the pro forma effects of the Company's acquisition of East Texas Properties from the Sellers. Unaudited Pro Forma Supplemental Oil and Gas Disclosures as of December 31, 2007 are also provided.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: October 29, 2008

Exhibit 23.1
We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements on Form S-3 (File Nos. 333-68350, 333-83819 and 333-151725) and Form S-8 (File Nos. 333-37632, 33-53723, 33-35476, 33-71134, 333-92264, 333-123166 and 333-135365) of Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation of our report dated October 23, 2008 relating to the Statement of Combined Revenues and Direct Operating Expenses of the East Texas Properties, which appears in this Current Report on Form 8-K/A.
/s/ Ehrhardt Keefe Steiner & Hottman PC
Denver, Colorado
October 23, 2008

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
To the Members of
Enduring Resources, LLC
Denver, Colorado
We have audited the accompanying statement of combined revenues and direct operating expenses of the properties acquired by Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation (the "East Texas Properties") from Enduring Resources, LLC (the "Company"), Mustang Drilling Inc. and Minden Gathering Services, LLC for the year ended December 31, 2007. This statement is the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on this statement based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the statement is free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the statement. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the statement. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
The accompanying statement of combined revenues and direct operating expenses was prepared for the purpose of complying with the rules and regulations of the Securities of Exchange Commission as described in Note 2 to the statement and is not intended to be a complete presentation of the East Texas Properties.
In our opinion, the statement referred to above presents fairly, in all material respects, the combined revenues and direct operating expenses, described in Note 2, of the East Texas Properties for the year ended December 31, 2007, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
Ehrhardt Keefe Steiner & Hottman PC
October 23, 2008
Denver, Colorado
 
 
Note 1  Basis of Presentation
The accompanying statement represents the interests in the combined revenues and direct operating expenses of the oil and natural gas producing properties and gathering facilities acquired by Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation ("Cabot") from Enduring Resources, LLC (the "Company"), Mustang Drilling Inc. and Minden Gathering Services, LLC (collectively, the "Sellers") on August 15, 2008, effective May 1, 2008. The Company has served as the operator of these properties and they are herein referred to as the "East Texas Properties." The purchase price at closing was $610.8 million, reflecting the original gross purchase price of $604.4 million adjusted by $6.4 million for the impact of purchase price adjustments. Additionally, the purchase price is subject to further post-closing adjustments.
The financial information for the six months ended June 30, 2008 and 2007 is unaudited. In the opinion of management, this information contains all adjustments, consisting only of normal recurring accruals, necessary for a fair statement of the combined revenues and direct operating expenses for the periods presented in accordance with the indicated basis of presentation. The combined revenues and direct operating expenses for interim periods are not necessarily indicative of the combined revenues and direct operating expenses for the full fiscal year.
Revenue Recognition
The Company accounts for natural gas sales using the entitlement method. Under the entitlement method, revenue is recorded based on the Company's share of volume sold, regardless of whether the Company has taken its proportionate share of volume produced. The Company records revenue from the sale of its oil when title has transferred, typically when lifted from tanks, and collection is reasonably assured. The Company recognizes revenue from its gathering when the services are provided and when collection is reasonably assured. Gathering and other revenues represent amounts charged to other interest owners for gathering line tie-in fees, transmission and salt water disposal, with approximately $3,000 representing gathering line tie-in revenue for the year ended December 31, 2007.
Direct Operating Expenses
Direct operating expenses are recorded when the related liability is incurred. Direct operating expenses include lease and gathering operating expenses, well workover costs, ad valorem taxes and production taxes. Certain costs such as depletion, depreciation and amortization, accretion of asset retirement obligations, general and administrative expenses, interest expense and corporate taxes were not allocated to the East Texas Properties.
Use of Estimates
The process of preparing financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires the use of estimates and assumptions regarding certain types of revenues and expenses. Such estimates primarily relate to unsettled transactions as of the date of the financial statement. Accordingly upon settlement, actual results may differ from estimated amounts.
 
Note 2  Omitted Financial Information
The presentation of the accompanying financial statements for the East Texas Properties is consistent with the Securities and Exchanges Commission's rules, regulations and staff interpretations. The financial statements of the East Texas Properties to satisfy the requirements of Rule 3-05 of Regulation S-X are limited to historical statements of combined revenues and direct operating expenses, together with footnote disclosures of reserve quantities and the standardized measure pursuant to Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 69, ("SFAS 69").
Disclosures about Oil and Gas Producing Activities
The Company believes that it is sufficient to provide audited historical statements of combined revenues and direct operating expenses for the East Texas Properties, along with footnote disclosures of reserve quantities and the standardized measure pursuant to SFAS 69, for the following reasons:
The portion of historical general and administrative expenses or other indirect expenses attributable to the East Texas Properties is indeterminable and is not necessarily indicative of the level of such expenses to be incurred in the future under Cabot's ownership.
Historical depreciation, depletion and amortization attributable to the East Texas Properties is irrelevant to the ongoing financial reporting for such operations because the assets will be recorded at Cabot's acquisition cost and depleted accordingly over future periods.
During the periods presented, the East Texas Properties were not accounted for or operated as a separate division by the Sellers. Certain costs, such as depreciation, depletion and amortization, interest, accretion, general and administrative expenses, and corporate income taxes were not allocated to the individual properties. Accordingly, full separate financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America do not exist and are not practical to obtain in these circumstances. As a result, the financial statements presented are not indicative of the results of operations of the acquired properties going forward.
 
Note 3  Supplemental Disclosures on Oil and Gas Exploration, Development and Production Activities (Unaudited)
Estimated Quantities of Oil and Natural Gas Reserves
All of the Company's reserves are located in the continental United States. The following tables summarize the net ownership interests in estimated quantities of the proved developed and proved undeveloped reserves of oil and natural gas reserves of the East Texas Properties at December 31, 2007 and changes in such quantities for the year then ended.
 
The information set forth in the preceding tables includes revisions of reserve estimates attributable to proved properties included in the preceding year's estimates. Such revisions reflect additional information from subsequent exploitation and development activities, production history of the properties involved and any adjustments in the projected economic life of such properties resulting from changes in product prices.
 
Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows Relating to Proved Oil and Gas Reserves
The following table presents the Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows before future income taxes from proved oil and natural gas reserves of the East Texas Properties. The amounts shown are based on prices and costs at January 1, 2007 and December 31, 2007 and assume continuation of existing economic conditions. A discount factor of 10% was used to reflect the timing of future cash flow. Extensive judgments are involved in estimating the timing of production and the costs that will be incurred throughout the remaining lives of the wells. Accordingly, the estimates of future net cash flows from proved reserves and present value may be materially different from subsequent actual results. The standardized measure of discounted net cash flows does not purport to present, nor should it be interpreted to present, the fair value of the East Texas Properties' oil and natural gas reserves. An estimate of fair value would also take into account, among other things, the recovery of reserves not presently classified as proved, and anticipated future changes in prices and costs. The following table sets forth estimates of the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows proved reserves of oil and natural gas as of December 31, 2007 (in thousands).
 
Changes in standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows relating to proved oil and natural gas reserves are as follows for the year ended December 31, 2007 (in thousands):
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
East Texas Property Acquisition
On August 15, 2008, Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation (the "Company") completed the acquisition of East Texas Properties from Enduring Resources, LLC, Mustang Drilling, Inc. and Minden Gathering Services, LLC (the "Sellers"). Total net cash consideration paid by the Company in the transaction was approximately $603.7 million, which reflects the total gross purchase price of $604.4 million adjusted by $0.7 million comprised of a $1.7 million decrease for the impact of purchase price adjustments, including adjustments based on each party's share of production proceeds received, expenses paid and capital costs incurred for periods before and after the effective date of the acquisition of May 1, 2008, and a $1.0 million increase for the impact of transaction costs, which were primarily legal and accounting costs. The purchase price is subject to additional post-closing adjustments based on production proceeds received and expenses paid as well as any expenses for title or environmental defects related to the properties that exceed certain deductible amounts.
The producing oil and gas properties located in Panola and Rusk counties, Texas comprise approximately 25,000 gross leasehold acres with a 97% average working interest near the Company's existing Minden field. Most of the producing properties were operated by the Sellers. In addition, the acquisition includes a natural gas gathering infrastructure of 31 miles of pipeline, 5,400 horsepower of compression and four water disposal wells. The Company estimates that proved reserves included in the acquisition were approximately 182 Bcfe as of August 1, 2008 (allocated mainly to the Cotton Valley formation). As of December 31, 2007, the Sellers had estimated proved developed reserves of approximately 21.9 Bcfe.
The Company funded the acquisition with a combination of the net proceeds from its June 2008 sale of 5,002,500 shares of common stock and the net proceeds from its July 2008 private placement of $425 million aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured fixed rate notes. Additionally, in order to mitigate the exposure to price fluctuations of natural gas and crude oil, the Company entered into 12 contracts for natural gas price swaps and three contracts for crude oil swaps in the second quarter of 2008, which covers production associated with the acquired properties for the second half of 2008 through 2010.
Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Financial Statements
The following unaudited pro forma financial statements and related footnotes give effect to the acquisition of properties in east Texas from the Sellers as discussed above. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of operations for the six months ended June 30, 2008 and the year ended December 31, 2007 combine the Company's historical condensed consolidated statements of operations with the revenues and direct operating expenses of the properties acquired from the Sellers and includes pro forma adjustments as if the acquisition occurred on January 1, 2007. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet at June 30, 2008 combines the Company's historical condensed consolidated balance sheet with pro forma adjustments as if the acquisition occurred on June 30, 2008.
The unaudited pro forma adjustments are based upon currently available information and certain assumptions that the Company believes to be reasonable under the circumstances. Pursuant to the Securities and Exchange Commission's Article 11 of Regulation S-X, pro forma adjustments include the effects of events that are directly attributable to the acquisition and are factually supportable. As actual adjustments may differ from pro forma adjustments, the unaudited pro forma combined financial information has been prepared for informational purposes only. It is not intended to be indicative of the Company's results of operations or financial position that might have been achieved had the acquisition been completed as of the dates presented, or the Company's future results of operations or financial position.
These unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements should be read in conjunction with the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007 and the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2008.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet as of June 30, 2008 was based on the unaudited balance sheet of the Company as of June 30, 2008 combined with pro forma adjustments to give effect to the east Texas acquisition as if it occurred on June 30, 2008.
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of operations for the six months ended June 30, 2008 and the year ended December 31, 2007 were based on the unaudited statement of operations of the Company for the six months ended June 30, 2008 and the audited statement of operations of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2007, the unaudited statement of combined revenues and direct operating expenses of the East Texas Properties for the six months ended June 30, 2008 and the audited statement of combined revenues and direct operating expenses of the East Texas Properties for the year ended December 31, 2007, together with pro forma adjustments to give effect to the acquisition as if it occurred on January 1, 2007.
These unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements are provided for illustrative purposes and do not purport to represent what the Company's results of operations or financial position would have been if such transactions had occurred on the above mentioned dates. These statements were prepared based on accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The use of estimates is required and actual results could differ from the estimates used. The Company believes the assumptions used provide a reasonable basis for presenting the significant effects directly attributable to the acquisition. These unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements should be read in conjunction with the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007 and the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2008.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Oil and Gas Reserves
The following table contains certain disclosures regarding the Company's historical proved oil and gas reserves at December 31, 2007, giving effect to the east Texas property acquisition as if it had occurred on January 1, 2007. These disclosures were based on estimates prepared by the Company's engineers and from information provided by the Sellers. The estimates were computed based on year-end prices for oil, natural gas, and natural gas liquids. The following estimates of proved oil and gas reserves, both developed and undeveloped, represent interests in the East Texas Properties acquired by the Company from Sellers as described above, and are solely located within the United States.
Proved reserves represent estimated quantities of natural gas, crude oil and condensate that geological and engineering data demonstrate, with reasonable certainty, to be recoverable in future years from known reservoirs under economic and operating conditions in effect when the estimates were made. Proved developed reserves are proved reserves expected to be recovered through wells and equipment in place and under operating methods used when the estimates were made. Proved undeveloped reserves are reserves that are expected to be recovered through new wells on undrilled acreage, or through existing wells that require relatively major expenditures for completion.
Users of this information should be aware that the process of estimating quantities of "proved" and "proved developed" natural gas and crude oil reserves is very complex, requiring significant subjective decisions in the evaluation of all available geological, engineering and economic data for each reservoir. The data for a given reservoir may also change substantially over time as a result of numerous factors including, but not limited to, additional development activity, evolving production history and continual reassessment of the viability of production under varying economic conditions. As a result, revisions to existing reserve estimates may occur from time to time. Although every reasonable effort is made to ensure that reserve estimates reported represent the most accurate assessments possible, the subjective decisions and variances in available data for various reservoirs make these estimates generally less precise than other estimates included in the financial statement disclosures.
 
Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Net Cash Flows Relating to Proved Oil and Gas Reserves
The following table contains pro forma supplemental oil and gas disclosures regarding the Company's discounted future net cash flows from proved oil and gas properties at December 31, 2007, giving effect to the east Texas property acquisition as if it had occurred on January 1, 2007. The following information has been developed utilizing procedures under SFAS No. 69, and based on natural gas and crude oil reserve and production volumes estimated by the Company's engineering staff and information provided by the Sellers to the Company regarding the East Texas Properties. The information in the following tables may not represent realistic assessments of future cash flows, nor does it intend to represent the fair market value of the Company or the East Texas Properties. This information is intended to present a standardized disclosure concerning possible future net cash flows that would result using the assumptions discussed below.
"Disclosures about Oil and Gas Producing Activities,"
The Company believes that the following factors should be taken into account when reviewing the following information:
 
Future cash inflows were estimated by applying year end oil and gas prices to the estimated future production of year end proved reserves. Future cash inflows were reduced by estimated future development and production costs based on year end costs to arrive at net cash flow before tax.
 
Standardized Measure is as follows:
 
 


