FILE:COG/COG-8K-20080213191628.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On February 13, 2008, we issued a press release with respect to our 2007 fourth quarter earnings. The press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report. The press release contains certain measures (discussed below) which may be deemed "non-GAAP financial measures" as defined in Item 10 of Regulation S-K of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. In each case, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure and information reconciling the GAAP and non-GAAP measures is also included in the press release.
Exhibit 99.1 shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated therein by reference.
From time to time management discloses Discretionary Cash Flow, Net Income excluding selected items, Earnings per Share excluding selected items and Net Debt calculations and ratios. These non-GAAP financial measures, to the extent included in Exhibit 99.1, are reconciled to the most comparable GAAP financial measures in Exhibit 99.1.
Discretionary Cash Flow is defined as Net Income plus non-cash charges and Exploration Expense. Discretionary Cash Flow is widely accepted as a financial indicator of an oil and gas company's ability to generate cash which is used to internally fund exploration and development activities, pay dividends and service debt. Discretionary Cash Flow is presented based on management's belief that this non-GAAP measure is useful information to investors when comparing our cash flows with the cash flows of other companies that use the Full Cost method of accounting for oil and gas producing activities or have different financing and capital structures or tax rates. Discretionary Cash Flow is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to cash flows from operating activities, as defined by GAAP, or as a measure of liquidity, or an alternative to Net Income.
Net Income excluding selected items and Earnings per Share excluding selected items are presented based on management's belief that these non-GAAP measures enable a user of the financial information to understand the impact of these items on reported results. Additionally, this presentation provides a beneficial comparison to similarly adjusted measurements of prior periods. Net Income and Earnings per Share excluding selected items is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to Net Income and Earnings per Share, as defined by GAAP.
The total Debt to total Capitalization ratio is calculated by dividing total Debt by the sum of total Debt and total Stockholders' Equity. This ratio is a measurement which is presented in our annual and interim filings and management believes this ratio is useful to investors in determining the Company's leverage. Net Debt and the Net Debt to total Capitalization ratio are non-GAAP measures which have been presented in Exhibit 99.1. Net Debt is calculated by subtracting Cash and Cash Equivalents from Total Debt. Management believes that these measurements are also useful to investors since the Company has the ability to and may decide to use a portion of its Cash and Cash Equivalents to retire Debt. Additionally, as the Company may incur additional expenditures without increasing debt, it is appropriate to apply Cash and Cash Equivalents to Debt in calculating the Net Debt to total Capitalization ratio.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: February 13, 2008
99.1  Press release issued by Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation dated February 13, 2008

Exhibit 99.1
 
Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation today announced its results for 2007 that highlight another strong year both operationally and financially.
HOUSTON, February 13, 2008 -
 
 
 
 
 
"Our goal when we began restructuring our portfolio several years ago was for consistent double-digit production and reserve growth year after year," said Dan O. Dinges, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. "I am pleased to say our team delivered on that in 2007, with a 14 percent growth in reserves and a 14 percent pro forma growth in production."
Reserves and Production
"Our ability to add reserves is the lifeblood of the Company and this year's low all-in finding cost of $2.07 per Mcfe highlights the value of Cabot's organic portfolio of opportunities," commented Dinges. "Our year-end 2007 reserves grew to 1,616 Bcfe from 1,416 Bcfe the year before, while our proved undeveloped percentage remained at 27 percent. The depth of our drilling inventory should provide Cabot shareholders with many years of future economic growth."
For the full year, equivalent production totaled 85.5 Bcfe, compared to actual reported production of 88.2 Bcfe and pro forma production of 74.9 Bcfe for 2006.
Full Year Financial Results
Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation reported net income of $167.4 million, or $1.73 per share for the twelve months ended December 31, 2007. This compares to net income of $321.2 million, or $3.32 per share for 2006 full year. Net income in 2006 included a significant gain ($145.1 million) on the sale of assets. Excluding selected items (related to gain on sale and impairments) in both full year periods, the comparison for net income would become $161.9 million ($1.67 per share) for 2007 versus $178.5 million ($1.84 per share) for 2006. Cash flow from operations and discretionary cash flow for the year set new all time highs with $462.1 million and $472.7 million, respectively, up significantly from the prior year on both accounts.
Realized prices between 2007 and 2006 were relatively stable for both natural gas and oil. This stability was aided by results from the Company's hedge activity that provided a positive pickup for natural gas and a slight reduction for oil prices. The specific levels for natural gas were $7.23 per Mcf for 2007 versus $7.13 per Mcf for 2006, while oil was $67.16 per barrel and $65.03 per barrel for 2007 and 2006, respectively.
Expenses
Expenses for the full year were up about one percent when comparing 2007 to 2006. Each category was close to last year's absolute levels, with the exception of DD&A, which saw a $22.9 million increase that was partially offset by a $9.6 million decrease in exploration expense and a $5.9 million decline in stock based compensation.
Fourth Quarter
The Company experienced a robust fourth quarter driven by higher year-over-year production volumes and higher commodity price realizations. For the fourth quarter of 2007, Cabot reported net income of $42.0 million, or $0.43 per share, versus $32.1 million, or $0.33 per share in the comparable quarter last year.
Balance Sheet
At year-end, the Company had a net debt to adjusted capital ratio of 23.6 percent. The debt position totaled $350 million. "These metrics highlight Cabot's flexibility and its opportunity to expand its drilling efforts," stated Dinges.
Conference Call
Listen in live to Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation's full year and fourth quarter financial and operating results discussion with financial analysts on Thursday, February 14, at 9:30 a.m. EST (8:30 a.m. CST) at . A teleconference replay will also be available at (800) 642-1687, (U.S./Canada) or (706) 645-9291 (International), pass code 31370273. The replay will be available through Saturday, February 16, 2008. The latest financial guidance, including the Company's hedge positions, along with a replay of the web cast, which will be archived for one year, are available in the investor relations section of the Company's website at .
www.cabotog.com
www.cabotog.com
Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation, headquartered in Houston, Texas is a leading independent natural gas producer with substantial interests in the Gulf Coast, including Texas and Louisiana; the West, with the Rocky Mountains and Mid-Continent; the East and in Canada. For additional information, visit the Company's Internet homepage at
www.cabotog.com.
The statements regarding future financial performance and results and the other statements which are not historical facts contained in this release are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, market factors, the market price (including regional basis differentials) of natural gas and oil, results of future drilling and marketing activity, future production and costs, and other factors detailed in the Company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
CABOT OIL & GAS RESULTS  Page 4
 
 
 
CABOT OIL & GAS RESULTS  Page 5
 
 
CABOT OIL & GAS RESULTS  Page 6
 
 
CABOT OIL & GAS RESULTS  Page 7
 
 
 


