FILE:COG/COG-8K-20080430193259.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On April 30, 2008, we issued a press release with respect to our 2008 first quarter earnings. The press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report. The press release contains certain measures (discussed below) which may be deemed "non-GAAP financial measures" as defined in Item 10 of Regulation S-K of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. In each case, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure and information reconciling the GAAP and non-GAAP measures is also included in the press release.
Exhibit 99.1 shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated therein by reference.
From time to time management discloses Discretionary Cash Flow, Net Income excluding selected items, Earnings per Share excluding selected items and Net Debt calculations and ratios. These non-GAAP financial measures, to the extent included in Exhibit 99.1, are reconciled to the most comparable GAAP financial measures in Exhibit 99.1.
Discretionary Cash Flow is defined as Net Income plus non-cash charges and Exploration Expense. Discretionary Cash Flow is widely accepted as a financial indicator of an oil and gas company's ability to generate cash which is used to internally fund exploration and development activities, pay dividends and service debt. Discretionary Cash Flow is presented based on management's belief that this non-GAAP measure is useful information to investors when comparing our cash flows with the cash flows of other companies that use the Full Cost method of accounting for oil and gas producing activities or have different financing and capital structures or tax rates. Discretionary Cash Flow is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to cash flows from operating activities, as defined by GAAP, or as a measure of liquidity, or an alternative to Net Income.
Net Income excluding selected items and Earnings per Share excluding selected items are presented based on management's belief that these non-GAAP measures enable a user of the financial information to understand the impact of these items on reported results. Additionally, this presentation provides a beneficial comparison to similarly adjusted measurements of prior periods. Net Income and Earnings per Share excluding selected items is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to Net Income and Earnings per Share, as defined by GAAP.
The total Debt to total Capitalization ratio is calculated by dividing total Debt by the sum of total Debt and total Stockholders' Equity. This ratio is a measurement which is presented in our annual and interim filings and management believes this ratio is useful to investors in determining the Company's leverage. Net Debt and the Net Debt to total Capitalization ratio are non-GAAP measures which have been presented in Exhibit 99.1. Net Debt is calculated by subtracting Cash and Cash Equivalents from Total Debt. Management believes that these measurements are also useful to investors since the Company has the ability to and may decide to use a portion of its Cash and Cash Equivalents to retire Debt. Additionally, as the Company may incur additional expenditures without increasing debt, it is appropriate to apply Cash and Cash Equivalents to Debt in calculating the Net Debt to total Capitalization ratio.
(d) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: April 30, 2008
99.1        Press release issued by Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation dated April 30, 2008

Exhibit 99.1
 
Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation today announced results from its first quarter of 2008. "The quarter was marked by positive momentum in production and commodity prices, along with new highs for our stock price," said Dan O. Dinges, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer.
HOUSTON, April 30, 2008 -
For the quarter, the Company reported net income (after removal of stock compensation expense and gain on asset sale), of $57.0 million, or $0.58 per share, compared to $47.7 million, or $0.49 per share last year. The 2008 first quarter selected items related to stock-based compensation expense, while the 2007 first quarter selected items included both stock-based compensation expense and a gain on the sale of assets (see attached table for details). Including the impact of these items, the reported numbers for the quarter were $46.0 million, or $0.47 per share, for the first quarter of 2008 versus $48.5 million, or $0.50 per share in the 2007 first quarter. Discretionary cash flow and cash flow from operations first quarter comparisons were $138.4 million versus $106.7 million and $132.7 million versus $135.9 million for 2008 and 2007, respectively.
Higher produced equivalent volumes, together with stronger prices, increased revenues. The Company reported 22.2 Bcfe of production, which is the highest quarterly level Cabot has reported since its asset sale in 2006. "After a slow start to the year, we experienced increasing production levels throughout the quarter, exiting the quarter with in excess of 255 Mmcfe per day," commented Dinges. "Part of the delay was retooling of the drilling program to focus more on specific objectives than had been identified in the original program. This is evidenced by the lower well activity in the first quarter versus one year ago." Dinges added, "Even with this adjustment, our daily production volumes increased over ten percent between the start and the end of the first quarter."
This higher production was complemented by a seven percent increase in total natural gas price realizations and a 62 percent increase in total oil price realizations between first quarter comparative periods. On the expenses side, the significant move in the share price increased stock compensation expense, while the level of activity and inflation in the industry over recent years increased the DD&A expense. At the same time, the higher commodity prices increased production taxes, and the higher debt levels resulted in higher interest costs.
"Several years ago, we set out to align our compensation plans with shareholder interests," stated Dinges. "The first quarter move in the stock of 26 percent created much of the $17.6 million recorded expense; however, it also resulted in a one billion dollar increase in shareholder value. On the debt side, our book capitalization remains around the mid 20 percent level, affording Cabot extensive flexibility to pursue all of its projects."
Conference Call
Listen in live to Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation's first quarter financial and operating results discussion with financial analysts on Thursday, May 1, 2008 at 9:30 a.m. EDT (8:30 a.m. CDT) at . A teleconference replay will also be available at (800) 642-1687, (U.S./Canada) or (706) 645-9291 (International), pass code 42873469. A replay will be available through Saturday, May 3, 2008. The latest financial guidance, including the Company's hedge positions, along with a replay of the web cast, which will be archived for one year, are available in the investor relations section of the Company's website at .
www.cabotog.com
www.cabotog.com
Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation, headquartered in Houston, Texas is a leading independent natural gas producer with substantial interests in the Gulf Coast, including Texas and Louisiana; the West, with the Rocky Mountains and Mid-Continent; the East and in Canada. For additional information, visit the Company's Internet homepage at
www.cabotog.com.
The statements regarding future financial performance and results and the other statements which are not historical facts contained in this release are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, market factors, the market price (including regional basis differentials) of natural gas and oil, results of future drilling and marketing activity, future production and costs, and other factors detailed in the Company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


