FILE:COG/COG-8K-20080609145547.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On June 3, 2008, Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation (the "Company") entered into a definitive purchase and sale agreement to acquire certain producing oil and gas properties, leasehold acreage and a gathering infrastructure, all located in Panola and Rusk counties, Texas, from private sellers not affiliated with the Company. The properties are located near the Company's existing Minden field, and most of the producing properties are operated by the sellers. The agreement provides for the acquisition to be effective as of May 1, 2008. The closing of the transaction is expected to occur in August 2008, subject to customary closing conditions.
The purchase price for these assets of $602.8 million was determined in arm's-length negotiations and is subject to adjustment based on each party's share of production proceeds received and expenses paid for periods before and after May 1, 2008 and other factors. The purchase price may be further adjusted due to title defects or environmental defects related to the properties if the cost or value reduction attributable to any of these conditions exceeds certain deductible amounts.
The agreement contains customary representations and warranties. Either party may terminate the agreement if the closing has not occurred by November 17, 2008, in the event of a casualty loss in excess of $60.3 million, or if title defects or environmental defects exceed $60.3 million.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On June 4, 2008, the Company issued a press release announcing the execution of the definitive agreement to acquire certain assets as described in Item 1.01. The press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report.
Exhibit 99.1 shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated therein by reference.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: June 9, 2008
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
HOUSTON, June 4, 2008  Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation (NYSE:COG) announced today it has executed a definitive agreement to acquire producing properties, leasehold acreage and a gathering infrastructure from a private party for $602.8 million.
Included in the purchase are:
 
 
 
 
These properties were acquired by Cabot to realize significant growth in production and reserves and also to capture additional opportunity to exploit the Bossier/Haynesville. "Cabot has drilled 77 wells in the Minden area on its 12,700 acres with a 100% success rate since our initial discovery in 2006. The acquired acreage lies in immediate proximity to our existing acreage, which enhances our ongoing development of the Pettet, Travis Peak and Cotton Valley formations. There is also significant incremental exposure to the emerging Bossier/Haynesville opportunities," said Dan O. Dinges, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. "The property is essentially cash flow neutral at the current production rate with four rigs drilling. Anticipated production growth from future drilling activity will generate additional cash flow to allocate towards exploitation of the Bossier/Haynesville," Dinges added. "Over 98 percent of Cabot's combined total acreage of 37,700 in the greater Minden area is undeveloped below the Cotton Valley formation. The timing of this acquisition fits well considering we will spud our first of several planned horizontal Bossier/Haynesville wells on Cabot's existing Minden acreage in the next several weeks."
To lock in margins and to ensure cash flow to execute the drilling program without dilution to Cabot's 2008 capital program, the Company placed swaps covering estimated production for the remainder of 2008, and all of 2009 and 2010. The volumes swapped during this period represent revenues of over $600 million from 47.5 Bcfe, or approximately 27 percent, of the acquired proved reserves. Swaps for 2008, 2009 and 2010 were set at $13.15, $12.18, and $11.43 per Mcf, respectively, net to the properties for natural gas and $125.35 average swap price for oil over the same period.
In addition to the proved reserves disclosed above, Cabot expects to benefit from significant resource potential through 300-400 probable and possible deepenings or new locations. This transaction is subject to customary closing conditions and will be financed through a combination of debt and common equity. The Company will host a conference call Thursday, June 5, 2008 at 9:30 a.m. CDT to discuss the details of the transaction. You are invited to listen to the call which will be broadcast live over the Internet at www.cabotog.com.
Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation, headquartered in Houston, Texas is a leading independent natural gas producer with substantial interests in the Gulf Coast, including Texas and Louisiana; the West, with the Rocky Mountains and Mid-Continent; the East and in Canada. For additional information, visit the Company's Internet homepage at
www.cabotog.com.
The statements regarding future financial performance and results and the other statements which are not historical facts contained in this release are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, market factors, the market price (including regional basis differentials) of natural gas and oil, results of future drilling and marketing activity, future production and costs, and other factors detailed in the Company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.


