FILE:COG/COG-8K-20090212180651.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On February 12, 2009, we issued a press release with respect to our 2008 fourth quarter earnings. The press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report. The press release contains certain measures (discussed below) which may be deemed "non-GAAP financial measures" as defined in Item 10 of Regulation S-K of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. In each case, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure and information reconciling the GAAP and non-GAAP measures is also included in the press release.
Exhibit 99.1 shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated therein by reference.
From time to time management discloses Discretionary Cash Flow, Net Income excluding selected items, Earnings per Share excluding selected items and Net Debt calculations and ratios. These non-GAAP financial measures, to the extent included in Exhibit 99.1, are reconciled to the most comparable GAAP financial measures in Exhibit 99.1.
Discretionary Cash Flow is defined as Net Income plus non-cash charges and Exploration Expense. Discretionary Cash Flow is widely accepted as a financial indicator of an oil and gas company's ability to generate cash which is used to internally fund exploration and development activities, pay dividends and service debt. Discretionary Cash Flow is presented based on management's belief that this non-GAAP measure is useful information to investors when comparing our cash flows with the cash flows of other companies that use the Full Cost method of accounting for oil and gas producing activities or have different financing and capital structures or tax rates. Discretionary Cash Flow is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to cash flows from operating activities, as defined by GAAP, or as a measure of liquidity, or an alternative to Net Income.
Net Income excluding selected items and Earnings per Share excluding selected items are presented based on management's belief that these non-GAAP measures enable a user of the financial information to understand the impact of these items on reported results. Additionally, this presentation provides a beneficial comparison to similarly adjusted measurements of prior periods. Net Income and Earnings per Share excluding selected items is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to Net Income and Earnings per Share, as defined by GAAP.
The total Debt to total Capitalization ratio is calculated by dividing total Debt by the sum of total Debt and total Stockholders' Equity. This ratio is a measurement which is presented in our annual and interim filings and management believes this ratio is useful to investors in determining the Company's leverage. Net Debt and the Net Debt to total Capitalization ratio are non-GAAP measures which have been presented in Exhibit 99.1. Net Debt is calculated by subtracting Cash and Cash Equivalents from Total Debt. Management believes that these measurements are also useful to investors since the Company has the ability to and may decide to use a portion of its Cash and Cash Equivalents to retire Debt. Additionally, as the Company may incur additional expenditures without increasing debt, it is appropriate to apply Cash and Cash Equivalents to Debt in calculating the Net Debt to total Capitalization ratio.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: February 12, 2009
 

Exhibit 99.1
Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation (NYSE: COG) today announced its 2008 results that included new record highs for reserves, production, earnings (excluding gain on sales) and cash flow.
HOUSTON, February 12, 2009
 
 
 
 
"Our marketplace has changed substantially since the start of 2008, but that does not detract from this level of achievement," said Dan O. Dinges, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. "Double-digit growth in reserves and production, along with exceptional financial results, made 2008 an outstanding year for Cabot."
Full Year Financial Results
For 2008, Cabot reported net income of $211.3 million, or $2.10 per share, which compares favorably with the $167.4 million of net income, or $1.73 per share, recorded in 2007. Excluding the selected items in both 2008 and 2007 (detailed in the attached tables), the full year comparisons for net income would have been $232.8 million, or $2.31 per share, for 2008 versus $171.5 million, or $1.77 per share, for 2007. The selected items include impairments, gains and stock compensation charges.
The main drivers of the improved financial results were higher realized commodity prices and increased equivalent production, partially offset by higher operating expenses. Inclusive of realized hedge gains and losses for the year, natural gas prices rose 16 percent to $8.39 per Mcf for the entire Company and oil prices increased 33 percent to $89.11 per barrel.
 
Expenses in each category other than exploration expense rose year-over-year, as a result of more activity in Cabot's organic drilling program, completion of an acquisition and general market conditions that existed the first eight months of the year. Exploration expense declined between years primarily due to fewer dry holes.
Reserves and Production
"In 2008, Cabot had its largest investment program ever, which included a significant acquisition, extensive drilling and a large lease acquisition effort," commented Dinges. "This program added nearly 500 Bcfe of reserves before taking into account the production for the year of 95.2 Bcfe and negative reserve revisions of 57.3 Bcfe, which was primarily due to lower year-end pricing."
The gross increase was roughly two-thirds organic and one-third acquisition. The Company's proved undeveloped portion of reserves grew slightly, to 30.6 percent (from 27.2 percent in 2007), due almost entirely to the higher PUD component of the acquired reserves. "Our reserves have been 100 percent audited since our inception as a public company," stated Dinges. "Our finding cost for 2008 experienced an increase due to several factors, including an outsized lease acquisition budget primarily focused on the Marcellus, a proved producing property acquisition and inflationary pressures in all aspects of drilling and completions. Our drilling finding cost (additions only) for the year was $2.25 per Mcfe." Details of finding cost are included in attached table.
Fourth Quarter
On the strength of higher levels of production and increased natural gas price realizations offset somewhat by cost increases for comparable fourth quarter periods, the Company reported net income of $43.7 million, or $0.42 per share, versus $42.0 million, or $0.43 per share, between 2008 and 2007, respectively. Excluding the selected items (detailed in the attached table), the comparison would have been $45.8 million in the fourth quarter 2008 versus $43.0 million in the fourth quarter 2007. Earnings per share, excluding the selected items, would have been $0.44 in both periods.
Balance Sheet
During 2008, the Company raised around $800 million through new debt and equity to fund its acquisition effort for both producing property and leases. This increase gave Cabot a year-end net debt to total adjusted capital ratio of 31.9 percent versus 23.6 percent for the 2007 year-end. "While up, this level remains very low by historical standards and affords us financial strength in this very trying environment," said Dinges.
 
Conference Call
Listen in live to Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation's year-end and fourth quarter financial and operating results discussion with financial analysts on Friday, February 13, 2009 at 9:30 a.m. EST (8:30 a.m. CST) at . A teleconference replay will also be available at (800) 642-1687, (U.S./Canada) or (706) 645-9291 (International), pass code 80498112. The replay will be available through Sunday, February 15, 2009. The latest financial guidance, including the Company's hedge positions, along with a replay of the web cast, which will be archived for one year, are available in the investor relations section of the Company's website at .
www.cabotog.com
www.cabotog.com
Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation, headquartered in Houston, Texas is a leading independent natural gas producer with substantial interests in the Gulf Coast, including Texas and Louisiana; the West, with the Rocky Mountains and Mid-Continent; the East and in Canada. For additional information, visit the Company's Internet homepage at
www.cabotog.com.
The statements regarding future financial performance and results and the other statements which are not historical facts contained in this release are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, market factors, the market price (including regional basis differentials) of natural gas and oil, results of future drilling and marketing activity, future production and costs, and other factors detailed in the Company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
 
CABOT OIL & GAS RESULTS  Page 4
 
 
 
CABOT OIL & GAS RESULTS  Page 5
 
 
CABOT OIL & GAS RESULTS  Page 6
 
 
CABOT OIL & GAS RESULTS  Page 7
 
 
 
 
CABOT OIL & GAS RESULTS  Page 8
 


