FILE:COG/COG-8K-20100222061034.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On February 21, 2010, Cabot Oil and Gas Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release announcing the retirement of Henry C. Smyth, Vice President, Controller and Treasurer of the Company, effective March 31, 2010. Mr. Smyth will retire as the Company's principal accounting officer, effective March 1, 2010.
On February 21, 2010, the Company also announced the appointment of Todd Roemer, 39, as Controller and principal accounting officer of the Company, effective upon Mr. Smyth's retirement. Mr. Roemer was with PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP from 1996 to February 2010, including as Senior Manager since September 2003. The Company entered into a change-in-control agreement with Mr. Roemer, the terms of which are described in the Company's proxy statement for its 2009 annual meeting of stockholders.
A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: February 22, 2010
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
- Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation (NYSE: COG) today announced that Henry C. Smyth (Chuck), its Vice President, Controller and Treasurer, has elected to retire at the end of the first quarter.
HOUSTON, February 21, 2010
Smyth, age 63, is a 15 year Cabot employee who has served as an officer for the last 13 years. "Chuck has experienced several dramatic changes in the accounting profession over his tenure and has been instrumental in helping the Company navigate the ever changing environment, all while ensuring complete compliance," stated Dan O. Dinges, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. "His focus on the details and asking the right questions at the right times has always kept us ahead of the curve in terms of reporting. We wish him a joy filled retirement," commented Dinges.
Replacing Smyth is Todd Roemer who will take over as Controller (Principal Accounting Officer) upon Smyth's retirement. Roemer joins Cabot after a 14 year career at PricewaterhouseCoopers in the energy practice. "Todd is well versed in the accounting arena and fills a void that will be left by Smyth's retirement," said Dinges. "At a time when regulations are evolving rapidly it is great to add an individual that has been on the front line in the public accounting arena." Roemer is a U.S. Army veteran, Certified Public Accountant and a graduate of The University of Houston  Clear Lake.
Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation, headquartered in Houston, Texas is a leading independent natural gas producer, with its entire resource base located in the continental United States. For additional information, visit the Company's Internet homepage at .
www.cabotog.com


