FILE:COG/COG-8K-20101028173634.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 25, 2010, we issued a press release with respect to our 2010 third quarter earnings. The press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report. The press release contains certain measures (discussed below) which may be deemed "non-GAAP financial measures" as defined in Item 10 of Regulation S-K of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. In each case, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure and information reconciling the GAAP and non-GAAP measures is also included in the press release.
Exhibit 99.1 shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated therein by reference.
From time to time management discloses Discretionary Cash Flow, Net Income excluding selected items, Earnings per Share excluding selected items and Net Debt calculations and ratios. These non-GAAP financial measures, to the extent included in Exhibit 99.1, are reconciled to the most comparable GAAP financial measures in Exhibit 99.1.
Discretionary Cash Flow is defined as Net Income plus non-cash charges and Exploration Expense. Discretionary Cash Flow is widely accepted as a financial indicator of an oil and gas company's ability to generate cash which is used to internally fund exploration and development activities, pay dividends and service debt. Discretionary Cash Flow is presented based on management's belief that this non-GAAP measure is useful information to investors when comparing our cash flows with the cash flows of other companies that use the Full Cost method of accounting for oil and gas producing activities or have different financing and capital structures or tax rates. Discretionary Cash Flow is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to cash flows from operating activities, as defined by GAAP, or as a measure of liquidity, or an alternative to Net Income.
Net Income excluding selected items and Earnings per Share excluding selected items are presented based on management's belief that these non-GAAP measures enable a user of the financial information to understand the impact of these items on reported results. Additionally, this presentation provides a beneficial comparison to similarly adjusted measurements of prior periods. Net Income and Earnings per Share excluding selected items is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to Net Income and Earnings per Share, as defined by GAAP.
The total Debt to total Capitalization ratio is calculated by dividing total Debt by the sum of total Debt and total Stockholders' Equity. This ratio is a measurement which is presented in our annual and interim filings and management believes this ratio is useful to investors in determining the Company's leverage. Net Debt and the Net Debt to total Capitalization ratio are non-GAAP measures which have been presented in Exhibit 99.1. Net Debt is calculated by subtracting Cash and Cash Equivalents from Total Debt. Management believes that these measurements are also useful to investors since the Company has the ability to and may decide to use a portion of its Cash and Cash Equivalents to retire Debt. Additionally, as the Company may incur additional expenditures without increasing debt, it is appropriate to apply Cash and Cash Equivalents to Debt in calculating the Net Debt to total Capitalization ratio.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: October 28, 2010
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation (NYSE: COG) today announced third quarter net income of $32.3 million, or $0.31 per share, as compared to net income of $42.6 million, or $0.41 per share, in the third quarter of 2009, excluding the selected items in both periods, (which are detailed in the Selected Items Table and include the impact related to the sale of assets, stock compensation, impairments and pension termination related expenses, along with derivatives). The 2010 quarter's reported net income was $3.9 million, or $0.04 per share, as compared to $38.9 million, or $0.38 per share, for the third quarter of 2009.
HOUSTON, October 25, 2010
Cash flow from operations for the 2010 third quarter totaled $124.2 million, while discretionary cash flow was $133.1 million. Comparatively, 2009 third quarter cash flow from operations was $116.7 million, and discretionary cash flow was $158.9 million.
Driving the results were lower natural gas realized prices offset by higher realized oil prices and higher equivalent production levels creating increased revenue for the quarter. "Our third quarter production level of 36.0 Bcfe established a new high for quarterly reported production and was approximately 41 percent higher than the volumes reported in last year's third quarter. Pennsylvania remains the focus of our capital program and is the key contributor to this production growth, as we wait for a backlog of Haynesville and Eagle Ford completions for both natural gas and oil," said Dan O. Dinges, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. In terms of pricing, realized natural gas prices were $5.37 per Mcf in the 2010 third quarter versus $7.40 per Mcf in the 2009 third quarter. The 2009 quarter benefited from a significantly large hedge gain. Realized oil prices for the period increased 12 percent to $98.26 per barrel over last year's third quarter.
During the third quarter, Cabot finalized its decision to terminate its pension plan and replace this plan with an enhancement to its 401(k) Plan. The effective date of this termination was September 30, 2010; however, the regulatory process to liquidate the plan will take 12-18 months to complete. "We have been evaluating this decision for many years and in light of the regulatory environment, we found a more cost effective way to deliver a similar benefit," stated Dinges.
In terms of cost comparisons, the absolute levels rose with the largest increases occurring for an impairment and for DD&A; however, per unit levels for the recurring expenses improved significantly in this third quarter compared to last year. The impairment relates to two south Texas legacy fields that have seen limited activity.
 
 
Year-to-Date
The 2010 nine-month net income figure, after removal of the selected items, was $82.7 million, or $0.80 per share, versus $123.9 million, or $1.20 per share, for the nine-month period ended September 30, 2009. In the nine months ended September 30, 2010, Cabot reported net income of $54.3 million, or $0.52 per share, compared to $112.0 million, or $1.08 per share, for the same period last year. The cash flow comparisons for the nine months ended September 30, 2010 and September 30, 2009, respectively, are cash flow from operations of $367.5 million versus $417.1 million and discretionary cash flow of $374.2 million versus $430.6 million.
"The same dynamic that drove the quarter results apply to the year-to-date periods  increased production and lower natural gas price realizations," stated Dinges. "Production was up approximately 21.5 percent for the nine-month comparable periods while natural gas prices fell 22 percent and oil prices increased 18 percent." Per unit expenses, other than DD&A, were down between the year-to-date nine-month comparable periods with overall unit costs declining as well.
As previously announced during the quarter, Cabot increased its credit facility and extended the maturity date, creating additional flexibility and capacity to handle its debt maturity schedule. "We remain committed to our plans for a cash flow neutral program in 2011 while at the same time meeting our 2010 obligations, particularly in east Texas," added Dinges. "As I have stated before, we do not want to lose the long-term benefit of this large resource potential." Also of note, in the third quarter is $75 million of private placement notes are now treated as current liabilities with a required payment in July 2011.
Conference Call
Listen in live to Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation's third quarter financial and operating results discussion with financial analysts on Tuesday, October 26, 2010 at 9:30 a.m. EDT (8:30 a.m. CDT) at . A teleconference replay will also be available at (800) 642-1687, (U.S./Canada) or (706) 645-9291 (International), pass code 15541524. The replay will be available through Thursday, October 28, 2010. The latest financial guidance, including the Company's hedge positions, along with a replay of the web cast, which will be archived for one year, are available in the investor relations section of the Company's website at .
www.cabotog.com
www.cabotog.com
Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation, headquartered in Houston, Texas is a leading independent natural gas producer with its entire resource base located in the continental United States. For additional information, visit the Company's Internet homepage at
www.cabotog.com.
The statements regarding future financial performance and results and the other statements which are not historical facts contained in this release are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, market factors, the market price (including regional basis differentials) of natural gas and oil, results of future drilling and marketing activity, future production and costs, and other factors detailed in the Company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
 
CABOT OIL & GAS RESULTS  Page 3
 
 
 
CABOT OIL & GAS RESULTS  Page 4
 
 
 
 
CABOT OIL & GAS RESULTS  Page 5
 
 
 
 
CABOT OIL & GAS RESULTS  Page 6
 
 
 
 
 


