FILE:COG/COG-8K-20100429060936.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On April 28, 2010, we issued a press release with respect to our 2010 first quarter earnings. The press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report. The press release contains certain measures (discussed below) which may be deemed "non-GAAP financial measures" as defined in Item 10 of Regulation S-K of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. In each case, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure and information reconciling the GAAP and non-GAAP measures is also included in the press release.
Exhibit 99.1 shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated therein by reference.
From time to time management discloses Discretionary Cash Flow, Net Income excluding selected items, Earnings per Share excluding selected items and Net Debt calculations and ratios. These non-GAAP financial measures, to the extent included in Exhibit 99.1, are reconciled to the most comparable GAAP financial measures in Exhibit 99.1.
Discretionary Cash Flow is defined as Net Income plus non-cash charges and Exploration Expense. Discretionary Cash Flow is widely accepted as a financial indicator of an oil and gas company's ability to generate cash which is used to internally fund exploration and development activities, pay dividends and service debt. Discretionary Cash Flow is presented based on management's belief that this non-GAAP measure is useful information to investors when comparing our cash flows with the cash flows of other companies that use the Full Cost method of accounting for oil and gas producing activities or have different financing and capital structures or tax rates. Discretionary Cash Flow is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to cash flows from operating activities, as defined by GAAP, or as a measure of liquidity, or an alternative to Net Income.
Net Income excluding selected items and Earnings per Share excluding selected items are presented based on management's belief that these non-GAAP measures enable a user of the financial information to understand the impact of these items on reported results. Additionally, this presentation provides a beneficial comparison to similarly adjusted measurements of prior periods. Net Income and Earnings per Share excluding selected items is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to Net Income and Earnings per Share, as defined by GAAP.
The total Debt to total Capitalization ratio is calculated by dividing total Debt by the sum of total Debt and total Stockholders' Equity. This ratio is a measurement which is presented in our annual and interim filings and management believes this ratio is useful to investors in determining the Company's leverage. Net Debt and the Net Debt to total Capitalization ratio are non-GAAP measures which have been presented in Exhibit 99.1. Net Debt is calculated by subtracting Cash and Cash Equivalents from Total Debt. Management believes that these measurements are also useful to investors since the Company has the ability to and may decide to use a portion of its Cash and Cash Equivalents to retire Debt. Additionally, as the Company may incur additional expenditures without increasing debt, it is appropriate to apply Cash and Cash Equivalents to Debt in calculating the Net Debt to total Capitalization ratio.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: April 29, 2010
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation (NYSE: COG) today reported that for the first quarter of 2010 the Company had net income of $28.7 million, or $0.28 per share, compared to $47.6 million, or $0.46 per share, for last year's first quarter. The 2010 earnings figure, along with 2009 comparison, were impacted by gains on sales of properties, charges related to stock compensation and derivative related movements, which are detailed in the attached Selected Items table. Net income excluding these selected items for both first quarter periods is $30.6 million, or $0.30 per share, for 2010 versus $42.2 million, or $0.41 per share, in 2009.
HOUSTON, April 28, 2010 -
The Company also reported cash flow from operations for the quarter of $116.1 million, versus the $152.5 million recorded in last year's first quarter. Discretionary cash flow was down slightly between comparable periods at $131.4 million for 2010, compared to $138.0 million for 2009.
"The key drivers for the lower quarterly results were lower natural gas price realizations, partially offset by increased production," said Dan O. Dinges, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. "For the quarter, Cabot reported 26.7 Bcfe of production, compared to last year's first quarter figure of 25.6 Bcfe, which includes 0.6 Bcfe of production from the Canadian properties sold in 2009. Based on 25.0 Bcfe of pro forma production the growth rate for the comparable first quarter periods is 6.8 percent." Dinges added, "We had a significant up-tick in production half-way through the first quarter, generating a production exit rate of 325 Mmcfe per day."
Natural gas price realizations were $6.56 per Mcf in 2010 versus $7.51 per Mcf in 2009 for the quarter comparison. This year's quarter experienced a $1.12 per Mcf pick-up from the Company's hedge position, where last year's impact was $3.34 per Mcf. While oil comprises a small portion of Cabot's production, the hedge per unit impact was very positive, moving realized oil prices up $22.36 per barrel for the first quarter 2010 versus $39.07 per barrel in the first quarter 2009. Even with the smaller hedge benefit in 2010, the realized price of $97.40 per barrel was 29 percent above last year's first quarter.
"Expenses between comparable quarters fell slightly and were within expectations," added Dinges. "DD&A increased due to higher production and costs related to leasehold amortizations."
"During the quarter, Cabot used its balance sheet to continue its leasing efforts in the Marcellus and in establishing a new oil position in the Eagle Ford," said Dinges. "So far during 2010 we have accumulated 28,400 net acres in these two areas. This, combined with carryover investments from 2009, moved our overall debt level by $110 million, but still well within our comfort level at 33 percent debt to total capital."
Conference Call
Listen in live to Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation's first quarter financial and operating results discussion with financial analysts on Thursday, April 29, 2010 at 9:30 a.m. EDT (8:30 a.m. CDT) at www.cabotog.com. A teleconference replay will also be available at (800) 642-1687, (U.S./Canada) or (706) 645-9291 (International), pass code 64482901. The replay will be available through Saturday, May 1, 2010. The latest financial guidance, including the Company's hedge positions, along with a replay of the web cast, which will be archived for one year, are available in the investor relations section of the Company's website at www.cabotog.com.
Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation, headquartered in Houston, Texas is a leading independent natural gas producer with its entire resource base located in the continental United States. For additional information, visit the Company's Internet homepage at www.cabotog.com.
The statements regarding future financial performance and results and the other statements which are not historical facts contained in this release are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, market factors, the market price (including regional basis differentials) of natural gas and oil, results of future drilling and marketing activity, future production and costs, and other factors detailed in the Company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
CABOT OIL & GAS RESULTS  Page 3
 
 
 
CABOT OIL & GAS RESULTS  Page 4
 
 
 
CABOT OIL & GAS RESULTS  Page 5
 
 
CABOT OIL & GAS RESULTS  Page 6
 
 
 
 


