FILE:COG/COG-8K-20101012151613.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 5, 2010, we issued a press release with respect to certain operational matters and the amendment and restatement of our revolving credit facility. The press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report. Exhibit 99.1 shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated therein by reference.
 
In the press release referenced in Item 7.01 above, we announced that we had amended and restated our revolving credit facility. Under the amendment and restatement, the available credit line was increased from $500 million to $900 million, with an accordion feature allowing us to increase the available credit line to $1.0 billion if any one or more of the existing banks or new banks agree to provide such increased commitment amount. In addition, the facility now provides for a $1.5 billion borrowing base and has a maturity date of September 2015 (extended from April 2012). The financial covenants under the facility were not changed.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: October 12, 2010
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation (NYSE: COG) today announced a second successful Eagle Ford well, a new milestone for its Marcellus program, along with the expansion and extension of its Revolving Credit facility.
HOUSTON, October 5, 2010 -
Eagle Ford
The Company recently completed and started producing its second Eagle Ford Oil Shale well  the Arminius Energy Trust #1 well. This Frio County, Texas well was drilled with a horizontal length of 5,840' and completed with a 20-stage frac. The result was a 24-hour production rate of 759 barrels of oil per day and 1.0 Mmcf per day.
"This is more than double the rate we saw on our initial discovery," said Dan O. Dinges, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. "We have already drilled our third and fourth wells with completions on those scheduled for October and early November." Cabot's net acreage in the play is 53,000, all in the oil window.
Marcellus
Cabot has continued to improve the results it has seen from its operations in Susquehanna with two completions recently exceeding the 20 Mmcf per day rate level for a 24-hour initial production period. One well had a 4,569' lateral and an 18-stage frac, while the other was a 3,960' with a 15-stage frac.
"These recent successes, combined with a newly completed three-well pad that is flowing back 55-frac stages, have provided the Company with a 230 Mmcf per day exit rate (gross) from the Marcellus, at the end of the third quarter," stated Dinges. "While we have reached capacity constraints, we do have 418 stages of completion either waiting on pipeline or completion, or flowing back after completion."
 
Financing
Cabot, on September 22, 2010, closed on a new Revolving Credit facility that extended the maturity five years, or until 2015; added commitments, increasing the line to $900 million from $500 million and established a $1.5 billion borrowing base, eleven percent above the previous mark, even with a lower commodity price outlook. To accomplish this expansion, all of Cabot's existing providers increased their commitments and one new institution was added.
"We pride ourselves on having long-standing relationships with our financial providers, and we are pleased for their ongoing commitment to Cabot's success," commented Dinges.
Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation, headquartered in Houston, Texas is a leading independent natural gas producer with its entire resource base located in the continental United States. For additional information, visit the Company's Internet homepage at
www.cabotog.com.


