FILE:COG/COG-8K-20110729154143.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On July 27, 2011, Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release announcing the sale to a third party of all of the Company's producing assets and acreage in Wyoming, Colorado and Utah for total consideration of $285 million, subject to customary closing adjustments. The transaction has an effective date of September 1, 2011, and the Company expects the transaction to close in early October 2011, subject to customary closing conditions.
The press release also provided an update on the Company's operations as well as production guidance for the remainder of 2011.
A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report. Exhibit 99.1 shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated therein by reference. The above description of the press release is qualified in its entirety by reference to the complete text of the press release furnished as Exhibit 99.1 hereto.
 
In the press release referenced in Item 7.01 above, the Company announced the sale to a third party of all of the Company's producing assets and acreage in Wyoming, Colorado and Utah. The disclosure in the first paragraph of Item 7.01 above is incorporated by reference in this Item 8.01.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: July 29, 2011
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation (NYSE: COG) today announced new milestones in its Marcellus operation, well successes in its Eagle Ford position, a discovery in its Marmaton effort in Oklahoma, and an agreement to sell its Rocky Mountain natural gas assets  primarily the Green River basin assets of Wyoming. Additionally, the Company increased its production guidance for the remainder of the year.
HOUSTON, July 27, 2011 
Rocky Mountain Sale
The Company has signed a Purchase and Sale Agreement under which it is selling all of its producing assets and acreage in Wyoming, Colorado and Utah to an undisclosed third party for total consideration of $285 million, subject to normal and customary closing adjustments. Cabot will remove approximately 170 Bcfe of booked reserves and about 27 Mmcfe in daily production from its portfolio on the effective date of this sale. "We have not allocated capital to these assets since early 2009, and we have no near-term plans for new investments due to other opportunities in our portfolio," said Dan O. Dinges, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. "For this reason, when the opportunity arose to monetize and effectively accelerate the cash flows from these assets, we agreed with the thought to redeploy non-valued capital into our Marcellus activity and our oil initiatives."
The transaction has an effective date of September 1, 2011, is scheduled to close in early October 2011 and excludes the Company's prospective oil shale acreage in both Montana and Nevada. "To that end, we are still evaluating our first Heath Shale well in Montana," said Dinges.
The Rocky Mountain deal, the East Texas joint venture/asset sales and some small miscellaneous sales activity are expected to provide Cabot with over $340 million in proceeds during 2011. This reinforces Cabot's commitment to fiscal discipline. "These transactions provide us the opportunity to add to our acreage position in liquid-rich areas of Texas and Oklahoma, as well as enhance the opportunity to drill a few more wells in the Marcellus in Pennsylvania," commented Dinges. "Only a portion of the expected proceeds are earmarked for 2011 expenditures currently, so my expectation is for debt to be reduced year over year  2010 to 2011  and for our program to deliver significant reserve and production growth even after these sales."
Operations
In the Marcellus, the wells continue to perform with exceptional success. Recently the Company completed a three-well pad, which resulted in all three wells reporting a 24-hour initial production rate of over 20 Mmcf per day. The corresponding 30-day production rate averaged over 17 Mmcf per day per well, or 52 Mmcf per day in total.
"Our acreage continues to provide consistently outstanding results," stated Dinges. "It is our plan to allocate a portion of our sales proceeds to drill more pad sites, to assist in the replacement of the sold Rocky Mountain production."
Additionally in the Marcellus, the Company now has two wells that have produced over 4 Bcf, one in 12 months, the other in 16 months; eight other wells that have produced over 3 Bcf; and overall field production now totals above 135 Bcf since the project commenced. At the time of this release, production from the Marcellus is a restricted rate of 420 to 430 Mmcf per day, nearly all of which is from 81 horizontal wells.
In the Eagle Ford during the second quarter, four horizontal oil wells were placed in production. The average 24-hour initial production rate for each of the four completed wells was 721 barrels per day equivalent. "Our Eagle Ford plan for the year is for 25 to 30 net wells," said Dinges. "Right now we have drilled 16 wells, have two wells drilling and have six in the queue for completions."
Earlier this year, the Company tested a new oil concept in the Marmaton oil shale located in the Texas and Oklahoma panhandles. The result was a 24-hour initial production level of 646 barrels of oil equivalent (592 Bopd, 325 Mcf per day) from a 10-stage completion in a 4,000' lateral. Additionally the completed well cost was just over $4.0 million, including some science work. "We remained quiet about this well as we wanted to add acreage," commented Dinges. "We now have over 32,000 net acres in the play, plan to participate as a non-operator in six wells and, depending on rig availability, may use some of our asset sale proceeds to drill another operated well here later in the year. Clearly a 10-stage completed well with initial production competitive with the Eagle Ford play and at a lower cost is an attractive place to allocate capital."
"I have been pleased with our 2011 effort as we continue to make great strides in our operations that have allowed another increase in production guidance, even with the Rocky Mountains sale," said Dinges. "We are building great momentum for 2012 where, based on moderate commodity prices, an early review of our program shows a cash flow positive investment year even after funding what is expected to be a record level organic investment effort."
Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation, headquartered in Houston, Texas is a leading independent natural gas producer with its entire resource base located in the continental United States. For additional information, visit the Company's Internet homepage at
.
www.cabotog.com
The statements regarding future financial performance and results and the other statements which are not historical facts contained in this release are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, market factors, the market price (including regional basis differentials) of natural gas and oil, results of future drilling and marketing activity, future production and costs, and other factors detailed in the Company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.


