FILE:COG/COG-8K-20110222173415.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On February 22, 2011, we issued a press release with respect to our 2010 fourth quarter earnings. The press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report. The press release contains certain measures (discussed below) which may be deemed "non-GAAP financial measures" as defined in Item 10 of Regulation S-K of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. In each case, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure and information reconciling the GAAP and non-GAAP measures is also included in the press release.
Exhibit 99.1 shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated therein by reference.
From time to time management discloses Discretionary Cash Flow, Net Income excluding selected items, Earnings per Share excluding selected items and Net Debt calculations and ratios. These non-GAAP financial measures, to the extent included in Exhibit 99.1, are reconciled to the most comparable GAAP financial measures in Exhibit 99.1.
Discretionary Cash Flow is defined as Net Income plus non-cash charges and Exploration Expense. Discretionary Cash Flow is widely accepted as a financial indicator of an oil and gas company's ability to generate cash which is used to internally fund exploration and development activities, pay dividends and service debt. Discretionary Cash Flow is presented based on management's belief that this non-GAAP measure is useful information to investors when comparing our cash flows with the cash flows of other companies that use the Full Cost method of accounting for oil and gas producing activities or have different financing and capital structures or tax rates. Discretionary Cash Flow is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to cash flows from operating activities, as defined by GAAP, or as a measure of liquidity, or an alternative to Net Income.
Net Income excluding selected items and Earnings per Share excluding selected items are presented based on management's belief that these non-GAAP measures enable a user of the financial information to understand the impact of these items on reported results. Additionally, this presentation provides a beneficial comparison to similarly adjusted measurements of prior periods. Net Income and Earnings per Share excluding selected items is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to Net Income and Earnings per Share, as defined by GAAP.
The total Debt to total Capitalization ratio is calculated by dividing total Debt by the sum of total Debt and total Stockholders' Equity. This ratio is a measurement which is presented in our annual and interim filings and management believes this ratio is useful to investors in determining the Company's leverage. Net Debt and the Net Debt to total Capitalization ratio are non-GAAP measures which have been presented in Exhibit 99.1. Net Debt is calculated by subtracting Cash and Cash Equivalents from Total Debt. Management believes that these measurements are also useful to investors since the Company has the ability to and may decide to use a portion of its Cash and Cash Equivalents to retire Debt. Additionally, as the Company may incur additional expenditures without increasing debt, it is appropriate to apply Cash and Cash Equivalents to Debt in calculating the Net Debt to total Capitalization ratio.
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: February 22, 2011
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation (NYSE: COG) today announced its 2010 financial results, including net income of $103.4 million, or $0.99 per share, cash flow from operations of $484.9 million and discretionary cash flow of $457.6 million. These results compare to 2009 net income of $148.3 million, or $1.43 per share, cash flow from operations of $614.1 million and discretionary cash flow of $604.6 million. The full year selected items, detailed in an attached table, net to a reduction of $1.0 million, or $0.01 per share, on reported net income.
HOUSTON, February 22, 2011 -
"Overall 2010 was a transitional year, as we streamlined our operations in the Marcellus and migrated our South region to 100 percent of its capital allocated towards liquids. Additionally, for 2010, Cabot posted tremendous operational numbers, reported net income of over $100 million for the sixth consecutive year and solidified its balance sheet for the long-term," said Dan O. Dinges, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer.
For 2010 equivalent production surpassed the 130 Bcfe level for the first time, establishing a new benchmark for both absolute levels and for year-over-year growth, which totaled 26.8 percent. The price comparison for natural gas realizations was $5.54 per Mcf in 2010 versus $7.47 per Mcf in 2009, while oil increased over 14 percent year-over-year to $97.91 per barrel in 2010. Gains associated with the hedge portfolio once again added significantly to price realizations and improved overall revenues in 2010 by $173 million. In absolute terms, total operating expenses plus interest expense increased 15 percent; with the 26 plus percent improvement in production, the per unit expense comparisons dropped nine percent year-to-year. "We anticipate this trend towards lower unit cost levels to continue in 2011," commented Dinges.
As it relates to the tax provision, due to the increased activity in the Pennsylvania Marcellus, a true-up of deferred taxes was required to reflect a larger portion of activity taking place in higher state tax jurisdictions. "As we continue to expand our programs and presence in Pennsylvania, we will continue to monitor its impact on deferred taxes, making adjustments to deferred taxes when required as part of our annual fourth quarter evaluation," said Dinges. This rate change increased the effective tax rate for the year to 47.9 percent, requiring a 55.8 percent effective tax rate for the fourth quarter. This change and the gain were the large selected items in the fourth quarter.
Fourth Quarter
The reported 2010 fourth quarter figures included net income of $49.1 million, or $0.47 per share, $117.4 million for cash flow from operations and $83.4 million for discretionary cash flow. These
 
compare to net income of $36.4 million, or $0.34 per share, cash flow from operations of $196.9 million and discretionary cash flow of $174.1 million in the previous year. Removing the selected items, which are highlighted in the table, net income would be $20.0 million, or $0.19 per share, for the 2010 fourth quarter versus $53.8 million, or $0.51 per share in the comparable 2009 period. Lower commodity prices and overall higher absolute (but lower per unit) expenses, partially offset by higher production, drove the results.
Balance Sheet
In 2010, the Company placed $175 million of new 10, 12 and 15 year senior notes, repaid $75 million of senior notes that were to mature in 2011 and extended its Credit Facility out five years. "Financially, we continue to have a solid balance sheet, and we retain a significant level of flexibility as evident by our 32.9 percent net debt to adjusted total capital ratio," added Dinges.
Conference Call
Listen in live to Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation's 2010 year-end and fourth quarter financial and operating results discussion with financial analysts on Wednesday, February 23, 2011 at 9:30 a.m. EST (8:30 a.m. CST) at . A teleconference replay will also be available at (800) 642-1687, (U.S./Canada) or (706) 645-9291 (International), pass code 34679366. The replay will be available through Friday, February 25, 2011. The latest financial guidance, including the Company's hedge positions, along with a replay of the web cast, which will be archived for one year, are available in the investor relations section of the Company's website at .
www.cabotog.com
www.cabotog.com
Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation, headquartered in Houston, Texas is a leading independent natural gas producer, with its entire resource base located in the continental United States. For additional information, visit the Company's Internet homepage at .
www.cabotog.com
The statements regarding future financial performance and results and the other statements which are not historical facts contained in this release are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, market factors, the market price (including regional basis differentials) of natural gas and oil, results of future drilling and marketing activity, future production and costs, and other factors detailed in the Company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
 
CABOT OIL & GAS RESULTS  Page 3
 
 
CABOT OIL & GAS RESULTS  Page 4
 
 
 
 
 
CABOT OIL & GAS RESULTS  Page 5
 
 
 
CABOT OIL & GAS RESULTS  Page 6
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


