FILE:COG/COG-8K-20110427212546.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On April 27, 2011, we issued a press release with respect to our 2011 first quarter earnings. The press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report. The press release contains certain measures (discussed below) which may be deemed "non-GAAP financial measures" as defined in Item 10 of Regulation S-K of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. In each case, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure and information reconciling the GAAP and non-GAAP measures is also included in the press release.
Exhibit 99.1 shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated therein by reference.
From time to time management discloses Discretionary Cash Flow, Net Income excluding selected items, Earnings per Share excluding selected items and Net Debt calculations and ratios. These non-GAAP financial measures, to the extent included in Exhibit 99.1, are reconciled to the most comparable GAAP financial measures in Exhibit 99.1.
Discretionary Cash Flow is defined as Net Income plus non-cash charges and Exploration Expense. Discretionary Cash Flow is widely accepted as a financial indicator of an oil and gas company's ability to generate cash which is used to internally fund exploration and development activities, pay dividends and service debt. Discretionary Cash Flow is presented based on management's belief that this non-GAAP measure is useful information to investors when comparing our cash flows with the cash flows of other companies that use the Full Cost method of accounting for oil and gas producing activities or have different financing and capital structures or tax rates. Discretionary Cash Flow is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to cash flows from operating activities, as defined by GAAP, or as a measure of liquidity, or an alternative to Net Income.
Net Income excluding selected items and Earnings per Share excluding selected items are presented based on management's belief that these non-GAAP measures enable a user of the financial information to understand the impact of these items on reported results. Additionally, this presentation provides a beneficial comparison to similarly adjusted measurements of prior periods. Net Income and Earnings per Share excluding selected items is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to Net Income and Earnings per Share, as defined by GAAP.
The total Debt to total Capitalization ratio is calculated by dividing total Debt by the sum of total Debt and total Stockholders' Equity. This ratio is a measurement which is presented in our annual and interim filings and management believes this ratio is useful to investors in determining the Company's leverage. Net Debt and the Net Debt to total Capitalization ratio are non-GAAP measures which have been presented in Exhibit 99.1. Net Debt is calculated by subtracting Cash and Cash Equivalents from Total Debt. Management believes that these measurements are also useful to investors since the Company has the ability to and may decide to use a portion of its Cash and Cash Equivalents to retire Debt. Additionally, as the Company may incur additional expenditures without increasing debt, it is appropriate to apply Cash and Cash Equivalents to Debt in calculating the Net Debt to total Capitalization ratio.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: April 27, 2011
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation (NYSE: COG) today reported that for the first quarter of 2011 the Company posted net income of $12.9 million, or $0.12 per share, cash flow from operations of $91.2 million and discretionary cash flow of $108.6 million. This compares to the first quarter of 2010 when the Company announced $28.7 million, or $0.28 per share, of net income, $116.1 million for cash flow from operations and $131.4 million of discretionary cash flow.
HOUSTON, April 27, 2011 -
After eliminating the impact of selected items (detailed in the attached tables), the net income comparisons would have been $20.7 million, or $0.20 per share, for 2011 versus $30.6 million, or $0.30 per share, in 2010. The selected items are comprised of gains and losses related to the sale of assets, stock compensation and derivatives in both periods, along with pension termination related expenses in 2011.
The relative comparisons between quarterly periods were once again driven by lower natural gas and oil price realizations somewhat offset by higher production volumes from both natural gas and oil. Natural gas price realizations were $4.68 per Mcf in 2011 versus $6.71 per Mcf in 2010 for the quarter comparison. This year's quarter experienced a $0.37 per Mcf pick-up from the Company's natural gas hedge position, where last year's impact was $1.12 per Mcf. While oil comprises a small portion of Cabot's production, the hedge per unit impact lowered the realized price by $1.42 per barrel for the first quarter 2011 versus an increase of $22.36 per barrel in the first quarter 2010. The realized price of $87.15 per barrel was 11 percent below last year's first quarter.
"Even with these significant price reductions between first quarters, we were able to hold production revenue essentially flat," said Dan O. Dinges, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. "This is on the strength of the positive news coming out of the quarter of 41 percent growth in equivalent production volumes between first quarters, at the top end of equivalent guidance." The Company reported equivalent volumes of 37.7 Bcfe for 2011. "We still remain constrained on takeaway in the north region but with visibility for significant infrastructure commissioning in the near-term," added Dinges. "Last year at this time we had a first quarter exit rate in Marcellus of 107 Mmcf gross per day. This year, our Marcellus production exit rate for the first quarter is 320 Mmcf gross per day."
 
Effective in 2011, the Company began reflecting the financial impact of its transportation and gathering arrangements in operating expenses. With the advent of a new third party aggregate for Marcellus, the significant firm transportation arrangements and the growing production base, the magnitude of these categories warranted detailed disclosure. Historically, the total cost of this category was small and captured in Cabot's realized price calculation. Going forward these costs will all be captured, company-wide, in this new expense line, and realized prices will be higher. From a net perspective, there is no impact to the bottom line, just additional details on the income statement.
"With the higher level of production and only a slight trend upward in expenses due to our activity, we were able to reduce unit costs, including financing, by $1.42 per Mcfe or by about 22 percent over last year's first quarter," commented Dinges.
"Additionally, this year appears to be shaping up as another year of $4.00 to $5.00 natural gas prices, and as such, we have to maintain our discipline around our total investment level, which remains at $600 million."
Conference Call
Listen in live to Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation's first quarter financial and operating results discussion with financial analysts on Thursday, April 28, 2011 at 9:30 a.m. EDT (8:30 a.m. CDT) at . A teleconference replay will also be available at (800) 642-1687, (U.S./Canada) or (706) 645-9291 (International), pass code 59961803. The replay will be available through Saturday, April 30, 2011. The latest financial guidance, including the Company's hedge positions, along with a replay of the web cast, which will be archived for one year, are available in the investor relations section of the Company's website at .
www.cabotog.com
www.cabotog.com
Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation, headquartered in Houston, Texas is a leading independent natural gas producer with its entire resource base located in the continental United States. For additional information, visit the Company's Internet homepage at
www.cabotog.com.
The statements regarding future financial performance and results and the other statements which are not historical facts contained in this release are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, market factors, the market price (including regional basis differentials) of natural gas and oil, results of future drilling and marketing activity, future production and costs, and other factors detailed in the Company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
 
CABOT OIL & GAS RESULTS  Page 3
 
 
 
CABOT OIL & GAS RESULTS  Page 4
 
 
CABOT OIL & GAS RESULTS  Page 5
 
 
CABOT OIL & GAS RESULTS  Page 6
 
 
 
 
 


