FILE:COG/COG-8K-20110727193629.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On July 27, 2011, we issued a press release with respect to our 2011 second quarter earnings. The press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report. The press release contains certain measures (discussed below) which may be deemed "non-GAAP financial measures" as defined in Item 10 of Regulation S-K of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. In each case, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure and information reconciling the GAAP and non-GAAP measures is also included in the press release.
Exhibit 99.1 shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated therein by reference.
From time to time management discloses Discretionary Cash Flow, Net Income excluding selected items, Earnings per Share excluding selected items and Net Debt calculations and ratios. These non-GAAP financial measures, to the extent included in Exhibit 99.1, are reconciled to the most comparable GAAP financial measures in Exhibit 99.1.
Discretionary Cash Flow is defined as Net Income plus non-cash charges and Exploration Expense. Discretionary Cash Flow is widely accepted as a financial indicator of an oil and gas company's ability to generate cash which is used to internally fund exploration and development activities, pay dividends and service debt. Discretionary Cash Flow is presented based on management's belief that this non-GAAP measure is useful information to investors when comparing our cash flows with the cash flows of other companies that use the Full Cost method of accounting for oil and gas producing activities or have different financing and capital structures or tax rates. Discretionary Cash Flow is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to cash flows from operating activities, as defined by GAAP, or as a measure of liquidity, or an alternative to Net Income.
Net Income excluding selected items and Earnings per Share excluding selected items are presented based on management's belief that these non-GAAP measures enable a user of the financial information to understand the impact of these items on reported results. Additionally, this presentation provides a beneficial comparison to similarly adjusted measurements of prior periods. Net Income and Earnings per Share excluding selected items is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to Net Income and Earnings per Share, as defined by GAAP.
The total Debt to total Capitalization ratio is calculated by dividing total Debt by the sum of total Debt and total Stockholders' Equity. This ratio is a measurement which is presented in our annual and interim filings and management believes this ratio is useful to investors in determining the Company's leverage. Net Debt and the Net Debt to total Capitalization ratio are non-GAAP measures which have been presented in Exhibit 99.1. Net Debt is calculated by subtracting Cash and Cash Equivalents from Total Debt. Management believes that these measurements are also useful to investors since the Company has the ability to and may decide to use a portion of its Cash and Cash Equivalents to retire Debt. Additionally, as the Company may incur additional expenditures without increasing debt, it is appropriate to apply Cash and Cash Equivalents to Debt in calculating the Net Debt to total Capitalization ratio.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: July 27, 2011
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation (NYSE: COG) today reported its second quarter results that included an overall growth in production of 47.5 percent between comparable second quarter periods. "This production growth clearly was the leading driver of our financial results and operational gains," said Dan O. Dinges, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. "An indicator of our significant momentum on this front was not only the 49.1 percent increase in natural gas but also the 21.7 percent increase in crude/condensate/NGL volumes, which resulted in Cabot's highest quarterly production."
HOUSTON, July 27, 2011 -
Second quarter net income was $54.7 million, or $0.53 per share, as compared to net income of $21.7 million, or $0.21 per share, in the second quarter of 2010. Removing selected items in both periods (which are detailed in the Selected Items Table and include the impact of the sale of assets, stock compensation, pension and derivatives), the 2011 quarter's net income was $42.9 million, or $0.41 per share, as compared to $19.9 million, or $0.19 per share, for the second quarter of 2010.
Cash flow from operations for the 2011 second quarter totaled $129.5 million, while discretionary cash flow was $146.9 million. Comparatively, 2010 second quarter cash flow from operations was $127.1 million, and discretionary cash flow was $109.5 million.
For the quarter, realized prices for both natural gas and oil were below last year's second quarter postings. Natural gas was $4.67 per Mcf, down 17.3 percent from last year's $5.65 per Mcf, while oil was off slightly at $95.17 per barrel versus $96.70 per barrel. Operating expenses and financing cost, in absolute terms, together increased 11 percent between comparable second quarters.
"However, on the strength of Cabot's record quarterly production volumes, we have realized a 25 percent reduction in these costs per unit between second quarters," commented Dinges.
 
Year-to-Date
In the six months ended June 30, 2011, Cabot reported net income of $67.6 million, or $0.65 per share, compared to $50.4 million, or $0.49 per share, for the same period last year. The cash flow comparisons for the six months ended June 30, 2011 and June 30, 2010, respectively, are cash flow from operations of $220.7 million versus $243.2 million and discretionary cash flow of $255.5 million versus $241.0 million. The 2011 six-month net income figure, after removal of the selected items, was $63.7 million, or $0.61 per share, versus $50.4 million, or $0.49 per share, for the six-month period ended June 30, 2010.
"The same dynamic that drove the second quarter results applies to the year-to-date periods  increased production and lower natural gas price realizations," stated Dinges. "Production was up approximately 45 percent for the six-month comparable periods while natural gas prices fell 24.1 percent and oil prices dropped 5 percent."
From a balance sheet perspective, the Company's net debt to adjusted capital stands at 34.9% as of June 30, 2011. So far this year, Cabot has added $120 million to its outstanding borrowings to fund its investment efforts. "With our assets sales helping to fund our 2011 program, we have spent a net $350 million through six months," commented Dinges. "And with our ongoing asset rationalization efforts, our full year net 2011 program will remain at, or below, original expectations."
Conference Call
Listen in live to Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation's second quarter financial and operational results discussion with financial analysts on Thursday, July 28, 2011 at 9:30 a.m. EDT (8:30 a.m. CDT) at . A teleconference replay will also be available at (800) 642-1687, (U.S./Canada) or (706) 645-9291 (International), pass code 75438015. The replay will be available for 48 hours. The latest financial guidance, including the Company's hedge positions, along with a replay of the web cast, which will be archived for one year, are available in the investor relations section of the Company's website at .
www.cabotog.com
www.cabotog.com
Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation, headquartered in Houston, Texas is a leading independent natural gas producer with its entire resource base located in the continental United States. For additional information, visit the Company's Internet homepage at
www.cabotog.com.
The statements regarding future financial performance and results and the other statements which are not historical facts contained in this release are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, market factors, the market price (including regional basis differentials) of natural gas and oil, results of future drilling and marketing activity, future production and costs, and other factors detailed in the Company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
 
CABOT OIL & GAS RESULTS  Page 3
 
 
 
 
CABOT OIL & GAS RESULTS  Page 4
 
 
 
CABOT OIL & GAS RESULTS  Page 5
 
 
 
CABOT OIL & GAS RESULTS  Page 6
 
 
 
 
 


