FILE:COG/COG-8K-20120425184610.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2):
see
 
o
   
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
   
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
   
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
   
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c)
 
 
 
Item 2.02
              
Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On April 25, 2012, we issued a press release with respect to our 2012 first quarter earnings.  The press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report.  The press release contains certain measures (discussed below) which may be deemed "non-GAAP financial measures" as defined in Item 10 of Regulation S-K of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.  In each case, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure and information reconciling the GAAP and non-GAAP measures is also included in the press release.
 
Exhibit 99.1 shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated therein by reference.
 
From time to time management discloses Discretionary Cash Flow, Net Income excluding selected items, Earnings per Share excluding selected items and Net Debt calculations and ratios.  These non-GAAP financial measures, to the extent included in Exhibit 99.1, are reconciled to the most comparable GAAP financial measures in Exhibit 99.1.
 
Discretionary Cash Flow is defined as Net Income plus non-cash charges and Exploration Expense.  Discretionary Cash Flow is widely accepted as a financial indicator of an oil and gas company's ability to generate cash which is used to internally fund exploration and development activities, pay dividends and service debt.  Discretionary Cash Flow is presented based on management's belief that this non-GAAPmeasure is useful information to investors when comparing our cash flows with the cash flows of other companies that use the Full Cost method of accounting for oil and gas producing activities or have different financing and capital structures or tax rates.  Discretionary Cash Flow is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to cash flows from operating activities, as defined by GAAP, or as a measure of liquidity, or an alternative to Net Income.
 
Net Income excluding selected items and Earnings per Share excluding selected items are presented based on management's belief that these non-GAAP measures enable a user of the financial information to understand the impact of these items on reported results.  Additionally, this presentation provides a beneficial comparison to similarly adjusted measurements of prior periods.  Net Income and Earnings per Share excluding selected items is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to Net Income and Earnings per Share, as defined by GAAP.
 
The total Debt to total Capitalization ratio is calculated by dividing total Debt by the sum of total Debt and total Stockholders' Equity.  This ratio is a measurement which is presented in our annual and interim filings and management believes this ratio is useful to investors in determining the Company's leverage.  Net Debt and the Net Debt to total Capitalization ratio are non-GAAP measures which have been presented in Exhibit 99.1.  Net Debt is calculated by subtracting Cash and Cash Equivalents from Total Debt.  Management believes that these measurements are also useful to investors since the Company has the ability to and may decide to use a portion of its Cash and Cash Equivalents to retire Debt.  Additionally, as the Company may incur additional expenditures without increasing debt, it is appropriate to apply Cash and Cash Equivalents to Debt in calculating the Net Debt to total Capitalization ratio.
Item 9.01
              
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
HOUSTON, April 25, 2012 -
Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation (NYSE: COG) today announced an improvement in first quarter profits over last year, driven primarily from continued expansion of the Company's production base, with both oil and natural gas volumes setting new Company production records.
 
The Company posted net income of $18.3 million, or $0.09 per share, cash flow from operations of $131.8 million and discretionary cash flow of $138.5 million for the first quarter of 2012.  This compares to the first quarter of 2011 when the Company reported net income of $12.9 million, or $0.06 per share, cash flow from operations of $91.2 million and discretionary cash flow of $112.3 million.  Excluding the effect of certain selected items detailed in the tables below, first quarter 2012 net income was $28.5 million, or $0.14 per share, compared to $20.7 million, or $0.10 per share, in first quarter 2011.
 
Production during the first quarter 2012 was 59.7 Bcfe, with 56.4 Bcf of natural gas production and 538 thousand barrels of liquids production. These figures represent increases of 58 percent, 55 percent, and 138 percent, respectively, compared to the first quarter 2011.  Production was the strongest ever reported; however, realized pricing was mixed.  Natural gas price realizations were down 22 percent to $3.65 per Mcf in first quarter 2012, while oil price realizations were up 11 percent to $96.67 per barrel. "Even with the significant reduction in realized natural gas prices between first quarters, we were able to grow oil and gas revenues by 36 percent as a result of our record production growth," said Dan O. Dinges, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer.  "These results highlight how efforts in each of our areas of focus continue to generate positive momentum.  Fortunately, we have the assets, the balance sheet, and the operational ability to weather this cycle and still be opportunistic in order to generate value over the long-term."  Total expenses trended higher between the comparable first quarters, with DD&A, transportation and gathering and taxes other than income increasing the most. However, total per unit costs continued their downward trend due to the ramp up in production.
Conference Call
 
Listen in live to Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation's first quarter financial and operating results discussion with financial analysts on Thursday, April 26, 2012 at 9:30 a.m. EST (8:30 a.m. CST) at www.cabotog.com.  The latest financial guidance, including the Company's hedge positions, along with a replay of the web cast, which will be archived for one year, are available in the investor relations section of the Company's website at www.cabotog.com.
 
Cabot Oil & Gas Corporation, headquartered in Houston, Texas is a leading independent natural gas producer, with its entire resource base located in the continental United States.  For additional information, visit the Company's Internet homepage at www.cabotog.com
.
 
The statements regarding future financial performance and results and the other statements which are not historical facts contained in this release are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, market factors, the market price (including regional basis differentials) of natural gas and oil, results of future drilling and marketing activity, future production and costs, and other factors detailed in the Company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
 
 
 
(1)   These realized prices include the realized impact of derivative instrument settlements.
 
 
(1)
    
Includes the impact of the Company's performance share awards and restricted stock amortization as well as expense related to stock appreciation rights.  Also includes expense for the Supplemental Employee Incentive Plan.
(2)
    
All Earning Per Share and Weighted Average Common Share figures have been retroactively adjusted for the 2-for-1 split of the Company's common stock effective January 25, 2012.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


