FILE:MDT/MDT-8K-20031112161752.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
Item 7.
                                       
Financial  Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Item 12.
                      
Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
The full text of the press release is set forth in Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto and is incorporated in this Current Report as if fully set forth herein.
On November 12, 2003, Medtronic, Inc. issued a press release announcing its second quarter financial results for fiscal 2004.
 
The information in this Current Report, including the Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto and incorporated herein, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly  authorized.
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
 
 
F O R   I M M E D I A T E   R E L E A S E
 
 
MINNEAPOLIS, November 12, 2003  Reflecting the continued benefits of its broad and diversified business, along with expanded market leadership and share gains in several key segments, Medtronic, Inc. (NYSE: MDT), today announced quarterly revenues of $2.164 billion, up 14 percent over the $1.891 billion of the comparable period a year ago.  Reflecting the weaker dollar outside the United States, foreign currency translation, when compared to the prior year, had a positive effect on revenue of $59.1 million.
 
The company announced second-quarter net earnings of $476.1 million, or $0.39 per diluted share, an increase in net earnings of 58 percent over the $301.7 million in net earnings and 56 percent above the $0.25 per diluted share recorded in the comparable period last year.  Excluding charges taken in the second quarter of both the current and prior year, net earnings and net earnings per diluted share grew 14 percent and 15 percent, respectively.
 
"Medtronic delivered another record quarter of solid growth, with especially noteworthy contributions from our implantable defibrillator, spinal and diabetes product lines," stated Art Collins, Medtronic chairman and chief executive officer.  "Looking ahead, our new product pipeline and continued market development efforts bode well for both patients and the financial performance of the company during the second half of this fiscal year."
 
Cardiac Rhythm Management Business
 
Cardiac Rhythm Management reported revenues of $1.024 billion for the quarter, a 13 percent increase when compared to the same quarter one year ago.
 
Capturing more than 80 percent of the market's sequential growth and extending its clear market leadership through share gains, worldwide implantable defibrillator revenues grew 22 percent in the quarter.  Growth was fueled by rapid uptake of the InSync II Marquis
 the fourth high-powered heart failure device introduced by Medtronic within the last 18 months  and continued enthusiasm for the Marquis
family of implantable defibrillators.  Other milestones for the quarter included the U.S. introduction of the high-output Maximo
implantable defibrillator, the addition of the Marquis VR to the CareLink
Network and the conclusion of the patient follow-up period for the landmark SCD-HeFT (Sudden Cardiac Death in Heart Failure) trial.
 
Worldwide pacing revenues were up 9 percent
for
the second quarter.  Quarterly growth was driven by market share gains and continued acceptance of the company's unique low-powered heart failure offerings, the InSync
and the InSync
III, as well as preference for its full suite of pacemakers.  Additional highlights included the U.S. introduction of the Vitatron C-series, the world's first fully digital pacemaker, and the European introduction of the EnPulse
, the world's first fully automatic pacing system.  Medtronic anticipates both the U.S. launch of the
EnPulse
pacemaker and the addition of cardiac resynchronization therapy devices to the CareLink Network by the end of the calendar year.
 
Collectively, implantable defibrillator and pacing revenues (
Arrhythmia
Management) increased more than 15 percent.
 
Medtronic Physio-Control revenues were down 5 percent for
the
quarter.  In support of its goal to create greater public awareness and access to automated external defibrillators (AEDs), Medtronic recently launched LIFEPAK
Heart Safe Schools, a complete, ready-to-use package of services that integrates the components necessary to bring lifesaving AED technology to schools across the country.
 
Vascular Business
 
Vascular posted quarterly revenues of $194.2 million, with growth up slightly versus the same period one year ago.
 
Significant share gains in several segments of the market
contributed
to the quarter's performance.  Continued strong preference for both the Driver
coronary stent and the Micro-Driver small vessel coronary stent in Europe complemented the rapid acceptance of Medtronic's latest balloon and guide catheter products, the NC Stormer
and the Launcher
, in the United States.  Further contributions came from market share gains and worldwide preference for Medtronic endovascular stent grafts.  Additional highlights for the quarter included the presentation of positive four-month results from the ENDEAVOR I trial for Medtronic's drug-coated coronary stent, and strong physician acceptance of the Driver coronary stent following U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approval in October.
 
Medtronic continues to enroll patients in the ENDEAVOR II study, already surpassing the halfway mark with the enrollment of its 600th patient earlier this week.  The company anticipates both the
completion of enrollment in this study and the start of the ENDEAVOR III study by the end of the calendar year.  Earlier this week, the company announced the start of an additional clinical trial, VALOR, to evaluate the use of its Talent
Thoracic Stent Graft in the treatment of thoracic aortic aneurysms.  Reflecting continued investments in its broader product portfolio, Medtronic expects to introduce its new Sprinter balloon catheter series and its new Exponent self-expanding carotid stent with the unique Interceptor distal protection filter in Europe during the third fiscal quarter.  The company will also introduce the Racer biliary stent, the market's first peripheral stent comprised of a cobalt-based alloy, in the United States.
 
Cardiac Surgery Business
 
Cardiac Surgery achieved revenues of $146.2 million for the
quarter
, a 10 percent increase when compared to the same quarter one year ago.
 
Worldwide revenues for Heart Valves were up 14 percent due to continued market share gains and the strength of Medtronic's broad portfolio of tissue heart valves and products used in valve repair.  Cardiac Surgery Technologies reported revenue growth of 16 percent, driven by strong acceptance of the Cardioblate
BP
Surgical
Ablation System and products used to facilitate the practice of beating heart bypass surgery.  In addition, Medtronic expects to launch the Cardioblate
XL by the end of the calendar year.  Perfusion Systems' revenue grew 5 percent in the quarter, marked by continued market share gains and preference for its core products.
 
Neurological and Diabetes Business
 
Neurological and Diabetes posted quarterly revenues of $393.6
million
, a 17 percent increase versus the same period one year ago.
 
Neurological revenues grew 17 percent in the quarter, led by strong sales of neurostimulation systems to treat pain and InterStim
Therapy for Urinary Control.  Quarterly revenue growth was also supported by continued market preference for both the Legend
high-speed surgical drill system and the Bravo
pH Monitoring
System
for the diagnosis of acid reflux.  Milestones for the quarter included the 10,000 implant of the company's novel InterStim therapy and the publication of a multi-center European clinical trial demonstrating that TUNA
th
Therapy is effective over the long term with sustained responses in more than 75 percent of the men treated after five years.  Looking ahead, Medtronic expects to initiate U.S. clinical trials for its innovative Gatekeeper
Reflux Repair System during the third fiscal quarter.
 
Drawing upon the strength of a broad product pipeline and the first full quarter of sales of the industry's first "wireless" insulin pump system, Diabetes quarterly revenue grew 18 percent. 
Strong
market acceptance of the Paradigm
512 insulin pump and the Paradigm Link
blood glucose meter fueled growth and extended Medtronic's technological leadership in the marketplace. 
Medtronic recently announced the market introduction of the Paradigm 712 insulin pump, which incorporates a larger reservoir for diabetes patients requiring more insulin to keep their blood sugar levels within a normal range.  Over the next several months, Medtronic anticipates a further expansion of its leading product line with the U.S. introductions of both the Quick-set
Plus
Infusion Set and the Guardian
Glucose Monitoring System, which features an alarm to signal high or low blood glucose levels in people with diabetes.
 
Spinal, ENT and SNT Business
 
Spinal, Ear, Nose and Throat (ENT) and Surgical Navigation Technologies (SNT) reported quarterly revenues of $406.2 million, a 26 percent increase over the same quarter one year ago.
 
Spinal revenues grew 29 percent, led by continued robust acceptance of INFUSE
Bone Graft and physician preference for the company's market-leading Minimal
Access
Spinal Technologies (MAST).  During the quarter, Medtronic secured additional worldwide rights for rhBMP-2 for spine, orthopaedic and trauma indications, as well as the exclusive license for orthopaedic surgery in Japan and Asia.  The company also further strengthened its MAST portfolio with the European introduction of the DIAM
Spinal Stabilization System and the U.S. introduction of the CD-HORIZON
SEXTANT
Multi-Level Technique.  In addition, Medtronic today announced its acquisition of Vertelink, a company that is pioneering the development of innovative materials and techniques for over-the-wire spinal fixation devices  this acquisition is expected to close during the third fiscal quarter.
 
ENT revenue growth of 12 percent for the
quarter was aided by
contributions from a broad range of market-leading products.  The business also launched its PITA
(Powered Intracapsular Tonsillectomy and Adenoidectomy) procedure to treat obstructive sleep apnea, which promotes less pain and faster recovery for patients.  SNT revenues increased 11 percent.  Recently, Medtronic launched the PoleStar
N20, a compact intraoperative MRI system.
 
Stock Buyback Authorization
 
As discussed in a separate press release,
Medtronic's
board of directors has authorized management to repurchase an additional 30 million shares of Medtronic stock.  This authorization was necessary as the company has almost completed the repurchase of 25 million shares, the amount authorized by the board on June 28, 2001.
 
Webcast Information
 
Medtronic will host a webcast today,
November
12, 2003, at 4:30 p.m. EST (3:30 p.m. CST), to provide more information about its businesses for the public, analysts and the media.  This quarterly presentation will be webcast through the company's website at
www.medtronic.com/corporate/invest.html. Replay will be available until midnight CST on November 19, 2003.  This earnings release will be archived at www.medtronic.com/newsroom, and a transcript of the webcast will be available at www.medtronic.com/corporate/invest.html.
 
Medtronic, Inc., headquartered in Minneapolis, is the world's leading medical technology company, providing lifelong solutions for people with chronic disease.  Its Internet address is www.medtronic.com.
 
Any statements made about the company's anticipated financial results and regulatory approvals are forward-looking statements subject to risks and uncertainties such as the risks inherent in the development, manufacturing, marketing and sale of medical products, competitive factors, general economic conditions, legal disputes and government actions as more fully described in Medtronic's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended April 25, 2003. Actual results may differ materially from anticipated results.
 
 
*- Medtronic management believes that in order to properly understand Medtronic's short-term and long-term financial trends, investors may wish to consider the impact of special (such as certain litigation and restructuring charges), IPR&D, and other charges.  These charges result from facts and circumstances that vary in frequency and/or impact on continuing operations.  In addition, Medtronic management uses results of operations before special, IPR&D, and other charges to evaluate the operational performance of the Company and as a basis for strategic planning.  Investors should consider these non-GAAP measures in addition to, and not as a subsitute for, financial performance measures prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
 
*- Medtronic management believes that in order to properly understand Medtronic's short-term and long-term financial trends, investors may wish to consider the impact of special (such as certain litigation and restructuring charges), IPR&D, and other charges.  These charges result from facts and circumstances that vary in frequency and/or impact on continuing operations.  In addition, Medtronic management uses results of operations before special, IPR&D, and other charges to evaluate the operational performance of the Company and as a basis for strategic planning.  Investors should consider these non-GAAP measures in addition to, and not as a subsitute for, financial performance measures prepared in accordance with GAAP.


