FILE:MDT/MDT-8K-20041012161557.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
           
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
           
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
           
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
           
Item 8.01.
             
Other Events
 
On October 12, 2004, Medtronic, Inc. issued a press release announcing the results of the punitive damages phase of the lawsuit entitled involving technology agreements among the parties.  The full text of the press release is set forth in Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto and is incorporated in this Current Report as if fully set forth herein.  This information is disclosed pursuant to Regulation FD.
Medtronic Sofamor Danek, Inc.,vs. Gary K. Michelson, M.D., and Karlin Technology, Inc.,
 
Item 9.01.
             
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Financial statements:  None.
(a)
          
 
Pro forma financial information:  None.
(b)
          
 
Exhibits:
(c)
          
 
Press release dated October 12, 2004.
Exhibit 99.1
           
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
                                      
NEWS RELEASE
 
 
 
 
MINNEAPOLIS, Oct. 12, 2004
 Medtronic, Inc. (NYSE: MDT) issued the following statement in response to today's findings in the punitive damages phase of
Medtronic Sofamor Danek, Inc. vs. Gary K. Michelson, M.D., and Karlin Technology, Inc.
 
Medtronic Sofamor Danek, Inc. vs. Gary K. Michelson, M.D., and Karlin Technology, Inc.,
is a dispute involving technology agreements between Medtronic Sofamor Danek (MSD) and Dr. Michelson and his company, Karlin Technology, Inc. (KTI).  Details of the punitive damages findings, announced in U.S. District Court in Memphis, Tenn., are summarized as follows:
 
 - 
                 
Under certain claims, the jury awarded Dr. Michelson and his company punitive damages of $400 million.
 - 
                 
The punitive damages were awarded only against MSD  not its parent company, Medtronic Inc.
 - 
                 
The agreements between MSD and Dr. Michelson and his company remain in effect.
 
Medtronic and MSD strongly disagree with the damages awarded and believe that the award is unjustified and excessive.  MSD intends to pursue all appropriate post-trial remedies, including exercising its right to appeal and believes its position will ultimately be vindicated.
 
Medtronic, Inc., headquartered in Minneapolis, is the world's leading medical technology company, providing lifelong solutions for people with chronic disease.  Its Internet address is www.medtronic.com
 
Any statements made about the company's anticipated financial results and regulatory approvals are forward-looking statements subject to risks and uncertainties such as those described in Medtronic's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended April 30, 2004.  Actual results may differ materially from anticipated results.


