FILE:MDT/MDT-8K-20041021170140.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
710 Medtronic Parkway
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 5.02 
            
Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
 
(d)
          
On October 21, 2004, the Board of Directors of Medtronic, Inc. ("Medtronic") elected a new director,
Robert C. Pozen
. 
There are no arrangements or understandings between Mr. Pozen and Medtronic or any other persons,
pursuant to which he was selected as a director
. 
Mr. Pozen
will serve on the Audit Committee and Corporate Governance Committee.  There have been no transactions with management or others, or a series of similar transactions, since the beginning of the last fiscal year, or any currently proposed transactions, or series of similar transactions, to which Medtronic or any of its subsidiaries were or are to be a party, in which the amount involved exceeded or will exceed $60,000, in which the Mr. Pozen has a direct or indirect material interest.
 
A press release announcing the election of the new director was issued on October 21, 2004.  The full text of the press release is set forth in Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto and is incorporated in this Current Report as if fully set forth herein.
 
Item 9.01.
             
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(a)
          
Financial statements:  None.
 
(b)
          
Pro forma financial information:  None.
 
(c)
          
Exhibits:
 
Exhibit 99.1
        
Press release dated October 21, 2004.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
F O R   I M M E D I A T E   R E L E A S E
MINNEAPOLIS, Oct. 21, 2004Medtronic, Inc. (NYSE: MDT), today announced the election to its Board of Directors of Robert C. Pozen, chairman of MFS Investment Management. Pozen is a director of BCE, the parent company of Bell Canada, a director of Bank of New York and a trustee of the Commonwealth Fund, a foundation focused on healthcare coverage and quality.
 
Prior to joining MFS, Pozen was secretary of Economic Affairs for the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. Previously, Pozen had spent 15 years at Fidelity Investments, rising to president of Fidelity Management and Research Company, the investment advisor to the Fidelity mutual funds.  Before Fidelity, he had been a partner at the Washington, D.C., law firm of Caplin & Drysdale and had served as associate general counsel to the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
Art Collins, Medtronic chairman and chief executive officer, noted that Pozen has a broad background in finance, government and healthcare that will be valuable to Medtronic. "We are delighted that Bob Pozen will bring his expertise and breadth of knowledge to Medtronic as we strive to restore health and alleviate pain through the advancement of medical technologies," Collins said.
 
Pozen earned a bachelor of arts degree from Harvard College, and received a J.D. from Yale Law School, where he served on the editorial board of the Yale Law Journal.  In addition to numerous published articles, Pozen authored as well as the first textbook on comparative regulation of financial institutions.  During 2002 and 2003, he was the John Olin Visiting Professor at Harvard Law School.
The Mutual Fund Business
 
Medtronic, Inc., headquartered in Minneapolis, is the world's leading medical technology company, providing lifelong solutions for people with chronic disease.  Its Internet address is www.medtronic.com.
 
 
Any statements made about the company's anticipated financial results and regulatory approvals are forward-looking statements subject to risks and uncertainties such as those described in Medtronic's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended April 30, 2004.  Actual results may differ materially from anticipated results.


