FILE:MDT/MDT-8K-20040928161943.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
710 Medtronic Parkway
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
            
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
            
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
            
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
            
 
Item 8.01.
             
Other Events
 
involving technology agreements among the parties.  The full text of the press release is set forth in Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto and is incorporated in this Current Report as if fully set forth herein.  This information is disclosed pursuant to Regulation FD.
On September 28, 2004, Medtronic, Inc. issued a press release announcing the results of the jury verdict in the lawsuit entitled
Medtronic Sofamor Danek, Inc.,vs. Gary K. Michelson, M.D., and Karlin Technology, Inc.,
 
Item 9.01.
             
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Financial statements:  None.
(a)
  
 
Pro forma financial information:  None.
(b)
  
 
Exhibits:
(c)
  
 
Exhibit 99.1     Press release dated September 28, 2004.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
MINNEAPOLIS, Sept. 28, 2004  Medtronic, Inc. (NYSE: MDT) today issued the following statement in response to today's jury verdict in the case.
Medtronic Sofamor Danek, Inc. vs. Gary K. Michelson, M.D., and Karlin Technology, Inc.
 
A jury in U.S. District Court in Memphis, Tenn., delivered its verdict today in the case of a dispute involving technology agreements between Medtronic Sofamor Danek (MSD) and Dr. Michelson and his company.  Details of the verdict and damages awarded to Dr. Michelson and his company are summarized as follows:
Medtronic Sofamor Danek, Inc. vs. Gary K. Michelson, M.D., and Karlin Technology, Inc.,
The jury found that MSD breached certain provisions of its technology agreements with Dr. Michelson and his company, and awarded damages of approximately $110 million.
 - 
                 
The jury found that certain products infringed Dr. Michelson's patents and that MSD may be required to pay additional amounts on those products.
 - 
                 
The jury will consider whether punitive damages are appropriate on certain claims in a subsequent phase of the trial.
 - 
                 
The jury found that Medtronic Inc., MSD's parent company, had not breached any duties to Dr. Michelson and his company.
 - 
                 
 
As a result of the jury's findings, the agreements with Dr. Michelson and his company remain in effect.
 
Even before the verdict, MSD took steps to address a number of the issues in this case and will undertake further evaluation of the jury's determinations to assure compliance with the provisions of our agreements with Dr. Michelson and his company. Medtronic and MSD appreciate the extensive time and thoughtful consideration the court and jury devoted to this case.
Medtronic, Inc., headquartered in Minneapolis, is the world's leading medical technology company, providing lifelong solutions for people with chronic disease.  Its Internet address is www.medtronic.com
 
Any statements made about the company's anticipated financial results and regulatory approvals are forward-looking statements subject to risks and uncertainties such as those described in Medtronic's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended April 30, 2004.  Actual results may differ materially from anticipated results.


