FILE:MDT/MDT-8K-20040211163331.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.
                                  
Financial  Statements and Exhibits.
 
(a)
                                 
Financial statements:   None.
 
(b)
                                
Pro forma financial information:  None.
 
(c)
                                 
Exhibits:
 
Exhibit  99.1
                                
Press release dated February 11, 2004.
 
Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On February 11, 2004, Medtronic, Inc. issued a press release announcing its third quarter financial results for fiscal 2004.
The full text of the press release is set forth in Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto and is incorporated in this Current Report as if fully set forth herein.
 
The information in this Current Report, including the Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto and incorporated herein, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, and shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly  authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
F O R  I M M E D I A T E  R E L E A S E
 
MINNEAPOLIS, February 11, 2004  Drawing upon the strength of its diversified portfolio of businesses, Medtronic, Inc. (NYSE: MDT), today announced quarterly revenues of $2.195 billion, up 15 percent over the $1.913 billion of the comparable period a year ago.  Reflecting the weaker dollar outside the United States, foreign currency translation, when compared to the prior year, had a positive effect on revenue of $93.8 million.
 
The company announced third-quarter net earnings of $464.4 million, or $0.38 per diluted share, an increase in net earnings of 9 percent over the $427.7 million in net earnings and 9 percent above the $0.35 per diluted share recorded in the comparable period last year.  Excluding charges taken in the third quarter of the current year, net earnings grew 14 percent to $486.4 million and net earnings per share grew 14 percent to $0.40 per diluted share.  During the third quarter, the company took a required $22.0 million in-process research and development charge related to the previously announced acquisition of Vertelink, which has been completed.
 
Art Collins, Medtronic chairman and chief executive officer, stated, "Medtronic's record quarterly revenues were led by several key product lines, including Spinal, Implantable Defibrillators, Diabetes and Vascular.  These four product lines each grew by more than 15 percent and collectively increased over 20 percent."  Collins went on to say, "However, revenue growth for pacemakers, external defibrillators and several neurological devices came in below our initial expectations.  The corporation remains well-positioned in a number of very attractive, under-penetrated markets.  In order to expand
patient access and to further improve market share, substantial investments continue to be made in research and development, clinical trials, technical support and other market development activities."
 
Cardiac Rhythm Management Business
 
Cardiac Rhythm Management posted revenues of $1.003 billion for the quarter, an 11 percent increase over the same quarter one year ago.
 
heart failure device and the first full quarter of U.S. sales for the high-output Maximo implantable defibrillator.  During the quarter, two new left-heart lead delivery systems were introduced to help facilitate cardiac resynchronization procedures to treat heart failure.  Medtronic's CareLink Network remote monitoring service was also expanded to include both the InSync Marquis and the InSync ICD heart failure devices.  Results from the SCD-HeFT (Sudden Cardiac Death in Heart Failure) Trial will be presented during Late-Breaking Clinical Trials at the annual meeting of the American College of Cardiology (ACC) on March 8.  Between now and the end of the calendar year, six new implantable defibrillators are scheduled for introduction in the United States, plus an additional one outside of the United States, further strengthening Medtronic's portfolio of products to treat patients at high risk of sudden cardiac death.
Maintaining its clear market leadership position, Medtronic reported worldwide implantable defibrillator revenue growth of 17 percent in the third quarter.  Growth was driven by continued preference for the InSync II Marquis
th
 
, a new completely automatic pacemaker.  The FDA also granted permission for Medtronic to start a major new clinical study to evaluate the potential for biventricular pacing to inhibit heart failure progression.  Between now and the end of the calendar year, Medtronic will introduce two new pacemakers in the United States - the EnPulse2 early this summer and the EnRhythm by the end of the year.  The business will also introduce SelectSecure, the world's first catheter-delivered right-heart pacing lead.
Worldwide pacing revenues grew 7 percent during the quarter, led by continued acceptance of both Medtronic and Vitatron branded products.  During the quarter, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved the EnPulse
 
Medtronic Physio-Control revenues were essentially flat in the quarter.  The case for increased public access to automated external defibrillators (AEDs) was recently strengthened with the presentation of results from the American Heart Association (AHA) and National Institutes of Health (NIH) public access to defibrillation (PAD) study.  The study noted that the number of survivors from sudden cardiac arrest in public locations approximately doubled when laypersons were trained to call 911 and administer CPR and AED therapy.
 
Vascular Business
 
Vascular achieved quarterly revenues of $211.7 million, a 16 percent increase versus the same period one year ago.
 
Significant market share gains across several core product lines fueled the quarter's performance, led by ongoing acceptance of the Driver
coronary stent in both Europe and the United States.  The Driver stent also serves as the platform for Medtronic's ENDEAVOR drug-eluting coronary stent.   In the quarter, the company completed enrollment in its ENDEAVOR II pivotal clinical trial and hopes to initiate its ENDEAVOR III clinical trial in the United States shortly.  An additional near-term highlight will be the presentation of nine-month results from ENDEAVOR I at the Paris Course on Revascularization (PCR) meeting in May.
 
Strong sales of core products introduced within the last year also contributed to quarterly results. These products included the NC Stormer
balloon catheter, the Launcher
guide catheter and the recently launched Racer biliary stent, the first cobalt-alloy peripheral stent to be introduced in the United States.  The BeStent
2 coronary stent was also launched in Japan during the quarter.  Looking ahead, Medtronic expects to introduce the Sprinter
Over-The-Wire balloon dilation catheter in the United States within the next quarter.  Additionally, results from the company's EMERALD trial will be presented at ACC in March  this trial examines the use of balloon occlusion distal protection in patients with acute myocardial infarctions (AMIs).
 
Cardiac Surgery Business
 
Cardiac Surgery recorded revenues of $150.7 million for the quarter, a 9 percent increase when compared to the same quarter one year ago.
 
Worldwide Heart Valve revenues grew 15 percent in the quarter due to continued market share gains and double-digit growth in U.S. sales of Medtronic tissue heart valves.  Further broadening the portfolio of products to replace and repair heart valves, Medtronic recently introduced the ADVANTAGE
Supra
Bileaflet Mechanical Heart Valve in Europe and Canada.  The company also obtained a Humanitarian Device Exemption (HDE) in the United States for the Contegra
Pulmonary Valved Conduit, a product that can correct congenital defects of the right side of the heart in children.  Looking ahead, Medtronic expects to re-introduce tissue heart valves in Japan by the end of the fiscal year.
 
Global revenues for Cardiac Surgery Technologies grew 20 percent, driven by strong market preference for the Cardioblate
BP Surgical Ablation System.  The company also recently introduced the Octopus 4.3
Tissue Stabilizer, Medtronic's seventh-generation system to facilitate beating heart bypass surgery.  Perfusion Systems reported quarterly revenue growth of 3 percent.  That business just introduced the Resting Heart
System, a novel product to address the traditional challenges of arrested heart surgery.
 
Neurological and Diabetes Business
 
Neurological and Diabetes reported quarterly revenues of $395.3 million, a 15 percent increase versus the same period one year ago.
 
Neurological reported quarterly revenue growth of 13 percent, with contributions coming from InterStim
Therapy for Urinary Control and the Bravo
pH Monitoring System for the diagnosis of acid reflux.  In addition, continued physician preference for both the LEGEND
and the LEGEND GOLD
high-speed surgical drill systems supported sales gains in the quarter.  During the quarter, the FDA approved the Kinetra
neurostimulator, a single device that can treat bilateral symptoms of Parkinson's disease.  In the November 13, 2003, issue of , results of a five-year study were published and demonstrated that patients with advanced Parkinson's disease experienced "marked improvements" in motor function and mobility when treated with bilateral brain stimulation via Medtronic Activa
The New England Journal of Medicine
Therapy.  Also during the quarter, the U.S. pivotal clinical trial for the company's Gatekeeper
Reflux Repair System was initiated.
 
Quarterly revenues for Diabetes grew 20 percent.  Revenue growth reflected continued acceptance of the Paradigm
512 and 712 insulin pumps.  During the quarter, the company introduced the Quick-Set
Plus Infusion Set, which helps facilitate insulin delivery from an insulin pump to a patient's body for optimal blood sugar control.  Reflecting continued progress toward the development of an artificial pancreas, Medtronic today announced FDA clearance and the U.S. introduction of the Guardian
Glucose Monitoring System, which features an alarm to signal high or low blood glucose levels in people with diabetes.
 
Spinal, ENT and SNT Business
 
Spinal, Ear, Nose and Throat (ENT) and Surgical Navigation Technologies (SNT) posted quarterly revenues of $433.9 million, a 26 percent increase when compared to the same quarter one year ago.
 
Spinal revenues grew more than 30 percent spurred by increased acceptance of both the INFUSE
Bone Graft for spinal fusion surgery and the company's growing portfolio of Minimal Access Spinal Technologies (MAST).  In December, Medtronic received FDA approval for the expanded use of INFUSE Bone Graft with certain sizes of the INTER FIX
and INTER FIX
RP Threaded Fusion Devices.  This approval provides two additional technology platforms for the use of INFUSE Bone Graft in treating back pain.  Additionally, the company recently introduced the next generation of its leading TSRH-3D
Spinal Instrumentation, as well as its CD HORIZON LEGACY 5.5 Spinal System  both systems are individually tailored to stabilize single or multiple levels of the spine prior to obtaining a
TM
spinal fusion.  Another significant event in the quarter was the completion of enrollment in the company's study examining the use of rhBMP-2 in posterolateral fusion.
 
ENT revenues grew 13 percent in the quarter, led by sales of its market-leading NIM-Response
nerve monitor and its XPS
3000 endoscopic shaver systems.  During the quarter, Medtronic launched a new product line of flexible endoscopes and endoscope sheaths that provide a "delivery system" for procedures such as biopsy and sensory testing for evaluation of swallowing disorders.
 
Webcast Information
 
Medtronic will host a webcast today, February 11, 2004, at 4:30 p.m. EST (3:30 p.m. CST), to provide more information about its businesses for the public, analysts and the media.  This quarterly presentation will be webcast through the company's website at www.medtronic.com/corporate/invest.html. Replay will be available until midnight CST on February 18, 2004.  This earnings release will be archived at www.medtronic.com/newsroom, and a transcript of the webcast will be available at www.medtronic.com/corporate/invest.html.
 
Medtronic, Inc., headquartered in Minneapolis, is the world's leading medical technology company, providing lifelong solutions for people with chronic disease.  Its Internet address is www.medtronic.com.  LT CAGE
+ INFUSE
, INTERFIX
and INTERFIX
RP + INFUSE
incorporate technology developed by Gary K. Michelson, M.D.
 
Any statements made about the company's anticipated financial results and regulatory approvals are forward-looking statements subject to risks and uncertainties such as the risks inherent in the development, manufacturing, marketing and sale of medical products, competitive factors, general economic conditions, legal disputes and government actions as more fully described in Medtronic's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended April 25, 2003. Actual results may differ materially from anticipated results.
 
 
 
 
 


