FILE:MDT/MDT-8K-20050105210011.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
 
 
710 Medtronic Parkway
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Item 8.01.                              Other Events
 
                On January 5, 2005, Medtronic, Inc. ("Medtronic") issued a press release in response to a decision by the U.S. District Court in Delaware regarding patent litigation between Medtronic and the ACS subsidiary of Guidant Corporation and between Medtronic and Boston Scientific Corporation.  The full text of the press release is set forth in Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto and is incorporated in this Current Report as if fully set forth herein.  This information is disclosed pursuant to Regulation FD.
 
Item 9.01.                              Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
                               
(a)           Financial statements:  None.
 
                                (b)           Pro forma financial information:  None.
 
                                (c)           Exhibits:
 
                                               
Exhibit 99.1            Press release dated January 5, 2005.
 
                Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly  authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
MEDTRONIC RESPONDS TO COURT DECISIONS
INVOLVING STENT LITIGATION
 
MINNEAPOLIS  January 5, 2005 -
Medtronic, Inc. (NYSE: MDT) issued the following statement in response to today's decisions by the U.S. District Court in Delaware regarding patent litigation between Medtronic and the ACS subsidiary of Guidant Corporation (NYSE: GDT), and between Medtronic and Boston Scientific Corporation (NYSE: BSX).
 
Regarding the patent litigation between Medtronic and Guidant, the Court ruled as follows:
 
 - 
                   
Guidant's Multi-Link family of coronary and peripheral stents do not infringe Medtronic's Boneau patents.
 - 
                   
Guidant's motion for summary judgment that the Medtronic Boneau patents are invalid was denied.
 - 
                   
Medtronic's S7 and Driver coronary stents infringe one claim of Guidant's Lau patent.
 
Regarding the patent litigation between Medtronic and Boston Scientific Corporation, the Court ruled as follows:
 
 - 
                   
Boston Scientific's NIR and EXPRESS stents do not infringe Medtronic's Boneau patents.
 - 
                   
Boston Scientific's motion for summary judgment that the Medtronic Boneau patents are invalid was denied.
 
Medtronic strongly disagrees with the Court's infringement decisions and intends to pursue all available legal remedies, including its right to challenge the validity of the Lau patents and to exercise its right to appeal.
 
Medtronic, Inc., headquartered in Minneapolis, is the world's leading medical technology company, providing lifelong solutions for people with chronic disease.  Its Internet address is www.medtronic.com.
 
Any forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties as described in Medtronic's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended April 30, 2004.  Actual results may differ materially from anticipated results.
 


