FILE:MDT/MDT-8K-20050422081855.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):
April 21, 2005
(Registrant's telephone number, including area code):
(763) 514-4000
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entering into a Material Definitive Agreement.
      On April 21, 2005 Medtronic, Inc. (the "Company") and its wholly-owned subsidiaries, Medtronic Sofamor Danek, Inc. and SDGI Holdings, Inc. ("SDGI"), entered into an Asset Purchase and Settlement Agreement (the "Agreement") with Gary K. Michelson, M.D. and Karlin Technology, Inc.("KTI"). Pursuant to the terms of the Agreement, at closing SDGI will acquire substantially all of the intellectual property of KTI and Dr. Michelson relating to the diagnosis and treatment of the spine, and related contracts, rights and tangible materials. The transaction will also resolve all litigation and disputes between the parties. Under the Agreement, SDGI will pay KTI and Dr. Michelson $1.3 billion at closing, plus $50 million after the closing in five equal installments of $10 million per year. The Agreement also will transfer to SDGI ownership of all inventions related to the diagnosis and treatment of the spine conceived or acquired by Dr. Michelson or KTI (subject to certain exclusions) during the 15 year period following closing, and will end all of the Company's ongoing royalty payments to KTI and Dr. Michelson under existing license agreements.
      The closing of this transaction is subject to expiration or early termination of the applicable waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976 and other closing conditions customary for transactions of this nature. The parties anticipate that the closing of the transaction will occur as soon as practicable after all closing conditions have been satisfied.
      On April 22, 2005, the Company issued a press release announcing that it entered into the Agreement, a copy of which is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Report on Form 8-K.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
      Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
       Medtronic, Inc. (NYSE: MDT) today announced that it has entered into an agreement to acquire substantially all of the spine-related intellectual property of Karlin Technology, Inc. and Gary K. Michelson, M.D., and related contracts, rights and tangible materials. The transaction will also resolve all outstanding litigation and disputes between the parties.
MINNEAPOLIS, April 22, 2005
      The acquisition will transfer ownership of over 100 issued U.S. patents, over 110 pending U.S. applications and approximately 500 foreign counterparts to Medtronic. The patents pertain to novel spinal technology and techniques that have both current application and the potential for future patentable commercial products. The agreement will also transfer to Medtronic ownership of all inventions related to the diagnosis and treatment of the spine conceived or acquired by either Dr. Michelson or Karlin Technology, Inc. in the 15 years following the closing, subject to certain exclusions, and ends all of Medtronic's ongoing royalty payments to Karlin Technology, Inc. and Dr. Michelson under existing license agreements.
      Based on initial estimates, Medtronic would acquire technology based intangible assets valued at approximately $800 million related to the purchase of the intellectual property and license agreements. A portion of the $800 million, currently estimated to be in the range of $75 to $175 million, is expected to be classified as in-process research and development which will be expensed when the transaction closes, estimated to be within the first quarter of fiscal 2006 after the parties receive requisite regulatory
 
approvals. The remaining assets will be amortized over a period of up to 20 years. In addition, Medtronic will record the balance of the purchase price, approximately $550 million, as an expense in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, related to the settlement of claims by Karlin Technology, Inc. and Dr. Michelson.
      "The acquisition of this intellectual property allows Medtronic to expand its innovative portfolio of products for patients suffering from spinal disorders," said Michael DeMane, president of Medtronic's spinal business (Sofamor Danek). "The acquisition of these assets will also end our ongoing legal dispute with these parties and allow Medtronic to place its full focus on improving the lives of patients."
      Medtronic will host a webcast today, Friday, April 22, 2005, at 7:30 a.m. Central Time to discuss these transactions. To listen to this webcast, please visit the Investor Relations section of Medtronic home page at http://www.medtronic.com/.
      Medtronic, Inc., headquartered in Minneapolis, is the world's leading medical technology company, providing lifelong solutions for people with chronic disease. Its Internet address is www.medtronic.com.
Any forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties such as those described in Medtronic's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended April 30, 2004.


