FILE:MDT/MDT-8K-20050317160313.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):
March 17, 2005
(Registrant's telephone number, including area code):
(763) 514-4000
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 1.01. Entering into a Material Definitive Agreement.
     On March 13, 2005, William A. Hawkins, President and Chief Operating Officer of Medtronic, Inc. ("Medtronic"), executed a Restricted Stock Conversion Election Form in which he irrevocably elected to convert 21,089 shares of restricted stock into restricted stock units effective as of April 17, 2007, the date that the 21,089 shares of restricted stock vest. Authority to make the election was given to Mr. Hawkins by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of Medtronic. Mr. Hawkins will receive distribution of the restricted stock units in the form of common stock in a lump sum beginning twelve months after his termination of employment with Medtronic.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (c)   Exhibits:
     Exhibit 99.1       Restricted Stock Deferral Election
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
I hereby irrevocably elect to convert the Restricted Stock under the referenced Award into Restricted Stock Units. I understand that this conversion will occur as of the date that the Restricted Stock vests and that at that time I will receive a Restricted Stock Units Award Agreement (the "Agreement") setting out the terms governing the Restricted Stock Units. I further understand that the Agreement will provide for distribution of the Restricted stock Units in the form of Common Stock at the time and in the manner I elect below. I also understand that this election, once made, is irrevocable.
Date of Restricted Stock Award
I certify that my decision to defer is not due to reliance upon any financial or tax advice given by the Company. Further, I am aware that no ruling or determination has been obtained from the Internal Revenue Service that guarantees the deferral of income under this program.
 
This agreement is subject to all terms of the applicable Medtronic stock award plan under which the Awards were granted.


