FILE:MDT/MDT-8K-20051116162332.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On November 16, 2005, Medtronic, Inc. issued a press release announcing its fiscal 2006 second quarter financial results. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (c) Exhibit 99.1       Press release of Medtronic, Inc. dated November 16, 2005.
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Medtronic, Inc. (NYSE: MDT) today announced record revenues for the quarter ended October 28, 2005 of $2.765 billion, a 15 percent increase over the $2.400 billion recorded in the second quarter of fiscal year 2005. As reported, second quarter actual earnings were $816.5 million or $0.67 per diluted share, an increase of 52 percent over the prior year second quarter. Before special items, second quarter net earnings of $657.1 million, or $0.54 per diluted share, increased 23 percent over net earnings of $535.7 million and $0.44 per diluted share recorded in the same period last year.
MINNEAPOLIS  November 16, 2005 
 
"Balanced growth across the corporation was again led by implantable defibrillators and spinal products", said Art Collins, chairman and chief executive officer of Medtronic. "Very solid growth momentum has continued throughout the year and reflects the impact of the investments which have been made and that are continuing. As a result, the corporation is well positioned to maintain strong financial performance going forward."
Factors to Consider When Reviewing Financial Performance
During the second quarter, Medtronic recorded net after-tax, special items of $159.4 million of benefit, which included a pre-tax $100.0 million donation ($65.6 million after-tax) to the Medtronic Foundation and a $225.0 million tax benefit associated with favorable resolution of field audits with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) involving fiscal years 1997 through 2002. As a result of these finalized field audits with the IRS, Medtronic's effective tax rate for the full fiscal year 2006, before special and IPR&D charges, is expected to be reduced to 26 percent from 28 percent. The effective rate reflected in the second quarter has been adjusted to annualize this new effective tax rate. Reflecting the strengthening dollar, foreign currency translation had a negative effect on second quarter revenues of $3.3 million compared to the prior year second quarter.
Cardiac Rhythm Management Business
Cardiac Rhythm Management (CRM) quarterly revenues were $1.289 billion, representing growth of 17 percent over the same period last fiscal year. ICD revenues were $733 million in the quarter, a 34 percent increase over the same period last fiscal year. ICD revenue gains underscore the strength of Medtronic's ICD product line and sales and support teams. Market share gains in the quarter also reflect, in part, the changing competitive dynamics in the marketplace. Quarterly pacing revenues were $459 million in the quarter, up five percent over the same period last year. This reflects a return to growth in pacing driven by new products released in the previous two quarters. Medtronic's Emergency Response Systems business reported revenues of $81 million, a
 
decrease of 21 percent, which was the result of vendor supply issues. CRM highlights included:
Spinal / Ear, Nose and Throat (ENT) / Navigation revenues for the quarter were $603 million, representing 19 percent growth over the same period last fiscal year. Spinal revenues of $516 million increased 20 percent over the same period last fiscal year maintaining a track record of strong growth and market share improvement. Highlights included:
Spinal, ENT and Navigation Businesses
 
Neurological and Diabetes Businesses
Neurological and Diabetes quarterly revenues of $487 million increased 13 percent over the same quarter one year ago. Total Neurological revenues were $309 million in the quarter, an 11 percent growth over the same quarter last year. Diabetes revenues were $178 million, a 17 percent increase over the same quarter last fiscal year. Highlights from the quarter included:
Vascular Business
Vascular revenues of $225 million for the quarter represented 12 percent growth over the same period last fiscal year. Vascular highlights included:
 
Cardiac Surgery Business
Cardiac Surgery revenues of $161 million in the quarter grew one percent over the same period last fiscal year. Highlights from the quarter included:
Medtronic, Inc., headquartered in Minneapolis, is the world's leading medical technology company, alleviating pain, restoring health and extending life for people with chronic disease. Its Internet address is
www.medtronic.com
.
Webcast Information
Medtronic will host a webcast today, November 16 at 4:30 pm EST (3:30 CST), to provide information about its businesses for the public, analyst and news media. This quarterly webcast can be accessed by clicking on the Investor Relations link on the Medtronic home page at ., and this earnings release will be archived at . Within 24 hours, a replay of the webcast and a transcript of the company's prepared remarks will be available in the "Presentations & Transcripts" section of the Investor Relations homepage.
www.medtronic.com
www.medtronic.com/newsroom
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements, including statements regarding clinical trials, which are subject to risks and uncertainties, such as competitive factors, difficulties and delays inherent in the development, manufacturing, marketing and sale of medical products, government regulation, general economic conditions and others described in Medtronic's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended April 29, 2005. Actual results may differ materially from anticipated results. Medtronic does not undertake to update its forward-looking statement.
The BRYAN Cervical Disc System incorporates technology developed by Gary K. Michelson, M.D.
 
 
 
 
($ millions)
(1)  Medtronic management believes that in order to properly understand Medtronic's short-term and long-term financial trends, investors may wish to consider the impact of foreign currency translation on revenue. In addition, Medtronic management uses results of operations before currency translation to evaluate the operational performance of the Company and as a basis for strategic planning. Investors should consider these non-GAAP measures in addition to, and not as a substitute for, financial performance measures prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Note: The data in this schedule has been intentionally rounded to the nearest million and therefore the quarterly revenues may not sum to the fiscal year to date revenues.


