FILE:MDT/MDT-8K-20060523161154.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On May 23, 2006, Medtronic, Inc. issued a press release announcing its fiscal 2006 fourth quarter financial results. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (d) Exhibit 99.1       Press release of Medtronic, Inc. dated May 23, 2006.
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Medtronic, Inc. (NYSE: MDT) today announced financial results for its fiscal year and fourth quarter ended April 28, 2006.
MINNEAPOLIS  May 23, 2006 
Medtronic recorded fiscal year 2006 revenue of $11.303 billion, a 12 percent increase over the $10.055 billion in fiscal year 2005. On a constant currency basis, growth was 13 percent with a negative currency translation impact of $118 million. As reported fiscal year 2006 net earnings were $2.553 billion, or $2.10 per diluted share, an increase of 42 percent over the prior year. Before IPR&D (In-Process Research and Development) and other charges detailed in the attached table, net earnings for fiscal year 2006 were $2.689 billion, or $2.21 per diluted share, an increase of 18 percent and 19 percent over the comparable amounts in fiscal year 2005.
 
Fiscal fourth quarter revenue increased 11 percent to $3.077 billion from the $2.778 billion reported a year ago. On a constant currency basis, growth was 13 percent with a negative currency translation impact of $69 million. Reported fourth quarter net earnings were $747 million, or $0.62 per diluted share, an increase of 284 percent and 288 percent over the prior year. Excluding certain litigation charges and a one-time tax charge included in the prior year fourth quarter, net earnings and earnings per share increased 16 percent and 17 percent.
"Medtronic's strong annual and fourth quarter performance reflects the balance of our portfolio and underscores the importance of maintaining a diversified business," said Art Collins, Medtronic chairman and chief executive officer. "During this past fiscal year, revenue in six of our seven businesses reported double-digit growth. These six businesses also comprise 94 percent of total Medtronic revenue in the fiscal year. We are encouraged by the strength of our new product pipeline and continue to make major investments to support growth in the coming fiscal year and beyond."
Cardiac Rhythm Disease Management Business
Cardiac Rhythm Disease Management (CRDM) reported annual revenue of $5.218 billion and fourth quarter revenue of $1.398 billion, representing growth of 13 percent and 10 percent. Medtronic's largest product line, Implantable Cardioverter Defibrillators (ICDs), generated annual revenue of $2.941 billion, an increase of 24 percent (25 percent constant currency). Quarterly ICD revenue of $768 million grew 12 percent (14 percent constant currency). On a sequential basis, the overall ICD market grew $74 million over the third quarter with Medtronic capturing more than 60 percent of this growth. ICD revenue gains underscore the strength of Medtronic's product line and sales and technical support teams. Worldwide pacing revenue of $467 million in the quarter grew 7 percent (11 percent constant currency).
Emergency Response Systems reported fourth quarter revenue of $144 million, an increase of 14 percent (16 percent constant currency) reflecting the resolution of previously disclosed supplier issues.
 
CRDM quarterly highlights include:
Key developments expected during the first half of fiscal 2007 include the full U.S. market launch of the Concerto CRT-D and Virtuoso ICD, which received U.S. FDA approval last week. In addition, the new Adapta portfolio of pacemakers is expected to be launched in the U.S. during the first quarter.
Spinal and Navigation Businesses
Spinal and Navigation reported annual revenue of $2.244 billion and fourth quarter revenue of $618 million, representing growth of 19 percent and 16 percent. Continuing a long track record of solid growth and market share leadership, fourth quarter Spinal revenue of $582 million grew 17 percent (18 percent constant currency).
Spinal quarterly highlights include:
 
Looking ahead, several new products are expected to be launched in the first half of fiscal 2007, including the Direct Lateral family of MAST products and a new product targeted at the vertebral compression fracture market.
Neurological Business
Neurological reported annual revenue of $1.016 billion and fourth quarter revenue of $282 million, representing 10 percent growth. The segment's largest business, Neuro Implantables, generated fourth quarter revenue of $240 million, increasing 17 percent (20 percent constant currency).
Neurological quarterly highlights include:
Key developments in the first half of fiscal 2007 are expected to include the commercial release of the new PROSTIVA RF Therapy system, a next generation device for treating enlarged prostate, which received U.S. FDA approval earlier this week. In addition, the new InterStim II system for the treatment of overactive bladder and urinary retention is expected to be launched in the first quarter.
Vascular Business
Vascular reported annual revenue of $939 million and fourth quarter revenue of $273 million, representing 10 percent and 18 percent growth. Strong fourth quarter results were driven by
 
Coronary Vascular which generated revenue of $206 million, representing growth of 21 percent (27 percent constant currency).
Vascular quarterly highlights include:
Other recent developments include continued strong long-term clinical results from the ENDEAVOR I and ENDEAVOR II trials, which were presented last week at the Paris Course on Revascularization. Endeavor's PMA submission remains on track and U.S. FDA approval is still expected in calendar year 2007.
Diabetes Business
Diabetes reported annual revenue of $722 million and fourth quarter revenue of $188 million, representing growth of 11 percent and 5 percent.
Diabetes quarterly highlights include:
 
Looking ahead, key developments in the first half of fiscal 2007 are to expected to include the full launch of the Paradigm REAL-Time system in the U.S., the expected U.S. FDA approval of the Guardian REAL-Time Continuous Glucose Monitoring System, and continued progress in the STAR (Sensor-augmented pump Therapy for A1c Reduction) trials.
Cardiac Surgery Business
Cardiac Surgery reported annual revenue of $663 million and fourth quarter revenue of $183 million, representing a decline of 1 percent. Fourth quarter results were bolstered by Perfusion Systems, which grew modestly despite a declining market. In the first half of fiscal 2007, Medtronic expects to launch two new heart valve tissue repair products in the U.S. and to commence the European release of Melody, expected to be the first commercially available pulmonic transcatheter heart valve.
Ear, Nose and Throat Business
For the first time, Medtronic reported annual and quarterly results for the Ear, Nose and Throat (ENT) business segment. In addition to ENT products, the business segment includes all products previously classified in Medtronic's Neurologic Technologies business. ENT reported annual revenue of $501 million and fourth quarter revenue of $135 million, representing 9 percent and 7 percent growth. Fourth quarter results were driven by the core ENT business, which grew 11 percent. In the first half of fiscal 2007, the Company expects to benefit from continued strength in powered surgical tools, image guided surgery and nerve monitoring.
Convertible Debt Offering
During the quarter, the Company issued $4.4 billion of convertible senior notes at very attractive after-tax financing rates. $2.5 billion of the proceeds were used to repurchase 49
 
million shares of Medtronic stock. Including these shares, the Company repurchased almost 69 million shares of common stock for $3.6 billion during fiscal year 2006. "These transactions were over-subscribed and reflect the financial strength of Medtronic," stated Gary Ellis, Medtronic chief financial officer. "The debt offering allowed us to repurchase Medtronic stock at very favorable rates and to prepare for the potential retirement of previously existing debt."
Concluding Comments
In reviewing the quarter, Collins concluded, "Medtronic's overall competitive position remains strong as we continue lead in a number of the most attractive segments of the medical technology industry. Many of these markets are still very under-penetrated, offering a great deal of growth potential for years to come. To address this potential, we will continue to bring forward new products and work to reach more of the patients who will benefit from our therapies."
Webcast Information
Medtronic will host a webcast today, May 23 at 4:30 pm EDT (3:30 CDT), to provide information about its businesses for the public, analyst and news media. This quarterly webcast can be accessed by clicking on the Investor Relations link on the Medtronic home page at ., and this earnings release will be archived at . Within 24 hours, a replay of the webcast and a transcript of the company's prepared remarks will be available in the "Presentations & Transcripts" section of the Investor Relations homepage.
www.medtronic.com
www.medtronic.com/newsroom
Medtronic, Inc., headquartered in Minneapolis, is the world's leading medical technology company, alleviating pain, restoring health and extending life for people with chronic disease. Its Internet address is .
www.medtronic.com
This press release contains forward-looking statements, including statements regarding clinical trials, new products, market growth and other developments, which are subject to risks and uncertainties, such as competitive factors, difficulties and delays inherent in the development, manufacturing, marketing and sale of medical products, government regulation, general economic conditions and others described in Medtronic's Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q
for the quarter ended January 27, 2006. Actual results may differ materially from anticipated results. Medtronic does not undertake to update its forward-looking statements.
 
 
 
(a) The $402.5 million ($0.33 per share) after-tax certain litigation charge ($630.1 million pre-tax) is related to the settlement of a legal dispute with Gary Michelson, M.D. and Karlin Technology, Inc. (Michelson) and an arbitrator's decision related to litigation with ETEX Corporation. In addition to disclosing certain litigation charges that are determined in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), Medtronic management believes that in order to properly understand its short-term and long-term financial trends, investors may find it useful to consider the impact of excluding these litigation charges. Management believes that this non-GAAP financial measure provides useful information to investors regarding the underlying business trends and performance of the Company's ongoing operations and is useful for period over period comparisons of such operations. Medtronic management eliminates these litigation charges when evaluating the operating performance of the Company. Investors should consider this non-GAAP measure in addition to, and not as a substitute for, financial performance measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. In addition, this non-GAAP financial measure may not be the same as similar measures presented by other companies.
(b) The $48.5 million ($0.04 per share) tax adjustment related to the deferred tax liability associated with the repatriation of earnings of our foreign subsidiaries which occurred in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2006. In addition to disclosing the provision for income taxes that is determined in accordance with GAAP, Medtronic management believes that in order to properly understand its short-term and long-term financial trends, investors may find it useful to consider the impact of excluding this tax adjustment. Management believes that this non-GAAP financial measure provides useful information to investors regarding the underlying business trends and performance of the Company's ongoing operations and is useful for period over period comparisons of such operations, specifically the effective tax rate. Medtronic management eliminates this tax adjustment when evaluating the operating performance of the Company. Investors should consider this non-GAAP measure in addition to, and not as a substitute for, financial performance measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. In addition, this non-GAAP financial measure may not be the same as similar measures presented by other companies.
 
 
(a) The $65.6 million ($0.05 per share) special charge represents an after-tax charitable donation ($100.0 million pre-tax) made to The Medtronic Foundation. In addition to disclosing special charges that are determined in accordance with GAAP, Medtronic management believes that in order to properly understand its short-term and long-term financial trends, investors may find it useful to consider the impact of excluding this donation. The Company has not made a similar donation to The Medtronic Foundation since fiscal year 2002. Management believes that this non-GAAP financial measure provides useful information to investors regarding the underlying business trends and performance of the Company's ongoing operations and is useful for period over period comparisons of such operations. Medtronic management eliminates this donation when evaluating the operating performance of the Company. Investors should consider this non-GAAP measure in addition to, and not as a substitute for, financial performance measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. In addition, this non-GAAP financial measure may not be the same as similar measures presented by other companies.
(b) The $295.3 million ($0.24 per share) after-tax IPR&D charges ($363.8 million pre-tax) represents the cumulative impact of pre-tax charges of $168.7 million related to technology acquired through the purchase of Transneuronix, Inc. that had not yet reached technological feasability and had no future alternative use, $175.1 million related to the purchase of spinal technology based devices owned by Michelson that had not yet reached technological feasability and had no future alternative use, and $20.0 million related to a cross-licensing agreement with NeuroPace, Inc. for patent and patent applications on products that had not yet reached technological feasability and had no future alternative use, collectively the IPR&D charges. In addition to disclosing IPR&D charges that is determined in accordance with GAAP, Medtronic management believes that in order to properly understand its short-term and long-term financial trends, investors may find it useful to consider the impact of excluding these IPR&D charges. These IPR&D charges resulted from facts and circumstances that vary in frequency and/or impact on continuing operations. Management believes that this non-GAAP financial measure provides useful information to investors regarding the underlying business trends and performance of the Company's ongoing operations and is useful for period over period comparisons of such operations. Medtronic management eliminates these IPR&D charges when evaluating the operating performance of the Company. Investors should consider this non-GAAP measure in addition to, and not as a substitute for, financial performance measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. In addition, this non-GAAP financial measure may not be the same as similar measures presented by other companies.
(c) The $225.0 million ($0.18 per share) tax adjustment represents a $225.0 million tax benefit associated with the reversal of reserves resulting from favorable agreements reached with the U.S. Internal Revenue Service involving the review of fiscal years 1997 through 2002 domestic income tax returns. In addition to disclosing the provision for income taxes that is determined in accordance with GAAP, Medtronic management believes that in order to properly understand its short-term and long-term financial trends, investors may find it useful to consider the impact of excluding this tax adjustment. Management believes that this non-GAAP financial measure provides useful information to investors regarding the underlying business trends and performance of the Company's ongoing operations and is useful for period over period comparisons of such operations, specifically the effective tax rate. Medtronic management eliminates this tax adjustment when evaluating the operating performance of the Company. Investors should consider this non-GAAP measure in addition to, and not as a substitute for, financial performance measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. In addition, this non-GAAP financial measure may not be the same as similar measures presented by other companies.
(d) The $418.1 million ($0.34 per share) after-tax certain litigation charge ($654.4 million pre-tax) is related to the DuPuy/AcroMed, Inc. litigation, the settlement of a legal dispute with Michelson and an arbitrator's decision related to litigation with ETEX Corporation. In addition to disclosing certain litigation charges that are determined in accordance with GAAP, Medtronic management believes that in order to properly understand its short-term and long-term financial trends, investors may find it useful to consider the impact of excluding these litigation charges. Management believes that this non-GAAP financial measure provides useful information to investors regarding the underlying business trends and performance of the Company's ongoing operations and is useful for period over period comparisons of such operations. Medtronic management eliminates these litigation charges when evaluating the operating performance of the Company. Investors should consider this non-GAAP measure in addition to, and not as a substitute for, financial performance measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. In addition, this non-GAAP financial measure may not be the same as similar measures presented by other companies.
 
(e) The $48.5 million ($0.04 per share) tax adjustment is related to the deferred tax liability associated with the repatriation of earnings of our foreign subsidiaries which occurred in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2006. In addition to disclosing the provision for income taxes that is determined in accordance with GAAP, Medtronic management believes that in order to properly understand its short-term and long-term financial trends, investors may find it useful to consider the impact of excluding this tax adjustment. Management believes that this non-GAAP financial measure provides useful information to investors regarding the underlying business trends and performance of the Company's ongoing operations and is useful for period over period comparisons of such operations, specifically the effective tax rate. Medtronic management eliminates this tax adjustment when evaluating the operating performance of the Company. Investors should consider this non-GAAP measure in addition to, and not as a substitute for, financial performance measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. In addition, this non-GAAP financial measure may not be the same as similar measures presented by other companies.
 
 
 
 


