FILE:MDT/MDT-8K-20061013174835.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 8.01. Other Events.
     On October 13, 2006, Medtronic, Inc. issued a press release announcing it had been notified of an unsolicited "mini-tender" offer by TRC Capital Corporation of Toronto for TRC to purchase up to two million shares, or less than .2 percent of the outstanding Medtronic common stock, at a price of $47.75 per share. Medtronic, Inc. does not recommend this offer. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (d) Exhibit 99.1       Press release of Medtronic, Inc. dated October 13, 2006.
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
NEWS RELEASE
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 Medtronic, Inc., (NYSE:MDT) has been notified of an unsolicited "mini-tender" offer by TRC Capital Corporation of Toronto for TRC to purchase up to two million shares, or less than .2 percent of the outstanding Medtronic common stock, at a price of $47.75 per share. This represents a 2.73 percent discount below Medtronic's closing price on October 11, 2006 (the day before TRC commenced its offer) and a 1.79 percent discount below Medtronic's closing price on October 13, 2006.
MINNEAPOLIS  October 13, 2006
Medtronic recommends against shareholders tendering their shares in response to this unsolicited proposal. Mini-tender offers, such as this one by TRC, do not give investors the same level of protection that is required from larger tender offers including the filing of disclosure and other offer documents with the Securities and Exchange Commission and additional procedures mandated by U.S. securities laws.
Medtronic is in no way associated with TRC, this mini-tender offer or the offer documentation.
Medtronic urges investors to obtain current market quotes for their shares of common stock, to consult with their financial advisor and to exercise caution with respect to TRC's offer.
 
The SEC has issued "Tips for Investors" on mini-tender offers which is available at . There, the SEC notes that: "Some bidders make mini-tender offers at below market prices, hoping that they will catch investors off guard if the investors do not compare the offer price to the current market price."
www.sec.gov/investor/pubs/minitend.htm
Medtronic encourages stockbrokers and dealers as well as other market participants to review both the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) recommendations on the dissemination of mini-tender offers. These recommendations are available at and in the Information Memo Number 01-27 issued by the NYSE on Sept. 28, 2001, which can be found under the "NYSE Regulation  Rules & Interpretations  Information Memos" tab at .
www.sec.gov/divisions/marketreg/minitenders/sia072401.htm
www.nyse.com
Medtronic, Inc., headquartered in Minneapolis, is the world's leading medical technology company, alleviating pain, restoring health and extending life for people with chronic disease. Its Internet address is .
ABOUT MEDTRONIC
www.medtronic.com


