FILE:MDT/MDT-8K-20060802170419.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On August 2, 2006, Medtronic, Inc. issued the press release furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 regarding CMS in-patient reimbursement decision and preliminary first quarter revenues.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (d)       Exhibits:
     Exhibit 99.1       Press release dated August 2, 2006.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
NEWS RELEASE
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 Medtronic, Inc. (NYSE: MDT), today commented on the final rule for in-patient reimbursement that was released by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS). The company also discussed preliminary revenues for the first fiscal quarter that ended July 28, 2006, and focused on the implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) market, together with initiatives the company is undertaking to reaccelerate growth and market share in this product line.
MINNEAPOLIS  Aug. 2, 2006
In-Patient Hospital Reimbursement
Yesterday, CMS issued its final rule on in-patient hospital payments for fiscal year 2007. Medtronic Chairman and CEO, Art Collins, commended CMS Administrator, Dr. Mark McClellan, and CMS staff for requesting and responding
 
to stakeholder input in setting the final in-patient reimbursement rates, and for ensuring a smooth transition to a new cost-based reimbursement system. Collins also observed that the final rule preserved patient access to some of the newest, most innovative medical technologies by ensuring that adequate reimbursement exists for these procedures.
Commenting on several of Medtronic's largest product lines, company officials noted that average ICD reimbursements are scheduled to decline approximately 2.7 percent; average pacemaker reimbursements are scheduled to increase approximately 1.6 percent; and average spinal product reimbursements are scheduled to increase approximately 8.0 percent. The company will continue to work collaboratively with CMS, hospitals, physicians, patients and the medical device industry association, AdvaMed, as the new reimbursement system is phased in over the next three years, and as additional reimbursement issues are addressed.
Preliminary First Quarter Revenues
The company announced preliminary first quarter corporate revenues of $2.9 billion, representing an increase of 8 percent over the same quarter last year. The impact of foreign currency on revenues was negligible during the quarter. The following are preliminary first quarter revenues and growth rates by major business, with comparisons to the first quarter of last fiscal year.
 
As Collins reviewed the preliminary revenue results, he noted that even though a number of businesses showed strong performance, overall corporate revenues came in below expectations due to a shortfall resulting from a decline in the U.S. ICD market. He also said that he expects Medtronic's revenue growth to continue to outpace the growth rate of the medical technology industry.
ICD Market Dynamics and Growth Initiatives
Collins reaffirmed the attractiveness of the ICD market and noted that a large percentage of the patients who are indicated for ICD therapy have yet to receive it. Bill Hawkins, Medtronic President and COO, provided a more detailed explanation of ICD market dynamics and Medtronic's market share during the quarter. Hawkins noted that while the ICD market growth and the Medtronic ICD revenue growth outside the United States remained robust, the U.S. ICD market and Medtronic's ICD revenues inside the United States declined versus the same quarter last year. Hawkins then reviewed a number of initiatives, some of which are already underway, to reaccelerate ICD market growth and improve Medtronic's market share.
First Quarter Earnings Commentary
Gary Ellis, Medtronic Chief Financial Officer, confirmed that the first quarter earnings release is scheduled for August 22, 2006. Ellis said that it is too early to precisely project first quarter earnings per share. However, based on preliminary
 
revenues, and excluding one-time charges, first quarter earnings per share of $0.53 to $0.55 seemed reasonable at this time. Excluding the impact of stock option expensing and special charges, this would represent a growth rate of between 11 and 15 percent compared to the same quarter last year.
Medtronic, Inc. (), headquartered in Minneapolis, is the global leader in medical technology  alleviating pain, restoring health, and extending life for millions of people around the world.
About Medtronic
www.medtronic.com
Any forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties such as those described in Medtronic's Annual Report on
Form 10-K
for the year ended April 28, 2006. Actual results may differ materially from anticipated results.


