FILE:MDT/MDT-8K-20061120161817.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On November 20, 2006, Medtronic, Inc. issued a press release announcing its fiscal 2007 second quarter financial results. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
Item 9.01. Exhibits.
     (d) Exhibit 99.1 Press release of Medtronic, Inc. dated November 20, 2006.
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
 Medtronic, Inc. (NYSE:MDT) today announced financial results for its second quarter of fiscal year 2007 which ended October 27, 2006.
MINNEAPOLIS  November 20, 2006
Medtronic recorded second quarter revenue of $3.075 billion, an 11 percent increase over the $2.765 billion reported in the second quarter of the prior fiscal year. On a constant currency basis, revenue growth was 10 percent with a positive currency translation impact of $33 million. As reported, second quarter fiscal year 2007 net earnings were $681 million, or $0.59 per diluted share, representing a decrease of 12 percent over the same quarter last year. However, EPS grew 13 percent after adjusting last year's second quarter for stock option expensing and special gains and charges to make a more meaningful comparison.
"Revenue in all major businesses grew over the prior year period and sequentially over the first quarter as we gained share in all of our major product lines," said Art Collins, Medtronic chairman and chief executive officer. "These results reflect the strength of our broad and diversified business portfolio that serves many of the fastest growing segments in medical technology."
 
Unless otherwise noted, the comparisons made are on an "as reported basis," not on a constant currency basis. Any references to quarterly revenue figures increasing or decreasing are in comparison to the second quarter of fiscal year 2006.
Cardiac Rhythm Disease Management
Cardiac Rhythm Disease Management (CRDM) revenue of $1.363 billion grew 6 percent. Medtronic's largest product line, ICDs, generated second quarter revenue of $764 million, an increase of 4 percent over the same quarter last year and 14 percent over the first quarter, resulting in strong product market share gains worldwide. Worldwide pacing revenue of $473 million in the quarter grew 3 percent. Medtronic now holds an estimated 56 percent of the worldwide ICD market and more than 50 percent of the worldwide pacemaker market. Emergency Response Systems second quarter revenue of $111 million, increased 37 percent.
CRDM quarterly highlights include:
Spinal and Navigation
Spinal and Navigation revenue of $625 million grew 16 percent. Spinal revenue increased 16 percent with the Biologics product line growing 33 percent. All major geographies achieved double digit revenue growth.
 
Spinal and Navigation quarterly highlights include:
Vascular
Vascular revenue of $287 million grew 28 percent. Strong second quarter results were driven by Coronary Vascular which generated revenue of $217 million, representing growth of 29 percent. The Endovascular and Peripheral Vascular business reported revenue growth of 23 percent.
Vascular quarterly highlights include:
 
Neurological
Neurological revenue of $291 million grew 15 percent. The segment's largest business, which includes implantable pumps and neuro stimulators, generated second quarter revenue of $238 million, increasing 17 percent. Revenue in the Gastroenterology and Urological business grew 10 percent.
Neurological quarterly highlights include:
Diabetes
Diabetes revenue of $212 million grew 19 percent. Second quarter results were driven by strong sales of insulin pumps with solid double digit growth reported in all geographies.
Diabetes quarterly highlights include:
 
Cardiac Surgery
Cardiac Surgery revenue of $168 million grew 4 percent.
Cardiac Surgery quarterly highlights include:
Ear, Nose and Throat (ENT)
ENT revenue of $129 million grew 7 percent. Power Systems, including powered drills and endoscopic shavers and Nerve Integrity Monitoring, all reported double digit growth. Neurologic Technology second quarter revenue increased 12 percent due to strong growth from cranial and spinal surgical tools as well as continued success of the Strata Valve, which is increasingly being used to treat Normal Pressure Hydrocephalus.
Webcast Information Medtronic will host a webcast today, Nov. 20 at 4:30 pm EST (3:30 CST), to provide information about its businesses for the public, analyst and news media. This quarterly webcast can be accessed by clicking on the Investor Relations link on the Medtronic home page at ., and this earnings release will be archived at . Within 24 hours, a replay of the webcast and a transcript of the company's prepared remarks will be available in the "Presentations & Transcripts" section of the Investor Relations homepage.
www.medtronic.com
www.medtronic.com/newsroom
Medtronic, Inc., headquartered in Minneapolis, is the world's leading medical technology company, alleviating pain, restoring health and extending life for people with chronic disease. Its Internet address is .
www.medtronic.com
This press release contains forward-looking statements, including statements regarding clinical trials, new products, market growth and market acceptance and other developments, which are subject to risks and uncertainties, such as competitive factors, difficulties and delays inherent in the development, manufacturing, marketing and sale of medical products, government regulation, general economic conditions and other risk and uncertainties described in Medtronic's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended April 28, 2006. Actual results may differ materially from anticipated results. Medtronic does not undertake to update its forward-looking statements.
 
 
 
Management believes that the resulting non-GAAP financial measure provides useful information to investors regarding the underlying business trends and performance of the Company's ongoing operations and is useful for period over period comparisons of such operations. Medtronic management applies the provisions of SFAS No. 123(R) to fiscal years 2006 and prior when evaluating the operating performance of the Company. Investors should consider this non-GAAP measure in addition to, and not as a substitute for, financial performance measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. In addition, this non-GAAP financial measure may not be the same as similar measures presented by other companies.
 
 
Management believes that the resulting non-GAAP financial measure provides useful information to investors regarding the underlying business trends and performance of the Company's ongoing operations and is useful for period over period comparisons of such operations. Medtronic management applies the provisions of SFAS No. 123(R) to fiscal years 2006 and prior when evaluating the operating performance of the Company. Investors should consider this non-GAAP measure in addition to, and not as a substitute for, financial performance measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. In addition, this non-GAAP financial measure may not be the same as similar measures presented by other companies.
 
 
 
($ millions)
 
 
($ millions)
 
 
($ millions)
 
Note: The data in this schedule has been intentionally rounded to the nearest million and therefore the quarterly revenues may not sum to the fiscal year to date revenues.


