FILE:MDT/MDT-8K-20060221162111.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On February 21, 2006, Medtronic, Inc. issued a press release announcing its fiscal 2006 third quarter financial results. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (c) Exhibit 99.1 Press release of Medtronic, Inc. dated February 21, 2006.
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Medtronic, Inc. (NYSE: MDT) today announced record revenue for the quarter ended January 27, 2006, of $2.770 billion, a 9 percent increase over the $2.531 billion recorded in the third quarter of fiscal year 2005. On a constant currency basis, growth was 12 percent with a negative currency translation impact of $72 million or 3 percent.
MINNEAPOLIS  February 21, 2006 
As reported, third quarter net earnings were $670 million or $0.55 per diluted share, an increase of 23 percent and 22 percent respectively over the prior year third quarter. Excluding the litigation charge included in the prior year third quarter, net earnings and earnings per share increased 20 percent.
 
"Solid overall growth was again led by our two largest product lines, implantable defibrillators and spinal products. These two product lines accounted for about 45 percent of the corporation's revenue and, on a constant currency basis, they collectively grew 22 percent compared to the prior year third quarter," said Art Collins, chairman and chief executive officer of Medtronic. "This year's growth reflects the impact of ongoing investments; for example, during this quarter R&D expenditures increased 16 percent to $280 million."
Cardiac Rhythm Management Business
Cardiac Rhythm Management (CRM) quarterly revenue was $1.263 billion, representing growth of 10 percent over the same period last fiscal year (constant currency growth of 13 percent). ICD revenue was $723 million in the quarter, representing an increase of 21 percent (constant currency growth of 23 percent). ICD revenue gains underscore the strength of Medtronic's product line and sales and technical support teams. Worldwide pacing revenue was $426 million in the quarter, a decrease of 1 percent (constant currency growth of 3 percent). Negatively impacted by previously disclosed vendor supply issues, Emergency Response Systems reported revenue of $99 million, a decrease of 4 percent (constant currency decrease of 1 percent).
CRM highlights include:
 
Spinal / Ear, Nose and Throat (ENT) / Navigation revenue for the quarter was $628 million, representing 17 percent growth over the same period last fiscal year (constant currency growth of 19 percent). Maintaining a track record of strong growth and market share improvement, Spinal revenue of $534 million increased 19 percent (constant currency growth of 20 percent).
Spinal, ENT and Navigation Businesses
Spinal highlights include:
Neurological and Diabetes Businesses
Neurological and Diabetes quarterly revenue of $489 million increased 6 percent over the same quarter one year ago (constant currency growth of 9 percent). Neurological revenue of $307 million and Diabetes revenue of $182 million both grew 6 percent (constant currency growth of 9 percent).
Neurological and Diabetes highlights include:
 
Vascular Business
Vascular revenue of $236 million for the quarter represented 6 percent growth over the same period last fiscal year (constant currency growth of 13 percent).
Vascular highlights included:
Cardiac Surgery Business
Cardiac Surgery revenue of $154 million in the quarter declined 6 percent over the same period last fiscal year (constant currency decline of 3 percent). Looking ahead, the company expects to release two new valve repair products in early fiscal year 2007, which should help improve growth in this segment.
 
Concluding Comments
In reviewing the quarter, Collins concluded, "Medtronic's overall competitive position remains strong as we compete in some of the most attractive segments of the medical technology industry."
Webcast Information
Medtronic will host a webcast today, February 21 at 4:30 pm EST (3:30 CST), to provide information about its businesses for the public, analyst and news media. This quarterly webcast can be accessed by clicking on the Investor Relations link on the Medtronic home page at ., and this earnings release will be archived at . Within 24 hours, a replay of the webcast and a transcript of the company's prepared remarks will be available in the "Presentations & Transcripts" section of the Investor Relations homepage.
www.medtronic.com
www.medtronic.com/newsroom
Medtronic, Inc., headquartered in Minneapolis, is the world's leading medical technology company, alleviating pain, restoring health and extending life for people with chronic disease. Its Internet address is .
www.medtronic.com
This press release contains forward-looking statements, including statements regarding clinical trials, which are subject to risks and uncertainties, such as competitive factors, difficulties and delays inherent in the development, manufacturing, marketing and sale of medical products, government regulation, general economic conditions and others described in Medtronic's Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q
for the quarter ended October 28, 2005. Actual results may differ materially from anticipated results. Medtronic does not undertake to update its forward-looking statement.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


