FILE:MDT/MDT-8K-20070823164416.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Retirement of Directors
On August 23, 2007, Messrs. Michael R. Bonsignore and Gordon Sprenger and Dr. William R. Brody, M.D., Ph.D., retired from the Board of Directors and from any Committee of the Board of Directors upon which they served.
Election of Officers
On August 23, 2007, William A. Hawkins, III was elected as President and Chief Executive Officer of Medtronic and Michael F. DeMane was elected as Chief Operating Officer of Medtronic. Arthur D. Collins, Jr., resigned as Chief Executive Officer and will remain as Chairman of the Board until the annual shareholders meeting in August 2008.
Effective upon his promotion, Mr. Hawkins' annual base salary increased to $1,100,000. In addition, the target payout to Mr. Hawkins under the Medtronic Incentive Plan for fiscal 2008 was increased from 95% to 120% of Mr. Hawkins' base salary, prorated from the date of his promotion. Annual stock options and performance-based restricted stock awards are to be granted, and long-term performance plan targets are to be set, at a future date.
Effective upon his promotion, Mr. DeMane's annual base salary increased to $725,000. In addition, the target payout to Mr. DeMane under the Medtronic Incentive Plan for fiscal 2008 was increased from 75% to 95% of Mr. DeMane's base salary, prorated from the date of his promotion. Annual stock options and performance-based restricted stock awards are to be granted, and long-term performance plan targets are to be set, at a future date.
Mr. Collin's annual compensation changed to $1,000,000 for his position as Chairman of the Board and as an employee of Medtronic.
Table of Contents
      Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


