FILE:MDT/MDT-8K-20070626122152.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangement of Certain Officers.
Election of Directors
On June 22, 2007, the Board of Directors of Medtronic, Inc. (the "Company") elected David L. Calhoun and Kendall J. Powell directors of the Company, effective immediately. Messrs. Calhoun and Powell are both designated as Class III directors and will stand for election by shareholders at the Company's 2007 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. Mr. Calhoun was appointed to the Corporate Governance Committee, the Audit Committee and the Technology and Quality Committee of the Board of Directors. Mr. Powell was appointed to the Corporate Governance Committee, the Compensation Committee and the Technology and Quality Committee of the Board of Directors. A press release announcing their appointment was issued on June 22, 2007 and is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
In connection with their election to the Board, each of Messrs. Calhoun and Powell received a one-time initial stock option grant for 2,713 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $51.61 per share, which is equal to the closing price of the Company's common stock on June 22, 2007, the date of grant. These options expire at the earlier of the tenth anniversary of the grant date or five years after Mr. Calhoun or Mr. Powell ceases to be a Company director, as applicable. In addition, each of Messrs. Calhoun and Powell will also receive the Company's standard non-employee director compensation for 2006-2007 plan year (September 1, 2006 to August 31, 2007) including:
provided that all such standard compensation for the current plan year will be paid to each of Messrs. Calhoun and Powell on a pro-rata basis. The Board of Directors has approved a change to its director compensation program so the plan period will correspond to the Company's fiscal year along with an increase in retainers and stipends as described in an exhibit to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K relating to fiscal year 2007. The new plan year will be effective April 26, 2008 (the first day of fiscal year 2009) and will be accomplished by creating a shortened plan year for the period from September 1, 2007 to April 25, 2008.
 
Since April 29, 2006, the beginning of fiscal year 2007, neither Mr. Calhoun nor Mr. Powell nor any of their immediate family members has been a party to any transaction or currently proposed transaction with the Company that is reportable under Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K.
Retirement of Directors
On June 22, 2007, William R. Brody, M.D., Ph.D., whose term is scheduled to expire at the Company's 2007 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, informed the Company of his intention to retire from the Board of Directors and from any Committee of the Board of Directors on which he serves, effective at the conclusion of the 2007 Annual Meeting. On June 20, 2007, Michael R. Bonsignore informed the Company of his intention to retire from the Board of Directors and from any Committee of the Board of Directors on which he serves, effective at the conclusion of the 2007 Annual Meeting.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
News Release
Medtronic Media Contacts:
     , Investor Relations, 763-505-2696
Jeff Warren
     g, Public Relations, 763-505-2644
Marybeth Thors
aard
Medtronic Elects David Calhoun and Ken Powell to the Board of Directors
 Medtronic, Inc. (NYSE: MDT) today announced that its Board of Directors unanimously voted to elect to the Board as independent directors David L. Calhoun, Chairman of the Executive Board and Chief Executive Officer of The Nielsen Company, and Kendall J. Powell, President, Chief Operating Officer and Director of General Mills.
MINNEAPOLIS  June 22, 2007
Prior to joining The Nielsen Company in August of 2006, Mr. Calhoun served as Vice Chairman of General Electric Company and President & Chief Executive Officer of GE Infrastructure. Before that, he served as President and Chief Executive Officer of GE Aircraft Engines; President and Chief Executive Officer of Employers Reinsurance Corporation; President and Chief Executive Officer of GE Lighting; and President and Chief Executive Officer of GE Transportation Systems.
Mr. Powell joined General Mills in 1979 and has held various executive positions in the United States and abroad including Executive Vice President of General Mills; Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of U.S. Retail; Chief Executive Officer of Cereal Partners Worldwide; President of General Mills' Big G Division; and President of Yoplait USA.
"We are delighted that Dave and Ken are joining the Medtronic board. Each brings a wealth of business expertise that will be invaluable to Medtronic and its shareholders. We are especially pleased that they both bring strong international backgrounds, which will be important to our expanding business outside the United States," said Art Collins, Medtronic chairman and chief executive officer.
About Medtronic
Medtronic, Inc. (), headquartered in Minneapolis, is the global leader in medical technology, alleviating pain, restoring health and extending life for millions of people around the world.
www.medtronic.com
Any forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties such as those described in Medtronic's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended April 28, 2006. Actual results may differ materially from anticipated results.


