FILE:MDT/MDT-8K-20070122172814.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
On January 18, 2007, the Board of Directors of Medtronic, Inc. (the "Company") elected James T. Lenehan as a director of the Company, effective immediately. Mr. Lenehan is designated as a Class III director and will stand for election by shareholders at the Company's 2007 Annual Meeting. Mr. Lenehan was also appointed to the Corporate Governance Committee and the Technology and Quality Committee of the Board of Directors. A press release announcing Mr. Lenehan's appointment was issued on January 18, 2007 and is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
In connection with his election to the board, Mr. Lenehan received a one-time initial stock option grant for 2,586 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $54.14 per share, which is equal to the closing price of the Company's common stock on January 18, 2007, the date of grant. These options expire at the earlier of the tenth anniversary of the grant date or five years after Mr. Lenehan ceases to be a Company director. In addition, Mr. Lenehan will also receive our standard director compensation for 2006-2007 plan year (September 1, 2006 to August 31, 2007) including:
      Since the beginning of the Company's fiscal year ended April 28, 2006, neither Mr. Lenehan nor any of immediate family member of Mr. Lenehan has been a party to any transaction or curently proposed transaction with the Company that is reportable under Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
NEWS RELEASE
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
JAMES T. LENEHAN ELECTED TO MEDTRONIC BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Medtronic, Inc. (NYSE: MDT), today announced the election to its Board of Directors of James T. Lenehan, former Vice Chairman and President of Johnson & Johnson. Mr. Lenehan, who retired from Johnson & Johnson in 2004 after 28 years with the company, held various executive positions, including President of McNeil Consumer Products Company; Worldwide Chairman, Consumer Pharmaceuticals & Professional Group; and Worldwide Chairman, Medical Devices & Diagnostics Group. He was appointed to the Johnson & Johnson Executive Committee in 1994. Mr. Lenehan is currently a private investment consultant and serves as an advisor to Cerberus Capital Partners.
MINNEAPOLIS  January 18, 2007 
Art Collins, Medtronic chairman and chief executive officer, noted that Lenehan has an extensive background in a broad range of medical products including medical devices that will be extremely valuable to Medtronic.
"We are delighted that Jim is joining the Medtronic board, bringing with him a wealth of expertise that will be very beneficial," Collins said. "Executives with Jim's qualifications are in great demand to serve on corporate boards, and the shareholders of Medtronic will be well served by his contributions."
About Medtronic
Medtronic, Inc. (), headquartered in Minneapolis, is the global leader in medical technology  alleviating pain, restoring health, and extending life for millions of people around the world.
www.medtronic.com
 
Any forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties such as those described in Medtronic's Annual Report on
Form 10-K
for the year ended April 28, 2006. Actual results may differ materially from anticipated results.


