FILE:MDT/MDT-8K-20070821161600.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
(Registrant's telephone number, including area code):
(763) 514-4000
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On August 21, 2007, Medtronic, Inc. issued a press release announcing its fiscal 2008 first quarter financial results. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
Item 9.01. Exhibits.
     (d) Exhibit 99.1 Press release of Medtronic, Inc. dated August 21, 2007.
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 Medtronic, Inc. (NYSE:MDT) today announced financial results for its first quarter of fiscal year 2008, which ended July 27, 2007.
MINNEAPOLIS  August 21, 2007
Medtronic recorded first quarter revenue of $3.127 billion, an 8 percent increase over the $2.897 billion reported in the first quarter of fiscal year 2007. As reported, net earnings for the first quarter of fiscal year 2008 were $675 million, or $0.59 per diluted share, an increase of 13 percent and 16 percent, respectively, over the same period in the prior year. Currency translation had a positive impact of $49 million to revenue in the first quarter. Adjusting for restructuring, certain litigation and purchased in process research and development (IPR&D) charges detailed in the attached table, non-GAAP net earnings and diluted earnings per share were $711 million and $0.62 per share, an increase of 11 percent and 13 percent, respectively.
"Our quarterly performance reflected the positive impact of several new product launches, strong international growth, the benefits of Medtronic's diverse business portfolio, and successful efforts to obtain P&L leverage," said Art Collins, Medtronic chairman and chief executive officer.
 
Non-U.S. revenue of $1.179 billion grew 16 percent, driven by double digit revenue growth in all major geographic areas. For the quarter, 38 percent of Medtronic's revenue was from outside the U.S.
Unless otherwise noted, all comparisons made in this news release are on an "as reported basis," not on a constant currency basis, and references to quarterly figures increasing or decreasing are in comparison to the first quarter of fiscal year 2007.
Cardiac Rhythm Disease Management
Cardiac Rhythm Disease Management (CRDM) revenue of $1.235 billion grew 7 percent. Revenue from implantable cardiac defibrillators (ICDs) was $726 million, up 8 percent. Worldwide pacing revenue of $494 million in the quarter increased 7 percent. Outside the U.S., CRDM revenue grew 16 percent, driven by 25 percent growth of the ICD and CRT-D product lines.
Spinal
Spinal revenue of $644 million grew 12 percent. Worldwide Spinal revenue was driven by sales of INFUSE Bone Graft in the Biologics product line, CRESCENT Vertebral Body Spacers and the LEGACY family of products, which includes a new PEEK Rod System. Also, at the close of the quarter, Medtronic received FDA approval for the Prestige Cervical Disc System which will contribute to revenue in the second quarter.
CardioVascular
CardioVascular revenue of $486 million grew 8 percent, driven by Coronary Stents and Endovascular. Coronary Stent revenue of $152 million grew 27 percent and Endovascular revenue grew 13 percent.
Neuromodulation
Neuromodulation revenue of $289 million grew 5 percent. The segment's largest product lines, which include implantable neurostimulation and drug-delivery systems used in the treatment of chronic pain, movement disorders and spasticity, generated first quarter revenue of $237 million, increasing 5 percent. Revenue from the InterStim neurostimulators for the treatment of overactive bladder grew 26 percent.
 
Diabetes
Diabetes revenue of $241 million grew 23 percent, reflecting continued strong market acceptance of Paradigm insulin pumps and continuous glucose monitoring products.
Ear, Nose and Throat (ENT)
ENT revenue of $144 million grew 13 percent, driven by power systems and monitoring disposables along with further global penetration of the product portfolio.
Physio-Control
Physio-Control revenue of $60 million was down 41 percent, due to the January 2007 voluntary suspension of U.S. product shipments to address quality system issues.
In closing Collins said, "For more than 15 years I have had the honor to work for a company that has done so much to positively impact millions of lives around the world. And, as I prepare to transition the CEO position to Bill Hawkins later this week, I am proud that the company has never been stronger. We are well positioned in some of the most attractive worldwide markets, and we have a top flight leadership team that will help take Medtronic to the next level as the world's leading medical technology company. I also want to again acknowledge the dedication, commitment and hard work of Medtronic's 38,000 employees, and to thank them, our customers and our shareholders for their ongoing support."
Medtronic will host a webcast today, Aug. 21 at 4:30 p.m. EDT (3:30 CDT), to provide information about its businesses for the public, analysts and news media. This quarterly webcast can be accessed by clicking on the Investor Relations link on the Medtronic home page at and this earnings release will be archived at . Within 24 hours, a replay of the webcast and a transcript of the company's prepared remarks will be available in the "Presentations & Transcripts" section of the Investor Relations homepage.
Webcast Information
www.medtronic.com
www.medtronic.com/newsroom
About Medtronic
Medtronic, Inc., headquartered in Minneapolis, is the world's leading medical technology company, alleviating pain, restoring health and extending life for people with chronic disease. Its Internet address is .
www.medtronic.com
This press release contains forward-looking statements regarding our operating momentum, new products and other developments, which are subject to risks and uncertainties, such as competitive factors, difficulties and delays inherent in the development, manufacturing, marketing and sale of medical products, government regulation, general economic conditions and other risk and uncertainties described in Medtronic's Annual Report on
Form 10-K
for the year ended April 27, 2007. Actual results may differ materially from anticipated results. Medtronic does not undertake to update its forward-looking statements.
 
($ millions)
 
($ millions)
Note: The data in this schedule has been intentionally rounded to the nearest million and therefore the quarterly revenues may not sum to the fiscal year to date revenues.
 
(1) Medtronic management believes that in order to properly understand Medtronic's short-term and long-term financial trends, investors may wish to consider the impact of foreign currency translation on revenue. In addition, Medtronic management uses results of operations before currency translation to evaluate the operational performance of the Company and as a basis for strategic planning. Investors should consider these non-GAAP measures in addition to, and not as a substitute for, financial performance measures prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Note: The data in this schedule has been intentionally rounded to the nearest million and therefore the quarterly revenues may not sum to the fiscal year to date revenues.
 
 
(a) The $11 million ($0.01 per share) after-tax restructuring charge is related to restructuring initiatives that the Company began in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2007. These initiatives were designed to drive manufacturing efficiencies in our CardioVascular business, downsize our Physio-Control business due to our voluntary suspension of U.S. shipments, and rebalance resources within our Cardiac Rhythm Disease Management (CRDM) business to reflect the market dynamics. In the first quarter of fiscal year 2008, the Company recognized expense associated with compensation and early retirement benefits provided to employees whose employment terminated with the Company in the first quarter of fiscal year 2008 which could not be accrued in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2007. In addition to disclosing restructuring charges that are determined in accordance with GAAP, Medtronic management believes that in order to properly understand its short-term and long-term financial trends, investors may find it useful to consider the impact of excluding these restructuring charges. Management believes that the resulting non-GAAP financial measure provides useful information to investors regarding the underlying business trends and performance of the Company's ongoing operations and is useful for period over period comparisons of such operations. Medtronic management eliminates these restructuring charges when evaluating the operating performance of the Company. Investors should consider this non-GAAP measure in addition to, and not as a substitute for, financial performance measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. In addition, this non-GAAP financial measure may not be the same as similar measures presented by other companies.
(b) The $25 million ($0.02 per share) after-tax IPR&D charge is related to a $25 million ($18 million after-tax) milestone payment under a royalty bearing, non-exclusive patent cross-licensing agreement with NeuroPace, Inc. that the Company entered into in the first quarter of fiscal year 2006. The additional $8 million ($7 million after-tax) charge is related to purchases of certain intellectual property. These payments were expensed as IPR&D since technological feasibility of the underlying projects have not yet been reached and such technology has no future alternative use. In addition to disclosing IPR&D charges that are determined in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), Medtronic management believes that in order to properly understand its short-term and long-term financial trends, investors may find it useful to consider the impact of excluding these IPR&D charges. Management believes that the resulting non-GAAP financial measure provides useful information to investors regarding the underlying business trends and performance of the Company's ongoing operations and is useful for period over period comparisons of such operations. Medtronic management eliminates these IPR&D charges when evaluating the operating performance of the Company. Investors should consider this non-GAAP measure in addition to, and not as a substitute for, financial performance measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. In addition, this non-GAAP financial measure may not be the same as similar measures presented by other companies.
(c) The $40 million ($0.04 per share) after-tax certain litigation charge is related to the settlement agreement reached with the U.S. Department of Justice which requires the government to seek dismissal of two qui tam civil suits pending against Medtronic. In addition to disclosing certain litigation charges that are determined in accordance with GAAP, Medtronic management believes that in order to properly understand its short-term and long-term financial trends, investors may find it useful to consider the impact of excluding these litigation charges. Management believes that the resulting non-GAAP financial measure provides useful information to investors regarding the underlying business trends and performance of the Company's ongoing operations and is useful for period over period comparisons of such operations. Medtronic management eliminates these litigation charges when evaluating the operating performance of the Company. Investors should consider this non-GAAP measure in addition to, and not as a substitute for, financial performance measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. In addition, this non-GAAP financial measure may not be the same as similar measures presented by other companies.
 
 


