FILE:MDT/MDT-8K-20070220161055.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): February 20, 2007
(Registrant's telephone number, including area code):
(763) 514-4000
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
     On February 20, 2007, Medtronic, Inc. issued a press release announcing its fiscal 2007 third quarter financial results. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
     (d) Exhibit 99.1 Press release of Medtronic, Inc. dated February 20, 2007.
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
NEWS RELEASE                                        
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 Medtronic, Inc. (NYSE:MDT) today announced financial results for its third quarter of fiscal year 2007, which ended January 26, 2007.
MINNEAPOLIS  February 20, 2007
Medtronic recorded third quarter revenue of $3.048 billion, a 10 percent increase over the $2.770 billion reported in the third quarter of the prior fiscal year. Currency translation had a positive impact of $55 million in the quarter. As reported, third quarter fiscal year 2007 net earnings were $710 million, or $0.61 per diluted share, representing an increase of 11 percent over the same quarter last year. However, EPS grew 17 percent after reflecting stock option expense in both periods, applying a non-GAAP measure for 2006 that makes the figures more comparable.
"Third quarter financial results reflect the strength of Medtronic's business portfolio, which is diversified by product line and geography, as well as improved operating leverage," said Art Collins, Medtronic chairman and chief executive officer.
 
Non-U.S. revenue of $1.091 billion grew 25 percent driven by double digit revenue growth in all major geographic areas. For the quarter, 36 percent of Medtronic's revenue was from outside the U.S.
Unless otherwise noted, all comparisons made in this news release are on an "as reported basis," not on a constant currency basis, and references to quarterly figures increasing or decreasing are in comparison to the third quarter of fiscal year 2006.
Cardiac Rhythm Disease Management (CRDM) revenue of $1.291 billion grew 2 percent. Revenue from implantable cardiac defibrillators (ICDs) was $711 million, down 2 percent from the same quarter last year. Worldwide pacing revenue of $458 million in the quarter increased 8 percent. Outside the U.S., CRDM revenue continued to grow at a double digit rate, driven by the success of the ICD and CRT-D product lines. Increased market development efforts are underway in the U.S., including the Sudden Cardiac Arrest awareness campaign and Partners Prevention Program, as well as the IMPROVE-HF clinical study. Physio-Control third quarter revenue of $105 million increased by 6 percent.
Cardiac Rhythm Disease Management
Spinal and Navigation revenue of $629 million grew 12 percent. Spinal revenue increased 12 percent and Navigation revenue increased 7 percent. Worldwide Spinal revenue was driven by the Biologics product line and the CD HORIZON LEGACY family of products, which includes the new PEEK ROD. The CRESCENT Vertebral Body Spacer and the VENTURE Cervical System were also strong contributors to the growth.
Spinal and Navigation
Vascular revenue of $304 million grew 29 percent. Coronary Vascular revenue grew 31 percent to $235 million, and Endovascular and Peripheral Vascular revenue grew 21 percent. Growth was driven by increased utilization of the Endeavor drug-eluting stent, the Driver and Micro-
Vascular
 
Driver bare metal stents and the Valiant Thoracic and AneuRx AAAdvantage Abdominal stent graft systems.
Neurological revenue of $290 million grew 17 percent. The segment's largest business, which includes implantable neurostimulation and drug-delivery systems used in the treatment of chronic pain, movement disorders and spasticity, generated third quarter revenue of $233 million, increasing 15 percent. Revenue in the gastroenterology and urology business grew 27 percent, driven by the strong market acceptance of the InterStim II neurostimulator for the treatment of overactive bladder.
Neurological
Diabetes revenue of $226 million grew 24 percent. Third quarter results were driven by strong sales of insulin pumps, with solid double digit growth reported in all geographies.
Diabetes
Cardiac Surgery revenue of $174 million grew 13 percent with solid performance in its heart valve business.
Cardiac Surgery
ENT revenue of $134 million grew 7 percent. Growth was driven by increasing physician adoption of power systems, including powered drills and endoscopic shavers, and by further global penetration of the Nerve Integrity Monitor.
Ear, Nose and Throat (ENT)
"As we move through the remainder of this fiscal year and enter fiscal year 2008, we expect to see good operating momentum and positive contributions from a number of new product launches inside and outside the United States," said Collins. "I also expect to see continued progress on market development activities and tangible benefits from a broad range of productivity and supply chain management initiatives."
Outlook
 
Medtronic will host a webcast today, Feb. 20 at 4:30 p.m. EST (3:30 CST), to provide information about its businesses for the public, analyst and news media. This quarterly webcast can be accessed by clicking on the Investor Relations link on the Medtronic home page at . and this earnings release will be archived at . Within 24 hours, a replay of the webcast and a transcript of the company's prepared remarks will be available in the "Presentations & Transcripts" section of the Investor Relations homepage.
Webcast Information
www.medtronic.com
www.medtronic.com/newsroom
Medtronic, Inc., headquartered in Minneapolis, is the world's leading medical technology company, alleviating pain, restoring health and extending life for people with chronic disease. Its Internet address is .
About Medtronic
www.medtronic.com
This press release contains forward-looking statements regarding our operating momentum, new products and other developments, which are subject to risks and uncertainties, such as competitive factors, difficulties and delays inherent in the development, manufacturing, marketing and sale of medical products, government regulation, general economic conditions and other risk and uncertainties described in Medtronic's Annual Report on
Form 10-K
for the year ended April 28, 2006. Actual results may differ materially from anticipated results. Medtronic does not undertake to update its forward-looking statements.
 
($ millions)
 
Note:  The data in this schedule has been intentionally rounded to the nearest million and therefore the quarterly revenues may not sum to the fiscal year to date revenues.
 
($ millions)
Note:  The data in this schedule has been intentionally rounded to the nearest million and therefore the quarterly revenues may not sum to the fiscal year to dated revenue.
 
($ millions)
 
Note:  The data in this schedule has been intentionally rounded to the nearest million and therefore the quarterly revenues may not sum to the fiscal year to date revenues.
 
 
 
 
Management believes that the resulting non-GAAP financial measure provides useful information to investors regarding the underlying business trends and performance of the Company's ongoing operations and is useful for period over period comparisons of such operations. Medtronic management applies the provisions of SFAS No. 123(R) to fiscal years 2006 and prior when evaluating the operating performance of the Company. Investors should consider this non-GAAP measure in addition to, and not as a substitute for, financial performance measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. In addition, this non-GAAP financial measure may not be the same as similar measures presented by other companies.
 
 


