FILE:MDT/MDT-8K-20070522161159.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
(Registrant's telephone number, including area code): (
763) 514-4000
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On May 22, 2007, Medtronic, Inc. issued a press release announcing its fourth quarter and fiscal year 2007 financial results. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
Item 9.01. Exhibits.
     (d)     Exhibit 99.1      Press release of Medtronic, Inc. dated May 22, 2007.
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
     
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 Medtronic, Inc. (NYSE: MDT) today announced financial results for its fiscal year and fourth quarter ended April 27, 2007.
MINNEAPOLIS  May 22, 2007
Medtronic recorded fiscal year 2007 revenue of $12.299 billion, a 9 percent increase over the $11.292 billion in fiscal year 2006. Currency translation had a positive impact of $166 million for fiscal year 2007. As reported, fiscal year 2007 net earnings were $2.802 billion, or $2.41 per diluted share, an increase of 10 and 15 percent, respectively, over the prior year. Adjusting for special, certain litigation and restructuring charges and certain income tax benefits detailed in the attached table, adjusted net earnings and diluted earnings per share were $2.797 billion and $2.41, respectively, an increase of 9 percent and 15 percent, respectively.
Fiscal fourth quarter revenue increased 7 percent to $3.280 billion from the $3.067 billion reported a year ago. Currency translation had a positive impact of $71 million in the fourth quarter. As reported, fourth quarter net earnings were $812 million, or $0.70 per diluted share, an increase of 10 percent and 15 percent, respectively, over the prior year. Adjusting for special and restructuring charges and certain income tax benefits detailed in the attached table, adjusted net earnings and diluted earnings per share were $767 million and $0.66 respectively, an increase of 9 percent and 12 percent, respectively.
 
"Annual and quarterly performance again reflected the benefits of Medtronic's broad product portfolio and geographic diversity, together with successful initiatives to enhance operating leverage," said Art Collins, Medtronic chairman and chief executive officer.
Non-U.S. revenue of $4.399 billion for the fiscal year grew 20 percent driven by strong revenue growth in all major geographic areas. In addition, revenues for Spinal, Vascular, Diabetes and Neurological each had double digit growth.
Unless otherwise noted, all comparisons made in this news release are on an "as reported basis," not on a constant currency basis. References to quarterly figures increasing or decreasing are in comparison to the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2006.
Cardiac Rhythm Disease Management (CRDM) reported annual revenue of $4.876 billion and fourth quarter revenue of $1.291 billion, representing growth of 2 percent and 4 percent, respectively. Implantable Cardiac Defibrillator (ICD) annual revenue of $2.917 billion was flat with the prior year. Fourth quarter ICD revenue of $770 million increased 2 percent. Worldwide annual pacing revenue of $1.895 million increased 6 percent. Fourth quarter pacing revenue of $504 million increased 9 percent. Outside the U.S., CRDM annual and fourth quarter revenue continued to grow at a double-digit rate, driven by the success of the ICD and CRT-D product lines. Starting this quarter Physio-Control results are broken out separately.
Cardiac Rhythm Disease Management
Spinal and Navigation annual revenue of $2.544 billion and fourth quarter revenue of $690 million grew 13 and 11 percent, respectively. Spinal annual revenue of $2.417 billion increased 13 percent for the year and quarterly revenue increased 10 percent. Spinal revenue was driven by the continued market acceptance of the InFuse product line, the CD HORIZON LEGACY Peek Rod System and the Verte-Stack Crescent Vertebral Body Spacer. Navigation annual revenue of $127 million increased 18 percent for the year and quarterly revenue increased 31 percent.
Spinal and Navigation
 
Vascular annual revenue of $1.205 billion and fourth quarter revenue of $333 million grew 28 and 22 percent, respectively. Coronary Vascular annual revenue of $918 million increased 31 percent for the year and quarterly revenue increased 22 percent. Growth was driven by strong Endeavor sales outside the U.S. Endovascular and Peripheral Vascular annual revenue of $287 million increased 20 percent for the year and quarterly revenue increased 19 percent.
Vascular
Neurological annual revenue of $1.183 billion and fourth quarter revenue of $326 million grew 16 and 15 percent, respectively. The segment's largest business, which includes implantable neurostimulation and drug-delivery systems used in the treatment of chronic pain, movement disorders and spasticity, generated annual revenue of $962 million, increasing 15 percent for the year. Quarterly revenue increased 10 percent. Gastroenterology and urology annual revenue of $221 million grew 21 percent for the year and quarterly revenue grew 45 percent, attributable to the strong market acceptance of the InterStim II neurostimulator for the treatment of overactive bladder.
Neurological
Diabetes annual revenue of $863 million and fourth quarter revenue of $229 million grew 20 and 22 percent, respectively. Fourth quarter results were driven by the continued strong sales of insulin pumps and by solid double-digit growth for the business unit in all geographies.
Diabetes
Cardiac Surgery annual revenue of $704 million and fourth quarter revenue of $195 million grew 6 and 7 percent, respectively, led by strong sales in heart valves.
Cardiac Surgery
ENT annual revenue of $539 million and fourth quarter revenue of $147 million grew 8 and 9 percent, respectively, driven by strong growth in disposables.
Ear, Nose and Throat (ENT)
 
Physio-Control reported annual revenue of $385 million and fourth quarter revenue of $69 million, a decrease of 7 and 52 percent, respectively. The decrease was due to the January 2007 voluntary suspension of U.S. product shipments to address quality system issues at its Redmond, Washington facility.
Physio-Control
In closing Collins said, "We continue to participate in some of the most attractive markets in the medical technology industry and look forward to a number of important product introductions during the remainder of this year that will provide improved patient outcomes and further enhance Medtronic's leadership position."
Medtronic will host a webcast today, May 22 at 4:30 pm EDT (3:30 CDT), to provide information about its businesses for the public, analysts and news media. This quarterly webcast can be accessed by clicking on the Investor Relations link on the Medtronic home page at . This earnings release will be archived at . Within 24 hours, a replay of the webcast and a transcript of the company's prepared remarks will be available in the "Presentations and Transcripts" section of the investor Relations homepage.
Webcast Information
www.medtronic.com
www.medtronic.com/newsroom
Medtronic, Inc., headquartered in Minneapolis, is the world's leading medical technology company, alleviating pain, restoring health and extending life for people with chronic disease. Its Internet address is
About Medtronic
www.medtronic.com
This press release contains forward-looking statements which are subject to risks and uncertainties, such as competitive factors, difficulties and delays inherent in the development, manufacturing, marketing and sale of medical products, government regulation, general economic conditions and other risks and uncertainties described in Medtronic's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 28, 2006. Actual results may differ materially from anticipated results. Medtronic does not undertake to update its forward-looking statements.
 
($ millions)
 
($ millions)
Note: The data in this schedule has been intentionally rounded to the nearest million and therefore the quarterly revenues may not sum to the fiscal year to date revenues.
 
($ millions)
(1) Medtronic management believes that in order to properly understand Medtronic's short-term and long-term financial trends, investors may wish to consider the impact of foreign currency translation on revenue. In addition, Medtronic management uses results of operations before currency translation to evaluate the operational performance of the Company and as a basis for strategic planning. Investors should consider these non-GAAP measures in addition to, and not as a substitute for, financial performance measures prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Note: The data in this schedule has been intentionally rounded to the nearest million and therefore the quarterly revenues may not sum to the fiscal year to date revenues.
 
 
(a) The $59 million ($0.05 per share) after-tax special charge is related to the impairment charges recognized on $29 million ($48 million pre-tax) of intangible assets associated with the acquisition of Transneuronix, Inc. (TNI) and $30 million ($50 million pre-tax) of intangible assets associated with the acquisition of Angiolink Corporation (Angiolink). TNI and Angiolink were acquired in the first quarter of fiscal year 2006 and the third quarter of fiscal year 2005, respectively. In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2007, inadequate clinical results and resulting delays in product development have caused us to conclude that the carrying value of these intangible assets is impaired. In addition to disclosing special charges that are determined in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), Medtronic management believes that in order to properly understand its short-term and long-term financial trends, investors may find it useful to consider the impact of excluding these special charges. Management believes that the resulting non-GAAP financial measure provides useful information to investors regarding the underlying business trends and performance of the Company's ongoing operations and is useful for period over period comparisons of such operations. Medtronic management eliminates these special charges when evaluating the operating performance of the Company. Investors should consider this non-GAAP measure in addition to, and not as a substitute for, financial performance measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. In addition, this non-GAAP financial measure may not be the same as similar measures presented by other companies.
(b) The $25 million ($0.02 per share) after-tax restructuring charge is related to restructuring initiatives that the Company began in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2007. These initiatives are designed to drive manufacturing efficiencies in our Vascular business, downsize our Physio-Control business due to our voluntary suspension of U.S. shipments, and rebalance resources within our Cardiac Rhythm Disease Management business to reflect the market dynamics. The Company recorded $5 million of the $25 million after-tax expense within Cost of Products Sold related to inventory write-offs and asset impairments associated with these restructuring activities. In addition to disclosing restructuring charges that are determined in accordance with GAAP, Medtronic management believes that in order to properly understand its short-term and long-term financial trends, investors may find it useful to consider the impact of excluding these restructuring charges. Management believes that the resulting non-GAAP financial measure provides useful information to investors regarding the underlying business trends and performance of the Company's ongoing operations and is useful for period over period comparisons of such operations. Medtronic management eliminates these restructuring charges when evaluating the operating performance of the Company. Investors should consider this non-GAAP measure in addition to, and not as a substitute for, financial performance measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. In addition, this non-GAAP financial measure may not be the same as similar measures presented by other companies.
(c) The $129 million ($0.11 per share) tax adjustment represents a tax benefit associated with the settlement reached in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2007 with the U.S. Internal Revenue Service with respect to their review of the Company's fiscal year 2003 and 2004 domestic income tax returns, the resolution of competent authority issues for fiscal years 1992 through 2000 and adjustments to the finalization of the fiscal year 2006 U.S. federal and state income tax returns. In addition to disclosing the provision for income taxes that is determined in accordance with GAAP, Medtronic management believes that in order to properly understand its short-term and long-term financial trends, investors may find it useful to consider the impact of excluding this tax adjustment. Management believes that the resulting non-GAAP financial measure provides useful information to investors regarding the underlying business trends and performance of the Company's ongoing operations and is useful for period over period comparisons of such operations, specifically the effective tax rate. Medtronic management eliminates this tax adjustment when evaluating the operating performance of the Company. Investors should consider this non-GAAP measure in addition to, and not as a substitute for, financial performance measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. In addition, this non-GAAP financial measure may not be the same as similar measures presented by other companies.
(d) The Company adopted SFAS No. 123(R) effective April 29, 2006 and began to recognize compensation expense associated with all stock-based awards. Prior to fiscal year 2007, the Company accounted for stock-based awards under APB No. 25, and thus the Company only recognized compensation expense related to restricted stock awards and restricted stock units. Under SFAS No. 123(R) compensation expense is recognized on all stock-based awards including stock options, employee stock purchase plan purchases and restricted stock awards/units. The $34 million ($0.02 per share), net of statutory tax ($48 million pre-statutory tax), represents the incremental expense that would have been recorded had the Company accounted for stock-based awards in accordance with SFAS No. 123(R) in fiscal year 2006. Total stock-based compensation including stock options, restricted stock awards/units and employee stock purchase plan purchases was $46 million (pre-statutory tax) in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2007 and pro-forma total stock-based compensation including stock options, restricted stock awards/units and employee stock purchase plan was $56 million (pre-statutory tax) in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2006. Below is a listing, by income statement line item, of the pre-statutory tax total stock-based compensation expense recognized in fourth quarter of fiscal year 2007 and the pro forma stock-based compensation expense for fourth quarter of fiscal year 2006.
Management believes that the resulting non-GAAP financial measure provides useful information to investors regarding the underlying business trends and performance of the Company's ongoing operations and is useful for period over period comparisons of such operations. Medtronic management applies the provisions of SFAS No. 123(R) to fiscal years 2006 and prior when evaluating the operating performance of the Company. Investors should consider this non-GAAP measure in addition to, and not as a substitute for, financial performance measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. In addition, this non-GAAP financial measure may not be the same as similar measures presented by other companies.
 
(a) The $59 million ($0.05 per share) after-tax special charge is related to the impairment charges recognized on $29 million ($48 million pre-tax) of intangible assets associated with the acquisition of Transneuronix, Inc. (TNI) and $30 million ($50 million pre-tax) of intangible assets associated with the acquisition of Angiolink Corporation (Angiolink). TNI and Angiolink were acquired in the first quarter of fiscal year 2006 and the third quarter of fiscal year 2005, respectively. In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2007, inadequate clinical results and resulting delays in product development have caused us to conclude that the carrying value of these intangible assets is impaired. In addition to disclosing special charges that are determined in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), Medtronic management believes that in order to properly understand its short-term and long-term financial trends, investors may find it useful to consider the impact of excluding these special charges. Management believes that the resulting non-GAAP financial measure provides useful information to investors regarding the underlying business trends and performance of the Company's ongoing operations and is useful for period over period comparisons of such operations. Medtronic management eliminates these special charges when evaluating the operating performance of the Company. Investors should consider this non-GAAP measure in addition to, and not as a substitute for, financial performance measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. In addition, this non-GAAP financial measure may not be the same as similar measures presented by other companies.
(b) The $25 million ($0.02 per share) after-tax restructuring charge is related to restructuring initiatives that the Company began in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2007. These initiatives are designed to drive manufacturing efficiencies in our Vascular business, downsize our Physio-Control business due to our voluntary suspension of U.S. shipments, and rebalance resources within our Cardiac Rhythm Disease Management business to reflect the market dynamics. The Company recorded $5 million of the $25 million after-tax expense within Cost of Products Sold related to inventory write-offs and asset impairments associated with these restructuring activities. In addition to disclosing restructuring charges that are determined in accordance with GAAP, Medtronic management believes that in order to properly understand its short-term and long-term financial trends, investors may find it useful to consider the impact of excluding these restructuring charges. Management believes that the resulting non-GAAP financial measure provides useful information to investors regarding the underlying business trends and performance of the Company's ongoing operations and is useful for period over period comparisons of such operations. Medtronic management eliminates these restructuring charges when evaluating the operating performance of the Company. Investors should consider this non-GAAP measure in addition to, and not as a substitute for, financial performance measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. In addition, this non-GAAP financial measure may not be the same as similar measures presented by other companies.
(c) The $40 million ($0.04 per share) after-tax certain litigation charge is related to the settlement agreement reached with the U.S. Department of Justice which requires the government to seek dismissal of two qui tam civil suits pending against Medtronic. In addition to disclosing certain litigation charges that are determined in accordance with GAAP, Medtronic management believes that in order to properly understand its short-term and long-term financial trends, investors may find it useful to consider the impact of excluding these litigation charges. Management believes that the resulting non-GAAP financial measure provides useful information to investors regarding the underlying business trends and performance of the Company's ongoing operations and is useful for period over period comparisons of such operations. Medtronic management eliminates these litigation charges when evaluating the operating performance of the Company. Investors should consider this non-GAAP measure in addition to, and not as a substitute for, financial performance measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. In addition, this non-GAAP financial measure may not be the same as similar measures presented by other companies.
(d) The $129 million ($0.11 per share) tax adjustment represents a tax benefit associated with the settlement reached in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2007 with the U.S. Internal Revenue Service with respect to their review of the Company's fiscal year 2003 and 2004 domestic income tax returns, the resolution of competent authority issues for fiscal years 1992 through 2000 and adjustments to the finalization of the fiscal year 2006 U.S. federal and state income tax returns. In addition to disclosing the provision for income taxes that is determined in accordance with GAAP, Medtronic management believes that in order to properly understand its short-term and long-term financial trends, investors may find it useful to consider the impact of excluding this tax adjustment. Management believes that the resulting non-GAAP financial measure provides useful information to investors regarding the underlying business trends and performance of the Company's ongoing operations and is useful for period over period comparisons of such operations, specifically the effective tax rate. Medtronic management eliminates this tax adjustment when evaluating the operating performance of the Company. Investors should consider this non-GAAP measure in addition to, and not as a substitute for, financial performance measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. In addition, this non-GAAP financial measure may not be the same as similar measures presented by other companies.
(e) The $66 million ($0.05 per share) special charge represents an after-tax charitable donation ($100 million pre-tax) made to The Medtronic Foundation. In addition to disclosing special charges that are determined in accordance with GAAP, Medtronic management believes that in order to properly understand its short-term and long-term financial trends, investors may find it useful to consider the impact of excluding this donation. The Company has not made a similar donation to The Medtronic Foundation since fiscal year 2002. Management believes that the resulting non-GAAP financial measure provides useful information to investors regarding the underlying business trends and performance of the Company's ongoing operations and is useful for period over period comparisons of such operations. Medtronic management eliminates this donation when evaluating the operating performance of the Company. Investors should consider this non-GAAP measure in addition to, and not as a substitute for, financial performance measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. In addition, this non-GAAP financial measure may not be the same as similar measures presented by other companies.
(f) The $295 million ($0.24 per share) after-tax IPR&D charges ($364 million pre-tax) represents the cumulative impact of pre-tax charges of $169 million related to a technology acquired through the purchase of Transneuronix, Inc. that had not yet reached technological feasibility and had no future alternative use, $175 million related to the purchase of spinal technology based devices owned by Gary Michelson and Karlin Technology, Inc. that had not yet reached technological feasibility and had no future alternative use, and $20 million related to a cross-licensing agreement with NeuroPace, Inc. for patent and patent applications on products that had not yet reached technological feasibility and had no future alternative use, collectively the IPR&D charges. In addition to disclosing IPR&D charges that are determined in accordance with GAAP, Medtronic management believes that in order to properly understand its short-term and long-term financial trends, investors may find it useful to consider the impact of excluding these IPR&D charges. These IPR&D charges resulted from facts and circumstances that vary in frequency and/or impact on continuing operations. Management believes that the resulting non-GAAP financial measure provides useful information to investors regarding the underlying business trends and performance of the Company's ongoing operations and is useful for period over period comparisons of such operations. Medtronic management eliminates these IPR&D charges when evaluating the operating performance of the Company. Investors should consider this non-GAAP measure in addition to, and not as a substitute for, financial performance measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. In addition, this non-GAAP financial measure may not be the same as similar measures presented by other companies.
(g) The $225 million ($0.18 per share) tax adjustment represents a $225 million tax benefit associated with the reversal of reserves resulting from favorable agreements reached with the U.S. Internal Revenue Service involving the review of fiscal years 1997 through 2002 domestic income tax returns. In addition to disclosing the provision for income taxes that is determined in accordance with GAAP, Medtronic management believes that in order to properly understand its short-term and long-term financial trends, investors may find it useful to consider the impact of excluding this tax adjustment. Management believes that the resulting non-GAAP financial measure provides useful information to investors regarding the underlying business trends and performance of the Company's ongoing operations and is useful for period over period comparisons of such operations, specifically the effective tax rate. Medtronic management eliminates this tax adjustment when evaluating the operating performance of the Company. Investors should consider this non-GAAP measure in addition to, and not as a substitute for, financial performance measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. In addition, this non-GAAP financial measure may not be the same as similar measures presented by other companies.
(h) The Company adopted SFAS No. 123(R) effective April 29, 2006 and began to recognize compensation expense associated with all stock-based awards. Prior to fiscal year 2007, the Company accounted for stock-based awards under APB No. 25, and thus the Company only recognized compensation expense related to restricted stock awards and restricted stock units. Under SFAS No. 123(R) compensation expense is recognized on all stock-based awards including stock options, employee stock purchase plans and restricted stock awards/units. The $126 million ($0.10 per share), net of statutory tax ($174 million pre-statutory tax), represents the incremental expense that would have been recorded had the Company accounted for stock-based awards in accordance with SFAS No. 123(R) in fiscal year 2006. Total stock-based compensation including stock options, restricted stock awards/units and employee stock purchase plan purchases was $185 million (pre-statutory tax) for the twelve months ended April 27, 2007 and pro-forma total stock-based compensation including stock options, restricted stock awards/units and employee stock purchase plan purchases was $199 million (pre-statutory tax) for the twelve months ended April 28, 2006. Below is a listing, by income statement line item, of the pre-statutory tax total stock-based compensation expense recognized in the twelve months ended April 27, 2007 and the pro forma stock-based compensation expense for the twelve months ended April 28, 2006.
Management believes that the resulting non-GAAP financial measure provides useful information to investors regarding the underlying business trends and performance of the Company's ongoing operations and is useful for period over period comparisons of such operations. Medtronic management applies the provisions of SFAS No. 123(R) to fiscal years 2006 and prior when evaluating the operating performance of the Company. Investors should consider this non-GAAP measure in addition to, and not as a substitute for, financial performance measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. In addition, this non-GAAP financial measure may not be the same as similar measures presented by other companies.
 
 


