FILE:MDT/MDT-8K-20080429141904.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Michael DeMane has informed Medtronic of his decision to resign as Chief Operating Officer of Medtronic effective April 30, 2008 and has entered into an agreement with Medtronic to address the terms of his continued employment with Medtronic.
The agreement provides that Mr. DeMane will remain an employee until May 31, 2009 or, if earlier, the date of an Event of Default under the agreement. During the term of his employment he will continue to receive his current salary and will be eligible to participate in the broad-based benefit plans, programs and arrangements generally available to Medtronic U.S. employees, including participating in Medtronic's incentive plan for fiscal year 2008. If Mr. DeMane remains an employee until May 31, 2009, then Medtronic will pay him lump sum separation amounts of $362,500.00 and $688,750, representing six months salary and his bonus for fiscal year 2009 respectively. Mr. DeMane also will be entitled to tax equalization amounts for income that he earned as an employee of Medtronic that is subject to non-US taxes, consistent with Medtronic's tax equalization policy. The agreement contains confidentiality, non-compete and non-solicitation provisions.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 99.1
NEWS RELEASE
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Tuesday, April 29, 2008 (Minneapolis, MN)  Medtronic, Inc. announced today a series of organizational and leadership changes.
Michael DeMane, chief operating officer, has informed the company that he has decided to leave to pursue other opportunities. Effective immediately, Medtronic's Global Business Unit presidents report to President and CEO Bill Hawkins.
"We'd like to thank Michael for his significant contributions to the company during his tenure and wish him all the best in his future endeavors," said Hawkins.
Moving ahead, Hawkins announced the following organization changes to provide focus on growth, globalization, operating leverage and innovation.
has been named senior vice president and president Medtronic International, responsible for all of Medtronic's operations outside of the United States. In this new role, all sales and distribution outside the United States will report to Butel.
Driving Medtronic's globalization strategy
Jean-Luc Butel
 
has been named senior vice president, Quality and Operations. He has responsibility for executing on cross business initiatives which will maximize operating leverage.
Executing cross business initiatives to maximize operating excellence and leverage
James Dallas
, formerly vice president of Medtronic Endovascular, has been named senior vice president of a newly formed Strategy and Development group that combines Medtronic's Corporate Strategy, Business Development, Corporate Ventures and Science and Technology functions. Szyman has responsibility for growth initiatives that leverage corporate wide R&D capabilities and the evaluation of internal and external growth opportunities.
Integrating Strategy, Science & Technology and Corporate Development functions
Katie Szyman
, formerly president of Medtronic Japan, has been named senior vice president and president of Medtronic's Spinal and Biologics business, replacing , who is leaving the company. LaNeve has responsibility for the continued integration of Kyphon, the biologics business and the core spine business.
Announcing a new president of Medtronic's Spinal and Biologics business
Steve LaNeve
Pete Wehrly
vice president and general manager of Medtronic ENT/NT, assumes additional responsibility for Medtronic Navigation.
Leveraging Medtronic Navigation
Bob Blankemeyer,
has been named executive vice president of Healthcare Policy and Regulatory. He assumes responsibility for Medtronic's Government Affairs, Global Reimbursement, Regulatory and Clinical functions. This move recognizes the increasingly rigorous and challenging healthcare environment around the world and provides a more strategic approach to policy issues.
Creating an integrated global healthcare policy function
Steve Mahle
 
Hawkins concluded, With a strong finish to the fourth quarter, we're starting the new fiscal year with great momentum and are well positioned to drive innovation, operating leverage and sustainable growth."
"
Medtronic, Inc. (), headquartered in Minneapolis, is the global leader in medical technology  alleviating pain, restoring health and extending life for millions of people around the world.
ABOUT MEDTRONIC
www.medtronic.com
Any forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties such as those described in Medtronic's Annual Report on
Form 10-K
for the year ended April 27, 2007. Actual results may differ materially from anticipated results.


