FILE:MDT/MDT-8K-20080222162435.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
On February 21, 2008, the Board of Directors of Medtronic, Inc. (the "Company") elected Victor Dzau, M.D., a director of the Company. Dr. Dzau will stand for election by shareholders at the Company's 2008 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. Dr. Dzau was appointed to the Corporate Governance Committee, the Compensation Committee and the Technology and Quality Committee of the Board of Directors. A press release announcing his appointment was issued on February 22, 2008 and is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
In connection with his election to the Board, Dr. Dzau received a one-time initial stock option grant for 3,269 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $48.95 per share, which is equal to the closing price of the Company's common stock on February 21, 2008, the date of grant. These options expire at the earlier of the tenth anniversary of the grant date or five years after Dr. Dzau ceases to be a director, as applicable.
In addition, Dr. Dzau will also receive the Company's standard non-employee director compensation (which shall be provided on a prorated basis for the period beginning with his election and ending with the 2007-2008 plan year (September 1, 2007 to April 25, 2008)), including:
The Board of Directors has approved a change to its director compensation program so the plan period will correspond to the Company's fiscal year along with an increase in retainers and stipends as described in an exhibit to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K relating to fiscal year 2007. The new plan year will be effective April 26, 2008 (the first day of fiscal year 2009) and will be accomplished by creating a shortened plan year for the period from September 1, 2007 to April 25, 2008.
Since the beginning of Medtronic's last fiscal year, neither Dr. Dzau nor any of his immediate family has been a party to any transaction or currently proposed transaction with the Company that is reportable under Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K.
           (d) Exhibit 99.1       Press release of Medtronic, Inc. dated February 22, 2008.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
NEWS RELEASE
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Medtronic, Inc. (NYSE: MDT) today announced that its Board of Directors unanimously voted to elect Victor Dzau, M.D., chancellor for Health Affairs at Duke University and president and CEO of the Duke University Health System, to the Board as an independent director.
MINNEAPOLIS  Feb. 22, 2008 
Dr. Dzau is also James B. Duke professor of Medicine and director of Molecular and Genomic Vascular Biology at Duke. Most recently, Dr. Dzau was the Hersey Professor of the Theory and Practice of Physic (Medicine) at Harvard Medical School, chairman of the Department of Medicine at Brigham and Women's Hospital, and physician-in-chief and director of Research at Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston. Prior to this, he served as Arthur Bloomfield professor and chairman of the Department of Medicine at Stanford.
"Dr. Dzau's reputation and experience as an international leader in healthcare delivery, medical research and healthcare economics will be extremely important in helping us to address the company's future challenges and opportunities. We are all pleased to have him join the Medtronic Board of Directors," said Bill Hawkins, Medtronic president and chief executive officer.
About Medtronic
Medtronic, Inc. (), headquartered in Minneapolis, is the global leader in medical technology  alleviating pain, restoring health and extending life for millions of people around the world.
www.medtronic.com
Any forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties such as those described in Medtronic's Annual Report on
Form 10-K
for the year ended April 27, 2007. Actual results may differ materially from anticipated results.


