FILE:MDT/MDT-8K-20080118163305.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C.
 
20549
 
FORM 8-K/A
Amendment No. 1
 
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):
November 2, 2007
 
Medtronic, Inc.
(Exact name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter)
 
 
(Registrant's telephone number, including area code):
(763) 514-4000
 
Not Applicable
(Former Name or Former Address, if Changed Since Last Report)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On November 7, 2007, Medtronic, Inc. ("Medtronic") filed a Current Report on Form 8-K to report the merger of Jets Acquisition Corporation, a Delaware corporation and wholly owned subsidiary of Medtronic ("Merger Sub"), with and into Kyphon Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Kyphon"). In that filing, Medtronic indicated that it would amend the Form 8-K at a later date to include the financial information required by Item 9.01. This amendment to the November 7, 2007 Current Report on Form 8-K is being filed to provide such financial information.
 
 
 
The following financial statements of the business acquired are included in this report:
 
The required audited financial statements of Kyphon Inc. at December 31, 2006 and 2005 and for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2006 are attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and are incorporated in their entirety herein by reference.
 
The required unaudited interim financial statements of Kyphon Inc. at September 30, 2007 and for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2007 and 2006 are attached hereto as Exhibit 99.3 and are incorporated in their entirety herein by reference.
 
 
The required unaudited pro forma combined condensed Balance Sheet of Medtronic as of October 26, 2007 and the required unaudited pro forma combined condensed Statements of Operations of Medtronic for the six months ended October 26, 2007 and the year ended April 27, 2007 are attached hereto as Exhibit 99.4 and are incorporated in their entirety herein by reference.
 
 
The following exhibits are filed herewith:
 
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
Medtronic, Inc.
Form 8-K Current Report
 
 
 

Exhibit 23.1
 
 
CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
 
We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements on Form S-3 (No. 333-136361) and on Form S-8 (Nos. 33-37529, 33-44230, 33-55329, 33-63805, 333-04099, 333-07385, 333-65227, 333-71259, 333-71355, 333-74229, 333-75819, 333-90381, 333-52840, 333-44766, 333-66978, 333-68594, 333-100624, 333-106566, 333-112267, 333-128531, 333-129872, 333-147399 and 333-148672) of Medtronic, Inc. of our report dated February 28, 2007 relating to the financial statements, financial statement schedule, management's assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting of Kyphon Inc., which appears in this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
San Jose, California
January 16, 2008
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
 
 
To the Board of Directors and
Stockholders of Kyphon Inc.:
 
We have completed integrated audits of Kyphon Inc.'s consolidated financial statements and of its internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Our opinions, based on our audits, are presented below.
 
Consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule
 
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed in the accompanying index, present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Kyphon Inc. and its subsidiaries at December 31, 2006 and 2005, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2006 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. In addition, in our opinion, the financial statement schedule listed in the accompanying index presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein when read in conjunction with the related consolidated financial statements.  These financial statements and financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and financial statement schedule based on our audits.  We conducted our audits of these statements in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement.  An audit of financial statements includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.  We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
As discussed in Note 2 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company changed the manner in which it accounts for stock-based compensation in 2006.
 
Internal control over financial reporting
 
Also, in our opinion, management's assessment, included in Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting appearing under Item 8, that the Company maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006 based on criteria established in
Internal Control - Integrated Framework
issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO), is fairly stated, in all material respects, based on those criteria. Furthermore, in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006, based on criteria established in
Internal Control - Integrated Framework
issued by the COSO. The Company's management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express opinions on management's assessment and on the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We conducted our audit of internal control over financial reporting in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.  An audit of internal control over financial reporting includes obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, evaluating management's assessment, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing such other procedures as we consider necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinions.
 
 
1
A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.  A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
 
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.  Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
San Jose, California
February 28, 2007
2
KYPHON INC.
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENTS
(in thousands, except per share amounts)
 
 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
 
3
KYPHON INC.
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(in thousands, except per share amounts)
 
 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
 
4
KYPHON INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(in thousands)
 
 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
 
5
KYPHON INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
(in thousands)
 
 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
 
6
KYPHON INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
1. ORGANIZATION
 
Kyphon Inc. ("Kyphon" or the "Company") is a medical device company focused on the design, manufacture and marketing of instruments used in minimally invasive therapies by surgeons and their patients for the treatment and restoration of spinal anatomy. The Company is currently commercializing surgical tools that use its proprietary balloon technologies for the repair of spinal fractures. The Company markets its products through sales representatives in North America, and through a combination of sales representatives, distributors and agents in its international markets. The Company is headquartered in Sunnyvale, California, has subsidiaries in many countries in Europe, as well as in Canada, Japan, Australia and South Africa.
 
2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
 
Basis of Consolidation and Foreign Currency Translation
 
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its wholly owned subsidiaries. All material intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.
 
The Company analyzes the functional currency determination for its international subsidiaries on an annual basis, or more often as necessary. For the Company's international subsidiaries which use their local currency as their functional currency, assets and liabilities are translated at exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet date and revenue and expense accounts at average exchange rates during the period. Resulting translation adjustments are recorded directly to cumulative comprehensive income. Translation adjustments resulting from the process of remeasuring into the United States dollar from the foreign currency financial statements of the Company's wholly owned subsidiaries, for which the United States dollar is the functional currency, are included in other income (expense), net.
 
Use of Estimates
 
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
 
Cash and Cash Equivalents
 
The Company considers all highly liquid investments purchased with original maturities of three months or less to be cash equivalents.  Cash and cash equivalents include money market funds, corporate notes and commercial paper.  Cash equivalents comprised commercial paper and corporate notes in the amounts of $25,906,000 and $7,251,000, as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively.  Cash equivalents are classified as available-for-sale and therefore are carried at fair market value. Related unrealized gains and losses were insignificant as of December 31, 2006 and 2005.
 
Investments
 
Restricted Cash.
Under the terms of one of its facility leases, the Company is required to issue an irrevocable standby letter of credit to the lessor for the term of the facility lease. The letter of credit is secured by a certificate of deposit in the amount of $1,105,000 which was classified within other assets as of December 31, 2006 and 2005.
 
Available-for-Sale.
All marketable investments are classified as available-for-sale and therefore are carried at fair market value. Unrealized gains and losses, net of taxes, are reported as a separate component of stockholders' equity. Realized gains and losses on the sale of all such investments are reported in earnings and computed using the specific identification cost method and were insignificant for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004. All of the Company's investments as of December 31, 2006 have maturities of one year or less. The Company's available-for-sale investments are summarized as follows (in thousands):
 
7
 
 
 
 
The following table summarizes the estimated fair value of our securities held in short-term investments classified by the stated maturity date of the security (in thousands):
 
 
Investments in Other Entities.
In August 2006, the Company invested $2,238,000 in a privately held company that designs and develops devices for posterior fusion and dynamic stabilization of the lumbar spine. The investment is accounted for under the cost method of accounting and is included in other assets in the Company's consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2006.
The Company will monitor this investment for impairment and make appropriate reductions in carrying value if the Company determines that an impairment charge is required based primarily on the financial condition and near-term prospects of the company. As of December 31, 2006, the Company has determined that an impairment charge is not required.
 
Accounts Receivable Allowances
 
The Company estimates allowances for doubtful accounts and for product returns. Specifically, the Company makes estimates on the collectibility of customer accounts receivable and product returns based primarily on an analysis of historical trends and experience and changes in customers' financial condition. The Company uses its judgment, based on the best available facts and circumstances, and records an allowance against amounts due to reduce the receivable to the amount that is expected to be collected. These allowances are reevaluated and adjusted as additional information is received that impacts the amount reserved.
 
8
Inventories
 
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. Cost is computed on a first-in, first-out basis. The Company provides inventory allowances based on excess and obsolete inventories determined primarily by future demand forecasts. The allowance is measured as the difference between the cost of the inventory and market based upon assumptions about future demand and charged to the provision for inventory, which is a component of cost of goods sold. At the point of the loss recognition, a new, lower-cost basis for that inventory is established, and subsequent changes in facts and circumstances do not result in the restoration or increase in that newly established cost basis.
 
Depreciation and Amortization
 
Property and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization. Depreciation is provided using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets, generally two to five years. Amortization of leasehold improvements is provided on a straight-line basis over the life of the related asset or the lease term, if shorter. Upon the sale or retirement of assets, the cost and related accumulated depreciation and amortization are removed from the balance sheet and the resulting gain or loss is reflected in other income (expense), net. Repairs and maintenance expenses are expensed as incurred.
 
Asset Retirement Obligations
 
The fair value of the asset retirement obligation is recognized in the period in which it is incurred if a reasonable estimate of fair value can be made. In addition, the associated asset retirement cost is added to the carrying amount of the associated asset and this additional carrying amount is amortized over the life of the asset. The Company's asset retirement obligations are associated with its commitment to return property subject to operating leases in London, UK, Brussels, Belgium, and Sunnyvale, California to original condition upon lease termination. The Company estimated that gross expected future cash flows of approximately $894,000 would be required to fulfill these obligations.
 
As of December 31, 2006, the Company has recorded asset retirement obligations of approximately $669,000 and a corresponding increase in leasehold improvements. This amount represents the present value of expected future cash flows associated with returning the leased properties to original condition. A portion of this amount is subject to foreign exchange rate fluctuations and has been translated using the exchange rate at December 31, 2006. The leasehold improvements are being amortized to depreciation expense over the term of the lease. Related amortization expense was approximately $135,000, $61,000 and $39,000 for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.
 
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets
 
The Company is amortizing its acquired intangible assets on a straight line basis over a five to ten year period. No amortization of goodwill has been recorded. Instead, the Company performs an impairment assessment by applying a fair-value based test on an annual basis, or more frequently if changes in circumstances or the occurrence of events suggest the remaining value is not recoverable. The annual goodwill impairment analysis is completed in the first quarter of each year. To date there has been no impairment of goodwill. There have been no events or changes in circumstances subsequent to the Company's annual tests which may indicate the asset is impaired.
 
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets
 
Long-lived assets are evaluated for impairment annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recovered. An impairment loss would be recognized when estimated undiscounted future cash flows expected to result from the use of the asset and its eventual disposition is less than its carrying amount. Impairment, if any, is measured as the amount by which the carrying amount of a long-lived asset exceeds its fair value. Through December 31, 2006, there have been no such impairments.
 
Treasury Stock
 
In November 2002, the Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program pursuant to which up to 2,000,000 shares of the Company's outstanding common stock may be repurchased from time to time. The duration of the repurchase program is open-ended. Under the program, the Company may purchase shares of common stock through open market transactions at prices deemed appropriate by management and the Board of Directors. As of December 31, 2006 and 2005, the Company held 30,000 shares of treasury stock. Treasury stock is accounted for using the cost method.
 
9
Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation
 
Effective January 1, 2006, the Company adopted the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123(R), "Share Based Payment" ("SFAS No. 123(R)"), which requires the measurement and recognition of compensation expense for all share-based payment awards made to employees and directors, including employee stock options and employee stock purchases based on estimated fair values. Accordingly, stock-based compensation cost is measured at grant date, based on the fair value of the award, and is recognized as expense over the employee requisite service period for each separately vesting tranche of the award.  The Company elected to adopt the modified prospective application method as provided by SFAS No. 123(R).  Accordingly, previously reported amounts have not been restated. The Company also elected to use the method described in paragraph 81 of SFAS No. 123(R) (the "long form" method) for the calculation of its pool of excess tax benefits available to absorb tax deficiencies recognized subsequent to the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R). Employee stock-based compensation expense recognized under SFAS No. 123(R) for the year ended December 31, 2006 was $27,625,000.  
 
The Company estimates the value of employee stock options on the date of grant using a binomial-lattice model. The binomial-lattice model used by the Company to value employee stock options on the date of grant considers a range of assumptions related to volatility, risk-free interest rate and employee exercise behavior. Expected volatilities are based on a blend of implied market volatilities, historical and peer group volatilities. The risk-free rate is derived from the U.S. Treasury zero-coupon yield curve in effect at the time of grant over the contractual term of the option. The binomial-lattice model also incorporates exercise and forfeiture assumptions based on an analysis of historical data. The expected life of the stock option grants is derived from the output of the binomial-lattice model and represents the period of time that options granted are expected to be outstanding.
 
The following table shows total stock-based compensation expense for the year ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 (in thousands):
 
 
The effect of adopting SFAS No. 123(R) was as follows (in thousands, except per share amounts):
 
 
As of December 31, 2006, stock-based compensation charges of approximately $150,000 were capitalized as inventory.
 
10
During the year ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, the Company recognized employee stock-based compensation expense of $1,832,000 and $2,924,000, respectively, under APB No. 25 related to stock options previously issued with exercise prices below the deemed fair market value of the Company's common stock at the date of grant. Upon the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) on January 1, 2006, the Company recorded a cumulative effect adjustment to eliminate the remaining unrecognized deferred stock-based compensation of approximately $116,000 against additional paid-in capital. The Company did not record a cumulative effect adjustment to record estimated forfeitures for these stock-based awards upon the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) as it was not significant.
 
Prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R), the Company used the intrinsic value method in accounting for its employee stock options, and presented disclosure of pro forma information as if the Company had accounted for stock-based compensation using the fair value method of each option on the date of grant as follows (in thousands, except per share amounts):
 
 
Valuation Assumptions
 
The weighted-average assumptions used are as follows:
 
 
 
As of December 31, 2006, the Company had an unrecorded stock-based compensation balance related to stock options of approximately $25,341,000 after estimated forfeitures, which will be recognized over an estimated weighted-average remaining requisite service period of 2.6 years.  As of December 31, 2006, the unrecorded stock-based compensation balance related to employee stock purchase rights was $119,000, which will be recognized in January 2007. During the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company granted approximately 1,883,000 stock options with an estimated total grant-date fair value of approximately $27,451,000.
 
11
Non-Employee Stock-Based Compensation
 
The Company accounts for equity instruments issued to non-employees at their fair value on the measurement date. The Company uses the Black-Scholes option pricing model to measure the value of the options granted to non-employees at each vesting date to determine the appropriate charge to stock-based compensation. The options generally vest ratably over four years. The values attributable to these options have been amortized over the service period on a graded vesting method. The Company believes that the fair value of the stock options is more reliably measurable than the fair value of the services received. The Company recognized stock-based compensation expense related to non-employee options as follows (in thousands):
 
 
Concentrations of Credit Risk and Other Risks and Uncertainties
 
The Company's cash and cash equivalents are maintained with several financial institutions. Deposits in those institutions may exceed the amount of insurance provided on such deposits. Generally, these deposits may be redeemed upon demand and are maintained with financial institutions of reputable credit and therefore bear minimal credit risk.
 
For financial instruments consisting of cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts payable and accrued liabilities included in the Company's financial statements, the carrying amounts approximate fair value due to their short maturities. Estimated fair values for marketable securities, which are separately disclosed elsewhere, are based on quoted market prices for the same or similar instruments.
 
The Company performs ongoing credit evaluations of its customers' financial condition and, generally, requires no collateral from its customers. No customer accounted for more than 10% of total net sales for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004. No customer accounted for more than 10% of total accounts receivable at December 31, 2006 and 2005.
 
The Company receives certain of its components from sole suppliers. Additionally, the Company relies on certain contract manufacturers and suppliers to provide manufacturing services for its products.
 
The Company is subject to risks common to companies in the medical device industry including, but not limited to, new technological innovations, dependence on key personnel and suppliers, protection of proprietary technology, compliance with government regulations, uncertainty of market acceptance and reimbursement of products, product liability and the need to obtain additional financing.
 
Revenue Recognition
 
The Company's revenue consists primarily of the sale of its products to customers and distributors. Revenue is considered to be realized or realizable and earned when all of the following criteria are met: persuasive evidence of a sales arrangement exists; delivery has occurred or services have been rendered; the price is fixed or determinable; and collectibility is reasonably assured. These criteria are generally met at the time of shipment when the risk of loss and title passes to the customer or distributor. Allowances are established for product returns based upon historical trends and are recorded as a reduction to revenue.
 
Shipping and Handling of Products
 
Amounts billed to customers for shipping and handling of products is included in net sales and was approximately $1,463,000, $1,151,000 and $766,000 for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Costs incurred related to shipping and handling of products are included in cost of goods sold.
 
12
Research and Development
 
Research and development costs, including new product development programs, regulatory compliance, and clinical research are expensed as incurred.
 
Advertising Costs
 
Advertising costs, included in sales and marketing expenses, are expensed as incurred. Advertising costs were approximately $4,313,000, $4,934,000 and $3,515,000 for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.
 
Income Taxes
 
The Company accounts for income taxes under the asset and liability method whereby deferred tax asset or liability account balances are calculated at the balance sheet date using current tax laws and rates in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to affect taxable income. Valuation allowances are established when necessary to reduce deferred tax assets to the amounts more likely than not expected to be realized.
 
Comprehensive Income
 
The components of other comprehensive income are as follows (in thousands):
 
 
Net Income per Share
 
Basic net income per share is computed by dividing net income by the weighted-average number of common stock shares outstanding for the period. Diluted net income per share is computed giving effect to all potential dilutive common stock, including stock options, employee stock purchase rights and warrants. A reconciliation of the numerator and denominator used in the calculation of basic and diluted net income per share follows (in thousands, except per share amounts):
 
 
13
The following potential dilutive securities were excluded from the computation of diluted net income per share, as they had an antidilutive effect (in thousands):
 
 
Recent Accounting Pronouncements
 
In June 2006, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 48, "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes-an Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109" ("FIN No. 48").  FIN No. 48 clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in a company's financial statements in accordance with SFAS No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes." FIN 48 prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return.  FIN No. 48 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of FIN No. 48 will have on its financial statements or related disclosures.
In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, "Fair Value Measurements" ("SFAS No. 157"). SFAS No. 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. The provisions of SFAS No. 157 are effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007 and are to be applied prospectively. The Company is currently evaluating the impact, if any, of the adoption of SFAS No. 157 will have on its financial reporting.
In September 2006, the SEC issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 108 ("SAB 108") in order to eliminate the diversity of practice surrounding how public companies quantify financial statement misstatements.  Traditionally, there have been two widely-recognized methods for quantifying the effects of financial statement misstatements:  the "roll-over" method and the "iron curtain" method.  The "roll-over" method focuses primarily on the impact of a misstatement on the income statement, including the reversing effect of prior period misstatements; but its use can lead to the accumulation of misstatements in the balance sheet.  The "iron-curtain" method, on the other hand, focuses primarily on the effect of correcting the period-end balance sheet with less emphasis on the reversing effects of prior period errors on the income statement.  The Company currently uses the "iron-curtain" method for quantifying identified financial statement misstatements.  In SAB 108, the SEC staff established an approach that requires quantification of financial statement misstatements based on the effects of the misstatements on each of the Company's financial statements and the related financial statement disclosures.  This model is commonly referred to as a "dual approach" because it requires quantification of errors under both the "iron curtain" and the "roll-over" methods.  SAB 108 permits existing public companies to initially apply its provisions either by (i) restating prior financial statements as if the "dual approach" had always been used or (ii) recording the cumulative effect of initially applying the "dual approach" as adjustments to the carrying values of assets and liabilities as of the beginning of the current fiscal year with an offsetting adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings in the year of adoption.  Use of the "cumulative effect" transition method requires detailed disclosure of the nature and amount of each individual error being corrected through the cumulative adjustment and how and when it arose.  The provisions of SAB 108 must be applied to annual financial statements no later than the first fiscal year ending after November 15, 2006.  Upon adoption, there was no impact on the Company's financial statements or related disclosures.
 
3. BALANCE SHEET COMPONENTS
 
Inventories
(in thousands):
 
 
14
Property and Equipment
(in thousands):
 
 
Depreciation and amortization expense relating to the Company's property and equipment was approximately $5,824,000, $4,216,000 and $2,931,000 for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.
 
Goodwill and Intangible Assets:
 
Changes in the carrying amount of goodwill during the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2006 are as follows (in thousands):
 
 
The components of the Company's intangible assets are as follows (in thousands):
 
 
 
 
Amortization expense for the Company's intangible assets was approximately $1,161,000, $35,000 and $39,000 for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Based on the intangible assets held at December 31, 2006, and exchange rates in effect as of the balance sheet date, the Company expects to recognize amortization expense of approximately $1,134,000 in years 2007, approximately $1,106,000 in 2008, and approximately $1,100,000 annually from 2009 to 2015.
 
15
Other Assets
(in thousands):
 
 
Accrued Liabilities
(in thousands):
 
 
Other Liabilities
(in thousands):
 
 
4. LICENSE ACQUISITIONS
 
In April 2005, the Company entered into an agreement to exclusively license, in the field of orthopaedics including all spinal applications, Dr. Lee Berger's ("Dr. Berger") portfolio of patents concerning medical devices and methods for creating voids in, or moving, tissue or bone, including platform cannulae for expandable bodies. The Company made an up-front payment of $1,000,000 in
April 2005 and has agreed to provide a lifetime-capped royalty stream on any products that may be developed that practice the licensed patent rights. The $1,000,000 payment was immediately expensed as research and development costs, as the technology acquired may be used to develop products that have not been approved for sale by regulatory authorities, have not yet reached technological feasibility, and was determined to have no alternative future use.
In conjunction with the license agreement, the Company entered into a consulting agreement with Dr. Berger for services pertaining to research and development in the area of spinal surgery.  Under the terms of the consulting agreement Dr. Berger is paid $100,000 per year for a period of three years in exchange for these services.  A small royalty is also now being paid to Dr. Berger on one of the Company's
KyphX
products.
 
In November 2005, the Company entered into an agreement with Dr. Harvinder Sandhu ("Dr. Sandhu"), an orthopaedic surgeon, to acquire an exclusive license to Dr. Sandhu's early invention rights concerning a directional bone tamp for treating vertebral compression fractures. Under the terms of the agreement, the Company made an up-front payment of $5,000,000 in November 2005, an additional payment of $5,000,000 in November 2006 and is obligated to make a series of payments totaling up to an additional $10,000,000. Based on management judgment, ability and intent, the remaining payment obligation of $10,000,000 has been classified as a current liability as of December 31, 2006. The $20,000,000 charge was immediately expensed to research and development as the technology acquired may be used to develop products that have not been approved for sale by regulatory authorities, have not yet reached technological feasibility, and was determined to have no alternative future use. The license agreement also provides for a capped royalty stream on any future developed product that practices Dr. Sandhu's technology.
 
16
5. ACQUISITIONS
 
InnoSpine, Inc.
 
On December 30, 2005, the Company acquired all of the outstanding stock of InnoSpine, Inc. ("InnoSpine"), a privately held company focused on developing and marketing its proprietary technology platform for the diagnosis and potential treatment of axial low back pain due to disc degeneration. The transaction closed in January 2006, however, for accounting purposes the date of acquisition was determined to be December 30, 2005. The acquisition was made to allow the Company to expand its focus on Spinal Fracture Management and Repair to include disc repair and regeneration. The purchase consideration consisted of an initial purchase price of $2,500,000 in cash to the shareholders of InnoSpine and other acquisition costs of $350,000. In addition, the Company agreed to pay up to an additional $27,500,000 in cash or stock, based on achievement of clinical and other milestones as well as royalties on future net sales. These additional amount represents contingent consideration for accounting purposes and have not been included in the purchase price equation set out below. This amount will be recognized as additional purchase price consideration when such contingency has been resolved. To date, no contingent payments have been made.
 
The acquisition of InnoSpine was accounted for using the purchase method of accounting. The results of operations of InnoSpine have been included in the Company's consolidated financial statements effective December 30, 2005. The purchase price was allocated to the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired and the liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values at the date of acquisition as determined by management. Independent valuation experts assisted the Company during the valuation of the intangible assets acquired.
 
The fair value of the net assets acquired from InnoSpine exceeded the consideration paid by the Company resulting in negative goodwill. Because the acquisition involves contingent consideration, the Company is required to recognize additional purchase consideration equal to the lesser of the negative goodwill or the maximum amount of contingent consideration of $27,500,000. Accordingly, contingent consideration totaling $3,751,000 has been included in the Company's determination of the total purchase price, of which $3,710,000 has been classified as a non-current liability. The remaining balance of approximately $41,000 has been classified within accrued liabilities. The total purchase consideration was allocated as follows (in thousands):
 
 
The income approach was used to value InnoSpine's developed technology, which included an analysis of the completion costs, cash flows, other required assets and risk associated with achieving such cash flows. The present value of these cash flows was calculated with an effective tax rate of 40% and a discount rate of 35% for the developed technology. No amount of goodwill, if any, is expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
 
Unaudited Pro Forma Financial Information
 
The following unaudited pro forma financial information is based on the respective historical financial statements of the Company and InnoSpine. The unaudited pro forma financial information reflects the consolidated results of operations as if the acquisition of InnoSpine had occurred at the beginning of each period and includes the amortization of the resulting other intangible assets. The unaudited pro forma financial data presented are not necessarily indicative of the Company's results of operations that might have occurred had the transactions been completed at the beginning of each period, and do not purport to represent what the Company's consolidated results of operations might be for any future period (in thousands, except per share amounts).
 
17
 
 
St. Francis Medical Technologies, Inc.
 
On January 18, 2007, the Company acquired all of the fully diluted equity of St. Francis Medical Technologies, Inc. ("St. Francis"), a privately held, California-based company that manufactures the
X-STOP
Interspinous Process Decompression (
IPD
) System, a FDA-approved interspinous process device for treating lumbar spinal stenosis (LSS). The total estimated purchase price, excluding transaction costs, of up to $725,000,000 was comprised of $525,000,000 in cash upon closing, plus additional revenue-based contingent payments of up to $200,000,000 payable in either cash or a combination of cash and stock, at the Company's election. The payments are contingent upon the attainment of certain revenue thresholds during specified periods through June 2008. This additional amount represents contingent consideration for accounting purposes and has not been included in the purchase price equation set out below. This amount will be recognized as additional purchase price consideration when such contingency has been resolved. The Company financed the transaction through a combination of cash on hand and bank financing (see Note 6).
 
The total estimated initial purchase price of St. Francis is as follows (in thousands):
 
 
Disc-O-Tech Medical Technologies, Ltd.
 
On December 20, 2006, the Company entered into two definitive agreements to acquire all of the spine-related product assets and associated intellectual property rights of Disc-O-Tech Medical Technologies, Ltd. and its U.S. subsidiary ("Disc-O-Tech") in a transaction to be accounted for using the purchase method of accounting. Completion of the first agreement, if and when that occurs, will enable the Company to further broaden its focus in minimally invasive spine by adding the
B-Twin
 Expandable Spinal System technology for minimally invasive fusion in patients with degenerative disc disease in the lumbar and cervical spine, which is CE marked but not presently available in the U.S. The first agreement assets also include Disc-O-Tech's SKy Bone Expander System, which is available only outside the U.S. for use in the treatment of vertebral compression fractures. The second agreement assets include Disc-O-Tech's Confidence Cement System, which will be another treatment option complementary to the Company's existing
KyphX
technology for vertebral compression fractures depending on a patient's individual needs and a clinician's goals for his or her patients. The Confidence System incorporates a delivery mechanism that is designed to provide controlled injection of putty-like cement, reduce clinician radiation exposure and streamline cement preparation. The Company's ability to offer such additional minimally invasive diagnostic and therapeutic tools to their customers is a natural next-step in broadening our product offerings.
 
18
The aggregate estimated purchase price for both agreements, excluding transaction costs, is approximately $220,000,000, plus a contingent payment of up to $20,000,000 payable in cash. Upon the signing of the first agreement on December 20, 2006 the Company made a nonrefundable payment of $60,000,000 to Disc-O-Tech, comprised of $20,000,000 in cash and the release of $40,000,000 that was held in escrow. As of December 31, 2006, pending closing of the acquisition this payment of $60,000,000 is presented as a nonrefundable deposit on the accompanying balance sheet. On February 1, 2007, the Company made a nonrefundable payment of an additional $40,000,000 to Disc-O-Tech. Under the second of the agreements, the Company will make nonrefundable payments to Disc-O-Tech for aggregate amount of $120,000,000 in cash on a deferred basis, payable in three equal annual installments beginning in January 2008. An additional $20,000,000 in contingent payments, plus royalties, may also be paid based on the development of further technologies following closing of the second agreement. This additional $20,000,000 represents contingent consideration for accounting purposes. This amount will be recognized as additional purchase price consideration when its payment is finalized. Closing of the acquisitions are subject to various conditions, including the expiration or termination of the waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, or HSR Act, however, there can be no assurance that the Federal Trade Commission will not block the Company's purchase of all or any of the assets under either purchase agreement, or that they will otherwise complete all or part of the acquisitions. The Federal Trade Commission has issued second requests for information with respect to its review of the Company's acquisition of the non-vertebroplasty assets and the acquisition of the vertebroplasty assets. The purchase price under both agreements is payable even if regulatory approvals are delayed or not obtained. The Company will complete the closing of the acquisitions as soon as practicable after receipt of regulatory approvals. If regulatory approvals are not obtained, the Company may divest or license to third parties some or all of the assets proposed to be acquired.
 
6. BORROWINGS
 
Credit Facility
 
In October 2006, the Company entered into a syndicated credit facility which provided the Company with a five-year $300,000,000 revolving line of credit, including a $50,000,000 sublimit for the issuance of standby letters of credit, a $25,000,000 sublimit for swing line loans and a $100,000,000 sublimit for multicurrency borrowings. On January 18, 2007, the Company amended the credit facility and, in conjunction with the acquisition of St. Francis, the Company, together with certain of its subsidiaries, entered into a Credit Agreement to replace and refinance the above-described credit facility (the "Credit Agreement") with Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent, swing line lender and letter of credit issuer, and Banc of America Securities LLC as sole lead arranger and sole book manager. The credit facilities thereunder were syndicated to a group of lenders (collectively, the "Lenders").
 
The Credit Agreement provides for a $250,000,000 senior secured revolving credit facility (the "Revolving Credit Facility"), maturing October 20, 2011, which can be expanded to $300,000,000 under certain circumstances. The Revolving Credit Facility includes a $50,000,000 sublimit for the issuance of standby U.S. dollar letters of credit, a $25,000,000 sublimit for U.S. dollar swingline loans and a $100,000,000 sublimit for multicurrency borrowings. The Credit Agreement also provides for a $425,000,000 term loan facility maturing seven years from the closing date (the "Term Loan Facility" and together with the Revolving Credit Facility, the "Facility"). The Company may terminate or permanently reduce the commitments available under the Revolving Credit Facility and prepay the Term Loan Facility without premium or penalty at any time.
 
The Facility was used by the Company to finance the acquisition of St. Francis, (the "Acquisition") and may be used for general corporate purposes including acquisitions, capital expenditures, working capital and other purposes. In addition to certain initial fees, the Company is obligated to pay a commitment fee based on the total revolving commitment. In January 2007, in connection with the Acquisition, the Company borrowed $425,000,000 under this Facility.
 
The Revolving Credit Facility will bear interest at Base Rate plus 0.25-1.25% or LIBOR plus 1.25-2.25% (such range of margins being related to the consolidated leverage ratio of the Company). Letter of credit fees are based on the LIBOR loan margins.
 
The Company's obligations under the Facility are secured by substantially all of the assets of the Company.
 
The Credit Agreement contains customary affirmative covenants regarding the Company and its subsidiaries. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under the Credit Agreement, the Lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the Facility to be immediately due and payable. Events of default under the Credit Agreement include payment defaults, breaches of covenants and bankruptcy events.
 
19
The Credit Agreement contains negative covenants which restrict the Company from: (i) incurring liens other than liens incurred pursuant to the Facility and other customary permitted liens; (ii) making investments, other than customary permitted investments and investments subject to certain baskets; (iii) incurring debt other than indebtedness pursuant to the Credit Agreement, subordinated indebtedness, an unsecured convertible note offering, customary permitted indebtedness and indebtedness subject to certain baskets; (iv) entering into mergers and consolidations other than the Acquisition, acquisitions paid 100% with equity of the Company or acquisitions not exceeding a certain purchase price, where such limitation on price is based on the consolidated senior secured leverage ratio and other limitations; (v) selling assets, subject to certain customary exceptions; (vi) issuing dividends, stock redemptions and other restricted payments; (vii) incurring capital expenditures exceeding a certain threshold; (viii) transactions with affiliates; (ix) the cash payment of the cash/stock earnout obligations of the Company incurred in connection with the Acquisition, where such payments are subject to certain limitations; (x) permitting the consolidated interest coverage ratio to fall below a certain threshold and the consolidated leverage ratio and the consolidated senior secured leverage ratio to be greater than a certain threshold; (xi) prepaying subordinated indebtedness, other than prepayments pursuant to a refinancing permitted thereunder or if certain requirements are satisfied and (xi) other customary negative covenants for a facility of this nature.
 
Convertible Notes
 
In February 2007, the Company issued $200,000,000 aggregate principal amount of Convertible Senior Notes due 2012 and $200,000,000 aggregate principal amount of Convertible Senior Notes due 2014. Interest on the notes due 2012 will be paid semiannually at a rate of 1.00% per year and interest on the notes due 2014 will be paid semiannually at a rate of 1.25% per year. Both the 2012 Notes and the 2014 Convertible Senior Notes will be convertible into cash up to the principal amount, and if applicable, shares of common stock in respect of any conversion value above the principal amount, based on an initial conversion rate of 17.1951 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount of notes, which is equivalent to an initial conversion price of approximately $58.16 per share. The notes may be converted by the holders only under the following circumstances: (1) during any fiscal quarter beginning after June 30, 2007 (and only during such fiscal quarter), if the last reported sale price of the Company's common stock for at least 20 trading days in the 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the immediately preceding fiscal quarter is greater than or equal to 130% of the applicable conversion price; (2) during the five business-day period after any five consecutive trading-day period (the "Measurement Period") in which the trading price per $1,000 principal amount of note for each day of such Measurement Period was less than 98% of the product of the last reported sale price of the Common Stock and the conversion rate on each such day; (3) upon the occurrence of certain specified corporate transactions; and (4) with respect to the 2012 Notes, at any time on or after December 1, 2011, and with respect to the 2014 Notes, at any time on or after December 1, 2013, in each case through the third business day preceding the applicable maturity date.
 
The conversion rate will be subject to adjustment in some events but will not be adjusted for accrued interest. Upon conversion, the Company will pay cash and shares of common stock, if any, based on a daily conversion value calculated during a 30 trading-day observation period.
 
The Senior Convertible Notes rank equal in right of payment to all of the Company's other existing and future senior unsecured indebtedness. The Senior Convertible Notes will rank senior in right of payment to all of the Company's existing and future subordinated indebtedness and effectively subordinated in right of payment to all of its subsidiaries' obligations (including secured and unsecured obligations) and subordinated in right of payment to its secured obligations to the extent of the assets securing such obligation.
 
In connection with the offering, the Company entered into convertible note hedge transactions with affiliates of the initial purchasers. These transactions are intended to reduce the potential dilution to the Company's stockholders upon any future conversion of the notes. The call options, which cost an aggregate $112,000,000 were recorded as a reduction of additional paid-in capital, net of tax benefit. The Company also entered into warrant transactions concurrently with the offering, pursuant to which it sold warrants to purchase its own common stock to the same counterparties that entered into the convertible note hedge transactions. The convertible note hedge and warrant transactions effectively will increase the conversion price of the convertible notes to approximately $75.04 per share of the Company's common stock. Proceeds received from the issuance of the warrants totaled approximately $77,000,000 and were recorded as an addition to additional paid-in capital.
 
On February 6, 2007, the Company used the remaining proceeds, of approximately $355,000,000, together with borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility, to retire the $425,000,000 senior secured term loan incurred to complete the acquisition of St. Francis.
 
20
7. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
 
Operating leases
 
The Company has operations headquartered in Sunnyvale, California. These facilities are leased through August 2014. Under the terms of the lease agreement, the Company has the option to have additional square footage built in the same surrounding campus. Under the terms of the facility lease, the Company is obliged to maintain an irrevocable standby letter of credit of $1,105,000.
 
The Company's European operations are headquartered in Brussels, Belgium. The facility is leased through December 2011 and includes offices, storage and warehouse facilities. An additional facility is leased in Rosbach, Germany through January 2008 and the Company has leased sales offices in many of the major countries in Europe as well as Japan, South Africa and Canada, with expiration dates through 2013. In November 2005, the Company entered into a two year lease for a facility in Neuchtel, Switzerland that includes offices, storage and warehouse facilities and will serve as a temporary facility for the Company while it builds a larger facility to support manufacturing, distribution, administrative and certain research and development activities.
 
The Company records rent expense on a straight-line basis. As of December 31, 2006 and 2005, deferred rent of approximately $5,531,000 and $3,814,000, respectively, had been recorded. Through December 31, 2006, the Company has received cash incentives of $1,194,000 from its landlord to be used for leasehold improvements. These amounts have been reflected as deferred rent and property and equipment and are being amortized to rent expense and depreciation expense, respectively, over the term of the Company's operating lease. The Company recognized rent expense of $3,355,000, $2,423,000 and $2,658,000 during the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.
 
The Company's aggregate future minimum facility lease payments are as follows (in thousands):
 
 
Assets Under Construction
 
In May 2006, the Company entered into a real estate leasing contract with Credit Suisse (the "lease agreement") for a facility in Neuchtel, Switzerland.  The lease agreement became effective in July 2006 upon Credit Suisse's purchase of the land. The lease agreement has a term of 15 years with a fixed purchase option at expiration.  The total commitment under the lease agreement is estimated at CHF 23,000,000 (approximately $18,857,000 in U.S. dollars per the exchange rate as of December 31, 2006), which includes the purchase of land and construction of the facility.  In connection with the lease agreement, the Company entered into a guaranty with Credit Suisse in the amount of CHF 11,000,000 (approximately $9,019,000) with respect to its subsidiaries' obligations under the lease agreement and has issued a CHF 4,500,000 (approximately $3,689,000) letter of credit to Credit Suisse pursuant to the terms and conditions of the leasing contract.
 
Since the Company has substantially all of the construction period risk, the Company is accounting for the transaction as if it were the owner during the construction period. Accordingly, subsequent to commencement of the construction, in July 2006, the Company has capitalized construction costs as construction-in-progress. As of December 31, 2006, the Company has recorded an asset of approximately $5,038,000 for construction-in-process and a corresponding liability of $4,992,000 for construction debt.
 
Royalty Agreements
 
The Company has license agreements with third parties. The agreements provide for payment of royalties based upon a specified percentage of future net sales on any products that practice the licensed rights (see Notes 4 & 5).
 
21
Consulting Agreements
 
The Company has entered into various consulting agreements which expire through 2008. Under the terms of the consulting agreements, the Company will be obligated to make payments of approximately $944,000 and $712,000 in the years ending December 31, 2007 and 2008, respectively.
 
Indemnification Agreements
 
In the normal course of business, the Company may enter into contractual arrangements under which the Company may agree to indemnify the third party to such arrangement from any losses incurred relating to the services they perform on behalf of the Company or for losses arising from certain events as defined within the particular contract. To date, the Company has not incurred any costs as a result of such indemnifications and has not accrued any liabilities related to such obligations in the accompanying consolidated financial statements.
 
The Company has entered into indemnification agreements with its directors and officers that may require the Company to indemnify its directors and officers against liabilities that may arise by reason of their status or service as directors or officers, other than liabilities arising from willful misconduct of a culpable nature; to advance their expenses incurred as a result of any proceeding against them as to which they could be indemnified; and to make good faith determinations as to whether or not it is practicable for the Company to obtain directors' and officers' insurance. The Company currently has directors' and officers' insurance.
 
Litigation
 
In November 2005, Dr. Harvinder Sandhu, an orthopaedic surgeon, and the Company filed suit in federal district court in Memphis, Tennessee against Medtronic Sofamor Danek ("MSD") and several other related corporate entities seeking compensatory and punitive damages and injunctive relief for breach of contract and related covenants, trade secret theft, fraud, and correction of inventorship of several patents and patent applications presently owned by MSD, including U.S. Patent No. 6,676,665. The suit also requests, among other relief, that MSD transfer to Dr. Sandhu ownership of the disputed patents and patent applications. The dispute concerns inventions related to an expandable, mechanical bone tamp for use in treating vertebral compression fractures that Dr. Sandhu invented in the late 1990's and which he confidentially disclosed and discussed with MSD. The complaint alleges that MSD later filed for several patents encompassing and claiming Dr. Sandhu's inventions without naming him as inventor of that technology, and that it also incorporated Dr. Sandhu's inventions into its internal
Equestra/Arcuate
project without his permission. In May 2006, the Company also sued MSD in the same Tennessee court for willfully infringing five of the Company's U.S. patents (numbers 4,969,888, 5,108,404, 6,235,043, 6,440,138, and 6,863,672) with its
Equestra/Arcuate
product. Discovery is underway, and various motions are pending that seek to address the merits of Dr. Sandhu's and Kyphon's claims. Trial was initially set for April 2007, but may be delayed. No provision for any liability that may result upon resolution of this matter has been made in the accompanying financial statements.
 
During 2005, a U.S. Attorney's Office ("USAO") received a complaint that the Company believes to be a
qui tam
complaint that alleges impropriety in its business, including regarding its reimbursement practices. Although no subpoena has been issued to the Company in connection with this complaint, the USAO is investigating the Company's sales and marketing practices, including how they communicated with their customers in the past regarding the Medicare reimbursement available to hospitals and the appropriate site-of-service for using their products in surgery. The USAO has asked to review some of the Company's documentation that may be relevant to the investigation, much of which the Company has already produced. The Company believes it is in substantial compliance with the healthcare laws applicable to them. Even though the Company has not received a subpoena regarding the complaint or its allegations, it continues to voluntarily cooperate with the USAO, to permit the USAO to develop an informed opinion on whether or not to pursue any action in connection with the complaint based in part on the information provided, although timing on that decision is uncertain.  At this time, the Company does not know whether the investigation or its outcome will have a material adverse impact to its business, and cannot be assured regarding any future path the USAO or any related lawsuit may take. Due to the uncertainties inherent in this process, the Company cannot accurately predict the ultimate outcome of this matter at this time and, therefore, cannot estimate the range of possible loss. Accordingly, no provision for any liability that may result upon resolution of this matter has been made in the accompanying financial statements.
 
22
In April 2006, Medtronic and several related entities (MSD) filed suit against the Company in federal district court in the Northern District of California, alleging that the Company's
KyphX
vertebral bone tamps and/or related products infringe three angioplasty balloon dilatation catheter patents (numbers 4,820,349, 5,759,191 and 6,179,856) and a single claim of patent number 6,096,038, which generally concerns treatment of the disc space. MSD has since dropped the 038 patent from the suit and asserted another dilatation catheter patent, number 5,759,173. The suit seeks damages based upon the making, using, selling and offering for sale of the Company's products, seeks enhanced damages for alleged willful infringement, and seeks to enjoin their continued activities relating to these products. In October 2006, the Company was denied permission to seek a declaratory judgment that another MSD patent generally concerned with treatment of the disc space and related to the `038 patent, number 7,115,128, also has no application to the kyphoplasty technology. Although the Company intend to vigorously defend MSD's California lawsuit, MSD's action against it subjects the Company to potential liability for damages, including treble damages, and could require the Company to cease making, using or selling the affected products, or to obtain a license in order to continue to manufacture, use or sell the affected products. While the Company believes it has multiple meritorious defenses to this action, the Company cannot assure that it ultimately will prevail on any issue in the litigation or that it will be able to successfully defend MSD's charges, nor can the Company provide assurance that any license required would be made available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. Failure to successfully defend against MSD's action could harm the Company's business, financial condition and operating results. Due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation, the Company cannot accurately predict the ultimate outcome of this matter at this time and, therefore, cannot estimate the range of possible loss. No provision for any liability that may result upon resolution of this matter has been made in the accompanying financial statements.
 
In June 2006, six of the Company's current and former female U.S.-based sales employees filed a lawsuit against the Company in federal district court in the Northern District of California.  They allege, among other things, that the Company has engaged in gender and pregnancy discrimination against them, and also contend that they and their lawyers should be permitted to represent an alleged class of all of our present and many former female Spine Education Specialists, Spine Associates and Spine Consultants because all of those women were also allegedly discriminated against on account of their gender and pregnancy status.  The plaintiffs claim that they are due assorted damages of at least $100,000,000. The case is in its early stages; no trial date has been set. Although the Company intends to vigorously defend plaintiffs' lawsuit, this lawsuit threatens its reputation and subjects the Company to potential liability for significant damages. While the Company believes it has multiple meritorious defenses to this action, it cannot assure you that it ultimately will prevail on any issue in the litigation or that the Company will be able to successfully defend plaintiffs' charges. Failure to successfully defend against this action could harm the Company's business, financial condition and operating results. Due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation, the Company cannot accurately predict the ultimate outcome of this matter at this time and, therefore, cannot estimate the range of possible loss. No provision for any liability that may result upon resolution of this matter has been made in the accompanying financial statements.
 
From time to time, the Company may become involved in litigation relating to additional claims arising from the ordinary course of business. Management of the Company does not believe the final disposition of these matters will have a material adverse affect on the financial position, results of operations or cash flows of the Company.
 
8. STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
 
Preferred Stock
 
In April 2002, the Board of Directors approved an amendment to the Company's certificate of incorporation to authorize 5,000,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock. The Company's Board of Directors is authorized to determine the designation, powers, preferences and rights of preferred stock.
 
Common Stock
 
Each share of common stock is entitled to one vote. The holders of common stock are also entitled to receive dividends whenever funds are legally available and when declared by the Board of Directors, subject to the prior rights of holders of all classes of stock outstanding. No dividends have been declared or paid as of December 31, 2006.
 
Employee Stock Purchase Plan
 
During 2006, the Company had an Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the "2002 ESPP"), under which eligible employees were permitted to purchase common stock at a discount through payroll deductions. The 2002 ESPP contained consecutive, overlapping twenty-four month offering periods. Each offering period included four six-month purchase periods. The price of the common stock purchased was the lower of 85% of the fair market value of the common stock at the beginning of an offering period or at the end of a purchase period. The Company issued approximately 251,000, 314,000 and 338,000 shares of common stock in 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively, under the 2002 ESPP. As of December 31, 2006, approximately 718,000 shares of common stock remained reserved for future issuance under the 2002 ESPP.
 
23
In June 2006, the Company's stockholders approved the termination of the 2002 ESPP, effective after the February 1, 2007 purchase, and the adoption of the 2007 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the "2007 ESPP"). The 2007 ESPP took effect after the final purchase date under the 2002 ESPP of February 1, 2007, at which time the 2002 ESPP automatically terminated.  The 2007 ESPP reduces the "look-back" period available under any offering, by eliminating the 24-month "look-back" period presently available under the 2002 ESPP and replacing it with a six-month "look-back" period.  The price of the common stock purchased shall be the lower of 85% of the fair market value of the common stock at the beginning of an offering period or at the end of a purchase period. The maximum number of shares authorized for sale under the 2007 ESPP is 1,000,000. The Board of Directors may amend, suspend or terminate the 2007 ESPP at any time. The Company determined that the cancellation of the 2002 ESPP effectively occurred in June 2006 at the time of stockholder approval.  As the cancellation of purchase periods subsequent to February 1, 2007 were not accompanied by a concurrent replacement grant, unrecognized compensation cost of $562,000 was recognized immediately in June 2006 for the cancelled awards.  
 
Stock Plans
 
The Company reserved shares of common stock for issuance under the 1996 Stock Incentive Plan (the "1996 Plan"). Under the 1996 Plan, the Board of Directors was authorized to issue incentive stock options to employees and nonqualified stock options to consultants or employees of the Company. The 1996 Plan is inactive, and no shares have been granted under the 1996 Plan since 2002. Upon adoption of the 2002 Stock Plan, all shares previously available for grant under the 1996 Plan were transferred to the 2002 Stock Plan. Any cancellations thereafter from the 1996 Plan are automatically added back to the 2002 Plan.
 
In April 2002, the Board of Directors adopted the 2002 Stock Plan. The 2002 Stock Plan, which will terminate no later than 2012, provides for the granting of incentive stock options to employees and nonqualified stock options and stock purchase rights to employees, directors and consultants.
 
In April 2002, the Board of Directors adopted the 2002 Director Option Plan. The 2002 Director Option Plan, which will terminate no later than 2012, provides for the granting of nonqualified stock options to non-employee directors. At December 31, 2006, 90,000 shares of common stock remained reserved for future issuance under the 2002 Director Option Plan.
 
For the 2002 Director Option Plan and the 2002 Stock Plan, the Board of Directors has the authority to determine to whom options will be granted, the number of shares, the term and exercise price (which cannot be less than the estimated fair market value at date of grant for incentive stock options or 85% of the estimated fair market value for nonqualified stock options). If an employee owns stock representing more than 10% of the outstanding shares, the exercise price of any incentive stock option shall be at least 110% of estimated fair market value, as determined by the Board of Directors. The options are exercisable at times and increments as specified by the Board of Directors, and generally expire ten years from date of grant.
 
24
Activities under the 2002 Director Option Plan, the 2002 Stock Plan and the 1996 Plan, the ("Plans") are as follows:
 
 
The options outstanding and exercisable at December 31, 2006 are as follows:
 
 
The aggregate intrinsic value in the table above represents the total pretax intrinsic value, based on options with an exercise price less than the Company's closing stock price of $40.40 per share as of December 31, 2006, which would have been received by the option holders had those option holders exercised their options as of that date. The total number of in-the-money options exercisable as of December 31, 2006 was approximately 3,670,000. As of December 31, 2005, there were approximately 2,739,000 outstanding options exercisable, and the weighted-average exercise price was $14.40 per share.
The total intrinsic value of options exercised during the year ended December 31, 2006 was approximately $20,528,000. The total cash received from employees as a result of employee stock option exercises during the year ended December 31, 2006 was approximately $13,850,000.  In connection with these exercises, the tax benefits realized by the Company for the year ended December 31, 2006 was approximately $6,798,000. For the year ended December 31, 2006, the Company recorded $7,557,000 of deferred tax assets associated with nonqualified stock options as a result of the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R).
The Company settles employee stock option exercises with newly issued common shares.
 
25
9.   EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLAN
 
The Company maintains a Section 401(k) Plan. The 401(k) Plan provides participating employees with an opportunity to accumulate funds for retirement and hardship. Eligible participants may contribute up to 100% of their eligible earnings to the Plan Trust. Beginning in December 2006, eligible participants may contribute up to 50% of their eligible earnings to the Plan Trust. The Company started matching employees' contributions to the plan on March 15, 2003 at 25% of employee's individual 401(k) contributions up to a maximum matching contribution of $2,000 per calendar year. Beginning in January 2005, the Company match was adjusted to 50% of an employee's individual 401(K) contributions up to a maximum matching contribution of $2,000 per calendar year. Beginning in January 2006, the Company match was changed to 50% of the first 5% of compensation deferred to the 401(k) plan.  In addition, if any employee receives less than a $2,000 match under the new formula, the Company will true-up the 401(k) matching contribution at year-end to 50% of an employee's 401(k) contributions up to a $2,000 matching contribution per calendar year. The Company's matching contributions totaled $1,858,000, $1,084,000 and $620,000 in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.
 
10.   INCOME TAXES
 
U.S. and international components of income before the provision for income taxes and the components of the provision for income taxes consisted of the following (in thousands):
 
 
At December 31, 2006, we had utilized all federal and state net operating loss carryforwards and federal research and development tax credit carryforwards.
 
At December 31, 2006, we had research and development tax credit carryforwards of approximately $2,784,000 for state income tax purposes. The state research and development tax credit can be carried forward indefinitely.
 
26
Temporary differences and carryforwards that give rise to the Company's deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows (in thousands):
 
 
Deferred tax assets relating to tax benefits of employee stock option grants have been reduced to reflect the exercises in the year ended December 31, 2006. Certain exercises resulted in tax deductions in excess of previously recorded benefits based on the option value at the time of grant ("windfalls"). When the tax benefit reduces taxes payable, the Company will credit equity. At December 31, 2006, the Company recorded a credit to equity of $6,338,000.
 
Management periodically evaluates the recoverability of the deferred tax assets and recognizes the tax benefit only as reassessment demonstrates that they are more likely than not realizable. At December 31, 2006, and 2005, the Company did not provide a valuation allowance against its deferred tax assets because it believes it is more likely than not that all deferred tax assets will be realized in the foreseeable future.
 
The income tax provision differed from the provision computed at the U.S. statutory tax rate as follows:
 
 
11.   OPERATING SEGMENT AND GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION
 
The Company operates in one segment, using one measurement of profitability to manage its business. Geographic area net sales and long-lived assets are summarized as follows:
 
 
Net sales are attributed to countries based on the shipping location of the external customers. Long-lived assets are comprised of property and equipment, net.
 
27
12.   QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)
 
The following tables contain selected unaudited Consolidated Income Statement data for each quarter of 2006 and 2005 (in thousands, except per share amounts):
 
 
 
 
Note 1:   Net income includes license agreement fees of $1,000,000.
Note 2:   Net income includes license acquisition charges of $20,000,000.
28

Exhibit 99.3
 
KYPHON INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
(in thousands, except per share amounts, unaudited)
 
 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
 
1
KYPHON INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(in thousands, except per share amounts, unaudited)
 
 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
 
2
KYPHON INC.
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(in thousands, unaudited)
 
 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
 
3
KYPHON INC.
NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(unaudited)
 
NOTE 1Organization, Basis of Presentation, and Significant Accounting Policies:
 
Organization
 
Kyphon Inc. ("Kyphon" or the "Company") is focused on the design, manufacture and marketing of single-use and implantable medical device products used by spine specialists in minimally invasive procedures for the treatment and restoration of spinal anatomy and the diagnosis of low back pain. The Company is currently commercializing products including its
KyphX
proprietary balloon technologies for the repair of spinal fractures, the
X-STOP
Interspinous Process Decompression ("
IPD"
) and
Aperius PercLID
technologies for the treatment of lumbar spinal stenosis ("LSS") and the
Discyphor
product line for performing the
Functional Anaesthetic Discography
("
F.A.D."
) procedure to assist in diagnosing the source of low back pain. The Company markets its products through sales representatives in North America and through a combination of sales representatives, distributors and agents in its international markets. The Company is headquartered in Sunnyvale, California, and has subsidiaries in many countries in Europe, as well as in Canada, Japan, Australia and South Africa.
 
On July 26, 2007, the Company entered into a definitive Agreement and Plan of Merger (the "Merger Agreement") with Medtronic, Inc., a Minnesota corporation ("Medtronic"), and Jets Acquisition Corporation, a Delaware corporation and wholly owned subsidiary of Medtronic ("Merger Sub"). On November 2, 2007, pursuant to the Merger Agreement Medtronic acquired all of the outstanding shares of the Company for $71.00 per share in cash and Merger Sub was merged with and into the Company, with the Company continuing as the surviving corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of Medtronic. At the time of filing of this Form 10-Q, Medtronic, through its affiliates, is the sole shareholder of the Company (see Note 2).
 
Basis of Presentation
 
The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared by the Company in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America for interim financial information and pursuant to the instructions to Form 10-Q and Article 10 of Regulation S-X of the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required by generally accepted accounting principles for complete financial statements. The year-end condensed consolidated balance sheet data was derived from audited financial statements as of that date; however, the accompanying financial statements do not include all annual disclosures required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. In the opinion of management, all adjustments (consisting only of normal recurring adjustments) considered necessary for a fair statement have been included. The results for the three and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2007 are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for the year ending December 31, 2007, or for any future period. These unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and notes should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements included in the Company's Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006, which was filed with the SEC on February 28, 2007.
 
Significant Accounting Policies
 
The Company's significant accounting policies are disclosed in the Company's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006. Except for the Company's adoption of Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Interpretation No. 48, "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes" effective January 1, 2007 (see Note 11) and as discussed below, the Company's significant accounting policies have not changed significantly as of September 30, 2007.
 
Revenue Recognition
 
The Company's revenue is derived primarily from the sale of its products to customers, distributors and sales agents.  The Company sells its products through a direct sales organization in the United States, Europe and Canada.  The Company also has distributors in other countries in which they do not have a direct sales force.  As a result of the acquisition of St. Francis Medical Technologies, Inc. ("St. Francis"), the Company also has sales agents in certain countries in which it does not have a direct sales force or distributor.  For transactions with the Company's sales agents, revenue is recognized at the time the product has been used or implanted.  For all other sales transactions revenue is considered to be realized or realizable and earned when all of the following criteria are met: persuasive evidence of a sales arrangement exists; delivery has occurred or services have been rendered; the price is fixed or determinable; and collectibility is reasonably assured.  These criteria are generally met at the time of shipment when the risk of loss and title passes to the customer or distributor.  Provisions for discounts and rebates are recorded as a reduction of revenue in the period revenue is recognized.  Provisions for estimated returns are based upon historical trends and are recorded as a reduction of revenue in the period revenue is recognized.   
 
4
Freight billed to customers is included in net sales, and expenses incurred for shipping products to customers are included in cost of goods sold.
 
Reclassification
 
Certain amounts in the prior year's condensed consolidated financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the current year's presentation. The reclassification had no impact on the previously reported net income.
 
NOTE 2Merger with Medtronic, Inc.
 
On November 2, 2007, after receipt of all necessary clearances and approvals from U.S. and foreign competition authorities and the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of the Company's common stock, the Company became a wholly owned subsidiary of Medtronic.
 
On the terms and subject to the conditions of the Merger Agreement, which was approved by the shareholders of the Company, at the effective time of the Merger, which occurred on November 2, 2007 (the "Effective Time"), each share of common stock, par value $0.001, of the Company ("Kyphon's Common Stock") issued and outstanding prior to the Effective Time (other than shares held by the Company, Medtronic or their subsidiaries, which was canceled without payment of any consideration, was converted into the right to receive $71.00 in cash, without interest (the "Merger Consideration"). Each outstanding option to purchase Kyphon's Common Stock held by non-employee directors, or vested and exercisable as of the Effective Time and held by employees or consultants, was canceled in exchange for the right to receive in cash the amount by which the Merger Consideration exceeds the exercise price. Each outstanding option to acquire Kyphon's Common Stock that was not vested and exercisable as of the Effective Time and was held by an employee or consultant, remained outstanding and was converted into the right to acquire a number of shares of Medtronic common stock as determined by reference to the Merger Consideration and the trading price of Medtronic common stock for the ten trading days prior to the Effective Time. Unvested restricted stock and restricted stock units were also assumed on the basis described in the Merger Agreement. Unvested securities will be fully accelerated upon an employee's termination without cause or upon effective termination, i.e. resignation for "good reason," within twelve months after the Effective Time.
 
NOTE 3Acquisitions:
 
St. Francis Medical Technologies, Inc.
 
On January 18, 2007, the Company acquired all of the fully diluted equity of St. Francis, a privately held, California-based company that manufactures the
X-STOP
IPD
System, an interspinous process device for treating LSS that has been approved for marketing by the United States Food and Drug Administration ("FDA") and which carries the CE Mark (a mark that allows the Company to market a product throughout the European Union). The purpose of the St. Francis acquisition was to enter the market for the treatment of LSS in the United States and worldwide. LSS is a narrowing or constriction of the spinal canal, and/or the peripheral passages through which the nerve roots pass, causing impingement on the spinal cord and the nerve roots extending from the spinal cord to the legs. LSS manifests itself primarily during extension (bending backwards) of the spine, and the
X-STOP
is therefore designed to limit extension at the treated level. The
X-STOP
technology is complementary to the Company's own extensionlimiting technology for the treatment of LSS, the next-generation, percutaneous
Aperius PercLID
device, which the Company has now commercially launched in Europe.
 
The total purchase price, excluding transaction costs, of $725,280,000 was comprised of $525,280,000 in cash upon closing, plus additional revenue-based contingent payments of up to $200,000,000 which were payable in either cash or a combination of cash and stock, at the Company's election. The purchase price was supported by estimates of future sales and earnings of St. Francis, as well as the value of the acquired workforce and other projected synergies which contributed to the purchase price being in excess of the fair value of net assets acquired. The future payments were contingent upon the attainment of certain revenue thresholds during specified periods through June 2008. Under the terms of the Company's merger agreement with St. Francis, the revenue-based contingent payments became due as a result of the Company's proposed Merger with Medtronic, and were paid in full during the three months ended September 30, 2007. Accordingly, this amount has been recognized as additional goodwill. The Company financed the initial transaction and the contingent payments through a combination of cash on hand and debt financing (see Note 9).
 
5
The total preliminary purchase price at the date of acquisition ("Original Amount") and the adjusted preliminary purchase price including the $200,000,000 of contingent payments made for the acquisition of St. Francis is as follows (in thousands):
 
 
The results of operations of St. Francis were included in the Company's consolidated financial statements effective January 18, 2007.
 
Preliminary Purchase Price Allocation
 
The preliminary allocation of the purchase price to St. Francis's tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed was based on their estimated fair values at the date of acquisition as determined by the Company's management. The Company is responsible for determining the valuation of the intangible assets acquired. Further adjustments to these estimates may be included in the final allocation of the purchase price of St. Francis, if the adjustment is determined within the purchase price allocation period (up to twelve months from the closing date). The excess of the purchase price over the tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed has been allocated to goodwill. The preliminary purchase price at the acquisition date ("Original Amount") and the revised preliminary purchase price as of September 30, 2007, have been allocated as follows (in thousands):
 
 
The Company has estimated the fair value of tangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed. These estimates are subject to further review by the Company's management upon completion of the audit of St. Francis consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2006. As a result of the ongoing analysis of the St. Francis consolidated financial statements, adjustments have been made to the tangible net assets acquired. The allocation of the purchase price is substantially complete, with the remaining allocation to be completed pending the analysis of the St. Francis consolidated financial statements and the resolution of certain tax matters, which the Company expects to record as an adjustment to goodwill and deferred taxes. Adjusted tangible assets and liabilities assumed consist of the following as of September 30, 2007 (in thousands):
 
6
 
Tangible net assets acquired include liabilities for estimated facility exit costs of approximately $472,000, employee severance costs of approximately $141,000 and approximately $1,784,000 of exit costs relating to distributor agreements. Through September 30, 2007, the Company had paid approximately $1,034,000 of the distributor exit costs and all of the employee severance costs. The Company expects to pay the remaining distributors and to vacate the St. Francis facility by the end of 2007.
 
The Company has estimated the fair value of the acquired identifiable intangible assets, which are subject to amortization, using the income approach, which included an analysis of the completion costs, cash flows, other required assets and risk associated with achieving such cash flows. No amount of goodwill is expected to be deductible for tax purposes. The changes in the net tangible assets acquired, as discussed above, resulted in an adjustment to the fair value of the acquired identifiable intangible assets. The estimated fair value of the acquired intangible assets will be amortized over an estimated useful life of 10 years.
 
The Company has estimated the fair value of the in-process research and development. In-process research and development represents St. Francis's research and development projects that had not reached technological feasibility and had no alternative future use when acquired. The in-process projects related primarily to the development of percutaneous and cervical products. Accordingly, the in-process research and development costs were expensed in the Company's consolidated financial statements in the three months ended March 31, 2007.
 
The income approach was used to value the purchased in-process research and development, which included an analysis of the completion costs, cash flows, other required assets and risk associated with achieving such cash flows. The present value of the cash flows was calculated using a risk-adjusted discount rate of 18.0%. The revenues, expenses, cash flows and other assumptions underlying the estimated fair value of the purchased in-process research and development involve significant risks and uncertainties. The risks and uncertainties associated with completing the purchased in-process projects include retaining key personnel and being able to successfully and profitably produce, market and sell related products.
 
The Company recorded unearned compensation of $3,939,000 representing the portion of the cash issuable to certain St. Francis employee shareholders placed in an escrow account and subject to vesting and forfeiture based on continued employment. Amounts vest ratably over a period of two to six months based on continued employment and were recorded as compensation expense by the Company. During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2007, the Company recognized compensation expense of $17,000 and $3,939,000, respectively, relating to the vesting of these escrowed amounts.
 
 
7
Pro Forma Financial Information (Unaudited)
 
The following unaudited pro forma financial information is based on the respective historical financial statements of the Company and St. Francis. The unaudited pro forma financial information reflects the consolidated results of operations as if the acquisition of St. Francis occurred at the beginning of each period and includes the amortization of the resulting identifiable acquired intangible assets, effects of the estimated write-up of St. Francis inventory to fair value on cost of goods sold, compensation expense related to the vesting of the escrowed purchase consideration, interest expense on the term loan used to finance the acquisition and the related income tax effects calculated at the applicable statutory rate. The pro forma data for the nine month period ended September 30, 2006 includes a non-recurring charge, consisting of in-process research and development of $21,300,000. The unaudited pro forma financial data presented are not necessarily indicative of the Company's results of operations that might have occurred had the transaction been completed at the beginning of each period, as applicable, and do not purport to represent what the Company's consolidated results of operations might be for any future period (in thousands, except per share amounts).
 
Disc-O-Tech Medical Technologies, Ltd.
 
On December 20, 2006, the Company entered into two definitive agreements to acquire all of the spine-related product assets and associated intellectual property rights of Disc-O-Tech Medical Technologies Ltd. and its U.S. subsidiary (collectively, "Disc-O-Tech") in two transactions to be accounted for using the purchase method of accounting. Completion of the first agreement concerning Disc-O-Tech's non-vertebroplasty spine-related assets will enable the Company to further broaden its focus in minimally invasive spine therapies by adding the
B-Twin
 Expandable Spinal System technology for minimally invasive fusion in patients with degenerative disc disease in the lumbar and cervical spine, which is CE marked but not presently available in the United States. The first agreement's assets also include Disc-O-Tech's
SKy
 Bone Expander System, which is available only outside the United States for use in the treatment of vertebral compression fractures. The second agreement's assets include Disc-O-Tech's vertebroplasty-related
Confidence
 Cement System (the "
Confidence
System"), which would be another option for the treatment of vertebral compression fractures and would be complementary to the Company's existing
KyphX
technology, depending on a patient's individual needs and a clinician's goals for his or her patients.
 
The aggregate estimated purchase price for both agreements, excluding transaction costs, is approximately $220,000,000, plus a contingent payment of up to $20,000,000 payable in cash for the development of future technologies. Upon the signing of the first agreement on December 20, 2006, the Company made a nonrefundable payment of $60,000,000 to Disc-O-Tech, comprised of $20,000,000 in cash and the release of $40,000,000 that was held in escrow. On February 1, 2007, the Company made an additional nonrefundable payment of $40,000,000 to Disc-O-Tech. As of September 30, 2007, these aggregate payments of $100,000,000 are presented as a nonrefundable deposit on the accompanying balance sheet within Other Assets. In November 2007, the Company completed its acquisition of the non-vertebroplasty spine-related assets and associated intellectual property rights of Disc-O-Tech. This transaction will be accounted for using the purchase method of accounting.
 
Under the second agreement, the Company agreed to make nonrefundable payments to Disc-O-Tech for an aggregate amount of $120,000,000 in cash on a deferred basis, payable in three equal annual installments beginning in January 2008, plus $20,000,000 of contingent payments for the development of future technologies. In October 2007, the Company entered into a Consent Decree with the FTC and U.S. Department of Justice with respect to its acquisition of the vertebroplasty spine-related assets and associated intellectual property rights of Disc-O-Tech. Under the terms of the Consent Decree, the Company agreed to divest the vertebroplasty spine-related assets and associated intellectual property rights of Disc-O-Tech encompassed by the second agreement.
 
 
8
In November 2007, the Company entered into a definitive agreement to divest substantially all of the vertebroplasty spine-related assets and associated intellectual property rights of Disc-O-Tech encompassed by the second agreement.
 
Under the terms of the divestiture agreement, the acquirer agreed to assume substantially all of the Company's payment obligations under the vertebroplasty acquisition agreements. The divestiture agreement remains subject to regulatory clearances and other customary conditions.
 
NOTE 4Stock-Based Compensation:
 
Stock Plans
 
The Company reserved shares of common stock for issuance under the 1996 Stock Incentive Plan (the "1996 Plan"). Under the 1996 Plan, the Board of Directors was authorized to issue incentive stock options to employees and nonqualified stock options to consultants or employees of the Company. The 1996 Plan is inactive, and no shares have been granted under the 1996 Plan since 2002. Upon adoption of the 2002 Stock Plan, all shares previously available for grant under the 1996 Plan were transferred to the 2002 Stock Plan. Any cancellations thereafter from the 1996 Plan are automatically added back to the 2002 Stock Plan.
 
In April 2002, the Board of Directors adopted the 2002 Stock Plan, which was also approved by the Company's stockholders in April 2002. The 2002 Stock Plan, which will terminate no later than 2012, provides for the granting of incentive stock options to employees and nonqualified stock options, restricted stock units, and stock purchase rights to employees, directors and consultants. In April 2007, the Board of Directors adopted an amended and restated 2002 Stock Plan, which was approved by the Company's stockholders at the Company's 2007 annual meeting of stockholders on June 14, 2007. The amended and restated 2002 Stock Plan was adopted for purposes of ensuring the Company's ability to deduct, for tax purposes, compensation issued under the 2002 Stock Plan to certain of its executives pursuant to Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code and to remove the Company's ability to reprice options issued under the 2002 Stock Plan without first seeking stockholder approval for such repricing. To date, no repricings have occurred. In July 2007, the Board of Directors adopted an amended and restated 2002 Stock Plan that, in addition to stock options and stock purchase rights, provides for the grant of restricted stock units ("RSUs"). Generally, RSUs granted pursuant to the 2002 Stock Plan vest in three equal annual installments.  Within a specified period of time following vesting, a number of shares of the Company's common stock corresponding to the number of RSUs vested will be issued to the applicable participant. At September 30, 2007, approximately 324,000 shares of common stock were subject to awards under the 2002 Stock Plan and approximately 463,000 shares of common stock remained reserved for future issuance under the 2002 Stock Plan.
 
In April 2002, the Board of Directors adopted the 2002 Director Option Plan. The 2002 Director Option Plan, which will terminate no later than 2012, provides for the granting of nonqualified stock options to non-employee directors. At September 30, 2007, 180,000 shares of common stock remained reserved for future issuance under the 2002 Director Option Plan.
 
For the 2002 Director Option Plan and the amended and restated 2002 Stock Plan, the administrator has the authority to determine to whom awards will be granted, the number of shares subject to such awards, the term, if applicable, and exercise price (which cannot be less than the estimated fair market value at the date of grant for incentive stock options or 85% of the estimated fair market value for nonqualified stock options). If an employee owns stock representing more than 10% of the outstanding shares, the exercise price of any incentive stock option shall be at least 110% of estimated fair market value, as determined by the Board of Directors. Options are exercisable at times and increments as specified by the administrator, and generally expire ten years from the date of grant. The other terms and conditions of awards are set by the administrator at the time of grant.
 
Pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement with Medtronic, the 2002 Stock Plan will remain outstanding and will continue to govern the terms of options and other equity-based compensation awards held by employees and non-employees that are unvested at the Effective Time and assumed by Medtronic pursuant to the Merger Agreement. Pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement, all vested options held by employees and consultants and all vested and unvested options held by non-employee directors were canceled at the Effective Time in exchange for the right to receive in cash the amount by which $71.00 per share exceeds the exercise price at the Effective Time. At the Effective Time, the Company recognized compensation expense associated with the acceleration of unvested options held by non-employee directors. In addition, the Company has previously entered into change of control severance agreements with each of its executive officers as well as with certain other members of its senior management. These agreements provide that if such individual's employment is terminated within ninety days preceding a change of control (as defined in the change of control severance agreements) or twelve months following a change of control for reasons other than cause, disability, or death or by the individual for good reason (as defined in the change of control severance agreement) amongst other benefits, all restrictions on any outstanding equity-based compensation awards granted to the individual will terminate and the awards will become fully vested and immediately exercisable. The Company will recognize compensation expense associated with the acceleration of any unvested stock options or RSUs in the case of an individual terminated in accordance with the terms of the change of control severance agreement.
 
9
Employee Stock Purchase Plans
 
During 2006, the Company offered an Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the "2002 ESPP") under which eligible employees were permitted to purchase common stock at a discount through payroll deductions. The 2002 ESPP contained consecutive, overlapping twenty-four month offering periods. Each offering period included four six-month purchase periods. The price of the common stock purchased was the lower of 85% of the fair market value of the common stock at the beginning of an offering period or at the end of a purchase period.
 
In June 2006, the Company's stockholders approved the termination of the 2002 ESPP, effective after the February 1, 2007 purchase date, and the adoption of the 2007 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the "2007 ESPP"). The 2007 ESPP took effect on February 1, 2007 and the 2002 ESPP automatically terminated after the final purchases under the 2002 ESPP were made on that date.  The 2007 ESPP reduced the "look-back" period available under any offering by eliminating the 24-month "look-back" period available under the 2002 ESPP and replacing it with a six-month "look-back" period.  The price of the common stock purchased under the 2007 ESPP was the lower of 85% of the fair market value of the common stock at the beginning or at the end of each six month offering period. The maximum number of shares authorized for sale under the 2007 ESPP was 1,000,000. The Board of Directors had the ability to
amend, suspend or terminate the 2007 ESPP at any time. The Company issued approximately 266,000 shares of common stock under the 2002 ESPP and the 2007 ESPP during the nine months ended September 30, 2007.
 
Pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement with Medtronic, the 2007 ESPP terminated upon closing of the transaction with Medtronic on November 2, 2007. All payroll deductions made during the offering period in progress at the time of the termination of the 2007 ESPP, will be refunded to participants pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement with Medtronic. As the cancellation of the purchase period will not be accompanied by a concurrent replacement grant, any unrecognized compensation cost was recognized at the Effective Time for canceled awards.
 
Valuation and Expense Information
 
The Company accounts for all share-based payment awards made to employees and directors, including employee stock options, RSUs and employee stock purchases based on estimated fair values. Accordingly, stock-based compensation cost is measured at grant date, based on the fair value of the award, and is recognized as expense over the employee requisite service period for each separately vesting tranche of the award.  Employee stock-based compensation expense recognized for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2007 was approximately $9,197,000 and $22,746,000, respectively. For the same periods in 2006, employee stock-based compensation expense recognized was approximately $6,690,000 and $20,033,000, respectively.  
 
The Company estimates the value of employee stock options on the date of grant using a binomial-lattice model. The binomial-lattice model used by the Company to value employee stock options on the date of grant considers a range of assumptions related to volatility, risk-free interest rate and employee exercise behavior. Expected volatilities are based on a blend of implied market volatilities, historical and peer group volatilities. The risk-free rate is derived from the U.S. Treasury zero-coupon yield curve in effect at the time of grant over the contractual term of the option. The binomial-lattice model also incorporates exercise and forfeiture assumptions based on an analysis of historical data. The expected life of the stock option grants is derived from the output of the binomial-lattice model and represents the period of time that options granted are expected to be outstanding.
 
In August 2007, the Company granted approximately 325,000 RSUs to certain employees. The RSUs vest over three years in three equal installments on the first, second and third anniversaries of the date of grant.  The Company estimates the value of RSUs based on the closing market price of the Company's common stock on the date of grant. Based on the Company's closing stock price of $65.93 on the date of grant, the total grant-date fair value of the RSUs is approximately $21,421,000 and is being amortized over the requisite service period for each separately vesting tranche of the award.
 
10
The effect of employee stock-based compensation expense recognized was as follows (in thousands, except per share amounts):
 
 
As of September 30, 2007, stock-based compensation expense of $399,000 was capitalized as follows: $167,000 and $232,000 within inventory and construction-in-process, respectively. As of December 31, 2006, stock-based compensation expense of approximately $150,000 was capitalized within inventory.
 
The following table shows total employee stock-based compensation expense for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2007 and 2006 (in thousands):
 
 
Valuation Assumptions
 
The determination of the fair value of the Company's employee stock options granted and employee stock purchase rights have been estimated using the following weighted-average assumptions:
 
 
 
11
As of September 30, 2007, the Company had an unrecorded stock-based compensation balance related to stock options and RSUs of approximately $33,342,000 after estimated forfeitures, which will be recognized over an estimated weighted-average remaining requisite service period of 2.4 years.  As of September 30, 2007, the Company had an unrecorded stock-based compensation balance related to employee stock purchase rights of approximately $1,181,000, which was to be recognized over the next five months. As the cancellation of the purchase period will not be accompanied by a concurrent replacement grant, any unrecognized compensation cost was recognized at the Effective Time for canceled awards. During the nine months ended September 30, 2007, the Company granted approximately 572,000 stock options with an estimated total grant-date fair value of approximately $10,297,000, which will be recognized as expense over the requisite service period for each separately vesting tranche of the award.
 
Activities under the 2002 Director Option Plan, the 2002 Stock Plan and the 1996 Plan, (collectively, the "Plans") are as follows:
 
 
Non-Employee Stock-Based Compensation
 
The Company accounts for equity instruments issued to or held by non-employees at their fair value on the measurement date. In connection with the change of status from employee to consultant for certain employees, the Company allowed for the continued vesting of equity instruments over the designated consulting period. The Company uses the Black-Scholes option pricing model to measure the value of the options granted to or held by non-employees at each vesting date to determine the appropriate charge to stock-based compensation. The options generally vest ratably over the applicable service period of two to four years. The values attributable to these options have been amortized over the service period on a graded vesting method. The Company believes that the fair value of the stock options is more reliably measurable than the fair value of the services received. The Company recognized stock-based compensation expense related to non-employee options as follows (in thousands):
 
 
12
NOTE 5Net Income (Loss) Per Share:
 
Basic net income (loss) per share is computed by dividing net income (loss) by the weighted-average number of common stock shares outstanding for the period. Diluted net income per share is computed based upon the weighted-average number of common shares and giving effect to all potential dilutive common share equivalents outstanding during the period. Common share equivalents include stock options, RSUs, employee stock purchase rights and potential issuances of common stock under the assumed conversion of the Company's Convertible Senior Notes. Potential common shares for outstanding stock options and RSUs are calculated using the treasury stock method and represent incremental shares issuable upon exercise of the Company's outstanding stock options and vesting of the Company's RSUs. The treasury stock method is affected by the amount of stock-based compensation attributable to future services and therefore not yet recognized. Common share equivalents are excluded from the computation in periods in which they have an anti-dilutive effect. Stock options and RSUs for which the exercise price exceeds the average market price over the period have an anti-dilutive effect on net income per share and, accordingly, are excluded from the calculation. When there is a net loss, other potentially dilutive common share equivalents are not included in the calculation of net loss per share since their inclusion would be anti-dilutive. In addition, common share equivalents related to the Company's Convertible Senior Notes are anti-dilutive when the market price of the Company's stock is below the conversion price of the Convertible Senior Notes and, therefore, are excluded from the calculation. A reconciliation of the numerator and denominator used in the calculation of basic and diluted net income (loss) per share follows (in thousands, except per share amounts):
 
 
As a result of the Company's net loss during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2007, all potential common shares from outstanding stock options, unvested RSUs and convertible debt were excluded from the diluted net loss per share calculation. For the three months ended September 30, 2007, potential dilutive common share equivalents comprised outstanding options and RSUs of 2,730,000, employee stock purchase rights of 27,000, and common shares issuable upon conversion of the Company's Convertible Senior Notes of 32,000. The diluted net loss per share calculation for the three months ended September 30, 2007 excludes interest expense on the Company's Convertible Senior Notes as the shares issuable upon conversion of the notes would have been anti-dilutive. For the nine months ended September 30, 2007, potential dilutive common share equivalents comprised outstanding options of 2,403,000 and employee stock purchase rights of 22,000. For the nine months ended September 30, 2007, common share equivalents related to the Company's Convertible Senior Notes were anti-dilutive since the market price of the Company's stock was below the conversion price of the Convertible Senior Notes and, therefore, were excluded from the calculation.
 
NOTE 6Comprehensive Income (Loss):
 
The changes in the components of other comprehensive income (loss) for the periods presented are as follows (in thousands):
 
 
13
The components of other comprehensive income (loss) are as follows (in thousands):
 
 
NOTE 7Inventories:
 
Inventories consisted of the following (in thousands):
 
 
NOTE 8Goodwill and Intangible Assets:
 
Changes in the carrying amount of goodwill during the respective periods are as follows (in thousands):
 
 
The components of the Company's intangible assets are as follows (in thousands):
 
 
14
 
Amortization expense for the three months ended September 30, 2007 and 2006 was approximately $5,480,000 and $283,000, respectively. Amortization expense for the nine months ended September 30, 2007 and 2006 was approximately $15,299,000 and $849,000, respectively. Based on the intangible assets balance at September 30, 2007, the Company expects to recognize amortization expense of approximately $5,432,000 for the remaining three months of 2007, approximately $21,699,000 in 2008, approximately $21,693,000 for each year from 2009 through 2014, approximately $21,691,000 in 2015, approximately $20,590,000 in 2016, and approximately $992,000 in 2017.
 
NOTE 9DEBT:
 
Credit and Term Loan Facilities
 
In October 2006, the Company entered into a syndicated credit facility which provided the Company with a five-year, $300,000,000 revolving line of credit, including a $50,000,000 sublimit for the issuance of standby letters of credit, a $25,000,000 sublimit for swing line loans and a $100,000,000 sublimit for multicurrency borrowings. On January 18, 2007, the Company amended the syndicated credit facility and, in conjunction with the acquisition of St. Francis, the Company, together with certain of its subsidiaries, entered into a Credit Agreement to replace and refinance the above-described syndicated credit facility (the "Credit Agreement"). The credit facilities thereunder were syndicated to a group of lenders (collectively, the "Lenders").
 
The Credit Agreement provides for a $250,000,000 senior secured revolving credit facility (the "Revolving Credit Facility"), maturing October 20, 2011, which can be expanded to $300,000,000 under certain circumstances. The Revolving Credit Facility includes a $50,000,000 sublimit for the issuance of standby U.S. dollar letters of credit, a $25,000,000 sublimit for U.S. dollar swingline loans and a $100,000,000 sublimit for multicurrency borrowings. In connection with the Revolving Credit Facility, as amended, the Company has capitalized aggregate debt issuance costs of approximately $3,238,000 as of September 30, 2007 which are being amortized over the term of the facility.
The Credit Agreement also provided for a $425,000,000 term loan facility maturing seven years from the closing date (the "Term Loan Facility" and together with the Revolving Credit Facility, the "Facility"). The Company may terminate or permanently reduce the commitments available under the Revolving Credit Facility and prepay the Term Loan Facility without premium or penalty at any time.
 
 
15
The Facility was used by the Company to finance the acquisition of St. Francis, (the "Acquisition") and may be used for general corporate purposes including acquisitions, capital expenditures, working capital and other purposes. In addition to certain initial fees, the Company is obligated to pay a commitment fee of 0.25-0.50% per annum (such range of limits being related to the consolidated leverage ratio of the Company) based on the total revolving commitment available to be drawn, which is payable quarterly in arrears. In January 2007, in connection with the Acquisition, the Company borrowed $425,000,000 under this Facility. In connection with the Term Loan Facility, the Company incurred underwriting fees and expenses of $7,480,000. These costs were classified as a debt discount and were being accreted to interest expense over the life of the Term Loan Facility. Debt issuance costs of approximately $655,000 were capitalized within Other Assets and were subject to amortization over the term of the facility. In February 2007, the Company repaid the outstanding balance of the Term Loan Facility with the proceeds from the Convertible Senior Notes offering and borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility. As a result of the full repayment of the Term Loan Facility the Company fully amortized the associated debt issuance costs and debt discount of approximately $8,135,000 to interest expense in the three months ended March 31, 2007.
 
Under the terms of the Company's merger agreement entered into in connection with its acquisition of St. Francis, the revenue-based contingent payments of up to $200,000,000 became due as a result of the Company's proposed Merger with Medtronic. The Company funded $170,000,000 of the $200,000,000 payment to St. Francis' security holders through borrowings under the Company's Credit Agreement. In connection with the Company's draw-down in August 2007, the Company entered into Amendment No. 2 to the Credit Agreement with Bank of America, N.A., in its capacity as agent for the Lenders, pursuant to which the Lenders waived any default arising from such payment to St. Francis' security holders.
 
Borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility bear interest at Base Rate plus 0.25-1.25% or LIBOR plus 1.25-2.25% (such range of limits being related to the consolidated leverage ratio of the Company). Letter of credit fees are based on the LIBOR loan margins.
 
The Company's obligations under the Facility are collateralized by substantially all of the assets of the Company.
 
The Credit Agreement contains customary affirmative covenants regarding the Company and its subsidiaries. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under the Credit Agreement, the Lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the Facility to be immediately due and payable. Events of default under the Credit Agreement include payment defaults, breaches of covenants and bankruptcy events.
 
The Credit Agreement contains negative covenants which restrict the Company from: (i) incurring liens other than liens incurred pursuant to the Facility and other customary permitted liens; (ii) making investments, other than customary permitted investments and investments subject to certain baskets; (iii) incurring debt other than indebtedness pursuant to the Credit Agreement, subordinated indebtedness, an unsecured convertible note offering, customary permitted indebtedness and indebtedness subject to certain baskets; (iv) entering into mergers and consolidations other than the Acquisition (as defined in the Credit Agreement), acquisitions paid 100% with equity of the Company or acquisitions not exceeding a certain purchase price, where such limitation on price is based on the consolidated senior secured leverage ratio and other limitations; (v) selling assets, subject to certain customary exceptions; (vi) issuing dividends, stock redemptions and other restricted payments; (vii) incurring capital expenditures exceeding a certain threshold; (viii) certain transactions with affiliates; (ix) paying the earnout obligations of the Company incurred in connection with the Acquisition in cash under certain circumstances; (x) permitting the consolidated interest coverage ratio to fall below a certain threshold and the consolidated leverage ratio and the consolidated senior secured leverage ratio to be greater than a certain threshold; (xi) prepaying subordinated indebtedness, other than prepayments pursuant to a refinancing permitted thereunder or if certain requirements are satisfied and (xi) other actions restricted by other customary negative covenants for a facility of this nature.
 
As a result of the Company's October 26, 2007 proposed settlement with the U.S. Attorney's Office in connection with the investigation into the Company's sales and marketing practices (see Note 10), the Company has recorded a $75,000,000 loss contingency within operations for the three months ended September 30, 2007.  As a result, the Company's consolidated leverage ratio exceeded the maximum leverage ratio permitted under the Credit Agreement at September 30, 2007.  The Company has accordingly presented the $170,000,000 in outstanding borrowings at September 30, 2007 as a current liability on the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet as of September 30, 2007. In addition, the Company has presented the related debt issuance costs of $3,238,000 as a current asset on the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet as of September 30, 2007. On November 2, 2007, in connection with the closing of the Merger with Medtronic, the outstanding borrowings were repaid in full and the Company terminated the Credit Agreement. As a result of the termination of the Credit Agreement the Company fully amortized the associated debt issuance costs to interest expense during November 2007.
 
On November 2, 2007, the Company entered into a new Credit Agreement (the "New Credit Agreement") with The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. (the "New Lender"). The New Credit Agreement provides for a $300,000,000 unsecured revolving credit facility (the "New Facility") maturing November 2, 2010. The Company may terminate or permanently reduce the commitments available under the New Facility and prepay the New Facility without premium or penalty at any time.
 
16
All amounts due to the New Lender from the Company under the New Credit Agreement whether at stated maturity, by required prepayment, declaration, acceleration, demand or otherwise, are guaranteed by Medtronic, pursuant to a Guaranty made as of November 2, 2007 by Medtronic to the New Lender.
 
The New Facility was used to refinance the Company's current Credit Agreement and will also be used to retire other debt obligations of the Company. In addition to certain initial fees, the Company is obligated to pay a commitment fee based on the total revolving commitment.
 
Each Revolving Loan under the New Credit Agreement shall be, at the Company's request, either an Alternate Base Rate Loan or a Eurodollar Loan. Each Alternate Base Rate Loan accrues interest at a rate per annum equal to the greater of (a) the Prime Rate in effect on such day and (b) the Federal Funds Effective Rate in effect on such day plus  of 1%. The Prime Rate is the rate of interest per annum publicly announced from time to time by the Lender as its base rate in effect at its office in New York, New York. Each Eurodollar Loan accrues interest at a rate per annum equal to the LIBO Rate plus 0.185%. The LIBO Rate is the rate appearing on page 3750 of the Moneyline Telerate Markets screen at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, two business days prior to the commencement of an interest period, as the rate for dollar deposits with a maturity comparable to such interest period.
 
The New Credit Agreement contains customary representations and warranties of the Company as well as affirmative covenants regarding the Company. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under the New Credit Agreement, the New Lender could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the New Facility to be immediately due and payable. Events of default under the New Credit Agreement include payment defaults, breaches of covenants, bankruptcy events and a change in control of the Company.
 
Convertible Senior Notes
 
In February 2007, the Company issued $200,000,000 aggregate principal amount of Convertible Senior Notes due 2012 (the "2012 Notes") and $200,000,000 aggregate principal amount of Convertible Senior Notes due 2014 (the "2014 Notes"), collectively, the "notes". Interest on the 2012 Notes is paid semiannually at a rate of 1.00% per year and interest on the 2014 notes is paid semiannually at a rate of 1.25% per year. The indenture, dated as of February 6, 2007, between Kyphon and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee (the "Indenture"), governing the notes provides that both the 2012 Notes and the 2014 Notes will be convertible into cash up to the principal amount, and if applicable, shares of common stock in respect of any conversion value above the principal amount, based on an initial conversion rate of 17.1951 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount of notes, which is equivalent to an initial conversion price of approximately $58.16 per share. The notes may be converted by the holders only under the following circumstances: (1) during any fiscal quarter beginning after June 30, 2007 (and only during such fiscal quarter), if the last reported sale price of the Company's common stock for at least 20 trading days in the 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the immediately preceding fiscal quarter is greater than or equal to 130% of the applicable conversion price; (2) during the five business-day period after any five consecutive trading-day period (the "Measurement Period") in which the trading price per $1,000 principal amount of note for each day of such Measurement Period was less than 98% of the product of the last reported sale price of the Common Stock and the conversion rate on each such day; (3) upon the occurrence of certain specified corporate transactions; and (4) with respect to the 2012 Notes, at any time on or after December 1, 2011, and with respect to the 2014 Notes, at any time on or after December 1, 2013, in each case through the third business day preceding the applicable maturity date.
 
The Indenture provides that the conversion rate is subject to adjustment in some events but will not be adjusted for accrued interest. Upon conversion, the Company will pay cash and shares of common stock, if any, based on a daily conversion value calculated during a 30 trading-day observation period.
 
The notes rank equal in right of payment to all of the Company's other existing and future senior unsecured indebtedness. The notes rank senior in right of payment to all of the Company's existing and future subordinated indebtedness and effectively subordinated in right of payment to all of its subsidiaries' obligations (including secured and unsecured obligations) and subordinated in right of payment to its secured obligations to the extent of the assets securing such obligation.
 
 
17
In connection with the sale and issuance of the notes the Company incurred underwriting commissions of $10,000,000 which were reflected as a debt discount and are being accreted to interest expense over the respective terms of the notes.
 
The Company has entered into a registration rights agreement under which it agreed, subject to certain conditions, to file a shelf registration statement covering the resale by holders of the notes and the common stock issuable upon conversion of the notes. Under the terms of the registration rights agreement, if the shelf registration statement is not filed or effective within a defined time period, the Company is subjected to additional interest penalties. As of September 30, 2007, the Company has not filed its shelf registration statement and, therefore, has incurred additional interest expense of approximately $559,000.
 
The Company concluded that the embedded stock conversion option is not considered a derivative under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities" ("SFAS No. 133") because the embedded stock conversion option would be recorded in stockholders' equity if it were a freestanding instrument per Emerging Issues Task Force ("EITF") Issue No. 00-19, "Accounting for Derivative Financial Instruments Indexed to, and Potentially Settled in, a Company's Own Stock" ("EITF No. 00-19"). The Company has concluded that the notes are accounted for similar to traditional convertible debt (that is, as a combined instrument) because the embedded stock conversion option meets the requirements of EITF No. 00-19, including the provisions contained in paragraphs 1232 of EITF No. 00-19.  Accordingly, the embedded stock conversion option is not separated as a derivative.
 
In connection with the offering, the Company entered into convertible note hedge transactions with affiliates of the initial purchasers. These transactions are intended to reduce the potential dilution to the Company's stockholders upon any future conversion of the notes. The call options, which cost an aggregate $112,000,000, were recorded as a reduction of additional paid-in capital. The Company also entered into warrant transactions concurrently with the offering, pursuant to which it sold warrants to purchase its own common stock to the same counterparties that entered into the convertible note hedge transactions. The convertible note hedge and warrant transactions effectively increased the conversion price of the convertible notes to approximately $75.04 per share of the Company's common stock. Proceeds received from the issuance of the warrants totaled approximately $77,000,000 and were recorded as an addition to additional paid-in capital.
 
EITF No. 00-19 provides that contracts are initially classified as equity if (1) the contract requires physical settlement or net-share settlement, or (2) the contract gives the Company a choice of net-cash settlement or settlement in its own shares (physical settlement or net-share settlement). The settlement terms of the Company's purchased call options and sold warrant contracts require net share settlement. Based on the guidance from EITF No. 00-19 and SFAS No. 133, the purchased call option contracts were recorded as a reduction of equity and the warrants were recorded as an addition to equity as of the trade date. SFAS No. 133 states that a reporting entity shall not consider contracts to be derivative instruments if the contract issued or held by the reporting entity is both indexed to its own stock and classified in stockholders' equity in its statement of financial position. The Company concluded the purchased call option contracts and the warrant contracts should be accounted for in stockholders' equity.
 
In February 2007, the Company used the remaining proceeds of approximately $355,000,000 net of underwriting costs and the hedge and warrant transactions, together with borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility, to retire the $425,000,000 Term Loan Facility incurred to complete the acquisition of St. Francis.
 
On October 17, 2007, in connection with the Merger with Medtronic, the Company delivered a notice to the holders of its notes, each governed by the Indenture that an anticipated Fundamental Change (as defined in the Indenture) would occur upon the consummation of the Merger. Holders may surrender their notes for conversion at any time during the period that (i) begins on, and includes, October 17, 2007, the date of the notice and (ii) ends on December 12, 2007. As a result of the notice to the holders of its notes the Company will accelerate the amortization of the remaining associated debt discount (as of September 30, 2007 approximately $8,857,000) to interest expense over the remaining term of the notes. Holders who elect to convert their senior notes are entitled to a "make-whole" premium in the form of an increase in conversion rate. This additional obligation will be charged to interest expense upon conversion of the notes.
 
18
On November 8, 2007, the Company commenced a tender offer to purchase the notes subject to the terms and conditions of the Notice of Fundamental Change and Offer to Purchase, as amended and supplemented from time to time, the Indenture governing the notes and the notes, for a purchase price in cash equal to 100% of the principal amount of the notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest (including any additional interest and reporting interest) to but excluding the payment date, currently scheduled to be December 12, 2007 unless the expiration time is extended by the Company.
 
In connection with the Merger, the Company will unwind the convertible note hedge transactions. In addition, the Merger will result in the cancellation and payment of the warrants by the Company to the hedge participants.
 
NOTE 10Commitments and Contingencies:
 
Facility Leases
 
In July 2007, the Company completed construction of a facility in Neuchtel, Switzerland to conduct manufacturing, distribution, administrative and certain research and development activities to support the growth of the Company's international business. The aggregate future minimum lease payments are approximately $25,805,000. The term of the lease is for a period of approximately fifteen years. The Company was responsible for a significant portion of the construction costs and therefore was deemed, for accounting purposes, to be the owner of the building during the construction period, in accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force ("EITF") No. 97-10,
The Effect of Lessee Involvement in Asset Construction.
At September 30, 2007, the Company has recorded the $15,717,000 value of the building constructed within property and equipment on its consolidated balance sheet, with an offsetting increase to current and non-current liabilities.
 
Future minimum lease payments, including principal and interest, under this lease were as follows at September 30, 2007 (in thousands):
 
 
In October 2007, the Company entered into a two-year facility lease agreement in Japan with future payment obligations of approximately $2,384,000.
 
Contingencies
 
In November 2005, Dr. Harvinder Sandhu, an orthopaedic surgeon, and the Company filed suit in federal district court in Memphis, Tennessee against Medtronic Sofamor Danek ("MSD") and several other related corporate entities seeking damages and injunctive relief in connection with MSD's
Arcuate
XP product. Medtronic counterclaimed against Dr. Sandhu and the Company for various breach of contract claims. The Company is also presently asserting four of its U.S. patents (numbers 4,969,888, 5,108,404, 6,235,043, and 6,863,672) against MSD's
Arcuate XP
product. Although trial was set for March 2008, all proceedings have now been stayed indefinitely in light of the Merger of the Company with Medtronic on November 2, 2007 and the Company expects this litigation to be dismissed with prejudice.
 
In April 2006, MSD and several related entities filed suit against the Company in federal district court in the Northern District of California, alleging that the Company's
KyphX
vertebral bone tamps and/or related products infringe what presently constitute four balloon catheter patents (numbers 4,820,349, 5,759,191, 6,179,856 and 5,759,173). Although trial was scheduled for January 2008 and a Markman hearing was conducted in April 2007 to determine the scope of the four asserted patents, all proceedings have now been stayed indefinitely in light of the Merger of the Company with Medtronic on November 2, 2007 and the Company expects this litigation to be dismissed with prejudice.
 
19
During 2005, a U.S. Attorney's Office ("USAO") in New York received a complaint, which the Company believes is a qui tam complaint, that alleges impropriety in the Company's business. Qui tam is a provision under the False Claims Act ("FCA") (31 U.S.C.  3729 et seq.), which allows for a private individual, sometimes known as a whistleblower, with alleged knowledge of past or present fraud on the U.S. federal government, to bring suit on behalf of the government. The USAO began an investigation into the Company's sales and marketing practices, including how the Company's employees communicated with customers during 2000-2006 regarding the Medicare reimbursement available to hospitals and the appropriate site-of-service for using the Company's products in surgical procedures. Although the Company continues to believe that it is in substantial compliance with all healthcare laws applicable to it, the Company chose to voluntarily cooperate with the USAO throughout the investigation, through the production of documents and management interviews, to permit the USAO to develop an informed opinion on how to resolve its investigation.  Discussions between the Company and the USAO progressed, and on October 26, 2007, representatives of the Company and the USAO reached an understanding that they would mutually recommend that the matters be resolved and related complaints would be dismissed in exchange for a payment of $75,000,000 without any admission of liability and contingent on the full resolution of related issues and agreement by the parties on other terms and conditions. Any recommendations are subject to final approval  by the United States Department of Justice and the Company. The Company accrues for contingencies when it is probable that an obligation has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated. As a result of the proposed settlement to pay $75,000,000, the Company has recorded the expense within operations during the three months ended September 30, 2007. If the Company is ultimately unable to reach a consensual resolution with the government, the Company may seek to defend itself, its officers and its employees through other means, including litigation. The Company's business and financial condition could be materially adversely affected by the investigation, including aspects of the investigation or legal process that are directed towards physicians and the Company's customers, and by any enforcement action or litigation against the Company.
 
In June 2006, a lawsuit was filed against the Company in federal district court in the Northern District of California that presently involves seven of the Company's current and former female U.S. based sales employees. The lawsuit alleges, among other things, that the Company has engaged in gender discrimination and retaliation against plaintiffs, and also contends that they and their lawyers should be permitted to represent an alleged class of all of the Company's present and former female Spine Education Specialists, Spine Associates and Spine Consultants because all of those women were also allegedly discriminated against on account of their gender.  Although the plaintiffs originally claimed that they were due assorted damages of at least $100,000,000, several elements of their original complaint have now been dismissed or stricken with prejudice as a result of motion practice by the Company, which would significantly reduce any possible monetary recovery available from the Company in the event they were to prevail. In addition, in October 2007, the federal court again struck the class allegation portions of plaintiff's complaint without prejudice to a final additional attempt by plaintiffs to amend their complaint to try to plead non-defective class allegations. If plaintiffs choose to amend their complaint in this manner, the Company will determine whether to again challenge their class allegations as defective. Although this litigation has now been pending for 18 months, the case remains in its early stages; no answer has yet been filed, no trial date has been set and only very limited discovery has occurred. Although the Company intends to vigorously defend plaintiffs' lawsuit, this lawsuit threatens its reputation and subjects the Company to potential liability for significant damages. While the Company believes it has multiple meritorious defenses to this action, it cannot provide assurance that it ultimately will prevail on any issue in the litigation or that the Company will be able to successfully defend against plaintiffs' charges. Failure to successfully defend against this action could harm the Company's business, financial condition and operating results. Due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation, the Company cannot accurately predict the ultimate outcome of this matter at this time and, therefore, cannot estimate the range of possible loss. No provision for any liability that may result upon resolution of this matter has been made in the accompanying financial statements.
 
From time to time, the Company may become involved in litigation relating to additional claims arising from the ordinary course of business. Management of the Company does not believe the final disposition of these matters will have a material adverse affect on the financial position, results of operations or cash flows of the Company.
 
20
NOTE 11Provision for Income Taxes:
 
In June 2006, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 48, "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes" ("FIN 48"). FIN 48 clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in an enterprise's financial statements in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes" ("FAS 109"). FIN 48 prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. FIN 48 also provides guidance on reversing amounts previously recognized as tax benefits, classification on the balance sheet, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure, and transition.
 
The Company adopted FIN 48 effective January 1, 2007. As a result of the implementation of FIN 48, the Company recognized a $560,000 increase in liability for unrecognized tax benefits, which was accounted for as a reduction to the January 1, 2007 balance of retained earnings. As of September 30, 2007, the Company has unrecognized tax benefits of approximately $8,081,000 compared with approximately $6,349,000 as of January 1, 2007. Of the total unrecognized tax benefits, $4,490,000 if recognized would result in a reduction of the Company's effective tax rate compared with approximately $3,466,000 as of January 1, 2007. The Company does not anticipate that total unrecognized tax benefits will significantly change due to the settlement of audits and the expiration of statute of limitations within the next 12 months. The Company is subject to audit by the IRS and California Franchise Tax Board for all years since inception.
 
The Company's policy is to recognize interest related to unrecognized tax benefits as interest expense and penalties as operating expenses. For the nine months ended September 30, 2007, the Company recognized approximately $425,000, respectively, in potential interest and penalties with respect to unrecognized tax benefits.
 
Provision for income taxes was $8,340,000 at an effective tax rate of -14.6% for the three months ended September 30, 2007 as compared to $7,780,000 at an effective tax rate of 44.9% for the same period in 2006. Provision for income taxes was $16,270,000 at an effective tax rate of -26.8% for the nine months ended September 30, 2007 as compared to $21,720,000 at an effective tax rate of 44.1% for the same period in 2006. The effective tax rate for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2007 reflects the impact of the in-process research and development charge related to the St. Francis acquisition and litigation charge related to our proposed settlement with the USAO, which are nondeductible for tax reporting purposes.
 
NOTE 12Recent Accounting Pronouncements:
 
In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, "Fair Value Measurements" ("SFAS No. 157"). SFAS No. 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. The provisions of SFAS No. 157 are effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007 and are to be applied prospectively. The Company is currently evaluating the impact, if any, the adoption of SFAS No. 157 will have on its financial position and operating results.
 
In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159, "Fair Value Option For Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities" ("SFAS No. 159"). SFAS No. 159 provides companies with an option to report selected financial assets and liabilities at fair value. SFAS No. 159 requires the fair value of the assets and liabilities that the company has chosen to fair value be shown on the face of the balance sheet. SFAS No. 159 also requires companies to provide additional information to enable users of the financial statements to understand the company's reasons for electing the fair value option and how changes in the fair values affect earnings for the period. SFAS No. 159 also establishes presentation and disclosure requirements designed to facilitate comparisons between companies that choose different measurement attributes for similar types of assets and liabilities. SFAS No. 159 is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007. The Company is currently evaluating the potential impact, if any, the adoption of SFAS No. 159 will have on its financial position and operating results.
 
In June 2007, the FASB ratified EITF Issue No. 07-3, "Accounting for nonrefundable Advance Payments for Goods or Services to Be Used in Future Research and Development Activities" ("EITF No. 07-3"). EITF No. 07-3 requires nonrefundable advance payments for goods and services that will be used or rendered for future research and development activities be deferred and capitalized. Such amounts should be recognized as an expense as the goods are delivered or the related services are performed. EITF No. 07-3 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2007. The Company is currently evaluating the potential impact, if any, EITF No. 07-3 may have on its financial position and operating results.
 
21

Exhibit 99.4
 
UNAUDITED PRO FORMA COMBINED
CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION
 
As used in this unaudited pro forma combined condensed financial information, references to "we", "us", "our", "Company", or "Medtronic" refer to Medtronic, Inc., together with its consolidated subsidiaries.
 
Pursuant to the acquisition agreement, Medtronic consummated the acquisition of Kyphon Inc. ("Kyphon") on November 2, 2007. The following unaudited pro forma combined condensed financial information are based on the historical financial statements of Medtronic and Kyphon after giving effect to the acquisition of Kyphon using the purchase method of accounting and applying the assumptions and adjustments described in the accompanying notes.
 
The unaudited pro forma combined condensed statements of operations for the six months ended October 26, 2007 and the twelve months ended April 27, 2007 give effect to the Kyphon acquisition as if it had occurred on April 29, 2006. The unaudited pro forma combined condensed balance sheet as of October 26, 2007 gives effect to the Kyphon acquisition as it had occurred on October 26, 2007. This information should be read in conjunction with the:
 
 
 
 
 
1
The pro forma information is not necessarily indicative of actual results had the acquisition been consummated on the dates indicated, nor is it necessarily indicative of future results, and does not reflect future synergies, integration costs, or other such costs or savings. The pro forma adjustments are based upon available information and certain assumptions that we believe are reasonable.
 
Pursuant to the purchase method of accounting, the total estimated purchase price, calculated as described in Note 1 to the unaudited pro forma combined condensed financial information, has been preliminarily allocated to assets acquired and liabilities assumed, as applicable, based on their respective estimated fair values. Medtronic's management has determined the preliminary fair value of the intangible assets and tangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed, as applicable, at the pro forma condensed balance sheet date. Any excess between fair value of the consideration issued and the fair value of the tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed, as applicable, will be recorded as goodwill. Since the unaudited pro forma combined condensed financial information has been prepared based on preliminary estimates of fair values attributable to the acquisition, the actual amounts recorded for the acquisition may differ materially from the information presented. These allocations are subject to change pending further review of the fair value of the tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed, as applicable. Additionally, the estimated fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed may be materially impacted by the results of Kyphon's operations up to the closing date of the acquisition on November 2, 2007.
2
MEDTRONIC, INC.
UNAUDITED PRO FORMA COMBINED CONDENSED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS
(in millions, except per share data)
 
 
See accompanying notes to the unaudited pro forma combined condensed financial information.
3
MEDTRONIC, INC.
UNAUDITED PRO FORMA COMBINED CONDENSED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS
(in millions, except per share data)
 
 
See accompanying notes to the unaudited pro forma combined condensed financial information.
4
MEDTRONIC, INC.
UNAUDITED PRO FORMA COMBINED CONDENSED BALANCE SHEET
(in millions, except per share data)
 
 
See accompanying notes to the unaudited pro forma combined condensed financial information.
5
MEDTRONIC, INC.
NOTES TO UNAUDITED PRO FORMA COMBINED CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION
(Unaudited)
 
 
Note 1  Basis of Presentation
 
On November 2, 2007, the Company consummated the acquisition of Kyphon and it became a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. Kyphon develops and markets medical devices designed to restore and preserve spinal function and diagnose the source of low back pain using minimally invasive technologies. It is expected that the acquisition of Kyphon will add to the growth of the Company's existing Spinal business by extending its product offerings into some of the fastest growing product segments and enabling the Company to provide physicians with a broader range of therapies for use at all stages of the care continuum.
 
Under the terms of the agreement announced on July 27, 2007, Kyphon shareholders received $71 per share in cash for each share of Kyphon common stock they owned. Total consideration for the transaction was approximately $4.2 billion which includes the purchase of outstanding Kyphon common stock, the assumption and settlement of existing Kyphon debt and payment of direct acquisition costs. Total debt assumed relates to Kyphon's obligations under existing credit and term loan facilities and outstanding senior convertible notes. In addition, the total purchase consideration includes the proceeds of unwinding the related convertible note hedges and cancellation and payment of the warrants to the hedge participants that were originally issued by Kyphon in February 2007. The transaction was financed through a combination of approximately $3.3 billion Medtronic cash on hand, $600 million financed through the issuance of commercial paper and $300 million borrowed through a new unsecured revolving credit facility.
 
The unaudited pro forma combined condensed balance sheet is presented to give effect to Medtronic's acquisition of Kyphon and the issuance of the debt used to finance the acquisition as if the transaction had been consummated on October 26, 2007. The unaudited pro forma combined condensed balance sheet combines the balance sheet as of October 26, 2007 for Medtronic with the balance sheet as of September 30, 2007 for Kyphon. The unaudited combined condensed Statements of Operations are presented as if this transaction had been consummated on April 29, 2006. The historical Kyphon Statement of Operations information for the twelve months ended March 31, 2007, included in the unaudited pro forma combined condensed Statement of Operations for the year ended April 27, 2007, was derived by adding the Kyphon Statement of Operations information for the quarter ended March 31, 2007 to the Kyphon Statement of Operations information for the year ended December 31, 2006 and then deducting the Kyphon Statement of Operations information for the quarter ended March 31, 2006.
 
The estimated purchase price of Kyphon is as follows (dollars in millions):
 
 
 
Preliminary Estimated Purchase Price Allocation
 
The preliminary allocation of the purchase price to Kyphon's tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed was based on their estimated fair values. Further adjustments to these estimates may be included in the final allocation of the purchase price of Kyphon if the adjustment is determined within the purchase price allocation period (up to twelve months from the closing date). The excess of the purchase price over the tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed has been allocated to goodwill. The preliminary estimated purchase price has been allocated as follows (dollars in millions):
 
6
MEDTRONIC, INC.
NOTES TO UNAUDITED PRO FORMA COMBINED CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION
(Unaudited)
 
 
 
 
 
Assets Acquired and Liabilities Assumed
 
We have estimated the fair value of tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed. These estimates are based on a preliminary valuation and are subject to further review by management. Furthermore, the fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed may have been affected and materially changed by the results of Kyphon's operations through the closing date of the acquisition on November 2, 2007.
 
We have estimated the fair value of the intangible assets, which are subject to amortization, using the estimated after tax cash flows attributable to each product line. The future cash flows were discounted to present value utilizing an appropriate risk-adjusted rate of return. The following table sets forth the components of these intangible assets and their estimated useful lives (dollars in millions):
 
 
 
In-process research and development
 
The values assigned to IPR&D are based on valuations that have been prepared using methodologies and valuation techniques consistent with those used by independent appraisers. The value assigned to IPR&D is based on a preliminary valuation and is subject to further review by management. All values were determined by identifying research projects in areas for which technological feasibility had not been established. Additionally, the values were determined by estimating the amount of after-tax cash flows attributable to these projects. The future cash flows were discounted to present value utilizing an appropriate risk-adjusted rate of return. The rate of return included a factor that takes into account the uncertainty surrounding the successful development of the IPR&D. Using this approach, the Company determined that $290 million of the purchase price represents purchased in-process technology. Due to its non-recurring nature, the IPR&D expense has been excluded from the unaudited pro forma combined condensed statements of operations. The IPR&D costs will be expensed in Medtronic's consolidated financial statements in the third quarter of fiscal year 2008.
 
Unvested Stock-based Awards
 
In conjunction with the acquisition, Medtronic assumed Kyphon's unvested stock-based awards. These stock-based awards have an estimated fair value of approximately $83 million which will be recognized as stock-based compensation expense by Medtronic over the remaining weighted average vesting period of 2.5 years.
 
7
MEDTRONIC, INC.
NOTES TO UNAUDITED PRO FORMA COMBINED CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION
(Unaudited)
 
Note 2  Pro Forma Adjustments to the Combined Condensed Statement of Operations for the Twelve Months ended April 27, 2007
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 3  Pro Forma Adjustments to the Combined Condensed Statement of Operations for the Six Months ended October 26, 2007
 
 
 
8
MEDTRONIC, INC.
NOTES TO UNAUDITED PRO FORMA COMBINED CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION
(Unaudited)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 4  Pro Forma Adjustments to the Combined Condensed Balance Sheet as of October 26, 2007
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9
MEDTRONIC, INC.
NOTES TO UNAUDITED PRO FORMA COMBINED CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION
(Unaudited)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 5  Financing Agreement
 
 
On November 2, 2007, the Company entered into a new Credit Agreement (the "New Credit Agreement") with The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. (the "New Lender"). The New Credit Agreement provides for a $300 million unsecured revolving credit facility (the "New Facility") maturing November 2, 2010. The Company may terminate or permanently reduce the commitments available under the New Facility and prepay the New Facility without premium or penalty at any time. In addition to certain initial fees, the Company is obligated to pay a commitment fee based on the total revolving commitment.
Each Revolving Loan under the New Credit Agreement shall be, at the Company's request, either an Alternate Base Rate Loan or a Eurodollar Loan. Each Alternate Base Rate Loan accrues interest at a rate per annum equal to the greater of (a) the Prime Rate in effect on such day and (b) the Federal Funds Effective Rate in effect on such day plus  of 1%. The Prime Rate is the rate of interest per annum publicly announced from time to time by the Lender as its base rate in effect at its office in New York, New York. Each Eurodollar Loan accrues interest at a rate per annum equal to the LIBO Rate plus 0.185%. The LIBO Rate is the rate appearing on page 3750 of the Moneyline Telerate Markets screen at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, two business days prior to the commencement of an interest period, as the rate for dollar deposits with a maturity comparable to such interest period.
The New Credit Agreement contains customary representations and warranties of the Company as well as affirmative covenants regarding the Company. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under the New Credit Agreement, the New Lender could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the New Facility to be immediately due and payable. Events of default under the New Credit Agreement include payment defaults, breaches of covenants, bankruptcy events and a change in control of the Company.
 
 
 
10


