FILE:MDT/MDT-8K-20080819072323.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
(Registrant's telephone number, including area code): (
763) 514-4000
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
     On August 19, 2008, Medtronic, Inc. issued a press release announcing its first quarter 2009 financial results. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
     (d) Exhibit 99.1       Press release of Medtronic, Inc. dated August 19, 2008.
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

Exhibit 99.1
NEWS RELEASE
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 Medtronic, Inc. (NYSE:MDT) today announced financial results for its first quarter of fiscal year 2009, which ended July 25, 2008.
MINNEAPOLIS  August 19, 2008
Medtronic recorded first quarter revenue of $3.706 billion, a 19 percent increase over the $3.127 billion reported in the first quarter of fiscal year 2008. As detailed in the attached table, adjusting for restructuring charges, non-GAAP net earnings and diluted earnings per share were $813 million and $0.72 per share, an increase of 14 percent and 16 percent, respectively. As reported, net earnings for the first quarter were $747 million, or $0.66 per diluted share, an increase of 11 percent and 12 percent, respectively, over the same period in the prior year. Currency translation had a positive impact of $157 million to revenue in the first quarter.
"We were pleased to see our momentum continue from fourth quarter to this quarter, which positions us well for the remainder of the fiscal year," said Bill Hawkins, Medtronic chief executive officer. "In addition to the strong revenue growth driven by
 
our diversified product portfolio, we were pleased to see continued progress in our efforts to deliver operating leverage as demonstrated by a 25  percent increase in operating income."
Revenue in the CardioVascular, Neuromodulation, and Surgical Technologies product lines each grew more than 15 percent in the quarter. Revenue outside the United States of $1.457 billion grew 24 percent led by the Diabetes, Spinal and Surgical Technologies businesses. Revenue outside the U.S. accounted for 39 percent of Medtronic's revenue this quarter.
Cardiac Rhythm Disease Management
Cardiac Rhythm Disease Management (CRDM) revenue of $1.303 billion grew 6 percent.  Revenue from implantable cardioverter defibrillators (ICDs) was $764 million, up more than 5 percent.  Pacing revenue of $526 million in the quarter increased 7 percent. Outside the United States, CRDM revenue grew 19 percent, driven by 23 percent growth of the ICD product lines.   
Spinal
Spinal revenue of $859 million grew 33 percent, including Kyphon, which contributed $161 million in revenue. Excluding Kyphon, revenue increased 8 percent, driven by 16 percent growth in Biologics. The impact of Kyphon and continued growth in Biologics offset continued competitive pressure on Core Spinal products.
CardioVascular
CardioVascular revenue of $631 million grew 30 percent, driven by strong global performance across the drug-eluting stent and Endovascular product lines. Coronary vascular revenue of $349 million grew 41 percent globally with 173 percent growth in the United States, driven by the continued success of the Endeavor drug-eluting stent
 
in the U.S. Revenue from Endovascular products increased 26 percent on the strength of thoracic products in markets outside the U.S. and two new product launches in the U.S.
Neuromodulation
Neuromodulation revenue grew 20 percent to $348 million, fueled by sales of pain management products including the RestoreULTRA neurostimulation system for the treatment of chronic back and leg pain. Revenue from Gastroenterology/Urological products grew 23 percent, driven by the ongoing success of InterStim Therapy, used to treat the symptoms of overactive bladder and incontinence. InterStim has now achieved nine consecutive quarters of more than 25 percent growth.
Diabetes
Diabetes revenue of $269 million grew 12 percent driven by sales of consumables, the accessories required by insulin pump users, and continuous glucose monitoring products. Revenue from international sales grew 31 percent over the same quarter last year.
Surgical Technologies
Revenue from Surgical Technologies of $202 million grew 17 percent, driven by monitoring, image-guided surgery systems and navigation equipment, specifically the O-Arm technology used in operating room procedures to guide neurological and spinal procedures. The business also acquired Restore Medical, Inc. during the quarter.
Physio-Control
Physio-Control reported $94 million in revenue, based on the sale of external defibrillators and accessories. Physio-Control continues to work with the FDA to resolve outstanding quality issues in an effort to resume unrestricted product distribution.
 
"Broad-based sustainable growth and operating margin improvement are in line with our recently announced initiatives that we believe will drive consistent, superior value creation," said Hawkins. "We delivered on our commitments again this quarter, and we expect progress will continue through the balance of this fiscal year."
Webcast Information
Medtronic will host a webcast today, Aug. 19, at 8 a.m. EDT (7 a.m. CDT), to provide information about its businesses for the public, analysts and news media.  This quarterly webcast can be accessed by clicking on the Investor Relations link on the Medtronic home page at and this earnings release will be archived at . Within 24 hours, a replay of the webcast and a transcript of the company's prepared remarks will be available in the "Presentations & Transcripts" section of the Investor Relations homepage.
www.medtronic.com
www.medtronic.com/newsroom
About Medtronic
Medtronic, Inc., headquartered in Minneapolis, is the world's leading medical technology company, alleviating pain, restoring health and extending life for people with chronic disease.  Its Internet address is .
www.medtronic.com
This press release contains forward-looking statements regarding our operating momentum, new products and other developments, which are subject to risks and uncertainties, such as competitive factors, difficulties and delays inherent in the development, manufacturing, marketing and sale of medical products, government regulation, general economic conditions and other risk and uncertainties described in Medtronic's Annual Report on
Form 10-K
for the year ended April 25, 2008.  Actual results may differ materially from anticipated results.  Medtronic does not undertake to update its forward-looking statements. Unless otherwise noted, all comparisons made in this news release are on an "as reported basis," not on a constant currency basis, and references to quarterly figures increasing or decreasing are in comparison to the first quarter of fiscal year 2008.
 
($ millions)
 
($ millions)
 
($ millions)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


