FILE:MDT/MDT-8K-20090217072902.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
                     On February 17, 2009, Medtronic, Inc. issued a press release announcing its third quarter 2009 financial results. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
  
Item 9.01.      Exhibits.
 
 
                     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
NEWS RELEASE
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 Medtronic, Inc. (NYSE:MDT) today announced financial results for its third quarter of fiscal year 2009, which ended Jan. 23, 2009.
MINNEAPOLIS  Feb. 17, 2009
The company reported third quarter revenue of $3.494 billion, a three percent increase over third quarter revenue reported in fiscal year 2008 or a six percent increase after adjusting for an unfavorable $110 million foreign exchange impact. Revenue outside the United States grew to $1.318 billion (38 percent of total revenue for the quarter), a one percent increase or a nine percent increase after adjusting for the impact of foreign currency.
Net earnings in the third quarter were $723 million, or $0.65 per diluted share, an increase of 839 percent and 829 percent, respectively. After adjusting for in-process research and development charges of $72 million, or $0.06 per share, non-GAAP net earnings and diluted earnings per share in the period were $795 million, or $0.71 per diluted share, an increase of 12 percent and 13 percent, respectively.
 
"Despite global macroeconomic uncertainties and an unfavorable impact from foreign currency on our business units this quarter, Medtronic continues to deliver growth in a challenging environment," said Bill Hawkins, Medtronic chairman and CEO. "Excluding the impact of foreign currency, four of our seven business units reported double digit revenue growth in the quarter and we continue to focus on delivering meaningful operating leverage."
Cardiac Rhythm Disease Management
Cardiac Rhythm Disease Management (CRDM) revenue of $1.169 billion decreased four percent in the quarter or one percent after adjusting for an unfavorable $38 million foreign exchange impact. Worldwide implantable cardioverter defibrillator revenue was $694 million. Worldwide pacing revenue was $457 million. In February, the CRDM business announced the acquisition of Ablation Frontiers, which when combined with the previously announced acquisition of CryoCath Technologies, positions CRDM as a leader in the atrial fibrillation market.
Spinal
Spinal revenue of $832 million grew three percent or four percent after adjusting for an unfavorable $11 million foreign exchange impact. In the quarter, the core spinal business grew five percent on further adoption of its Legacy, Atlantis and MAST product portfolios. The Biologics business also stabilized in the quarter.
CardioVascular
Revenue in the CardioVascular business grew to $565 million, an increase of 10 percent or 16 percent with an unfavorable $27 million foreign exchange impact. Coronary stent revenue grew 25 percent and Endovascular revenue grew 49 percent on a constant
 
currency basis. The commercial launch and availability of five new angioplasty products on a rapid exchange delivery system in the U.S. fueled growth in the CardioVascular business.
Neuromodulation
Neuromodulation revenue of $354 million grew 11 percent or 13 percent after adjusting for an unfavorable $9 million foreign exchange impact. Growth in pain management, gastro/urology and movement disorder product lines continue to drive this business.
Diabetes
Diabetes revenue of $277 million grew seven percent or 12 percent after adjusting for an unfavorable $12 million foreign exchange impact. Diabetes revenue grew on strong sales of durable pump and continuous glucose monitoring systems as well as solid performance in markets outside of the United States.
Surgical Technologies
Surgical Technologies revenue of $207 million grew six percent or 10 percent after adjusting for an unfavorable $8 million foreign exchange impact. Sales of Navigation equipment including the Fusion Image Guidance Surgery System and O-Arm Imaging System continue to be strong in addition to positive growth in service revenue associated with the equipment.
Physio-Control
Physio-Control reported $90 million in revenue, a decrease of four percent or an increase of one percent after adjusting for an unfavorable $5 million foreign exchange impact.
 
Webcast Information
Medtronic will host a webcast today, Feb. 17 at 8 a.m. Eastern Time (7 a.m. Central Time), to provide information about its businesses for the public, analysts and news media. This quarterly webcast can be accessed by clicking on the Investor Relations link on the Medtronic home page at and this earnings release will be archived at . Within 24 hours, a replay of the webcast and a transcript of the company's prepared remarks will be available in the "Presentations & Transcripts" section of the Investor Relations homepage.
www.medtronic.com
www.medtronic.com/newsroom
About Medtronic
Medtronic, Inc., headquartered in Minneapolis, is the world's leading medical technology company, alleviating pain, restoring health and extending life for people with chronic disease. Its Internet address is .
www.medtronic.com
This press release contains forward-looking statements regarding changes to our operating leverage, new acquisitions, new products, continued product acceptance, non-domestic and domestic growth and expected results in the fiscal fourth quarter, which are subject to risks and uncertainties, such as competitive factors, difficulties and delays inherent in the development, manufacturing, marketing and sale of medical products, government regulation and general economic conditions and other risk and uncertainties described in Medtronic's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended April 25, 2008. Actual results may differ materially from anticipated results. Medtronic does not undertake to update its forward-looking statements. Unless otherwise noted, all comparisons made in this news release are on an "as reported basis," not on a constant currency basis, and references to quarterly figures increasing or decreasing are in comparison to the third quarter of fiscal year 2008.
 
($ millions)
 
Note: The data in this schedule has been intentionally rounded to the nearest million and therefore the quarterly revenue may not sum to the fiscal year to date revenue.
 
($ millions)
Note: The data in this schedule has been intentionally rounded to the nearest million and therefore the quarterly revenues may not sum to the fiscal year to date revenue.
 
($ millions)
 
Note: The data in this schedule has been intentionally rounded to the nearest million and therefore the quarterly revenue may not sum to the fiscal year to date revenue.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
($ millions)
 
 
 


