FILE:MDT/MDT-8K-20101220091130.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On December 20, 2010, Medtronic, Inc. (the "Company") announced that William A. Hawkins intends to retire as Chairman of the Company's Board of Directors, as Chief Executive Officer of the Company, and as a member of the Company's Board of Directors, effective at the conclusion of the Company's fiscal year ending April 29, 2011 or at such time that his successor is appointed.  The Companys Board of Directors has initiated an external search for Mr. Hawkins's successor.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
Date: December 20, 2010
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 Medtronic (NYSE: MDT) announced today that William A. Hawkins intends to retire as Chairman and CEO of Medtronic at the conclusion of the current fiscal year ending April 29, 2011.  The companys board of directors has initiated an external search for his replacement, and Mr. Hawkins plans to remain until his successor is appointed.
MINNEAPOLIS  Dec. 20, 2010
Bill has made a very significant impact at Medtronic and his service is deeply appreciated, said Ken Powell, lead director on Medtronics Board of Directors and Chairman of the boards Corporate Governance Committee.  We will be working closely with him in the coming months to ensure an orderly transition.
I am proud of what we have accomplished during my tenure at Medtronic and am confident that we made the right investments in talent, quality and innovation to position the company for long-term growth and future success, said Hawkins.  It has been an honor and a privilege to lead such a talented, committed organization and I will work closely with the board to ensure that the transition to my successor is smooth and effective.
 
 
 
Mr. Hawkins, 56, was elected CEO in August of 2007 and chairman of the board in 2008.  He joined the company in 2002 as senior vice president and president of the companys Vascular business and became president and chief operating officer in 2004.
About Medtronic
Medtronic, Inc. (), headquartered in Minneapolis, is the global leader in medical technology  alleviating pain, restoring health, and extending life for millions of people around the world.
www.medtronic.com


