FILE:MDT/MDT-8K-20100824073037.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On August 24, 2010, Medtronic, Inc. issued a press release announcing its first quarter 2011 financial results. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
Item 9.01. Exhibits.
     (d) Exhibit 99.1 Press release of Medtronic, Inc. dated August 24, 2010.
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 Medtronic, Inc. (NYSE:MDT) today announced financial results for its first quarter of fiscal year 2011, which ended July 30, 2010.
MINNEAPOLIS  August 24, 2010
The company reported worldwide first quarter revenue of $3.773 billion, compared to the $3.933 billion reported in the first quarter of fiscal year 2010, a decrease of 4 percent as reported or an increase of 2 percent after adjusting for a $21 million unfavorable foreign currency impact and approximately $200 million of revenue benefit for the extra week in the first quarter of fiscal year 2010. The first quarter of fiscal year 2011 contained 13 weeks, one less week than the first quarter of fiscal year 2010.
As reported, first quarter net earnings were $830 million, or $0.76 per diluted share, an increase of 87 percent and 90 percent, respectively, over the same period in the prior year. As detailed in the attached table, first quarter net earnings and diluted earnings per share on a non-GAAP basis were $868 million and $0.80, a decrease of 2 percent and an increase of 1 percent, respectively, over the same period in the prior year. Further adjusting for the extra week in fiscal year 2010, results in a net earnings and diluted earnings per share increase of 5 percent and 8 percent, respectively, over the same period in the prior year.
 
Revenue outside the United States of $1.544 billion was flat compared to the same period last year, or an increase of 6 percent after adjusting for a $21 million negative foreign currency impact and the extra week in fiscal year 2010. International sales accounted for 41 percent of Medtronic's worldwide revenue.
"A softer global healthcare market impacted by decreased utilization and increased pricing pressure made for a difficult first quarter," said Bill Hawkins, Medtronic chairman and chief executive officer. "Solid performance from the CardioVascular, Diabetes and Surgical Technologies businesses was offset by softness in other businesses. Despite a difficult quarter, the fundamentals of our business remain strong and we are confident that our diversified portfolio positions us well to deliver market-leading performance in the long run."
Cardiac and Vascular Group
The Cardiac and Vascular Group at Medtronic is comprised of Cardiac Rhythm Disease Management (CRDM), CardioVascular, and Physio-Control. The group had worldwide sales in the quarter of $2.027 billion, which represents a decrease of 5 percent as reported or an increase of 1 percent after adjusting for foreign currency and the extra week in fiscal year 2010. Cardiac & Vascular Group International sales of $1.042 billion were flat as reported compared to the prior year or an increase of 6 percent after adjusting for foreign currency and the extra week in fiscal year 2010. Group revenue performance was driven by strong CardioVascular sales offset by weaker sales in CRDM and Physio-Control.
CRDM revenue of $1.226 billion declined 8 percent as reported or 3 percent after adjusting for foreign currency and the extra week in fiscal year 2010. Revenue from implantable cardioverter defibrillators (ICD) was $722 million, while pacing revenue
 
was $473 million in the quarter. Lower CRDM sales due to slower market growth and increased pricing pressure were partially offset by continued growth of the AF Solutions business and the launch of the Protecta ICD in Europe.
CardioVascular revenue of $717 million grew 4 percent as reported or 10 percent after adjusting for foreign currency and the extra week in fiscal year 2010. Revenue growth was driven by strong international growth of 11 percent as reported, or 18 percent after adjusting for foreign currency and the extra week in fiscal year 2010. The Coronary & Peripheral, Structural Heart, and Endovascular businesses grew worldwide revenue 11 percent, 10 percent, and 10 percent, respectively, after adjusting for foreign currency and the extra week in fiscal year 2010. Strong revenue performance was driven by the Invatec acquisition and transcatheter valves led by the CoreValve device.
Physio-Control revenue of $84 million declined 13 percent as reported or 7 percent after adjusting for foreign currency and the extra week in fiscal year 2010. The revenue decline was due largely to a supplier constraint that has been rectified subsequent to quarter end and a slowdown in spending by certain international governments.
Restorative Therapies Group
The Restorative Therapies Group at Medtronic is comprised of Spinal, Neuromodulation, Diabetes, and Surgical Technologies. The group had worldwide sales in the quarter of $1.746 billion, which represents a decrease of 4 percent as reported or an increase of 2 percent after adjusting for foreign currency and the extra week in fiscal year 2010. Restorative Therapies Group International sales of $502 million increased 1 percent as reported or 7 percent after adjusting for foreign currency and the extra week in fiscal year 2010. Group revenue performance was led by strong growth in Diabetes and Surgical Technologies offset by weaker sales in Spinal.
 
Spinal revenue of $829 million declined 9 percent as reported or 5 percent after adjusting for foreign currency and the extra week in fiscal year 2010. Sales of Core Spinal products and Biologics decreased 6 percent and 1 percent, respectively, after adjusting for foreign currency and the extra week in fiscal year 2010. Slowing market growth, driven by weaker procedure growth and increased pricing pressures, contributed to the decrease in revenue.
Neuromodulation revenue of $370 million declined 1 percent as reported or increased 5 percent after adjusting for foreign currency and the extra week in fiscal year 2010. Growth continues to be driven by strong sales of Activa PC and RC Deep Brain Stimulation systems for movement disorders and InterStim Therapy for overactive bladder and urinary retention, and bowel control outside the United States.
Diabetes revenue of $312 million grew 6 percent as reported or 12 percent after adjusting for foreign currency and the extra week in fiscal year 2010. Growth in the quarter was driven by strong sales of continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) products. Medtronic remains the only company with a sensor-augmented insulin pump, and the potential benefits of the technology were underscored by the successful results of the STAR 3 study presented at the American Diabetes Association annual conference in June.
Surgical Technologies revenue of $235 million grew 4 percent as reported or 9 percent after adjusting for foreign currency and the extra week in fiscal year 2010. Capital spending in hospitals increased in the quarter, which provided opportunities for technology upgrades driven by new product launches.
Guidance
 
The company today updated revenue outlook and diluted earnings per share guidance for fiscal year 2011.
For fiscal year 2011, based on estimated market growth of 3 to 4 percent, the company expects revenue growth in the range of 2 to 5 percent on a constant currency basis. The company expects diluted earnings per share in the range of $3.40 to $3.48, which includes approximately $0.05 of dilution from the acquisition of Invatec and ATS Medical. Excluding the approximate $0.05 impact of acquisition dilution and the approximate $0.05 benefit of the extra week in fiscal year 2010, fiscal year 2011 diluted earnings per share growth is expected to be in the range of 9 percent to 11 percent.
Earnings per share guidance excludes any unusual charges or gains that might occur during the fiscal year and the impact of the non-cash charge to interest expense due to the accounting rules governing convertible debt. The guidance provided only reflects information available to the company at this time.
"In these uncertain times, the strength of our diversified portfolio, both in terms of business and geography, is more important than ever," said Hawkins. "Although we have experienced a slowdown in the markets of our largest businesses, the investments we are making in emerging markets and emerging therapies will allow us to achieve market-leading performance over the long-term. We remain confident in our robust product pipeline and look forward to a number of important product launches in the coming months. Our financial strength gives us the flexibility to drive our strategy and meet our financial commitments. The strategic and operational steps we have taken over the past few years have prepared us to succeed in a challenging environment."
Webcast Information
Medtronic will host a webcast today, August 24, at 8 a.m. EDT (7 a.m. CDT), to provide
 
information about its businesses for the public, analysts and news media. This quarterly webcast can be accessed by clicking on the Investors link on the Medtronic home page at and this earnings release will be archived at . Within 24 hours, a replay of the webcast and a transcript of the company's prepared remarks will be available in the "Events & Presentations" section of the Investors portion of the Medtronic website.
www.medtronic.com
www.medtronic.com/newsroom
About Medtronic
Medtronic, Inc., headquartered in Minneapolis, is the world's leading medical technology company, alleviating pain, restoring health and extending life for people with chronic disease. Its Internet address is .
www.medtronic.com
This press release contains forward-looking statements related to expected product introductions and results of Medtronic's future operations, which are subject to risks and uncertainties, such as competitive factors, difficulties and delays inherent in the development, manufacturing, marketing and sale of medical products, government regulation and general economic conditions and other risks and uncertainties described in Medtronic's periodic reports on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Actual results may differ materially from anticipated results. Medtronic does not undertake to update its forward-looking statements. Unless otherwise noted, all comparisons made in this news release are on an "as reported basis," and not on a constant currency basis; references to quarterly figures increasing or decreasing are in comparison to the first quarter of fiscal year 2010.
 
 
Note: The data in this schedule has been intentionally rounded to the nearest million and therefore the quarterly revenue may not sum to the fiscal year to date revenue.
 
Note: The data in this schedule has been intentionally rounded to the nearest million and therefore the quarterly revenues may not sum to the fiscal year to date revenue.
 
 
Note: The data in this schedule has been intentionally rounded to the nearest million and therefore the quarterly revenue may not sum to the fiscal year to date revenue.
 
 
 
 
should consider this non-GAAP measure in addition to, and not as a substitute for, financial performance measures prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. In addition, this non-GAAP financial measure may not be the same or similar to measures presented by other companies.
(b) The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) authoritative guidance on accounting for convertible debt has resulted in an after-tax impact to net earnings of $27 million ($0.02 per share) and $28 million ($0.03 per share) for the three months ended July 30, 2010 and July 31, 2009, respectively. The pre-tax impact to interest expense, net was $43 million for both the three months ended July 30, 2010 and July 31, 2009. In addition to disclosing the financial statement impact of this authoritative guidance that is determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP, Medtronic management believes that in order to properly understand its short-term and long-term financial trends, investors may find it useful to consider the impact of excluding the impact of this authoritative guidance. Management believes that the resulting non-GAAP financial measure provides useful information to investors regarding the underlying business trends and performance of the Company's ongoing operations and is useful for period over period comparisons of such operations. Medtronic management eliminates the impact of this authoritative guidance when evaluating the operating performance of the Company. Investors should consider this non-GAAP measure in addition to, and not as a substitute for, financial performance measures prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. In addition, this non-GAAP financial measure may not be the same as similar measures presented by other companies.
(c) The $50 million ($0.04 per share) after-tax ($69 million pre-tax) restructuring charge is the net impact of a $52 million after-tax charge related to restructuring initiatives that the Company began in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2009, offset by a $2 million after-tax net reversal of excess reserves related to the global realignment initiative that began in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2008. The fiscal year 2009 initiatives are designed to streamline operations and further align resources around the Company's higher growth opportunities. This initiative impacts most businesses and certain corporate functions. In the first quarter of fiscal year 2010, the Company recognized expense associated with compensation and early retirement benefits provided to employees which could not be accrued in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2009. In addition, the Company recorded $4 million of the after-tax expense ($7 million pre-tax) within cost of products sold related to inventory write-offs and production-related asset impairments associated with these restructuring activities. The $2 million after-tax net reversal is primarily a result of a $5 million after-tax reversal due to favorable severance negotiations with certain employee populations outside the U.S. as well as a higher than expected percentage of employees identified for elimination finding positions elsewhere within the Company partially offset by a $3 million after-tax charge the Company recorded in the first quarter of fiscal year 2010 related to the further write-down of a non-inventory related asset resulting from the continued decline in the international real estate market. In addition to disclosing restructuring charges that are determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP, Medtronic management believes that in order to properly understand its short-term and long-term financial trends, investors may find it useful to consider the impact of excluding these restructuring charges. Management believes that the resulting non-GAAP financial measure provides useful information to investors regarding the underlying business trends and performance of the Company's ongoing operations and is useful for period over period comparisons of such operations. Medtronic management eliminates these restructuring charges when evaluating the operating performance of the Company. Investors should consider this non-GAAP measure in addition to, and not as a substitute for, financial performance measures prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. In addition, this non-GAAP financial measure may not be the same as similar measures presented by other companies.
(d) The $360 million ($0.32 per share) after-tax ($444 million pre-tax) certain litigation charges, net are related to the resolution of all outstanding intellectual property litigation with Abbott Laboratories (Abbott). The terms of the agreement stipulate that neither party will sue each other in the field of coronary stent and stent delivery systems for a period of at least 10 years, subject to certain conditions. Both parties also agreed to a cross-license of the disputed patents within the defined field. The $444 million pre-tax settlement amount includes a $400 million payment to Abbott and a $42 million success payment made to evYsio Medical Devices, LLC (evYsio). In addition, a $2 million payment was made to evYsio in order to expand the definition of the license field from evYsio. In addition to disclosing certain litigation charges, net that are determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP, Medtronic management believes that in order to properly understand its short-term and long-term financial trends, investors may find it useful to consider the impact of excluding these certain litigation charges. Management believes that the resulting non-GAAP financial measure provides useful information to investors regarding the underlying business trends and performance of the Company's ongoing operations and is useful for period over period comparisons of such operations. Medtronic management eliminates these certain litigation charges when evaluating the operating performance of the Company. Investors should consider this non-GAAP measure in addition to, and not as a substitute for, financial performance measures prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. In addition, this non-GAAP financial measure may not be the same as similar measures presented by other companies.
(e) While Medtronic cannot precisely calculate the impact of last year's extra week across each of its businesses, Medtronic believes that by reducing last year's revenue by approximately $200 million and net earnings by approximately $56 million better reflects the impact to net earnings ($0.05 per share) and the adjusted operational growth of the Company. Medtronic management believes that in order to properly understand its short-term and long-term financial trends, investors may find it useful to consider the impact of excluding the extra week in fiscal year 2010 compared to fiscal year 2011. Management believes that the resulting non-GAAP financial measure provides useful information to investors regarding the underlying business trends and performance of the Company's ongoing operations and is useful for period over period comparisons of such operations. Medtronic management eliminates this extra week impact when evaluating the operating performance of the Company. Investors should consider this non-GAAP measure in addition to, and not as a substitute for, financial performance measures prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. In addition, this non-GAAP financial measure may not be the same as similar measures presented by other companies.
 
 
 
 
 
 


