FILE:MDT/MDT-8K-20101230160548.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On December 20, 2010, Medtronic, Inc. (the "Company") announced that William A. Hawkins intends to retire as Chairman of the Company's Board of Directors, as Chief Executive Officer of the Company, and as a member of the Company's Board of Directors, effective at the conclusion of the Company's fiscal year ending April 29, 2011 or at such time that his successor is appointed.  The Companys Board of Directors (the "Board") has initiated an external search for Mr. Hawkins' successor.
 
In connection with Mr. Hawkins' retirement as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, the Company has entered into a separation agreement with Mr. Hawkins pursuant to which Mr. Hawkins will thereafter remain employed by the Company in a non-executive capacity through April 27, 2012, during which time Mr. Hawkins will, among other things, assist with the transition of responsibilities, key initiatives, and key relationships at the Company.  During this transition period, Mr. Hawkins will continue to receive annual cash compensation (including the same salary and annual bonus targets) and employee benefits as currently in effect, paid in accordance with the terms of the respective plans of the Company.  However, Mr. Hawkins will not accrue additional benefits under the Company's Supplemental Executive Retirement Pla n following the date on which he ceases to serve as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Mr. Hawkins will not be eligible for any new long-term incentive compensation grants unless Mr. Hawkins service as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer extends more than 60 days after the commencement of the Company's 2012 fiscal year, in which case the Compensation Committee of the Board will consider awarding him a new long-term incentive compensation grant at a level consistent with prior years.
 
Pursuant to the separation agreement, in connection with Mr. Hawkins' termination of employment, the Company will pay to Mr. Hawkins a lump sum cash separation payment equal to (1) 1.25 times the sum of Mr. Hawkins' annual base salary and annual cash bonus (calculated based on Mr. Hawkins' target bonus for the Company's 2011 fiscal year), plus (2) the value of 24 months of continued health and dental benefits.  Mr. Hawkins' cash separation payment is estimated to equal approximately $3.8 million.
 
In addition, Mr. Hawkins will be entitled to all compensation and benefits payable to him on termination of employment under the terms of the Company's compensation and benefit plans and programs as in effect at the time of his termination, and will be treated as retirement eligible for purposes of all such plans and programs.  He will also be entitled to office space, secretarial services, and technology support services for three years following termination of employment, outplacement services for one year following termination of employment, and reimbursement of legal fees incurred in connection with the separation agreement and tax planning fees in connection with his retirement (subject to a limit of $50,000 for these legal and tax planning fees).
 
While the Company believes that no additional taxes, interest or penalties will be imposed under Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code, the Company has agreed to indemnify Mr. Hawkins
 
 
 
 
 
and hold him harmless on an after-tax basis for any additional taxes, interest or penalties imposed on him under Section 409A.
 
Mr. Hawkins will be subject to standard non-competition and non-solicitation of employee restrictions during his employment and for 24 months following the date on which Mr. Hawkins ceases to serve as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
 
A copy of the separation agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.  The foregoing description of the separation agreement does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the separation agreement.
 
 
 
 
(d)  Exhibits.
 
10.1           Separation Agreement between Medtronic, Inc. and William A. Hawkins.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: December 30, 2010
 
 

 
 
Exhibit 10.1
 
December 28, 2010
William A. Hawkins
 
 
Dear Bill:
We have sincerely appreciated your dedication and commitment to Medtronics mission and success.  You have informed the Board of Directors of your decision to retire from Medtronic, and we wish you the best as you plan for such retirement and appreciate your efforts to facilitate a smooth transition of your responsibilities to a successor.
 
This Letter Agreement and Attached Exhibit A (Agreement) sets forth the terms and conditions of your retirement from Medtronic effective April 27, 2012 (or earlier in accordance with this Agreement).  This Agreement also sets forth the terms and treatment of certain of your benefits acquired during your employment.  In consideration of the provisions and agreements set forth below and for good and valuable consideration, the sufficiency and receipt of which are acknowledged by both parties, we have agreed as follows.
Article 1.  Agreement.
  This Agreement sets forth the terms and conditions, including the amount, timing, and method of payments, as well as the terms and benefits of your transition of employment.  You will be entitled to receive the benefits and payments set forth below, provided that you have signed and not revoked this Agreement.
1.1  Transition Terms.
 
Article 2.  Transition of Employment.
  Your last day as Chief Executive Officer of Medtronic shall be April 29, 2011, or such earlier or later date as Medtronics Board of Directors (Board) determines is appropriate to facilitate a smooth transition.  Such date that you step down as Chief Executive Officer shall be referred to as the Separation Date.  Thereafter, your employment with Medtronic shall terminate on the Retirement Date, which is defined as the earliest to occur of:  (a) April 27, 2012, or (b) the date of an Event of Default (as defined in Section 2.11 below).
2.1  Separation and Retirement Dates.
  From the date of this Agreement through the Separation Date, your current base salary, incentive compensation (including under the Medtronic Management Incentive Program (MIP)), and perquisites shall continue on the same terms and at such levels as currently in effect, and your benefit plan participation shall continue under such terms and conditions as generally apply to senior executive officers of Medtronic.
2.2  Continued CEO Salary, MIP and Benefits.
 
-1-
 
Payment of the actual FY11 MIP amount based on business results will be made in accordance with the customary terms of the MIP, and consistent with Medtronics customary payroll dates and practices.  For the avoidance of doubt, if the Separation Date occurs before April 29, 2011, the commencement of the Transition Period prior to the end of FY11 shall have no effect on your FY11 MIP payment.
  You will resign from Medtronics Board of Directors effective upon the Separation Date.
2.3  Board Resignation.
  The period from the Separation Date through the Retirement Date shall be defined as the Transition Period.  During the Transition Period, you will not be required to report to work.  However, you agree to make yourself available (as is mutually convenient) until the Retirement Date as a Medtronic employee for consultation regarding the transition of your duties as well as appropriate matters in litigation, talent retention, regulatory affairs, community affairs and employee engagement.  You will also continue to provide advice and counsel on matters relating to Industry Leadership. Although you will remain in regular employment through the end of the Transition Period, you are expected to have a Sepa ration from Service on the Separation Date (as that term is defined for purposes of Medtronics deferred compensation arrangements subject to Code Section 409A) due to your decreased work commitment.  Upon the Retirement Date, you will be treated as retirement eligible for purposes of all Medtronic plans and programs.
2.4  Transition Period.
  During this Transition Period, your current base salary, incentive compensation (MIP), and perquisites shall continue on the same terms and at such levels as currently in effect during your regular employment prior to the Transition Period, and your benefit plan participation shall continue under such plan terms and conditions as generally apply to senior executive officers of Medtronic.  During the Transition Period, subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, Medtronic will pay your current base salary at a gross monthly amount of One Hundred Four Thousand One Hundred Sixty Seven Dollars ($104,167) (less withholdings for applicable taxes and authorized deductions).  During the Transition Period, you will be paid incentive bonuses under the MIP for FY11 and FY12 based upon actual MIP business results, and in accordance with the customary terms of MIP.  For the purposes of this Transition Period, benefits plans shall include medical, dental and vision coverage, basic and optional life insurance, the Medtronic Retirement Plan, the Medtronic 401(k) plan, salary continuation, long term disability, executive physical, business allowance, and matching charitable gifts.  Additional benefit accrual under the Supplemental Executive Retirement Program (SERP) will not occur during the transition period.  Payment of this transition salary and benefits will commence after expiration of the revocation period set forth in Article 4 consistent with Medtronics customary payroll dates and practices, provided you have signed and not revoked this Agreement.
2.5  Transition Period Salary, MIP and Benefits.
For avoidance of doubt, we confirm that you will be permitted to rescind your 2011 deferral election under the CAP on or before December 31, 2010 and that all voluntary deferrals you have made in prior years are included in the compensation used in the calculation of the SERP.
 
-2-
 
  You will be paid the LTPP payouts for grants awarded to you for the performance periods FY09 - FY11, FY10 - FY12 and FY11 - FY13, as calculated from corporate financial objectives and as approved by the Compensation Committee of the Board.  Payment of the actual amount based on business results will be made to you in accordance with the terms of the LTPP and consistent with Medtronics customary payroll dates and practices, including your status as a retiree.
2.6  Long Term Performance Plan (PSP/LTPP).
  Notwithstanding Sections 2.2 or 2.5, you will not be eligible for a new LTI (including LTPP, stock options and  Restricted Stock Units)  award for FY12  FY14 unless your Separation Date occurs more than 60 days after the commencement of Medtronics FY12, in which case the Compensation Committee of the Board will consider you for a FY12 LTPP award at a level consistent with prior years based on your extended service as Chief Executive Officer.
2.7  FY12 Long Term Incentive award (LTI).
  You will receive distribution of funds in your Capital Accumulation Plan consistent with Plan provisions and subject to the requirements of Code Section 409A.
2.8  Deferred Compensation Payout.
  During the Transition Period and upon Retirement, your stock options and restricted stock grants will continue to vest in accordance with the terms of the applicable option and/or restricted stock agreement.  The exercise of any such option must occur no later than the last date on which exercise is permitted under the applicable option agreement, including terms applicable to your status as a retiree. You agree that you are solely responsible for determining the date on which your options expire per the terms of your option agreement(s).
2.9  Stock Options and Restricted Stock.
  Effective on the Separation Date, you shall have no duties and no authority to make any representations or commitments on behalf of Medtronic or in any capacity whatsoever, except as provided by this Agreement.  After expiration of Transition Period, you shall have no further rights deriving from your employment by Medtronic, and shall not be entitled to any further compensation or non-vested benefits, except as provided in this Agreement or under the terms of any employee benefit plan in which you are then a participant.
2.10  No Further Rights and Benefits.
  In the event you materially breach any of your material obligations under Sections 5.5, 5.6, 5.10 or 5.11 of this Agreement, Medtronic will give you written notice of your alleged material breach and you will have a reasonable time (not less than 10 days and not more than 30 days) to cure such breach after you receive such written notice. If you fail to cure a material breach of your obligations under this Agreement within such time period, Medtronic may, upon written notice to you, declare an Event of Default and thereupon terminate your Transition Period salary and benefits under Section 2.5 and your right to receive the payments under Section 3.2. If Medtronic gives notice of an Event of Default and you dispute s uch notice and commence arbitration pursuant to Section 5.5.3, there will be no action to terminate your status as an employee of Medtronic prior to April 27, 2012 unless and until an Event of Default is determined by the arbitrator.
2.11  Event of Default.
 
-3-
 
Article 3.  Separation Payment.
.  Exhibit A: Release (Release) of this Agreement will be valid and enforceable, provided you sign Exhibit A no earlier than April 27, 2012. Any execution of  Exhibit A prior to April 27, 2012 or after  May 18, 2012 shall render the Release null and void and unenforceable.
3.1  Exhibit A Execution
  Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, if the Retirement Date occurs on April 27, 2012, Medtronic will pay to you a lump sum separation amount of: (a) One Million Five Hundred Sixty Two Thousand Five Hundred Dollars ($1,562,500), which is an amount equal to one and one-fourth (1-1/4) years of your current base salary, plus (b) Two Million One Hundred Eighty-Seven Thousand Five Hundred Dollars ($2,187,500), which is an amount equal to one and one-fourth (1-1/4) times your Annual MIP target amount for FY11.  Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, if the Retirement Date occurs on April 27, 2012, Medtronic will also pay to you a lump sum equal to twent y four (24) times the monthly COBRA premiums then in effect for continuation of your health and dental benefits.  Provided you have signed and not revoked this Agreement, these lump sum amounts (less withholdings for taxes) will be paid to you on June 8, 2012.
3.2  Additional Consideration: Lump Sum and Annual MIP Payments.
  All requests for information for your prospective future employer relative to your employment at Medtronic will be forwarded to the Lead independent Director of the Medtronic Board, who  will make a good faith response to such requests with confirmation of your title, dates of employment, salary, and performance.  In addition, you may use as references other current or former Medtronic executives or directors who have agreed to provide you a reference to your prospective employer.
3.3  References.
  As provided by COBRA, you shall have the right to continue coverage in the medical plan(s) in which you are presently participating, in accordance with state and federal law, for a period of 18 months following the Retirement Date at a cost to you as specified by such plans, or for such longer period as may be provided by law.
3.4 Regarding COBRA Benefits.
  You acknowledge that by accepting the provisions of this Agreement, you are receiving certain benefits to which you would not otherwise be entitled.
3.5 Non-Required Benefits.
Article 4.  Release.
In consideration of the provisions of this Agreement, you, for yourself and your heirs and executors, fully and completely release and forever discharge Medtronic, its officers, directors, shareholders, board members, representatives, divisions, parents, subsidiaries, successors and assigns, employees and agents, of and from any all claims, complaints, causes of action, demands, sums of money, covenants, contracts, agreements, promises, liabilities, damages or judgments, whatsoever in law or in equity, which you, ever had, now have against Medtronic or which you, hereafter, can, shall, or may have for or by reason of or in connection with any actions, conduct, decisions, behavior, events, transactions, omissions or accounts, occurring to the dat e of this Agreement.
4.1  Your Release.
 
-4-
 
You acknowledge that this Release specifically covers, but is not limited to, any and all claims, complaints, causes of action or demands (including related attorneys fees and costs) which you have or may have against Medtronic relating in any way to the terms, conditions and circumstances of your employment and the termination, resignation and/or Retirement thereof, or of your service as an officer or director of Medtronic; whether based on statutory or common law claims for wrongful discharge, breach of contract, breach of any express or implied promise, misrepresentation, fraud, retaliation, breach of public policy, infliction of emotional distress, defamation, promissory estoppels, invasion of privacy, or employment discrimination, including but not limited to claims under the Federal Age Discrimination in Employment Act (29 U.S.C. Sec. 621, , the Older Workers Benefit Protection Act (OWBPA), the Family Medical Leave Act, Fair Labor Standards Act, Employee Retirement Income Security Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and state statutes, if any, addressing the same subject matters or any other theory or basis, whether legal or equitable.
et seq.)
Notwithstanding the forgoing, nothing in this Section 4.1 or elsewhere in this Agreement shall be interpreted to affect or impair any right that you have to salary or benefits under this Agreement, any right to any vested benefit under any Medtronic employee benefit plan or program, or any right to indemnification pursuant to Medtronics bylaws and certificate of incorporation or applicable law.
In consideration of the provisions of this Agreement, Medtronic, for itself and its officers, directors, shareholders, board members, representatives, divisions, parents, subsidiaries, successors and assigns, employees and agents (Medtronic Parties), fully and completely releases and forever discharges you, your heirs and executors, of and from any all claims, complaints, causes of action, demands, sums of money, covenants, contracts, agreements, promises, liabilities, damages or judgments, whatsoever in law or in equity, which any Medtronic Parties, ever had, now have against you or which any Medtronic Parties, hereafter, can, shall, or may have for or by reason of or in connection with any actions, conduct, decisions, behavi or, events, transactions, omissions or accounts, occurring to the date of this Agreement.
4.2  Medtronic Release.
Medtronic Parties acknowledge that this Release specifically covers, but is not limited to, any and all claims, complaints, causes of action or demands (including related attorneys fees and costs) which any Medtronic Parties have or may have against you relating in any way to the terms, conditions and circumstances of your employment and the termination, resignation and/or Retirement thereof, or of your service as an officer or director of Medtronic; whether based on statutory or common law claims for breach of contract, breach of any express or implied promise, misrepresentation, fraud, breach of public policy, defamation, or promissory estoppels, or any other theory or basis, whether legal or equitable.
 
  You acknowledge receipt of this Agreement as notice in writing from Medtronic advising you to consult with an attorney prior to executing this Agreement and further acknowledges that you have been provided the right to consider this Agreement for a period of at least twenty-one (21) days prior to executing same. The parties acknowledge that you have fifteen (15) days from the date of execution of this Agreement to revoke same, and that this entire Agreement shall not be effective or enforceable in whole or in part until the revocation period has expired.  If you choose to revoke this Agreement within
4.3  Notice of Rights of Review and Revocation.
 
-5-
 
fifteen (15) days of execution, such revocation shall apply to the entire Agreement, and it is understood and agreed that such revocation shall render this entire Agreement null and void. To be effective, the revocation must be in writing and delivered by hand or mailed to Caroline Stockdale, Senior Vice President, Human Resources, Medtronic, Inc., 710 Medtronic Parkway, MS: LC400, Minneapolis, MN 55432.  If mailed, the revocation must be (a) postmarked within the fifteen-day revocation period; (b) properly addressed to Caroline Stockdale; and (c) sent by certified mail, return receipt requested.  If you accept this Agreement, the signed Agreement should be postmarked or returned by the fifteenth day following your execution hereof to Caroline Stockdale at the address stated herein.
Article 5.  General Provisions.
  You shall receive compensation for accrued and unused vacation through April 27, 2012 in a lump sum (less withholdings for taxes) in accordance with standard policy within five (5) business days thereafter.
5.1  Vacation Pay.
  Medtronic will make available to you senior executive level outplacement services through a mutually acceptable vendor during the Transition Period and for a period of one year following the Retirement Date.  Payments for such services will be paid directly to the vendor and will be deemed includable income.
5.2   Executive Placement Services.
  Medtronic will reimburse you for your legal fees incurred in connection with the review and negotiation of this agreement, and tax planning fees in connection with your retirement, the sum total of these fees is subject to a maximum amount of Fifty Thousand Dollars ($50,000).
5.3  Professional Fees.
During the Transition Period and for three years thereafter, Medtronic will provide you with access to secretarial and IT support as appropriate  and office space in a mutually acceptable location.
5.4  Office and Secretarial Support.  
   For purposes of this Agreement, terms that are CAPITALIZED have the following defined meanings with respect to those businesses:
5.5
Post-Employment Restrictions.
 
-6-
 
  From the Separation Date and for 24 months thereafter, you will not engage in any of the following activities:
5.5.1
 
-7-
 
  Notification Process for Waiver Request.
5.5.2
 
     To the fullest extent permitted by law, all claims that you may have against Medtronic or any other Released Party, or which Medtronic may have against you, in any way related to the subject matter, interpretation, application, or alleged breach of this Agreement (Arbitrable Claims) shall be resolved by binding arbitration in the state of Minnesota. The Arbitration will be held before a single arbitrator pursuant to the rules of Arbitration of the Center for Public Resources for employment disputes. The decision of the arbitrator shall be in writing and shall include a statement of the essential conclusions and findings upon which the decision is based.
5.5.3
Arbitration.
Arbitration shall be final and binding upon the parties and shall be the exclusive remedy for all Arbitrable Claims. Either party may bring an action in a Minnesota or federal court of competent jurisdiction to compel arbitration under this Agreement and to enforce an arbitration award. Otherwise, neither party shall initiate or prosecute any lawsuit or administrative action in any way related to any Arbitrable Claim. Notwithstanding the foregoing, either party may, in the
 
-8-
 
event of an actual or threatened breach of this Agreement, seek a temporary restraining order or injunction in a Minnesota or federal court of competent jurisdiction restraining breach pending a determination on the merits by the arbitrator.
     Unless given prior consent by the Chief Executive Officer of Medtronic, Inc, you shall not at any time prior to the date 24 months following the Separation Date, solicit, participate in or promote the solicitation of any person who is employed by Medtronic, Inc. as of the Separation Date or at any time during six months preceding the Separation Date to leave the employ of Medtronic, Inc. to take employment with any company you are then employed by or serve in any advisory or managerial capacity (including, without limitation, as a member of a board of directors). You further shall not, on your own behalf or behalf of any company you are then employed by or serve in any advisory or managerial capacity (including, without limitation, as a member of a board of directors), hire, employ or engage any such person or entity. You further agree that, during such time, if an employee of Medtronic, Inc. contacts you about prospective employment with any company you are then employed by or serve in any advisory or managerial capacity (including, without limitation, as a member of a board of directors), you will inform such individual that you cannot discuss the matter further without informing the CEO of Medtronic. If a Medtronic employee asks you provide reference to a prospective employer, you may provide such information if you have no current employment, consultative or advisory relationship with that prospective employer. Medtronic acknowledges that you may not be directly and specifically involved with the recruitment and hiring of a Medtronic employee by your employer. In such a case, you agree that, upon Medtronics request, you will provide, and will use re asonable efforts to cause your employer to provide, evidence that this provision has not been breached with respect to such recruitment and hiring.
5.6
Non-Solicitation of Employees.
     This Agreement shall not in any way impair any of your existing rights with respect to pension, retirement and/or other employee benefit plans of Medtronic applicable to former employees.
5.7
Agreement Not to Affect Benefits.
     The parties represent and warrant that they have not assigned or transferred to any PERSON or entity, any claim or right released, granted or conveyed pursuant to this Agreement, and the parties covenant and agree that neither party may assign any rights or benefits under this Agreement without the prior written consent of the other party, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld.
5.8
Assignment.
   You will return all proprietary or confidential information and documents, and company property including but not limited to credit cards, calling cards, keys, employment badges and any company provided hardware and software no later than the Separation Date; provided that you may retain the cellular phone, iPad and laptop computer
5.9  Company Property.
 
-9-
 
issued to you by Medtronic so long as all Medtronic information is preserved and removed for retention by Medtronic.
     During the Transition Period, you agree to cooperate with Medtronic and provide consulting as reasonably requested regarding the transition of your duties; provided that such cooperation and consulting shall not unreasonably interfere with any employment or business pursuits, including consulting, that you may be engaged in from time to time. You represent that you have fully and truthfully disclosed to Medtronic any and all concerns you may have related to your employment and/or any alleged or perceived violation by Medtronic, its agents or employees of Medtronics Code of Conduct, its Business Conduct Standards, or any applicable legal, regulatory or q uality requirements.
5.10
Cooperation with Employer.
 
In addition, you agree to cooperate fully with Medtronic, including its attorneys or accountants, in connection with any potential or actual litigation, or other real or potential disputes, which directly or indirectly involves Medtronic; provided that such cooperation shall not unreasonably interfere with any employment or business pursuits, including consulting, that you may be engaged in from time to time. You agree to appear as a witness and be available to attend depositions, consultations or meetings regarding litigation or potential litigation as requested by Medtronic. Medtronic acknowledges that these efforts, if necessary, will impose on your time and would likely interfere with other commitments you may have in the future. Consequently, Medtronic shall attempt to schedule such depositions, consultations or meetings in coordination with your schedule, but you recognize that scheduling of certain court proceedings, including depositions, may be beyond Medtronics control. Likewise, following the Transition Period, Medtronic agrees to compensate you for your time hereunder at a mutually agreeable per hour rate of Six Hundred Dollars ($600.00) for actual time spent traveling to and from and attending such depositions, consultations or meetings, not to include ancillary time spent at hotels and related locations during evenings between proceedings. Medtronic also agrees to reimburse you for the out-of-pocket expenditures actually and reasonably incurred by you in connection with the performance of the services contemplated by this Section 5.10, including hotel accommodations, air fare transportation and meals consistent with Medtronics generally applicable expense reimbursement policies. It is expressly understood by the parties that any compensation paid by Medtronic to you under this Section 5.10 shall be in ex change for your time and is not intended or understood to be dependent upon the character or content of any information you disclose in good faith in any such proceedings, meetings or consultation.
 
     You agree not to engage in any form of conduct, or make any statements or representations, that disparage or otherwise harm the reputation, goodwill or commercial interests of Medtronic or its management. You will refrain from making any statements including disparaging, derogatory or otherwise negative comments or statements about Medtronic to any person, including specifically but not limited to, any person affiliated in any way with any actual or potential employee, customer, vendor or competitor of Medtronic or any member of the medical, business, professional or scientific community with whom Medtronic has had or, to your knowledge, has contemplated a business, prof essional, or scientific relationship.
5.11
Future Conduct.
Medtronic, its officers and directors agree not to engage in any form of conduct, or make any
 
-10-
 
statements or representations, that disparage or otherwise harm you or your reputation. Medtronic will refrain from making any statements including disparaging, derogatory or otherwise negative comments or statements about you to any person.
  In the event that any payments, benefits or other amounts provided to you under this agreement are subject to the excise tax imposed by Code Section 409A, Medtronic will indemnify and hold you harmless on a net after-tax basis from such excise tax and all interest and penalties imposed upon you with respect to such tax as well as all expenses incurred by you in contesting such tax. In the event of a claim is made against you for an excise tax under Code Section 409A, you agree that Medtronic may contest such claim, at its expense, with counsel appointed by Medtronic and reasonably acceptable to you. In addition, in the event that you are named as a defendant in litigation, or are otherwise subject to threatened or asserted claims against you, related to your employment or service with Medtronic, Medtronic will indemnify and provide legal defense for you in accordance with the law and subject to the terms and conditions of Medtronics directors and officers liability insurance coverage. Medtronic acknowledges its continuing obligation to defend and indemnify you in connection with acts and omissions performed in the course of your service with Medtronic, in the same manner as other current and former officers and directors.  The foregoing indemnification shall be provided subject to the requirements of Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-3(i)(l)(v).
5.12
Indemnification.  
     The parties agree that they will not reveal, publish, disseminate or discuss any or all of the background, negotiations or terms and conditions of this Agreement except to ones spouse, attorney, accountant or as may be required by law.
5.13
Confidentiality, Non-Disclosure.
     The parties acknowledge that they have been provided a full opportunity to review and reflect upon the terms of this Agreement and to seek advice of legal counsel of their choice and that their signatures are freely, voluntarily and knowingly given.  The undersigned officer of Medtronic represents and warrants that she has full authority to enter into this Agreement on behalf of Medtronic.
5.14
Voluntary Agreement.
   The parties agree that, except as it relates to the provisions of any agreements related to the grant of any stock option, other equity grant or employee benefit plan in which you participate, this Agreement supersedes any prior arrangements, agreements or contracts whether written, oral or implied (in law or fact), between them (including, without limitation, your Change of Control Agreement with Medtronic) and contains the entire understanding and agreement between the parties and cannot be amended, modified or supplemented in any respect, except by a subsequent written agreement executed by both parties.
5.15
Entire Agreement.
 
   This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of Minnesota.
5.16
Choice of Law.
     If any Article or provision(s) of this Agreement are found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or unenforceable, in whole or in part, then those provisions shall be deemed to be modified or restricted in the manner necessary to render them valid and enforceable, and this Agreement shall be construed and enforced to the maximum extent permitted by law, if any.
5.17
Limited Severability.
 
-11-
 
 
     The titles and subtitles of the various sections and paragraphs of this Agreement are inserted for convenience and shall not be deemed to affect the meaning or construction of any of the terms, provisions, covenants and conditions of this Agreement.
5.18
Headings.
  In the event of your death prior to the Retirement Date or before payment has been made of all amounts provided under this Agreement, the remaining payments to you under this Agreement shall be made to your estate .
5.19
Payments to Estate.
     Subject to your compliance with the provisions of this Agreement, you may seek and accept other employment and otherwise engage in gainful employment, including consulting services, during the Transition Period. You shall continue to be paid the amounts under this Agreement and have the benefits set forth in this Agreement during the Transition Period.  If you are required to continue to perform CEO duties beyond the anticipated Separation Date of April 29, 2011 and you notify the Board of your intent to accept a material employment opportunity (subject to the provisions of section 5.5 of this A greement) after April 29, 2011, the Board will endeavor to complete the transition of CEO duties as expeditiously as possible.
5.20
Right to Pursue Other Activities and Employment During the Transition Period.
    Medtronic agrees to consult with you on all public announcements regarding your employment, retirement, the transition of your employment, or your service or the completion of your service on the Board.
5.21
Public Announcements.
   Medtronic agrees you are not required to seek other employment or to attempt in any way to reduce any amounts payable to you by Medtronic pursuant to this Agreement. Furthermore, the amount of any payment or benefit provided for in this Agreement shall not be reduced by any compensation earned by you as a result of employment by another employer or otherwise.
5.22
No Mitigation.
.  The intent of the parties is that payments and benefits under this Agreement comply with Section 409A of the Code to the extent subject thereto or be exempt therefrom and, accordingly, to the maximum extent permitted, this Agreement shall be interpreted and administered to be in compliance therewith.  Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, to the extent required to avoid the application of an accelerated or additional tax under section 409A of the Code, each amount to be paid or benefit to be provided under this Agreement shall be construed as a separately identifi ed payment for purposes of section 409A of the Code, and any payments that are due within the "short term deferral period" as defined in section 409A of the Code shall not be treated as deferred compensation unless applicable law requires otherwise.  To the extent required to avoid the application of an accelerated or additional tax under section 409A of the Code, amounts that would otherwise be payable and benefits that would otherwise be provided pursuant to this Agreement during the six-month period immediately following your "separation from service" (within the meaning of section 409A) shall instead be paid on the first business day after the date that is six months following your "separation from service" (or upon your death, if earlier).  To the extent required to avoid an accelerated or additional tax under section 409A of the Code, amounts reimbursable to you under this Agreement shall be paid to you on or before the last day of the year following the year in which the expense wa s incurred and the
5.23
Section 409A
of the IRS Code (the Code)
 
-12-
 
amount of expenses eligible for reimbursement (and in-kind benefits provided to you) during any one year may not affect amounts reimbursable or provided in any subsequent year.
WHEREFORE, the parties execute this Agreement in counterparts effective the date set forth below.
 
 
 
 
-13-
 
is made and entered into by and between Medtronic, Inc. (Medtronic), and William A. Hawkins ("You"), whose residence is 2650 Marshland Road, Wayzata, MN 55391.
This Separation Agreement and Release (Release)
 
You are Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Medtronic, Inc.;
WHEREAS,
You and Medtronic have executed a Separation Agreement and Release dated December 28, 2010 (the Agreement) relating to your termination of employment by reason of retirement;
WHEREAS,
 
, the Agreement contemplated the execution (and non-revocation) of this Release before You would be provided with additional benefits in connection with your termination of employment;
WHEREAS
 
, neither the Agreement nor this Release constitutes any admission of any kind by either party; and
WHEREAS
 
the parties wish to document their understanding and agreement with respect to the terms of your separation from employment with Medtronic.
WHEREAS,
 
, in consideration of the provisions and agreements set forth hereinafter, and for good and valuable consideration, the sufficiency of which is acknowledged by both parties, the parties agree as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE
 
 
Article 1.        Separation Pay Award.
 
Article 2.         Termination of Employment.
Article 3         Separation Package.
 
-14-
 
Article 4.         Releases.
 
 
-15-
 
 
-16-
 
Article 5.         General Provisions.
 
 
-17-
 
 
-18-


