FILE:MDT/MDT-8K-20110316111929.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On March 10, 2011, Medtronic, Inc. (the "Company") agreed to sell $500,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its 2.625% Senior Notes due 2016 (the "2016 Notes") and $500,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its 4.125% Senior Notes due 2021 (the "2021 Notes," and together with the 2016 Notes, the "Notes") pursuant to an Underwriting Agreement dated March 10, 2011 (the "Underwriting Agreement"), among the Company, Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, and RBS Securities Inc., as representatives of the several underwriters named therein. The Company's representations in the Underwriting Agreement were made as of the date thereof in connection with negotiating the contract, are subject to qualifications and limitations agreed to by the parties, may have been used for purposes of allocating risk between the parties rather than for the purpose of establishing matters as facts, and should not be relied upon as though such representations were made to any holders of securities of the Company. Investors should read the information provided in the Registration Statement (as defined below) and in the Company's other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The sale of the Notes closed on March 15, 2011. The Notes were issued pursuant to an Indenture dated March 12, 2009, as supplemented by the Third Supplemental Indenture dated March 15, 2011 (the "Third Supplemental Indenture"), between the Company and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as trustee. The offer and sale of the Notes have been registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, pursuant to a registration statement on Form S-3ASR (No. 333-157777) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 9, 2009, as supplemented by a Prospectus Supplement dated March 10, 2011 (collectively, the "Registration Statement").
The purpose of this Current Report is to file with the Securities and Exchange Commission the Underwriting Agreement and the Third Supplemental Indenture, which includes the form of Global Notes, copies of which are attached hereto as Exhibits 1.1 and 4.1, respectively. A copy of the press release related to this offering is also furnished as Exhibit 99.1.
The foregoing description of the issuance, sale and term of the Notes does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Underwriting Agreement, the Indenture and the Supplemental Indenture entered into in connection therewith.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
1.1 Underwriting Agreement, dated March 10, 2011, among the Company, Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, and RBS Securities Inc., as representatives of the several underwriters named therein.
4.1 Third Supplemental Indenture, dated March 15, 2011, between the Company and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as trustee (which includes the form of Global Notes).
99.1 Press Release of the Company dated March 10, 2011.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 1.1
EXECUTION VERSION
March 10, 2011
Citigroup Global Markets Inc. 388 Greenwich Street New York, New York 10013
Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith      Incorporated One Bryant Park New York, New York 10036
RBS Securities Inc. 600 Washington Blvd. Stamford, Connecticut 06901
As Representatives of the several Underwriters listed in Schedule I hereto
Ladies and Gentlemen:
     Medtronic, Inc., a Minnesota corporation (the "Company"), proposes to issue and sell to the several Underwriters listed in Schedule I hereto (the "Underwriters"), for whom you are acting as representatives (the "Representatives"), $500,000,000 principal amount of its 2.625% Senior Notes due 2016 (the "2016 Notes") and $500,000,000 principal amount of its 4.125% Senior Notes due 2021 (the "2021 Notes," and together with the 2016 Notes, the "Securities"). The Securities will be issued pursuant to an Indenture dated as of March 12, 2009 (the "Base Indenture"), as supplemented by the Third Supplemental Indenture to be dated as of March 15, 2011, (the "Supplemental Indenture," and together with the Base Indenture, the "Indenture") between the Company and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as trustee (the "Trustee").
 
     The Company hereby confirms its agreement with the several Underwriters concerning the purchase and sale of the Securities, as follows:
     1. . The Company has prepared and filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder (collectively, the "Securities Act"), a registration statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-157777), including a prospectus (the "Base Prospectus"), relating to debt securities to be issued from time to time by the Company. The Company has also filed, or proposes to file, with the Commission pursuant to Rule 424 under the Securities Act a prospectus supplement specifically relating to the Securities (the "Prospectus Supplement"). The registration statement, as amended at the time it becomes effective, including the information, if any, deemed pursuant to Rule 430A, 430B or 430C under the Securities Act to be part of the registration statement at the time of its effectiveness ("Rule 430 Information"), is referred to herein as the "Registration Statement"; and as used herein, the term "Prospectus" means, the Base Prospectus as supplemented by the Prospectus Supplement specifically relating to the Securities in the form first used (or made available upon request of purchasers pursuant to Rule 173 under the Securities Act) in connection with confirmation of sales of the Securities and the term "Preliminary Prospectus" means the preliminary Prospectus Supplement specifically relating to the Securities together with the Base Prospectus. If the Company has filed an abbreviated registration statement pursuant to Rule 462(b) under the Securities Act (the "Rule 462 Registration Statement"), then any reference herein to the term "Registration Statement" shall be deemed to include such Rule 462 Registration Statement. Any reference in this Agreement to the Registration Statement, any Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus shall be deemed to refer to and include the documents incorporated by reference therein pursuant to Item 12 of Form S-3 under the Securities Act, as of the effective date of the Registration Statement or the date of such Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus, as the case may be and any reference to "amend," "amendment" or "supplement" with respect to the Registration Statement, any Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus shall be deemed to refer to and include any documents filed after such date under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder (collectively, the "Exchange Act") that are deemed to be incorporated by reference therein. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to such terms in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus.
Registration Statement
     At or prior to the time when sales of the Securities were first made (the "Time of Sale"), the Company has prepared certain information which information is identified in Annex B of this Agreement (collectively, the "Time of Sale Information").
     2. . (a) The Company agrees to issue and sell the Securities to the several Underwriters as provided in this Agreement, and each Underwriter, on the basis of the representations, warranties and agreements set forth herein and subject to the conditions set forth herein, agrees,
Purchase of the Securities by the Underwriters
 
severally and not jointly, to purchase from the Company the respective principal amount of Securities set forth opposite such Underwriter's name in Schedule I hereto at a price equal to 99.199% of the principal amount of 2016 Notes and 99.007% of the principal amount of 2021 Notes, in each case plus accrued interest, if any, from March 15, 2011 to the Closing Date (as defined below). The Company will not be obligated to deliver any of the Securities except upon payment for all the Securities to be purchased as provided herein.
     (b) The Company understands that the Underwriters intend to make a public offering of the Securities as soon after the effectiveness of this Agreement as in the judgment of the Representatives is advisable, and initially to offer the Securities on the terms set forth in the Prospectus. The Company acknowledges and agrees that the Underwriters may offer and sell Securities to or through any affiliate of an Underwriter and that any such affiliate may offer and sell Securities purchased by it to or through any Underwriter.
     (c) Payment for and delivery of the Securities will be made at the offices of Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP, 450 Lexington Avenue, New York, New York 10017 at 10:00 A.M., New York City time, on March 15, 2011, or at such other time or place on the same or such other date, not later than the fifth business day thereafter, as the Representatives and the Company may agree upon in writing. The time and date of such payment and delivery is referred to herein as the "Closing Date".
     (d) Payment for the Securities shall be made by wire transfer in immediately available funds to the account(s) specified by the Company to the Representatives against delivery to the nominee of The Depository Trust Company, for the account of the Underwriters, of one or more global notes representing the Securities (collectively, the "Global Note"), with any transfer taxes payable in connection with the sale of the Securities duly paid by the Company. The Global Note will be made available for inspection by the Representatives not later than 1:00 P.M., New York City time, on the business day prior to the Closing Date.
     (e) The Company acknowledges and agrees that the Underwriters are acting solely in the capacity of an arm's length contractual counterparty to the Company with respect to the offering of Securities contemplated hereby (including in connection with determining the terms of the offering) and not as a financial advisor or a fiduciary to, or an agent of, the Company or any other person. Additionally, neither the Representatives nor any other Underwriter is advising the Company or any other person as to any legal, tax, investment, accounting or regulatory matters in any jurisdiction. The Company shall consult with its own advisors concerning such matters and shall be responsible for making its own independent investigation and appraisal of the transactions contemplated hereby, and the Underwriters shall have no responsibility or liability to the Company with respect thereto. Any review by the Underwriters of the Company, the transactions contemplated hereby or other matters relating to such transactions will be performed solely for the benefit of the Underwriters and shall not be on behalf of the Company.
 
     3. . The Company represents and warrants to each Underwriter that:
Representations and Warranties of the Company
     (a) No order preventing or suspending the use of any Preliminary Prospectus has been issued by the Commission, and each Preliminary Prospectus, at the time of filing thereof, complied in all material respects with the Securities Act and did not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; that the Company makes no representation and warranty with respect to any statements or omissions made in reliance upon and in conformity with information relating to any Underwriter furnished to the Company in writing by such Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use in any Preliminary Prospectus.
Preliminary Prospectus.
provided
     (b) . The Time of Sale Information, at the Time of Sale did not, and at the Closing Date will not, contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; that the Company makes no representation and warranty with respect to any statements or omissions made in reliance upon and in conformity with information relating to any Underwriter furnished to the Company in writing by such Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use in such Time of Sale Information. No statement of material fact included in the Prospectus has been omitted from the Time of Sale Information and no statement of material fact included in the Time of Sale Information that is required to be included in the Prospectus has been omitted therefrom.
Time of Sale Information
provided
     (c) The Company (including its agents and representatives, other than the Underwriters in their capacity as such) has not prepared, made, used, authorized, approved or referred to and will not prepare, make, use, authorize, approve or refer to any "written communication" (as defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act) that constitutes an offer to sell or solicitation of an offer to buy the Securities (each such communication by the Company or its agents and representatives (other than a communication referred to in clauses (i) (ii) and (iii) below) an "Issuer Free Writing Prospectus") other than (i) any document not constituting a prospectus pursuant to Section 2(a)(10)(a) of the Securities Act or Rule 134 under the Securities Act, (ii) the Preliminary Prospectus, (iii) the Prospectus, (iv) the documents listed on Annex B hereto as constituting the Time of Sale Information and (v) any electronic road show or other written communications, in each case approved in writing in advance by the Representatives. Each such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus complied in all material respects with the Securities Act, has been or will be (within the time period specified in Rule 433) filed in accordance with the Securities Act (to the extent required thereby) and, when taken together with the Preliminary Prospectus accompanying, or delivered prior to delivery of, such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus,
Issuer Free Writing Prospectus.
 
did not, and at the Closing Date will not, contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; that the Company makes no representation and warranty with respect to any statements or omissions made in each such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus in reliance upon and in conformity with information relating to any Underwriter furnished to the Company in writing by such Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use in any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus.
provided
     (d) The Registration Statement is an "automatic shelf registration statement" as defined under Rule 405 of the Securities Act that has been filed with the Commission not earlier than three years prior to the date hereof; and no notice of objection of the Commission to the use of such registration statement or any post-effective amendment thereto pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) under the Securities Act has been received by the Company. No order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement has been issued by the Commission and no proceeding for that purpose or pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act against the Company or related to the offering has been initiated or threatened by the Commission; as of the applicable effective date of the Registration Statement and any amendment thereto, the Registration Statement complied and will comply in all material respects with the Securities Act and the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder (collectively, the "Trust Indenture Act"), and did not and will not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein not misleading; and as of the date of the Prospectus and any amendment or supplement thereto and as of the Closing Date, the Prospectus will not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; that the Company makes no representation and warranty with respect to (i) that part of the Registration Statement that constitutes the Statement of Eligibility and Qualification (Form T-1) of the Trustee under the Trust Indenture Act or (ii) any statements or omissions made in reliance upon and in conformity with information relating to any Underwriter furnished to the Company in writing by such Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus and any amendment or supplement thereto.
Registration Statement and Prospectus.
provided
     (e) The documents incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus and the Time of Sale Information, when they became effective or were filed with the Commission, as the case may be, conformed in all material respects to the requirements of the Exchange Act, and none of such documents contained any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; and during the Prospectus Delivery Period (as defined in Section 4(b)) any further documents so filed and incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the
Incorporated Documents.
 
Prospectus or the Time of Sale Information, when such documents become effective or are filed with the Commission, as the case may be, will conform in all material respects to the requirements of the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, as applicable, and will not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
     (f) The consolidated historical financial statements and schedules of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries included or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus present fairly in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the Company as of the dates and for the periods indicated, comply as to form with the applicable accounting requirements of Regulation S-X and have been prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles applied on a consistent basis throughout the periods involved (except as otherwise noted therein); the selected financial data set forth under the caption "Selected Financial Data" in the documents incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus fairly present, on the basis stated in the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus, the information included therein.
Financial Statements.
     (g) Since the date of the most recent financial statements of the Company included or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus, (i) there has not been any change in the capital stock or long-term debt of the Company or any of its subsidiaries, or any dividend or distribution of any kind declared, set aside for payment, paid or made by the Company on any class of capital stock, or any material adverse change, or any development involving a prospective material adverse change, in or affecting the business, properties, management, financial position or results of operations of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole; (ii) neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has entered into any transaction or agreement that is material to the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole or incurred any liability or obligation, direct or contingent, that is material to the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole; and (iii) neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has sustained any material loss or interference with its business from fire, explosion, flood or other calamity, whether or not covered by insurance, or from any labor disturbance or dispute or any action, order or decree of any court or arbitrator or governmental or regulatory authority, except in each case as otherwise disclosed in the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus.
No Material Adverse Change.
     (h) The Company has been duly incorporated and is validly existing as a corporation in good standing under the laws of the State of Minnesota, with corporate power and authority to own its properties and conduct its business as described in the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus, and has been duly qualified as a foreign corporation for the transaction of business and is in good standing under the laws of each other jurisdiction in which it owns
Organization and Good Standing.
 
or leases properties or conducts any business so as to require such qualification, except where the failure to be so qualified in any such jurisdiction would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on the business, properties, management, financial position or results of operations of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole (a "Material Adverse Effect"); and each Significant Subsidiary (as such term is defined in paragraph (w) of Rule 1-02 of Regulation S-X) of the Company has been duly organized and is validly existing in good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of organization except where the failure to be so organized, qualified or in good standing would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect. Each significant subsidiary of the Company is set forth in Schedule II hereto (each, a "Significant Subsidiary").
     (i) All the outstanding shares of capital stock of each Significant Subsidiary have been duly authorized and validly issued and are fully paid and nonassessable, and, except as otherwise set forth in the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus, all outstanding shares of capital stock of each Significant Subsidiary are owned by the Company either directly or through wholly-owned subsidiaries free and clear of any security interest, claim, lien or encumbrance.
Capitalization.
     (j) The Company has full corporate power and authority to execute and deliver this Agreement, the Securities, the Indenture (collectively, the "Transaction Documents") and to perform its obligations hereunder and thereunder; and all action required to be taken for the due and proper authorization, execution and delivery of each of the Transaction Documents and the consummation of the transactions contemplated thereby has been duly and validly taken.
Due Authorization.
     (k) The Base Indenture has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company, was duly qualified under the Trust Indenture Act upon effectiveness of the Registration Statement and constitutes a valid and legally binding agreement of the Company enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms, except as enforceability may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency or similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally or by equitable principles relating to enforceability (collectively, the "Enforceability Exceptions"). The Supplemental Indenture has been duly authorized by the Company and, when duly executed and delivered in accordance with its terms by each of the parties thereto, will constitute a valid and legally binding agreement of the Company enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms, except as enforceability may be limited by the Enforceability Exceptions.
The Indenture.
     (l) . The Securities have been duly authorized by the Company and, when duly executed, authenticated, issued and delivered as provided in the Indenture and paid for as provided herein, will be duly and validly issued and outstanding and will constitute valid and legally binding obligations of the Company enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms, subject to the Enforceability Exceptions, and will be entitled to the benefits of the Indenture.
The Securities
 
     (m) . This Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company.
Underwriting Agreement
     (n) . Each Transaction Document conforms in all material respects to the description thereof contained in the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus.
Descriptions of the Transaction Documents
     (o) Neither the Company nor any of its Significant Subsidiaries is in violation or default of (i) any provision of its charter or bylaws; (ii) the terms of any indenture, contract, lease, mortgage, deed of trust, note agreement, loan agreement or other agreement, obligation, condition, covenant or instrument to which it is a party or bound or to which its property is subject; or (iii) any statute, law, rule, regulation, judgment, order or decree applicable to the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries of any court, regulatory body, administrative agency, governmental body, arbitrator or other authority having jurisdiction over the Company or such Significant Subsidiary or any of its properties, as applicable, except, in the case of clauses (ii) and (iii), where such violation or default would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect.
No Violation or Default.
     (p) None of the execution and delivery of any of the Transaction Documents, the issuance and sale of the Securities, or the consummation of any other of the transactions contemplated by the Transaction Documents, or the fulfillment of the terms hereof or thereof will result in a breach or violation of or imposition of any lien, charge or encumbrance upon any property or assets of the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries pursuant to (i) the articles of incorporation or bylaws of the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries; (ii) the terms of any indenture, contract, lease, mortgage, deed of trust, note agreement, loan agreement or other agreement, obligation, condition, covenant or instrument to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party or bound or to which its or their property is subject; or (iii) any statute, law, rule, regulation, judgment, order or decree of any court, regulatory body, administrative agency, governmental body, arbitrator or other authority having jurisdiction over the Company or any of its subsidiaries or any of its or their properties; except, in the case of clauses (ii) and (iii), where such violation, breach, conflict or lien would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect.
No Conflicts.
     (q) . No consent, approval, authorization, order, registration or qualification of or with any court or arbitrator or governmental or regulatory authority is required for the execution, delivery and performance by the Company of each of the Transaction Documents, the issuance and sale of the Securities and compliance by the Company with the terms thereof and the consummation of the transactions contemplated by the Transaction Documents, except for the registration of the Securities under the Securities Act, the qualification of the Indenture under the Trust Indenture Act and such consents, approvals, authorizations, orders and registrations or qualifications as may be required under applicable state securities laws in connection with the purchase and distribution of the Securities by the Underwriters.
No Consents Required
 
     (r) Except as disclosed in the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus, no action, suit or proceeding by or before any court or governmental agency, authority or body or any arbitrator involving the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries or its or their property is pending or, to the best knowledge of the Company, threatened that (i) could reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the performance of any of the Transaction Documents, or the consummation of any of the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby or (ii) could reasonably be expected, individually or in the aggregate, to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Legal Proceedings.
     (s) PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, who have audited certain financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries are, to the Company's knowledge, an independent registered public accounting firm with respect to the Company and its subsidiaries within the applicable rules and regulations adopted by the Commission and the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) and as required by the Securities Act.
Independent Accountants.
     (t) Except as would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect, the Company and its Significant Subsidiaries own, possess, license or have other rights to use on reasonable terms, all patents, trade and service marks, trade names, copyrights, domain names (in each case including all registrations and applications to register same), inventions, trade secrets, technology, know-how, and other intellectual property (collectively, the "Intellectual Property") necessary for the conduct of the Company's business as now conducted. Except as set forth in the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus and except as would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect, (i) the Company owns, or has rights to use under license, all such Intellectual Property free and clear in all material respects of all adverse claims, liens or other encumbrances; (ii) to the knowledge of the Company, there is no material infringement by third parties of any such Intellectual Property; (iii) there is no pending or, to the Company's knowledge, threatened action, suit, proceeding or claim by any third party challenging the Company's or its Significant Subsidiaries' rights in or to any such Intellectual Property, and the Company is unaware of any facts which would form a reasonable basis for any such claim; (iv) there is no pending or, to the Company's knowledge, threatened action, suit, proceeding or claim by any third party challenging the validity, scope or enforceability of any such Intellectual Property, and the Company is unaware of any facts that would form a reasonable basis for any such claim; (v) there is no pending or, to the Company's knowledge, threatened action, suit, proceeding or claim by any third party that the Company or any Significant Subsidiary infringes or otherwise violates any patent, trademark, copyright, trade secret or other proprietary rights of any third party, and the Company is unaware of any other fact which would form a reasonable basis for any such claim; and (vi) to the knowledge of the Company, there is no valid and subsisting patent or published patent application that would preclude the Company, in any material respect, from practicing any such Intellectual Property.
Title to Intellectual Property.
 
     (u) Except as disclosed in the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus, the Company (i) does not have any material lending or other relationship with any Underwriter or affiliate of any Underwriter and (ii) does not intend to use any of the proceeds from the sale of the Securities hereunder to repay any outstanding debt owed to any affiliate of any Underwriter, other than payments directed to any Underwriter or affiliate of any Underwriter that, in the aggregate for such Underwriter and its affiliates, does not exceed five percent of the net proceeds received by the Company from the sale of the Securities hereunder.
No Undisclosed Relationships with the Underwriters.
     (v) The Company is not and, after giving effect to the offering and sale of the Securities and the application of the proceeds thereof as described in the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus, will not be an "investment company" within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder.
Investment Company Act.
     (w) The Company has filed all non-U.S., U.S. federal, state and local tax returns that are required to be filed or has requested extensions thereof (except in any case in which the failure so to file would not have a Material Adverse Effect and except as set forth in or contemplated in the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus) and has paid all taxes required to be paid by it and any other assessment, fine or penalty levied against it, to the extent that any of the foregoing is due and payable, except for any such assessment, fine or penalty that is currently being contested in good faith or which would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect and except as set forth in or contemplated in the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus (exclusive of any amendment or supplement thereto).
Taxes.
     (x) The Company and its Significant Subsidiaries are (i) in compliance with any and all applicable non-U.S., U.S. federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of human health and safety, the environment or hazardous or toxic substances or wastes, pollutants or contaminants ("Environmental Laws"); (ii) have received and are in compliance with all permits, licenses or other approvals required of them under applicable Environmental Laws to conduct their respective businesses; and (iii) have not received notice of any actual or potential liability known to management of the Company under any Environmental Law, except where such non-compliance with Environmental Laws, failure to receive required permits, licenses or other approvals, or liability would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect, except as set forth in or contemplated in the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus (exclusive of any amendment or supplement thereto). Except as set forth in the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus, neither the Company nor any of its Significant Subsidiaries has been named as a "potentially responsible party" under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980, as amended.
Compliance With Environmental Laws.
 
     (y) The Company and each of its Significant Subsidiaries maintain a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurance that (i) transactions are executed in accordance with management's general or specific authorizations; (ii) transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles and to maintain asset accountability; (iii) access to assets is permitted only in accordance with management's general or specific authorization; and (iv) the recorded accountability for assets is compared with the existing assets at reasonable intervals and appropriate action is taken with respect to any differences.
Accounting Controls.
     (z) The Company self-insures against losses.
Insurance.
     (aa) . The operations of the Company and its Significant Subsidiaries are and have been conducted at all times in compliance with applicable financial recordkeeping and reporting requirements of the Currency and Foreign Transactions Reporting Act of 1970, as amended, the money laundering statutes of all jurisdictions, the rules and regulations thereunder and any related or similar rules, regulations or guidelines, issued, administered or enforced by any governmental agency (collectively, the "Money Laundering Laws"), except in each case where such noncompliance or violation would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect; and no action, suit or proceeding by or before any court or governmental agency, authority or body or any arbitrator involving the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries with respect to the Money Laundering Laws is pending or, to the best knowledge of the Company, threatened.
Compliance with Money Laundering Laws
     (bb) None of the Company, any of its Significant Subsidiaries or, to the knowledge of the Company, any director, officer, employee or Affiliate of the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries is currently subject to any U.S. sanctions administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the U.S. Department of the Treasury ("OFAC"); and the Company will not directly or indirectly use the proceeds of the offering of the Securities hereunder, or lend, contribute or otherwise make available such proceeds to any subsidiary, joint venture partner or other person or entity, for the purpose of financing the activities of any person currently subject to any U.S. sanctions administered by OFAC.
Compliance with OFAC.
     (cc) . Except as disclosed in the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus, no person has the right to require the Company or any of its subsidiaries to register any securities for sale under the Securities Act by reason of the filing of the Registration Statement with the Commission or the issuance and sale of the Securities.
No Registration Rights
 
     (dd) The Company has not taken, directly or indirectly, any action designed to or that has constituted or that might reasonably be expected to cause or result, under the Exchange Act or otherwise, in stabilization or manipulation of the price of any security of the Company to facilitate the sale or resale of the Securities.
No Stabilization.
     (ee) No forward-looking statement (within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Exchange Act) contained in the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus has been made or reaffirmed without a reasonable basis or has been disclosed other than in good faith.
Forward-Looking Statements.
     (ff) . There is and has been no failure on the part of the Company or any of the Company's directors or officers, in their capacities as such, to comply with any provision of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations promulgated in connection therewith (the "Sarbanes-Oxley Act"), including Section 402 related to loans and Sections 302 and 906 related to certifications.
Sarbanes-Oxley Act
     (gg) . The Company is not an ineligible issuer and is a well-known seasoned issuer, in each case as defined under the Securities Act, in each case at the times specified in the Securities Act in connection with the offering of the Securities.
Status under the Securities Act
     (hh) The statements in the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information and Prospectus under the heading "Description of Debt Securities," "Description of Notes," "Material U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations," "Plan of Distribution," and "Legal Matters" fairly summarize the matters therein described in all material respects.
Certain Statements.
     4. . The Company covenants and agrees with each Underwriter that:
Further Agreements of the Company
     (a) The Company will file the final Prospectus with the Commission within the time periods specified by Rule 424(b) and Rule 430A, 430B or 430C under the Securities Act, will file any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus (including the Term Sheet in the form of Annex C hereto) to the extent required by Rule 433 under the Securities Act; and will file promptly all reports and any definitive proxy or information statements required to be filed by the Company with the Commission pursuant to Section 13(a), 13(c), 14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act subsequent to the date of the Prospectus and for so long as the delivery of a prospectus is required in connection with the offering or sale of the Securities; and the Company will furnish copies of the Prospectus and each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus (to the extent not previously delivered) to the Underwriters in New York City as soon as available on the business day next succeeding the date of this Agreement, in such quantities as the Representatives may reasonably request. The Company will pay the registration fees for this offering within the time period required by Rule 456(b)(1)(i) under the Securities
Required Filings.
 
Act (without giving effect to the proviso therein) and in any event prior to the Closing Date.
     (b) The Company will deliver, without charge, to each Underwriter, including to each of the Representatives, (i) a conformed copy of the Registration Statement as originally filed and each amendment thereto, in each case including all exhibits and consents filed therewith and (ii) during the Prospectus Delivery Period (as defined below), as many copies of the Prospectus (including all amendments and supplements thereto and documents incorporated by reference therein) and each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus as the Representatives may reasonably request. As used herein, the term "Prospectus Delivery Period" means such period of time after the first date of the public offering of the Securities as in the opinion of counsel for the Underwriters a prospectus relating to the Securities is required by law to be delivered (or required to be delivered but for Rule 172 under the Securities Act) in connection with sales of the Securities by any Underwriter or dealer.
Delivery of Copies.
     (c) Before making, preparing, using, authorizing, approving, referring to or filing any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, and before filing any amendment or supplement to the Registration Statement or the Prospectus, whether before or after the time that the Registration Statement becomes effective the Company will furnish to the Representatives and counsel for the Underwriters a copy of the proposed Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, amendment or supplement for review and will not make, prepare, use, authorize, approve, refer to or file any such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or file any such proposed amendment or supplement to which the Representatives reasonably object.
Amendments or Supplements; Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses.
     (d) The Company will advise the Representatives promptly, and confirm such advice in writing, (i) when any amendment to the Registration Statement has been filed or becomes effective; (ii) when any supplement to the Prospectus or any amendment to the Prospectus or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus has been filed; (iii) of any request by the Commission for any amendment to the Registration Statement or any amendment or supplement to the Prospectus or the receipt of any comments from the Commission relating to the Registration Statement or any other request by the Commission for any additional information; (iv) of the issuance by the Commission of any order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement or preventing or suspending the use of any Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus or the initiation or threatening of any proceeding for that purpose or pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act; (v) of the occurrence of any event within the Prospectus Delivery Period as a result of which the Prospectus, the Time of Sale Information or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus as then amended or supplemented would include any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances existing when the Prospectus, the Time of Sale Information or any such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus is delivered to a purchaser, not misleading; (vi) of the receipt by the Company of any notice of objection of the Commission to the use of the Registration Statement or any post-effective
Notice to the Representatives.
 
amendment thereto pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) under the Securities Act; and (vii) of the receipt by the Company of any notice with respect to any suspension of the qualification of the Securities for offer and sale in any jurisdiction or the initiation or threatening of any proceeding for such purpose; and the Company will use its reasonable best efforts to prevent the issuance of any such order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement, preventing or suspending the use of any Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus or suspending any such qualification of the Securities and, if any such order is issued, will obtain as soon as possible the withdrawal thereof.
     (e) If at any time prior to the Closing Date (i) any event shall occur or condition shall exist as a result of which the Time of Sale Information as then amended or supplemented would include any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances, not misleading or (ii) it is necessary to amend or supplement the Time of Sale Information to comply with law, the Company will immediately notify the Underwriters thereof and forthwith prepare and, subject to paragraph (c) above, file with the Commission (to the extent required) and furnish to the Underwriters and to such dealers as the Representatives may designate, such amendments or supplements to the Time of Sale Information as may be necessary so that the statements in the Time of Sale Information as so amended or supplemented will not, in the light of the circumstances, be misleading or so that the Time of Sale Information will comply with law.
Time of Sale Information.
     (f) . If during the Prospectus Delivery Period (i) any event shall occur or condition shall exist as a result of which the Prospectus as then amended or supplemented would include any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances existing when the Prospectus is delivered to a purchaser, not misleading or (ii) it is necessary to amend or supplement the Prospectus to comply with law, the Company will immediately notify the Underwriters thereof and forthwith prepare and, subject to paragraph (c) above, file with the Commission and furnish to the Underwriters and to such dealers as the Representatives may designate, such amendments or supplements to the Prospectus as may be necessary so that the statements in the Prospectus as so amended or supplemented will not, in the light of the circumstances existing when the Prospectus is delivered to a purchaser, be misleading or so that the Prospectus will comply with law.
Ongoing Compliance
     (g) The Company will qualify the Securities for offer and sale under the securities or Blue Sky laws of such jurisdictions as the Representatives shall reasonably request and will continue such qualifications in effect so long as required for distribution of the Securities; that the Company shall not be required to (i) qualify as a foreign corporation or other entity or as a dealer in securities in any such jurisdiction where it would not otherwise be required to so qualify, (ii) file any general consent to service of process in any such jurisdiction or (iii) subject itself to taxation in any such jurisdiction if it is not otherwise so subject.
Blue Sky Compliance.
provided
 
     (h) The Company will make generally available to its security holders and the Representatives as soon as practicable an earning statement that satisfies the provisions of Section 11(a) of the Securities Act and Rule 158 of the Commission promulgated thereunder covering a period of at least twelve months beginning with the first fiscal quarter of the Company occurring after the "effective date" (as defined in Rule 158) of the Registration Statement.
Earning Statement.
     (i) During the period from the date hereof through and including the date that is four business days after the date hereof, the Company will not, without the prior written consent of the Representatives, offer, sell, contract to sell or otherwise dispose of any debt securities issued or guaranteed by the Company and having a tenor of more than one year.
Clear Market.
     (j) The Company will apply the net proceeds from the sale of the Securities as described in the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus under the heading "Use of Proceeds".
Use of Proceeds.
     (k) The Company will not take, directly or indirectly, any action designed to or that could reasonably be expected to cause or result in any stabilization or manipulation of the price of the Securities.
No Stabilization.
     (l) . The Company will, pursuant to reasonable procedures developed in good faith, retain copies of each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus that is not filed with the Commission in accordance with Rule 433 under the Securities Act.
Record Retention
     5. . Each Underwriter hereby represents and agrees that:
Certain Agreements of the Underwriters
     (a) It has not and will not use, authorize use of, refer to, or participate in the planning for use of, any "free writing prospectus," as defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act (which term includes use of any written information furnished to the Commission by the Company and not incorporated by reference into the Registration Statement and any press release issued by the Company) other than (i) a free writing prospectus that, solely as a result of use by such underwriter, would not trigger an obligation to file such free writing prospectus with the Commission pursuant to Rule 433, (ii) any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus listed on Annex B or prepared pursuant to Section 3(c) or Section 4(c) above (including any electronic road show), or (iii) any free writing prospectus prepared by such underwriter and approved by the Company in advance in writing (each such free writing prospectus referred to in clauses (i) or (iii), an "Underwriter Free Writing Prospectus"). Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Underwriters may use a term sheet substantially in the form of Annex C hereto without the consent of the Company.
     (b) It is not subject to any pending proceeding under Section 8A of the Securities Act with respect to the offering (and will promptly notify the Company if any such proceeding against it is initiated during the Prospectus Delivery Period).
 
     (c) It will abide by the offering restrictions as set forth on Schedule III hereto.
     6.  The obligation of each Underwriter to purchase Securities on the Closing Date as provided herein is subject to the performance by the Company of its covenants and other obligations hereunder and to the following additional conditions:
Conditions of Underwriters' Obligations.
     (a) No order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement shall be in effect, and no proceeding for such purpose, pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) or pursuant to Section 8A under the Securities Act shall be pending before or threatened by the Commission; the Prospectus and each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus shall have been timely filed with the Commission under the Securities Act (in the case of a Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, to the extent required by Rule 433 under the Securities Act) and in accordance with Section 4(a) hereof; and all requests by the Commission for additional information shall have been complied with to the reasonable satisfaction of the Representatives.
Registration Compliance; No Stop Order.
     (b) The representations and warranties of the Company contained herein shall be true and correct on the date hereof and on and as of the Closing Date; and the statements of the Company and its officers made in any certificates delivered pursuant to this Agreement shall be true and correct on and as of the Closing Date.
Representations and Warranties.
     (c) Subsequent to the earlier of (A) the Time of Sale and (B) the execution and delivery of this Agreement, (i) no downgrading shall have occurred in the rating accorded the Securities or any other debt securities or preferred stock of or guaranteed by the Company or any of its subsidiaries by any "nationally recognized statistical rating organization," as such term is defined by the Commission for purposes of Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(F) of the Exchange Act and (ii) no such organization shall have publicly announced that it has under surveillance or review, or has changed its outlook with respect to, its rating of the Securities or of any other debt securities or preferred stock of or guaranteed by the Company or any of its subsidiaries (other than an announcement with positive implications of a possible upgrading).
No Downgrade.
     (d) No event or condition of a type described in Section 3(g) hereof shall have occurred or shall exist, which event or condition is not described in the Time of Sale Information (excluding any amendment or supplement thereto) and the Prospectus (excluding any amendment or supplement thereto) and the effect of which in the judgment of the Representatives makes it impracticable or inadvisable to proceed with the offering, sale or delivery of the Securities on the terms and in the manner contemplated by this Agreement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus.
No Material Adverse Change.
 
     (e) The Representatives shall have received on and as of the Closing Date a certificate of an executive officer of the Company who has specific knowledge of the Company's financial matters and is satisfactory to the Representatives (i) confirming that such officer has carefully reviewed the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus and, to the best knowledge of such officer, the representations set forth in Sections 3(b) or 3(d) hereof are true and correct, (ii) confirming that the other representations and warranties of the Company in this Agreement are true and correct and that the Company has complied with all agreements and satisfied all conditions on its part to be performed or satisfied hereunder at or prior to the Closing Date and (iii) to the effect set forth in paragraphs (a), (c) and (d) above.
Officer's Certificate.
     (f) On the date of this Agreement and on the Closing Date, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP shall have furnished to the Representatives, at the request of the Company, letters, dated the respective dates of delivery thereof and addressed to the Underwriters, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Representatives, containing statements and information of the type customarily included in accountants' "comfort letters" to underwriters with respect to the financial statements and certain financial information contained or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus; that the letter delivered on the Closing Date shall use a "cut-off" date no more than three business days prior to the Closing Date.
Comfort Letters.
provided
     (g) Fredrikson & Byron P.A., counsel for the Company, and Keyna P. Skeffington, in-house counsel for the Company, shall each have furnished to the Representatives, at the request of the Company, their written opinion and 10b-5 Statement, dated the Closing Date and addressed to the Underwriters, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Representatives, to the effect set forth in Annex A-1 and Annex A-2 hereto, respectively.
Opinion and 10b-5 Statement of Counsel for the Company.
     (h) The Representatives shall have received on and as of the Closing Date an opinion and 10b-5 Statement of Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP, counsel for the Underwriters, with respect to such matters as the Representatives may reasonably request, and such counsel shall have received such documents and information as they may reasonably request to enable them to pass upon such matters.
Opinion and 10b-5 Statement of Counsel for the Underwriters.
     (i) No action shall have been taken and no statute, rule, regulation or order shall have been enacted, adopted or issued by any federal, state or foreign governmental or regulatory authority that would, as of the Closing Date, prevent the issuance or sale of the Securities; and no injunction or order of any federal, state or foreign court shall have been issued that would, as of the Closing Date, prevent the issuance or sale of the Securities.
No Legal Impediment to Issuance.
 
     (j) . The Representatives shall have received on and as of the Closing Date satisfactory evidence of the good standing of the Company, Medtronic USA, Inc., Medtronic MiniMed, Inc. and Medtronic Sofamor Danek USA, Inc. in their respective jurisdictions of organization and their good standing in such other jurisdictions as the Representatives may reasonably request, in each case in writing or any standard form of telecommunication from the appropriate governmental authorities of such jurisdictions.
Good Standing
     (k) On or prior to the Closing Date, the Company shall have furnished to the Representatives such further certificates and documents as the Representatives may reasonably request.
Additional Documents.
     All opinions, letters, certificates and evidence mentioned above or elsewhere in this Agreement shall be deemed to be in compliance with the provisions hereof only if they are in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to counsel for the Underwriters.
     7. .
Indemnification and Contribution
     (a) The Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless each Underwriter, its affiliates, directors and officers and each person, if any, who controls such Underwriter within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act, from and against any and all losses, claims, damages and liabilities (including, without limitation, legal fees and other expenses incurred in connection with any suit, action or proceeding or any claim asserted, as such fees and expenses are incurred), joint or several, that arise out of, or are based upon, (i) any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Registration Statement or caused by any omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein, not misleading, or (ii) any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Preliminary Prospectus, the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto), any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or any Time of Sale Information, or caused by any omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, in each case except insofar as such losses, claims, damages or liabilities arise out of, or are based upon, any untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with any information relating to any Underwriter furnished to the Company in writing by such Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use therein.
Indemnification of the Underwriters.
     (b) Each Underwriter agrees, severally and not jointly, to indemnify and hold harmless the Company, its directors, its officers who signed the Registration Statement and each person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act to the same extent as the indemnity set forth in paragraph (a) above, but only with respect to any losses, claims, damages or liabilities that arise out of, or are based upon,
Indemnification of the Company.
 
any untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with any information relating to such Underwriter furnished to the Company in writing by such Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto), any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or any Time of Sale Information, it being understood and agreed that the only such information consists of the following: the third paragraph in the text under the caption "Underwriting" in the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus concerning the terms of the offering, including the concession and reallowance to certain dealers, by the Underwriters; the third and fourth sentences of the fifth paragraph of text under the caption "Underwriting" in the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus relating to market making by the Underwriters; and the sixth and seventh paragraphs of text under the caption " Underwriting" in the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus relating to over-allotment, stabilization and penalty bids by the Underwriters.
     (c) If any suit, action, proceeding (including any governmental or regulatory investigation), claim or demand shall be brought or asserted against any person in respect of which indemnification may be sought pursuant to either paragraph (a) or (b) above, such person (the "Indemnified Person") shall promptly notify the person against whom such indemnification may be sought (the "Indemnifying Person") in writing; that the failure to notify the Indemnifying Person shall not relieve it from any liability that it may have under this Section 7 except to the extent that it has been materially prejudiced (through the forfeiture of substantive rights or defenses) by such failure; and , , that the failure to notify the Indemnifying Person shall not relieve it from any liability that it may have to an Indemnified Person otherwise than under paragraphs (a) or (b) of this Section 7. If any such proceeding shall be brought or asserted against an Indemnified Person and it shall have notified the Indemnifying Person thereof, the Indemnifying Person shall retain counsel reasonably satisfactory to the Indemnified Person (who shall not, without the consent of the Indemnified Person, be counsel to the Indemnifying Person) to represent the Indemnified Person and any others entitled to indemnification pursuant to Section 7 that the Indemnifying Party may designate in such proceeding and shall pay the fees and expenses of such proceeding and shall pay the fees and expenses of counsel related to such proceeding, as incurred. In any such proceeding, any Indemnified Person shall have the right to retain its own counsel, but the fees and expenses of such counsel shall be at the expense of such Indemnified Person unless (i) the Indemnifying Person and the Indemnified Person shall have mutually agreed to the contrary; (ii) the Indemnifying Person has failed within a reasonable time to retain counsel reasonably satisfactory to the Indemnified Person; (iii) the Indemnified Person shall have reasonably concluded that there may be legal defenses available to it that are different from or in addition to those available to the Indemnifying Person; or (iv) the named parties in any such proceeding (including any impleaded parties) include both the Indemnifying Person and the Indemnified Person and representation of both parties by the same counsel would be inappropriate due to actual or potential differing interest between them. It is understood and agreed that the Indemnifying Person shall not, in connection with any proceeding or related proceeding in the same jurisdiction, be liable for the fees and expenses of more than one separate
Notice and Procedures.
provided
provided
further
 
firm (in addition to any local counsel) for all Indemnified Persons, and that all such fees and expenses shall be reimbursed as they are incurred. Any such separate firm for any Underwriter, its affiliates, directors and officers and any control persons of such Underwriter shall be designated in writing by the Representatives and any such separate firm for the Company, its directors, its officers who signed the Registration Statement and any control persons of the Company shall be designated in writing by the Company. The Indemnifying Person shall not be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its written consent, but if settled with such consent or if there be a final judgment for the plaintiff, the Indemnifying Person agrees to indemnify each Indemnified Person from and against any loss or liability by reason of such settlement or judgment. Notwithstanding the foregoing sentence, if at any time an Indemnified Person shall have requested that an Indemnifying Person reimburse the Indemnified Person for fees and expenses of counsel as contemplated by this paragraph, the Indemnifying Person shall be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its written consent if (i) such settlement is entered into more than 30 days after receipt by the Indemnifying Person of such request and (ii) the Indemnifying Person shall not have reimbursed the Indemnified Person in accordance with such request prior to the date of such settlement. No Indemnifying Person shall, without the written consent of the Indemnified Person, effect any settlement of any pending or threatened proceeding in respect of which any Indemnified Person is or could have been a party and indemnification could have been sought hereunder by such Indemnified Person, unless such settlement (x) includes an unconditional release of such Indemnified Person, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to such Indemnified Person, from all liability on claims that are the subject matter of such proceeding and (y) does not include any statement as to or any admission of fault, culpability or a failure to act by or on behalf of any Indemnified Person.
     (d) If the indemnification provided for in paragraphs (a) and (b) above is unavailable to an Indemnified Person or insufficient in respect of any losses, claims, damages or liabilities referred to therein, then each Indemnifying Person under such paragraph, in lieu of indemnifying such Indemnified Person thereunder, shall contribute to the amount paid or payable by such Indemnified Person as a result of such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (i) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Company on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other from the offering of the Securities or (ii) if the allocation provided by clause (i) is not permitted by applicable law, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only the relative benefits referred to in clause (i) but also the relative fault of the Company on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other in connection with the statements or omissions that resulted in such losses, claims, damages or liabilities, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The relative benefits received by the Company on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other shall be deemed to be in the same respective proportions as the net proceeds (before deducting expenses) received by the Company from the sale of the Securities and the total underwriting discounts and commissions received by the Underwriters in connection therewith, in each case as set forth in the table on the cover of the Prospectus, bear to the aggregate offering price of the Securities. The relative fault of the Company on the one hand and the Underwriters
Contribution.
 
on the other shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether the untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or the omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company or by the Underwriters and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission.
     (e) The Company and the Underwriters agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 7 were determined by allocation (even if the Underwriters were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation that does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to in paragraph (d) above. The amount paid or payable by an Indemnified Person as a result of the losses, claims, damages and liabilities referred to in paragraph (d) above shall be deemed to include, subject to the limitations set forth above, any legal or other expenses incurred by such Indemnified Person in connection with any such action or claim. Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 7, in no event shall an Underwriter be required to contribute any amount in excess of the amount by which the total underwriting discounts and commissions received by such Underwriter with respect to the offering of the Securities exceeds the amount of any damages that such Underwriter has otherwise been required to pay by reason of such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission. No person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Securities Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. The Underwriters' obligations to contribute pursuant to this Section 7 are several in proportion to their respective purchase obligations hereunder and not joint.
Limitation on Liability.
pro
rata
     (f) The remedies provided for in this Section 7 are not exclusive and shall not limit any rights or remedies which may otherwise be available to any Indemnified Person at law or in equity.
Non-Exclusive Remedies.
     8. . This Agreement shall become effective upon the execution and delivery hereof by the parties hereto.
Effectiveness of Agreement
     9. . This Agreement may be terminated in the absolute discretion of the Representatives, by notice to the Company, if after the execution and delivery of this Agreement and prior to the Closing Date (i) trading generally shall have been suspended or materially limited on the New York Stock Exchange or the over-the-counter market; (ii) trading of any securities issued or guaranteed by the Company shall have been suspended on any exchange or in any over-the-counter market; (iii) a general moratorium on commercial banking activities shall have been declared by federal or New York State authorities; or (iv) there shall have occurred any outbreak or escalation of hostilities or any change in financial markets or any calamity or crisis, either within or outside the United States, that, in the judgment of the Representatives, is material and adverse and makes it impracticable or inadvisable to proceed with the offering, sale or delivery of the Securities on the terms and in the manner contemplated by this Agreement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus.
Termination
 
     10. . (a) If, on the Closing Date, any Underwriter defaults on its obligation to purchase the Securities that it has agreed to purchase hereunder, the non-defaulting Underwriters may in their discretion arrange for the purchase of such Securities by other persons satisfactory to the Company on the terms contained in this Agreement. If, within 36 hours after any such default by any Underwriter, the non-defaulting Underwriters do not arrange for the purchase of such Securities, then the Company shall be entitled to a further period of 36 hours within which to procure other persons satisfactory to the non-defaulting Underwriters to purchase such Securities on such terms. If other persons become obligated or agree to purchase the Securities of a defaulting Underwriter, either the non-defaulting Underwriters or the Company may postpone the Closing Date for up to five full business days in order to effect any changes that in the opinion of counsel for the Company or counsel for the Underwriters may be necessary in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus or in any other document or arrangement, and the Company agrees to promptly prepare any amendment or supplement to the Registration Statement and the Prospectus that effects any such changes. As used in this Agreement, the term "Underwriter" includes, for all purposes of this Agreement unless the context otherwise requires, any person not listed in Schedule I hereto that, pursuant to this Section 10, purchases Securities that a defaulting Underwriter agreed but failed to purchase.
Defaulting Underwriter
     (b) If, after giving effect to any arrangements for the purchase of the Securities of a defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters by the non-defaulting Underwriters and the Company as provided in paragraph (a) above, the aggregate principal amount of such Securities that remains unpurchased does not exceed one-eleventh of the aggregate principal amount of all the Securities, then the Company shall have the right to require each non-defaulting Underwriter to purchase the principal amount of Securities that such Underwriter agreed to purchase hereunder plus such Underwriter's share (based on the principal amount of Securities that such Underwriter agreed to purchase hereunder) of the Securities of such defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters for which such arrangements have not been made.
pro
rata
     (c) If, after giving effect to any arrangements for the purchase of the Securities of a defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters by the non-defaulting Underwriters and the Company as provided in paragraph (a) above, the aggregate principal amount of such Securities that remains unpurchased exceeds one-eleventh of the aggregate principal amount of all the Securities, or if the Company shall not exercise the right described in paragraph (b) above, then this Agreement shall terminate without liability on the part of the non-defaulting Underwriters. Any termination of this Agreement pursuant to this Section 10 shall be without liability on the part of the Company, except that the Company will continue to be liable for the payment of expenses as set forth in Section 11 hereof and except that the provisions of Section 7 hereof shall not terminate and shall remain in effect.
     (d) Nothing contained herein shall relieve a defaulting Underwriter of any liability it may have to the Company or any non-defaulting Underwriter for damages caused by its default.
 
     (e) Notwithstanding the foregoing, for purposes of this Section 10, each series of Securities issued pursuant to the Indenture shall be treated as a separate series, and this Section 10 shall apply to each series as if this Underwriting Agreement applied solely to such series.
     11. (a) Whether or not the transactions contemplated by this Agreement are consummated or this Agreement is terminated, the Company will pay or cause to be paid all costs and expenses incident to the performance of its obligations hereunder, including without limitation, (i) the costs incident to the authorization, issuance, sale, preparation and delivery of the Securities and any taxes payable in that connection; (ii) the costs incident to the preparation, printing and filing under the Securities Act of the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, any Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus (including all exhibits, amendments and supplements thereto) and the distribution thereof; (iii) the costs of reproducing and distributing each of the Transaction Documents; (iv) the fees and expenses of the Company's counsel and independent accountants; (v) the fees and expenses incurred in connection with the registration or qualification and determination of eligibility for investment of the Securities under the laws of such jurisdictions as the Representatives may designate and the preparation, printing and distribution of a Blue Sky Memorandum (including the related fees and expenses of counsel for the Underwriters); (vi) any fees charged by rating agencies for rating the Securities; (vii) the fees and expenses of the Trustee and any paying agent (including related fees and expenses of any counsel to such parties); (viii) all expenses and application fees incurred in connection with any filing with, and clearance of the offering by, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc.; and (ix) all expenses incurred by the Company in connection with any "road show" presentation to potential investors.
Payment of Expenses
.
     (b) If (i) this Agreement is terminated pursuant to Section 9, (ii) the Company for any reason fails to tender the Securities for delivery to the Underwriters or (iii) the Underwriters decline to purchase the Securities for any reason permitted under this Agreement, the Company agrees to reimburse the Underwriters for all out-of-pocket costs and expenses (including the fees and expenses of their counsel) reasonably incurred by the Underwriters in connection with this Agreement and the offering contemplated hereby.
     12. . This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto and their respective successors and the officers and directors and any controlling persons referred to herein, and the affiliates of each Underwriter referred to in Section 7 hereof. Nothing in this Agreement is intended or shall be construed to give any other person any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or in respect of this Agreement or any provision contained herein. No purchaser of Securities from any Underwriter shall be deemed to be a successor merely by reason of such purchase.
Persons Entitled to Benefit of Agreement
 
     13. . The respective indemnities, rights of contribution, representations, warranties and agreements of the Company and the Underwriters contained in this Agreement or made by or on behalf of the Company or the Underwriters pursuant to this Agreement or any certificate delivered pursuant hereto shall survive the delivery of and payment for the Securities and shall remain in full force and effect, regardless of any termination of this Agreement or any investigation made by or on behalf of the Company or the Underwriters.
Survival
     14. . For purposes of this Agreement, (a) except where otherwise expressly provided, the term "affiliate" has the meaning set forth in Rule 405 under the Securities Act; (b) the term "business day" means any day other than a day on which banks are permitted or required to be closed in New York City; (c) the term "subsidiary" has the meaning set forth in Rule 405 under the Securities Act; and (d) the term "significant subsidiary" has the meaning set forth in Rule 1-02 of Regulation S-X under the Exchange Act.
Certain Defined Terms
     15. . (a) Any action by the Underwriters hereunder may be taken by the Representatives on behalf of the Underwriters, and any such action taken by the Representatives shall be binding upon the Underwriters.
Miscellaneous
Authority of the Representatives.
     (b) . In accordance with the requirements of the USA Patriot Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001)), the Underwriters are required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies their respective clients, including the Company, which information may include the name and address of their respective clients, as well as other information that will allow the Underwriters to properly identify their respective clients.
Patriot Act
     (c) All notices and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given if mailed or transmitted and confirmed by any standard form of telecommunication. Notices to the Underwriters shall be given to Citigroup Global Markets Inc., 388 Greenwich Street, New York, New York 10013 (fax: (212) 816-7912), Attention: General Counsel; Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, One Bryant Park, New York, New York 10036 (fax: 212-901-7881), Attention: High Grade Debt Capital Markets Transaction Management/Legal; and RBS Securities Inc., 600 Washington Blvd., Stamford, Connecticut 06901 (fax: 203-873-4534), Attention: Debt Capital Markets Syndicate. Notices to the Company shall be given to it at 710 Parkway NE LC400, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55432-5604, (telephone: 763-505-3328) (fax: 763-572-5459), Attention: Cameron D. Findlay, Esq., Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary.
Notices.
     (d) This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
Governing Law.
     (e) This Agreement may be signed in counterparts (which may include counterparts delivered by any standard form of telecommunication), each of
Counterparts.
 
which shall be an original and all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
     (f) No amendment or waiver of any provision of this Agreement, nor any consent or approval to any departure therefrom, shall in any event be effective unless the same shall be in writing and signed by the parties hereto.
Amendments or Waivers.
     (g) The headings herein are included for convenience of reference only and are not intended to be part of, or to affect the meaning or interpretation of, this Agreement.
Headings.
 
     If the foregoing is in accordance with your understanding, please indicate your acceptance of this Agreement by signing in the space provided below.
 
Accepted: March 10, 2011
Citigroup Global Markets Inc. Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith
                   Incorporated
RBS Securities Inc.
For themselves and on behalf of the several Underwriters listed in Schedule hereto.
 
Schedule I
 
Schedule II
Medtronic USA, Inc. Medtronic MiniMed, Inc. Medtronic Sofamor Danek USA, Inc. Medtronic Holding Switzerland GmbH Medtronic International Trading Sarl Medtronic Spine International Holding Company Kyphon Sarl
 
Schedule III
European Economic Area
     In relation to each member state of the European Economic Area which has implemented the Prospectus Directive (each, a Relevant Member State), each underwriter has represented and agreed that with effect from and including the date on which the Prospectus Directive is implemented in that Relevant Member State (the Relevant Implementation Date) it has not made and will not make an offer of notes which are the subject of the offering contemplated by this prospectus supplement to the public in that Relevant Member State other than:
     (a) to any legal entity which is a qualified investor as defined in the Prospectus Directive;
     (b) to fewer than 100 or, if the Relevant Member State has implemented the relevant provision of the 2010 PD Amending Directive, 150, natural or legal persons (other than qualified investors as defined in the Prospectus Directive), as permitted under the Prospectus Directive, subject to obtaining the prior consent of the representatives for any such offer; or
     (c) in any other circumstances falling within Article 3(2) of the Prospectus Directive,
provided that no such offer of Notes shall require us or any underwriter to publish a prospectus pursuant to Article 3 of the Prospectus Directive.
     For the purposes of this provision, the expression an offer of Notes to the public in relation to any Notes in any Relevant Member State means the communication in any form and by any means of sufficient information on the terms of the offer and the Notes to be offered so as to enable an investor to decide to purchase or subscribe for the Notes, as the same may be varied in that Member State by any measure implementing the Prospectus Directive in that Member State, the expression Prospectus Directive means Directive 2003/71/EC (and amendments thereto, including the 2010 PD Amending Directive, to the extent implemented in the Relevant Member State), and includes any relevant implementing measure in the Relevant Member State and the expression 2010 PD Amending Directive means Directive 2010/73/EU.
United Kingdom
     Each underwriter has represented and agreed that:
     (a) it has only communicated or caused to be communicated and will only communicate or cause to be communicated an invitation or inducement to engage in investment activity (within the meaning of Section 21 of the FSMA) received by it in
 
connection with the issue or sale of the Notes in circumstances in which Section 21(1) of the FSMA does not apply to us; and
     (b) it has complied and will comply with all applicable provisions of the FSMA with respect to anything done by it in relation to the Notes in, from or otherwise involving the United Kingdom.
 
Annex A-1
     1. The Registration Statement is an "automatic shelf registration statement" as defined under Rule 405 of the Securities Act that has been filed with the Commission not earlier than three years prior to the date of the Underwriting Agreement. No order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement has been issued, and no notice of objection of the Commission to the use of the Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment thereto pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) under the Securities Act has been received by the Company and no proceeding for that purpose or pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act against the Company or in connection with the offering of Securities is, to our knowledge, pending or threatened by the Commission.
     2. The Indenture appeared on its face to be appropriately responsive in all material respects with the requirements of the Trust Indenture Act.
     3. Based exclusively upon good standing certificates received from the respective Offices of the Secretary of State of the states of the Company's and Significant Subsidiaries' organization, each of the Company and the Significant Subsidiaries listed below is validly existing as a corporation in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction in which it is chartered or organized. The Significant Subsidiaries to which the foregoing opinion applies are: Medtronic USA, Inc., Medtronic Minimed, Inc. and Medtronic Sofamor Danek USA, Inc.
     4. Assuming due execution and delivery of the Indenture by the Trustee, the Indenture constitutes a valid and legally binding agreement of the Company enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms. The Underwriting Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company.
     5. The Securities have been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company and, when duly authenticated as provided in the Indenture and paid for as provided in the Underwriting Agreement, will be duly and validly issued and will constitute valid and legally binding obligations of the Company enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms and will be entitled to the benefits of the Indenture.
     6. Neither the execution and delivery of any of the Underwriting Agreement, the Indenture or the Securities, the issuance and sale of the Securities, nor the consummation of any other of the transactions contemplated therein, nor the fulfillment of the terms thereof will result in a breach or violation of, (i) the restated articles of incorporation or bylaws of the Company; or (ii) any statute, law, rule or regulation applicable to the Company of any regulatory body, administrative agency, governmental body, or other authority having jurisdiction over the Company, except where such breach would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
     7. No consent, approval, authorization, filing with or order of any court or governmental agency or body is required on the part of the Company in connection with the transactions contemplated in the Underwriting Agreement, the Indenture and the Securities, except such as may be required under the blue sky or securities laws of any jurisdiction in which the Securities are offered or sold and such other approvals as have been obtained.
     8. The Company is not and, after giving effect to the offering and sale of the Securities and the application of the proceeds thereof as described in the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus, will not be an "investment company" within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder.
     Such counsel shall also state that they have participated in conferences with representatives of the Company and with representatives of its independent accountants and in-house counsel at which the contents of the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information and Prospectus were discussed. Although such counsel is not opining as to, and does not assume responsibility for, and cannot guarantee the accuracy, completeness or fairness of any of the statements contained in the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus, and such counsel makes no representation that they have independently verified the accuracy, completeness or fairness of such statements, and subject to all other assumptions, limitations and qualifications set forth herein, such counsel shall advise that, (a) the Registration Statement and the Preliminary Prospectus Supplement and the Prospectus appeared on their face to be appropriately responsive in all material respects with the requirements of the Securities Act and (b) no information has come to such counsel's attention during the course of their representation of the Company in connection with the preparation of the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus that causes such counsel to believe (i) that the Registration Statement, at the time of its effective date (including the information, if any, deemed pursuant to Rule 430A, 430B or 430C to be part of the Registration Statement at the time of effectiveness), contained any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, (ii) that the Time of Sale Information, at the Time of Sale contained any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, or (iii) that the Prospectus as of its date and the Closing Date contains any untrue statement of a material fact or omits to state a material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading and (c) the statements under the headings "Description of Debt Securities," "Description of Notes" and "Underwriting" in the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus, insofar as such statements purport to summarize certain provisions of the Securities, the Indenture and the Underwriting Agreement, provide a fair summary of such provisions in all material respects and the statements under the headings "Material U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations" and "Legal Matters" fairly summarize the matters therein described.
 
     In rendering such opinion, such counsel may rely as to matters of fact on certificates of responsible officers of the Company and public officials that are furnished to the Underwriters.
 
Annex A-2
     1. Based exclusively upon good standing certificates received from the respective Offices of the Secretary of State of the states of the Company's or Significant Subsidiaries' organization, each of the Company and the Significant Subsidiaries listed below has been duly incorporated and is validly existing as a corporation in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction in which it is chartered or organized, with full corporate power and authority to own or lease, as the case may be, and to operate its properties and conduct its business as described in the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus. The Significant Subsidiaries to which the foregoing opinion applies are: Medtronic USA, Inc., Medtronic Minimed, Inc. and Medtronic Sofamor Danek USA, Inc.
     2. Each of the Underwriting Agreement, the Indenture and the Securities has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company.
     3. Neither the execution and delivery of any of the Underwriting Agreement, the Indenture and the Securities, the issuance and sale of the Securities, nor the consummation of any other of the transactions contemplated therein or in the Underwriting Agreement, nor the fulfillment of the terms thereof or of the Underwriting Agreement will result in a breach or violation of or constitute a default under, (i) the restated articles of incorporation or bylaws of the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries listed below; (ii) the terms of any indenture, contract, lease, mortgage, deed of trust, note agreement, loan agreement or other agreement, obligation, condition, covenant or instrument to which the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries is a party or bound or to which its or their property is subject; or (iii) any judgment, order or decree applicable to the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries of any court, regulatory body, administrative agency, governmental body, arbitrator or other authority having jurisdiction over the Company, any of its Significant Subsidiaries or any of their respective properties; except, in the case of clauses (ii) and (iii), where such breach, violation or default would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect. The Significant Subsidiaries to which the foregoing opinion applies are: Medtronic USA, Inc., Medtronic Minimed, Inc. and Medtronic Sofamor Danek USA, Inc.
     4. To such counsel's knowledge, there is no pending or threatened action, suit or proceeding by or before any court or governmental agency, authority or body or any arbitrator involving the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries or its or their property that is not adequately disclosed in the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus or incorporated by reference therein to filings made with the Commission by the Company, except in each case for such proceedings that, if the subject of an unfavorable decision, ruling or finding would not have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
     Such counsel shall also state that they have participated in conferences with representatives of the Company and with representatives of its independent accountants and outside counsel at which the contents of the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus were discussed. Although such counsel is not opining as to, and does not assume responsibility for, and cannot guarantee the accuracy, completeness or fairness of any of the statements contained in the Registration Statement, Time of Sale Information and Prospectus, and such counsel makes no representation that they have independently verified the accuracy, completeness or fairness of such statements, and subject to all other assumptions, limitations and qualifications set forth herein, such counsel shall advise that (a) the documents incorporated by reference in the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus made by the Company prior to the Closing Date when they were filed with the Commission, appeared on their face to be appropriately responsive in all material respects with the requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder and (b) no information has come to such counsel's attention during the course of their representation of the Company in connection with the preparation of the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus that causes such counsel to believe (i) that the Registration Statement, at the time of its effective date (including the information, if any, deemed pursuant to Rule 430A, 430B or 430C to be part of the Registration Statement at the time of effectiveness), contained any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, (ii) that the Time of Sale Information at the Time of Sale contained any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, (iii) that the Prospectus as of its date and the Closing Date contains any untrue statement of a material fact or omits to state a material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, or (iv) that the documents incorporated by reference in the Time of Sale Information and the Prospectus when such documents were so filed, contained any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made when such documents were so filed, not misleading.
     In rendering such opinion, such counsel may rely as to matters of fact on certificates of responsible officers of the Company and public officials that are furnished to the Underwriters.
 
Annex B
Time of Sale Information
1. Preliminary Prospectus Supplement dated March 10, 2011
2. Pricing Term Sheet dated March 10, 2011 in the form set forth on Annex C
 
Annex C
 
The issuer has filed a registration statement (including a prospectus) with the SEC for the offering to which this communication relates. Before you invest, you should read the prospectus in that registration statement and other documents the issuer has filed with the SEC for more complete information about the issuer and this offering. You may get these documents for free by visiting EDGAR on the SEC Web site at www.sec.gov. Alternatively, the issuer, any underwriter or any dealer participating in the offering will arrange to send you the prospectus if you request it by contacting Citigroup Global Markets Inc. toll-free at 1-877-858-5407, Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated toll free at 1-800-294-1322 or RBS Securities Inc. toll-free at 1-866-884-2071.
This pricing term sheet supplements the preliminary form of prospectus supplement issued by Medtronic, Inc. on March 10, 2011 relating to its Prospectus dated March 9, 2009.
Any disclaimer or other notice that may appear below is not applicable to this communication and should be disregarded. Such disclaimer or notice was automatically generated as a result of this communication being sent by Bloomberg or another email system.

Exhibit 4.1
 
     THIRD SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE, dated as of March 15, 2011, between Medtronic, Inc., a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of Minnesota (herein called the ""), and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as Trustee (herein called "");
Company
Trustee
     WHEREAS, the Company has heretofore executed and delivered to the Trustee an Indenture, dated as of March 12, 2009 (the ""), providing for the issuance from time to time of the Company's debentures, notes or other evidences of indebtedness (herein and therein called the ""), to be issued in one or more series as provided in the Base Indenture;
Base Indenture
Securities
     WHEREAS, Section 9.01 of the Base Indenture permits the Company and the Trustee to enter into an indenture supplemental to the Base Indenture to establish the form and terms of any series of Securities;
     WHEREAS, Section 2.01 of the Base Indenture permits the form of Securities of any series to be established in an indenture supplemental to the Base Indenture;
     WHEREAS, Section 3.01 of the Base Indenture permits certain terms of any series of Securities to be established pursuant to an indenture supplemental to the Base Indenture;
     WHEREAS, pursuant to Sections 2.01 and 3.01 of the Base Indenture, the Company desires to provide for the establishment of two new series of Securities under the Base Indenture, the form and substance of such Securities and the terms, provisions and conditions thereof to be set forth as provided in the Base Indenture and this Third Supplemental Indenture;
     WHEREAS, all things necessary to make this Third Supplemental Indenture a valid agreement of the Company, in accordance with its terms, have been done;
     NOW, THEREFORE, THIS THIRD SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE WITNESSETH:
     For and in consideration of the premises and the purchase of the Securities of each of the two series established by this Third Supplemental Indenture by the holders thereof (the ""), it is mutually agreed, for the equal and proportionate benefit of all such Noteholders, as follows:
Noteholders
     Section 1.01This Third Supplemental Indenture constitutes a part of the Base Indenture (the provisions of which, as modified by this Third Supplemental Indenture, shall apply to the Notes (as defined herein)) in respect of the Notes but shall not modify, amend or otherwise affect the Base Indenture insofar as it relates to any other series of Securities or modify, amend or otherwise affect in any manner the terms and conditions of the Securities of any other series.
. Relation to Base Indenture.
 
     Section 1.02For all purposes of this Third Supplemental Indenture, the capitalized terms used herein (i) which are defined in this Section 1.02 have the respective meanings assigned hereto in this Section 1.02 and (ii) which are defined in the Base Indenture (and which are not defined in this Section 1.02) have the respective meanings assigned thereto in the Base Indenture. For all purposes of this Third Supplemental Indenture:
. Definitions.
     (a) Unless the context otherwise requires, any reference to an Article or Section refers to an Article or Section, as the case may be, of this Third Supplemental Indenture;
     (b) The words "herein," "hereof" and "hereunder" and words of similar import refer to this Third Supplemental Indenture as a whole and not to any particular Article, Section or other subdivision; and
     (c) The terms defined in this Section 1.02(c) have the meanings assigned to them in this Section and include the plural as well as the singular:
     "" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.01(d).
Interest Payment Date
     "" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.01(d).
Interest Period
     "" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.01(c).
Maturity Date
     "" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.01(a).
Notes
     "" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.01(a)
2016 Notes
     "" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.01(a)
2021 Notes
     Section 2.01Pursuant to Sections 2.01 and 3.01 of the Base Indenture, there is hereby established two series of Securities, the terms of which shall be as follows:
. Terms of Notes.
     (a) . The Securities of these series shall be known and designated as the "2.625% Notes due 2016" (the "") and "4.125% Notes due 2021" (the "" and together with the 2016 Notes, the "") of the Company. The CUSIP number of the 2016 Notes is 585055 AU0 and the CUSIP number of the 2021 Notes is 585055 AV8.
Designation
2016 Notes
2021 Notes
Notes
     (b) . The Notes will be issued only in fully registered form, and the authorized denominations of the Notes shall be $2,000 principal amount and any integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof. The 2016 Notes will initially be issued in the form of one or more Global Securities substantially in the form of Annex A attached hereto, with such modifications thereto as may be approved by the authorized officer executing the same. The 2021 Notes will initially be issued in the form of one or more Global Securities substantially in the form of Annex B attached hereto,
Form and Denominations
 
with such modifications thereto as may be approved by the authorized officer executing the same. The Notes will be denominated in U.S. dollars and payments of principal and interest will be made in U.S. dollars.
     (c) . The principal amount of, and all accrued and unpaid interest on, the Notes shall be payable in full on March 15, 2016 for the 2016 Notes, and March 15, 2021 for the 2021 Notes, or if such days are not Business Days, the following Business Day (each, the "'').
Maturity Date
Maturity Date
     (d) . Interest payable on any Interest Payment Date (as defined below), the Maturity Date or, if applicable, the Redemption Date (as defined in the Base Indenture), shall be the amount accrued from, and including, the immediately preceding Interest Payment Date in respect of which interest has been paid or duly provided for (or from and including the original issue date of March 15, 2011, if no interest has been paid or duly provided for with respect to the Notes) to but excluding such Interest Payment Date, Maturity Date or, if applicable, Redemption Date, as the case may be (each, an ""). The Notes will bear interest at the rate of 2.625% for the 2016 Notes and 4.125% for the 2021 Notes per year from the original issue date thereof to the respective Maturity Date. Interest on the Notes shall be payable semi-annually in arrears on March 15 and September 15 of each year, beginning on September 15, 2011 (each such date, an ""). The amount of interest payable for any semi-annual Interest Period will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months. The amount of interest payable for any period shorter than a full semi-annual Interest Period for which interest is computed will be computed on the basis of the actual number of days elapsed per 30-day month. In the event any Interest Payment Date on or before the Maturity Date falls on a day that is not a Business Day, the interest payment due on that date will be postponed to the next day that is a Business Day and no interest shall accrue as a result of such postponement.
Interest
Interest Period
Interest Payment Date
     In the event the Maturity Date or a Redemption Date for any Note falls on a day that is not a Business Day, then the related payments of principal, premium, if any, and interest may be made on the next succeeding date that is a Business Day (and no additional interest will accumulate on the amount payable for the period from and after the Maturity Date for such Note). Interest due on the Maturity Date or a Redemption Date (in each case, whether or not an Interest Payment Date) will be paid to the Person to whom principal of such Notes is payable.
     (e) . Interest shall be payable to the Person in whose name the Notes are registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest, which shall be the March 1 or September 1 (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, next preceding the Interest Payment Date, or, in the event the Notes cease to be held in the form of one or more Global Securities, at the close of business on the date 15 days prior to that Interest Payment Date, whether or not a Business Day.
To Whom Interest is Payable
     (f) . The Notes shall not be subject to any sinking fund or analogous provision or be redeemable at the option of the Noteholders.
Sinking Fund; Noteholder Repurchase Right
 
     (g) . The Company hereby appoints Wells Fargo Bank, National Association as Security Registrar and Paying Agent and accepts Wells Fargo Bank, National Association as Authentication Agent with respect to the Notes. The Notes may be surrendered for registration of transfer and for exchange at the office or agency of the Company maintained for such purpose in the City of New York, New York and at any other office or agency maintained by the Company for such purpose. The Place of Payment for the Notes shall be the Paying Agent's office.
Registrar, Paying Agent, Authenticating Agent and Place of Payment
     Payments on the Notes, other than payment of interest due at Maturity, may be made, in the case of a Noteholder of at least $5,000,000 aggregate principal amount of Notes of any one series, by wire transfer to a U.S. dollar account maintained by the payee with a bank in New York City, if such Noteholder elects payment by wire transfer by giving written notice to the Paying Agent to such effect and designating such account no later than 15 days immediately preceding the relevant Interest Payment Date (or such other date as the Paying Agent may accept in its discretion).
     (h) . Until the Maturity Date, the Notes will be subject to Sections 13.02 and 13.03 of the Base Indenture.
Defeasance
     Section 3.01. As set forth in Section 9.02 of the Base Indenture, with the consent of the Noteholders of a majority in the aggregate principal amount of Notes of each series affected by such supplemental indenture at the time outstanding, the Company and the Trustee may from time to time and at any time enter into an indenture or indentures supplemental to the Base Indenture for the purpose of adding any provisions to or changing in any manner or eliminating any of the provisions of the Base Indenture or this Third Supplemental Indenture or of modifying in any manner the rights of the Noteholders.
Supplemental Indentures with Consent of Noteholders.
     Section 4.01This Third Supplemental Indenture is a supplemental indenture within the meaning of the Base Indenture. The Base Indenture, as supplemented and amended by this Third Supplemental Indenture, is in all respects ratified, confirmed and approved and, with respect to the Notes, the Base Indenture, as supplemented and amended by this Third Supplemental Indenture, shall be read, taken and construed as one and the same instrument.
. Relationship to Existing Base Indenture.
     Section 4.02Except as expressly modified by this Third Supplemental Indenture, the provisions of the Base Indenture shall govern the terms and conditions of the Notes.
. Modification of the Existing Base Indenture.
     Section 4.03This instrument shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York and of the United States.
. Governing Law.
 
     Section 4.04This instrument may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which so executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
. Counterparts.
     Section 4.05The recitals contained herein are made by the Company and not by the Trustee, and the Trustee assumes no responsibility for the correctness thereof. The Trustee makes no representation as to the validity or sufficiency of this Third Supplemental Indenture (except for its execution thereof and its certificates of authentication of the Notes).
. Trustee Makes No Representation.
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Third Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed and attested all as of the day and year first above written.
 
ANNEX A
     THIS SECURITY IS A GLOBAL SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE THEREOF. THIS SECURITY MAY NOT BE EXCHANGED IN WHOLE OR IN PART FOR A SECURITY REGISTERED, AND NO TRANSFER OF THIS SECURITY IN WHOLE OR IN PART MAY BE REGISTERED, IN THE NAME OF ANY PERSON OTHER THAN SUCH DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE THEREOF, EXCEPT IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE.
     UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION (""), TO THE ISSUER OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
DTC
     Medtronic, Inc., a corporation duly incorporated and subsisting under the laws of the State of Minnesota (herein called the "," which term includes any successor corporation under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to Cede & Co., or registered assigns, the principal sum of Dollars on and to pay interest thereon from or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, on and in each year, commencing , at the rate of % per annum, until the principal hereof is paid or made available for payment.
Company
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
     The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in such Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest, which shall be the or (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, next preceding such Interest Payment Date. Any such interest not so punctually paid or duly provided for will forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date and may either be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof shall be given to Holders of Securities of this series not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Securities of this series may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in said Indenture.
                    
                    
 
     Payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on this Security will be made at the office or agency of the Trustee maintained for that purpose, in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts.
     Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Security set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
     Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Trustee referred to on the reverse hereof by manual signature, this Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
 
     , the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed under its corporate seal.
In Witness Whereof
Dated:
 
     This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
     This Security is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the Company (herein called the ""), issued and to be issued in one or more series under an Indenture, dated as of March 12, 2009 (herein called the "," which term shall have the meaning assigned to it in such instrument), as supplemented by a Third Supplemental Indenture, dated as of March 15, 2011 (together with the Base Indenture, the ""), between the Company and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as Trustee (herein called the "," which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), and reference is hereby made to the Indenture for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. This Security is one of the series designated on the face hereof, initially limited in aggregate principal amount to $ . The Company may at any time issue additional securities under the Indenture in unlimited amounts having the same terms as the Securities (except for issue price and issue date and, in some cases, the first Interest Payment Date); provided that no additional securities of a series may be issued if an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing with respect to such series of securities.
Securities
Base Indenture
Indenture
Trustee
                    
     The Securities of this series are subject to redemption, as a whole or from time to time in part, upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' notice mailed to each Holder of Securities to be redeemed at his address as it appears in the Securities Register, on any date prior to their Stated Maturity at a Redemption Price equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the principal amount of such Securities to be redeemed, plus accrued and unpaid interest thereon to the Redemption Date or (ii) as determined by a Quotation Agent (as defined below), the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest of such Securities to be redeemed (not including any portion of such payments of interest accrued and paid as of the Redemption Date) discounted to the Redemption Date on a semiannual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Adjusted Treasury Rate (as defined below), plus basis points, plus accrued and unpaid interest thereon to the Redemption Date; provided that unless the Company defaults in payment of the Redemption Price, on or after the Redemption Date, interest will cease to accrue on the Securities or portions thereof called for redemption; provided further that the principal amount of a Security remaining Outstanding after a redemption in part shall be $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof.
                    
     "" means, with respect to any Redemption Date, the rate per annum equal to the semi-annual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such Redemption Date. The semi-annual equivalent yield to maturity will be computed as of the third business day immediately preceding the Redemption Date. "" means the United States Treasury security selected by the Quotation Agent as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term of the Securities to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of such Securities. "" means, with respect to any Redemption Date, (1) the average of the Reference
Adjusted Treasury Rate
Comparable Treasury Issue
Comparable Treasury Price
 
Treasury Dealer Quotations for such Redemption Date, after excluding the highest and lowest Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, (2) if the Trustee obtains fewer than three Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations so received or (3) if only one Reference Treasury Dealer Quotation is received, such quotation. "" means the Reference Treasury Dealer appointed by the Company. "" means (i) each of Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and RBS Securities Inc. and their respective successors; , , that, if the foregoing shall cease to be a primary U.S. Government securities dealer in New York City (a ""), the Company shall substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer; and (ii) any other Primary Treasury Dealer selected by the Company. "" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any Redemption Date, the average, as determined by the Trustee, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Trustee by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the third Business Day preceding such Redemption Date.
Quotation Agent
Reference Treasury Dealer
provided
however
Primary Treasury Dealer
Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations
     In the event of redemption of this Security in part only, a new Security or Securities of this series and of like tenor for the unredeemed portion hereof will be issued in the name of the Holder hereof upon the cancellation hereof.
     The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of the entire indebtedness of this Security or certain restrictive covenants and Events of Default with respect to this Security, in each case upon compliance with certain conditions set forth in the Indenture.
     If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of this series shall occur and be continuing, the principal of the Securities of this series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
     The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each series to be affected under the Indenture, at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding of each series to be affected. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of specified percentages in principal amount of the Securities of each series at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of all Securities of such series, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Security shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Security and of any Security issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security.
     As provided in and subject to the provisions of the Indenture, the Holder of this Security shall not have the right to institute any proceeding with respect to the Indenture or for the appointment of a receiver or trustee or for any other remedy thereunder, unless such Holder shall have previously given the Trustee written notice of a continuing Event of Default with respect to the Securities of this series, the Holders of at least 25% in
 
principal amount of the Securities of this series at the time Outstanding shall have made written request to the Trustee to institute proceedings in respect of such Event of Default as Trustee and offered the Trustee reasonable indemnity, and the Trustee shall not have received from the Holders of a majority in principal amount of Securities of this series at the time Outstanding a direction inconsistent with such request, and shall have failed to institute any such proceeding, for 60 days after receipt of such notice, request and offer of indemnity. The foregoing shall not apply to any suit instituted by the Holder of this Security for the enforcement of any payment of principal hereof or any premium or interest hereon on or after the respective due dates expressed herein.
     No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Security or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and any premium and interest on this Security at the times, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
     As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Security is registrable in the Security Register, upon surrender of this Security for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Company in any place where the principal of and any premium and interest on this Security are payable, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar duly executed by, the Holder hereof or the Holder's attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Securities of this series and of like tenor, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
     The Securities of this series are issuable only in registered form in denominations of $2,000 and any integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, Securities of this series are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Securities of this series and of like tenor of a different authorized denomination, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same.
     No service charge shall be made to a Holder for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
     Prior to due presentment of this Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Security is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Security be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
     All terms used in this Security which are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
 
ANNEX B
     THIS SECURITY IS A GLOBAL SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE THEREOF. THIS SECURITY MAY NOT BE EXCHANGED IN WHOLE OR IN PART FOR A SECURITY REGISTERED, AND NO TRANSFER OF THIS SECURITY IN WHOLE OR IN PART MAY BE REGISTERED, IN THE NAME OF ANY PERSON OTHER THAN SUCH DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE THEREOF, EXCEPT IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE.
     UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION (""), TO THE ISSUER OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
DTC
$
                    
     Medtronic, Inc., a corporation duly incorporated and subsisting under the laws of the State of Minnesota (herein called the "," which term includes any successor corporation under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to Cede & Co., or registered assigns, the principal sum of Dollars on and to pay interest thereon from or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, on and in each year, commencing , at the rate of % per annum, until the principal hereof is paid or made available for payment.
Company
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
                    
     The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in such Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest, which shall be the or (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, next preceding such Interest Payment Date. Any such interest not so punctually paid or duly provided for will forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date and may either be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof shall be given to Holders of Securities of this series not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Securities of this series may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in said Indenture.
                    
                    
 
     Payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on this Security will be made at the office or agency of the Trustee maintained for that purpose, in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts.
     Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Security set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
     Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Trustee referred to on the reverse hereof by manual signature, this Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
 
     , the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed under its corporate seal.
In Witness Whereof
 
     This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
     This Security is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the Company (herein called the ""), issued and to be issued in one or more series under an Indenture, dated as of March 12, 2009 (herein called the "," which term shall have the meaning assigned to it in such instrument), as supplemented by a Third Supplemental Indenture, dated as of March 15, 2011 (together with the Base Indenture, the ""), between the Company and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as Trustee (herein called the "," which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), and reference is hereby made to the Indenture for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. This Security is one of the series designated on the face hereof, initially limited in aggregate principal amount to $ . The Company may at any time issue additional securities under the Indenture in unlimited amounts having the same terms as the Securities (except for issue price and issue date and, in some cases, the first Interest Payment Date); provided that no additional securities of a series may be issued if an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing with respect to such series of securities.
Securities
Base Indenture
Indenture
Trustee
                    
     The Securities of this series are subject to redemption, as a whole or from time to time in part, upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' notice mailed to each Holder of Securities to be redeemed at his address as it appears in the Securities Register, (1) on any date prior to (three months prior to their Stated Maturity) at a Redemption Price equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the principal amount of such Securities to be redeemed, plus accrued and unpaid interest thereon to the Redemption Date or (ii) as determined by a Quotation Agent (as defined below), the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest of such Securities to be redeemed (not including any portion of such payments of interest accrued and paid as of the Redemption Date) discounted to the Redemption Date on a semiannual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Adjusted Treasury Rate (as defined below), plus basis points, plus accrued and unpaid interest thereon to the Redemption Date, and (2) on any date on and after at a Redemption Price equal to 100% of the principal amount of such Securities to be redeemed, plus accrued and unpaid interest thereon to the Redemption Date; provided in each case that unless the Company defaults in payment of the Redemption Price, on or after the Redemption Date, interest will cease to accrue on the Securities or portions thereof called for redemption; provided further that the principal amount of a Security remaining Outstanding after a redemption in part shall be $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof.
                    
                    
                    
     "" means, with respect to any Redemption Date, the rate per annum equal to the semi-annual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such Redemption Date. The semi-annual equivalent yield to maturity will be computed as of the third business day immediately preceding the Redemption Date. "" means the United States Treasury security selected by the Quotation Agent as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term of the Securities to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of
Adjusted Treasury Rate
Comparable Treasury Issue
 
comparable maturity to the remaining term of such Securities. "" means, with respect to any Redemption Date, (1) the average of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such Redemption Date, after excluding the highest and lowest Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, (2) if the Trustee obtains fewer than three Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations so received or (3) if only one Reference Treasury Dealer Quotation is received, such quotation. "" means the Reference Treasury Dealer appointed by the Company. "" means (i) each of Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and RBS Securities Inc. and their respective successors; , , that, if the foregoing shall cease to be a primary U.S. Government securities dealer in New York City (a ""), the Company shall substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer; and (ii) any other Primary Treasury Dealer selected by the Company. "" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any Redemption Date, the average, as determined by the Trustee, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Trustee by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the third Business Day preceding such Redemption Date.
Comparable Treasury Price
Quotation Agent
Reference Treasury Dealer
provided
however
Primary Treasury Dealer
Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations
     In the event of redemption of this Security in part only, a new Security or Securities of this series and of like tenor for the unredeemed portion hereof will be issued in the name of the Holder hereof upon the cancellation hereof.
     The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of the entire indebtedness of this Security or certain restrictive covenants and Events of Default with respect to this Security, in each case upon compliance with certain conditions set forth in the Indenture.
     If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of this series shall occur and be continuing, the principal of the Securities of this series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
     The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each series to be affected under the Indenture, at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding of each series to be affected. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of specified percentages in principal amount of the Securities of each series at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of all Securities of such series, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Security shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Security and of any Security issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security.
     As provided in and subject to the provisions of the Indenture, the Holder of this Security shall not have the right to institute any proceeding with respect to the Indenture or for the appointment of a receiver or trustee or for any other remedy thereunder, unless
 
such Holder shall have previously given the Trustee written notice of a continuing Event of Default with respect to the Securities of this series, the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the Securities of this series at the time Outstanding shall have made written request to the Trustee to institute proceedings in respect of such Event of Default as Trustee and offered the Trustee reasonable indemnity, and the Trustee shall not have received from the Holders of a majority in principal amount of Securities of this series at the time Outstanding a direction inconsistent with such request, and shall have failed to institute any such proceeding, for 60 days after receipt of such notice, request and offer of indemnity. The foregoing shall not apply to any suit instituted by the Holder of this Security for the enforcement of any payment of principal hereof or any premium or interest hereon on or after the respective due dates expressed herein.
     No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Security or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and any premium and interest on this Security at the times, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
     As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Security is registrable in the Security Register, upon surrender of this Security for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Company in any place where the principal of and any premium and interest on this Security are payable, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar duly executed by, the Holder hereof or the Holder's attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Securities of this series and of like tenor, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
     The Securities of this series are issuable only in registered form in denominations of $2,000 and any integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, Securities of this series are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Securities of this series and of like tenor of a different authorized denomination, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same.
     No service charge shall be made to a Holder for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
     Prior to due presentment of this Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Security is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Security be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
     All terms used in this Security which are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.

Exhibit 99.1
NEWS RELEASE
 Medtronic, Inc. (NYSE:MDT) today announced a registered offering of $500 million of its 2.625% Senior Notes due 2016 and $500 million of its 4.125% Senior Notes due 2021 (collectively, the "Notes"). Medtronic intends to use the net proceeds for working capital and general corporate purposes, which may include repayment of its indebtedness.
MINNEAPOLIS March 10, 2011
The Notes will be senior, unsecured obligations of Medtronic and will rank equally with all of Medtronic's existing and future senior, unsecured debt and senior to all of Medtronic's subordinated debt.
This press release is not an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy nor shall there be any sale of such Notes in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of such jurisdiction. The offering of these securities is being made only by means of a base prospectus (as supplemented and amended from time to time), which is part of a registration statement that Medtronic filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
 
Commission utilizing a "shelf" registration process (collectively, the "Prospectus"). Copies of the Prospectus may be obtained from Medtronic Inc. at 710 Medtronic Pkwy NE LC-480, Minneapolis, MN 55432, Attn: Investor Relations Department, (763) 505-2692.
About Medtronic
Medtronic, Inc., headquartered in Minneapolis, is the world's leading medical technology company, alleviating pain, restoring health and extending life for people with chronic disease.
This press release contains forward-looking statements regarding our intended use of proceeds and anticipated use of our shelf registration statement, which are subject to risks and uncertainties, such as our ability to market and sell the Notes, our continued eligibility to use the shelf registration statement, general economic conditions and other risks and uncertainties described in Medtronic's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Actual results may differ materially from anticipated results. Medtronic does not undertake to update its forward-looking statements.


