FILE:MDT/MDT-8K-20111122072617.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On November 22, 2011, Medtronic, Inc. issued a press release announcing its second quarter 2012 financial results. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
Item 9.01. Exhibits.
(d)    Exhibit 99.1      Press release of Medtronic, Inc. dated November 22, 2011.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 Medtronic, Inc. (NYSE: MDT) today announced financial results for its second quarter of fiscal year 2012, which ended October 28, 2011.
MINNEAPOLIS  Nov. 22, 2011
The company reported worldwide second quarter revenue of $4.132 billion, compared to the $3.903 billion reported in the second quarter of fiscal year 2011, an increase of 6 percent as reported or 3 percent after adjusting for a $123 million favorable foreign currency impact. As reported, second quarter net earnings were $871 million, or $0.82 per diluted share, an increase of 54 percent and 58 percent, respectively, over the same period in the prior year. As detailed in the attached table, second quarter net earnings and diluted earnings per share on a non-GAAP basis were $898 million and $0.84, an increase of 1 percent and 2 percent, respectively, over the same period in the prior year.
International revenue of $1.832 billion increased 14 percent as reported, or 6 percent on a constant currency basis. International sales accounted for 44 percent of Medtronic's worldwide revenue in the quarter. Emerging market revenue of $414 million increased 21 percent as reported, or 19 percent on a constant currency basis.
"I'm pleased we delivered another quarter of consistent growth in a difficult environment," said Omar Ishrak, Medtronic chairman and chief executive officer. "A majority of our businesses, and nearly all of our geographies, contributed to this growth. As we continue to focus on innovation, globalization, and execution, I see tremendous opportunities for growth in the future."
Cardiac and Vascular Group
The Cardiac and Vascular Group at Medtronic is comprised of Cardiac Rhythm Disease Management (CRDM), CardioVascular, and Physio-Control. The group had worldwide sales in the quarter of $2.207 billion, representing an increase of 5 percent as reported or 1 percent on a constant currency basis. Cardiac and Vascular Group International sales of $1.213 billion increased 12 percent as reported or 4 percent on a constant currency basis. Group revenue performance was driven by Pacing, AF Solutions, Coronary, Structural Heart, Endovascular and Peripheral sales offset by weaker sales in implantable cardioverter defibrillators (ICDs) and Physio-Control.
CRDM second quarter revenue of $1.268 billion increased 2 percent as reported or declined 2 percent on a constant currency basis. Second quarter revenue from ICDs was $708 million, down 8 percent on a constant currency basis, while pacing revenue was $511 million, an increase of 4 percent on a constant currency basis. Lower ICD sales due
to declining procedure volumes were partially offset by continued growth of the AF Solutions and Pacing businesses.
CardioVascular revenue of $830 million grew 12 percent as reported or 8 percent on a constant currency basis. Revenue growth was driven by solid performance in Structural Heart and Endovascular. The Coronary, Structural Heart, Endovascular and Peripheral businesses grew worldwide revenue 3 percent, 8 percent, and 20 percent, respectively, on a constant currency basis. In Structural Heart, transcatheter valves continued to show strong growth. Endovascular revenue was driven by continued growth from the U.S. launch of the Endurant stent graft for the treatment of abdominal aortic aneurysms (AAA) and growth in Peripheral, including drug-eluting balloons in international markets.
Physio-Control revenue of $109 million was flat as reported or down 3 percent on a constant currency basis. On November 17, 2011, the company entered into a definitive agreement under which affiliates of Bain Capital will acquire Physio-Control and related entities for cash in a transaction value estimated at $487 million. The transaction is expected to close in the first calendar quarter of 2012.
Restorative Therapies Group
The Restorative Therapies Group at Medtronic is comprised of Spinal, Neuromodulation, Diabetes, and Surgical Technologies. The group had worldwide sales in the quarter of $1.925 billion, representing an increase of 6 percent as reported or 4 percent on a constant currency basis. Restorative Therapies Group International sales of $619 million increased 18 percent as reported or 10 percent on a constant currency basis. Group revenue was led by solid performances in Diabetes and Surgical
Technologies, as well as improved growth in Neuromodulation, offset by continued challenges in Spinal.
Spinal revenue of $839 million declined 1 percent as reported or 3 percent on a constant currency basis. International sales for the Spinal business increased 17 percent as reported or 8 percent on a constant currency basis. Core Spinal revenue of $631 million, which includes core metal constructs, interspinous process decompression devices (IPDs), and balloon kyphoplasty (BKP) products, declined 3 percent on a constant currency basis. Biologics revenue of $208 million declined 4 percent on a constant currency basis, driven by declines in the sales of INFUSE, partially offset by revenue growth from Other Biologics products.
Neuromodulation revenue of $421 million increased 9 percent as reported or 6 percent on a constant currency basis. Growth continues to be driven by strong sales of InterStim Therapy, and Activa PC and RC Deep Brain Stimulation (DBS) systems for movement disorders. The RestoreSensor spinal cord stimulator with its proprietary AdaptiveStim technology continues to perform well in Europe, and will be launching in the U.S. and Japan in the third quarter.
Diabetes revenue of $367 million grew 13 percent as reported or 10 percent on a constant currency basis. Growth in the quarter was driven by strong sales of durable pumps and continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) products. The Enlite CGM sensor is performing well in Europe, and the company recently announced the start of its U.S. IDE study for approval of this next generation sensor.
Surgical Technologies revenue of $298 million grew 22 percent as reported or 20 percent on a constant currency basis. Excluding its new Advanced Energy business, Surgical
Technologies revenue grew 11 percent on a constant currency basis. Revenue growth was well balanced across the businesses' core platforms of Power, Navigation, Monitoring, Imaging, and Hydrocephalus Management. In August, Medtronic completed the acquisitions of Salient Surgical Technologies, Inc. and PEAK Surgical, Inc., which will further leverage Medtronic's strength in Surgical Technologies and drive growth in this business.
Revenue Outlook and Earnings Per Share Guidance
The Company today updated its revenue outlook and reiterated its diluted earnings per share (EPS) guidance for fiscal year 2012.
For the second half of fiscal year 2012, the Company expects revenue growth from continuing operations to remain in the range of 1 to 3 percent on a constant currency basis.
For fiscal year 2012, the Company continues to expect diluted EPS in the range of $3.43 to $3.50, which includes approximately $0.04 to $0.06 of dilution from the Ardian acquisition. After adjusting for Ardian dilution and 10 cents of one-time tax benefits received in fiscal year 2011, fiscal year 2012 diluted EPS growth is expected to be in the range of 6 percent to 9 percent.
EPS guidance excludes any unusual charges or gains that might occur during the fiscal year and the impact of the non-cash charge for convertible debt interest expense. The guidance provided only reflects information available to Medtronic at this time.
"We've aligned our organization to drive market leading execution and we continue to focus on extending our mission globally to expand growth," said Ishrak. "Our
commitment to developing innovative medical devices that add clinical value for our patients and economic value for our customers will continue to drive all that we do."
Webcast Information
Medtronic will host a webcast today, November 22, at 8 a.m. EST (7 a.m. CST), to provide information about its businesses for the public, analysts, and news media. This quarterly webcast can be accessed by clicking on the Investors link on the Medtronic home page at and this earnings release will be archived at . Within 24 hours, a replay of the webcast and a transcript of the company's prepared remarks will be available in the "Events & Presentations" section of the Investors portion of the Medtronic website.
www.medtronic.com
www.medtronic.com/newsroom
About Medtronic
Medtronic, Inc., headquartered in Minneapolis, is the world's leading medical technology company  alleviating pain, restoring health, and extending life for people with chronic disease. Its Internet address is .
www.medtronic.com
This press release contains forward-looking statements related to expected product introductions, the timing and impact of business divestitures, closing timelines for pending acquisitions, anticipated benefits for recent acquisitions, product growth drivers, strategies for growth, and Medtronic's future results of operations, which are subject to risks and uncertainties, such as competitive factors, difficulties and delays inherent in the development, manufacturing, marketing and sale of medical products, government regulation and general economic conditions and other risks and uncertainties described in Medtronic's periodic reports on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Actual results may differ materially from anticipated results. Medtronic does not undertake to update its forward-looking statements.
Unless otherwise noted, all comparisons made in this news release are on an "as reported basis," and not on a constant currency basis; references to quarterly figures increasing or decreasing are in comparison to the second quarter of fiscal year 2011.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


