FILE:MDT/MDT-8K-20111017171036.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 14, 2011, the Board of Directors of Medtronic, Inc. (the "Company") elected Michael O. Leavitt a director of the Company. Governor Leavitt's term will begin December 7, 2011 and he will stand for election by shareholders at the Company's 2012 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. Governor Leavitt was appointed to the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee and the Quality and Technology Committee of the Board of Directors. A press release announcing his appointment was issued on October 17, 2011 and is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
In connection with his election to the Board, Governor Leavitt will receive the Company's standard non-employee director compensation (which shall be provided on a prorated basis for the period beginning on the first day of his term and ending with the Company's fiscal year end), including:
 
 
Since the beginning of the Company's last fiscal year, neither Governor Leavitt nor any of his immediate family has been a party to any transaction or currently proposed transaction with the Company that is reportable under Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K. There were no arrangements or understandings between Governor Leavitt and any other person pursuant to which he was selected as a director.
 
(d) Exhibit 99.1 Press release of Medtronic, Inc. dated October 17, 2011.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
NEWS RELEASE
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Medtronic, Inc. (NYSE: MDT) today announced that its Board of Directors unanimously voted to elect Michael O. Leavitt, founder and chairman of Leavitt Partners, to the Board as an independent director.
MINNEAPOLIS  Oct. 17, 2011 
In his current position at Leavitt Partners, Governor Leavitt advises clients in the healthcare and food safety sectors. Previously, Governor Leavitt served in the Cabinet of President George W. Bush, first as Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (2003-2005) and then as Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services (2005-2009), which includes the Food and Drug Administration and the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services, among other agencies. Prior to his service in the federal government, he served three terms as Governor of the State of Utah.
"Governor Leavitt's reputation as a business strategist, his vast experience as a seasoned government official, leader, and his deep knowledge of health care policy will be of great importance in helping Medtronic drive future growth of the company. We are pleased to welcome him to Medtronic's Board of Directors," said Omar Ishrak, chairman and chief executive officer.
About Medtronic
Medtronic, Inc. (), headquartered in Minneapolis, is the global leader in medical technology  alleviating pain, restoring health and extending life for millions of people around the world.
www.medtronic.com
Any forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties such as those described in Medtronic's periodic reports on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Actual results may differ materially from anticipated results.


