FILE:MDT/MDT-8K-20120516172247.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On May 16, 2012, Medtronic, Inc. (the "Company") announced that it was notified by the U.S. Department of Justice and the Office of the United States Attorney for the District of Massachusetts that federal prosecutors have closed their investigation of the Company related to INFUSE Bone Graft. A copy of the press release related to this matter is furnished as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
99.1    Press Release of the Company dated May 16, 2012.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
  Medtronic, Inc. (NYSE: MDT) today announced it has been notified by the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) and the Office of the United States Attorney for the District of Massachusetts that federal prosecutors have closed their investigation of Medtronic related to INFUSE Bone Graft. The status of this federal civil and criminal investigation has been regularly reported in Medtronic's quarterly disclosures.
MINNEAPOLIS
MAY 16, 2012
"After several years of investigation, we are pleased that the Department of Justice and the U.S. Attorney's Office have come to the decision to close their investigation of the company related to INFUSE Bone Graft," said Chris O'Connell, executive vice president and group president, Restorative Therapies Group, which includes the company's Spinal business.
About Medtronic
Medtronic, Inc. (www.medtronic.com), headquartered in Minneapolis, is the global leader in medical technology  alleviating pain, restoring health, and extending life for millions of people around the world.
Any forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties such as those described in Medtronic's periodic reports on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Actual results may differ materially from anticipated results. Medtronic may be subject to legal actions regarding the INFUSE Bone Graft or its other products in addition to those described herein. The outcomes of such legal actions, and the impact of such legal actions on Medtronic's financial condition and results of operation, are not within Medtronic's control.


