FILE:MDT/MDT-8K-20120522073440.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On May 22, 2012, Medtronic, Inc. issued a press release announcing its fourth quarter and year-end 2012 financial results. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
(d) Exhibit 99.1         Press release of Medtronic, Inc. dated May 22, 2012.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 Medtronic, Inc. (NYSE: MDT) today announced financial results for its fourth quarter and fiscal year ended April 27, 2012.
MINNEAPOLIS  May 22, 2012
The company reported worldwide fourth quarter revenue of $4.297 billion, compared to the $4.167 billion reported in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2011, an increase of 4 percent on a constant currency basis after adjusting for a $42 million negative foreign currency impact or 3 percent as reported. As reported, fourth quarter net earnings were $991 million, or $0.94 per diluted share, an increase of 28 percent and 31 percent, respectively, over the same period in the prior year. As detailed in the attached table, fourth quarter net earnings and diluted earnings per share on a non-GAAP basis were
$1.036 billion and $0.99, an increase of 7 percent and 10 percent, respectively, over the same period in the prior year.
The company reported fiscal year 2012 revenue of $16.184 billion, an increase of 3 percent on a constant currency basis after adjusting for a $273 million positive foreign currency impact or 4 percent as reported. As reported, fiscal year 2012 net earnings were $3.617 billion or $3.41 per diluted share, an increase of 17 percent and 19 percent, respectively. As detailed in the attached table, fiscal year 2012 non-GAAP net earnings and diluted earnings per share were $3.666 billion and $3.46, an increase of 1 percent and 3 percent, respectively.
Fiscal year 2012 international revenue of $7.356 billion grew 7 percent on a constant currency basis or 11 percent as reported. Fourth quarter international revenue of $1.998 billion increased 7 percent on a constant currency basis or 5 percent as reported. International sales accounted for 46 percent of Medtronic's worldwide revenue in the quarter. Emerging market revenue of $463 million increased 20 percent on a constant currency basis or 19 percent as reported and now represents 11 percent of company revenue.
"I am pleased with our improved revenue growth this quarter in a dynamic healthcare environment," said Omar Ishrak, Medtronic chairman and chief executive officer. "Our growth was broad-based across our businesses and geographies, including strong U.S. launches of the Resolute Integrity drug-eluting stent and RestoreSensor spinal cord stimulator and strong growth in emerging markets. As we continue to focus on innovation, globalization, and execution, I see many opportunities for improved growth."
Cardiac and Vascular Group
The Cardiac and Vascular Group at Medtronic includes the Cardiac Rhythm Disease Management (CRDM) and CardioVascular businesses. The Group had worldwide sales in the quarter of $2.253 billion, representing an increase of 4 percent on a constant currency basis or 3 percent as reported. Cardiac and Vascular Group international sales of $1.288 billion increased 5 percent on a constant currency basis or 3 percent as reported. Group revenue performance was driven by Coronary, Transcatheter Valves, Endovascular, AF Solutions, Renal Denervation, and Peripheral, partially offset by small declines in Pacing and Implantable Cardioverter Defibrillators (ICDs).
CRDM revenue of $1.295 billion was flat on a constant currency basis or down 2 percent as reported. Fourth quarter revenue from ICDs was $744 million, down 1 percent on a constant currency basis, while pacing revenue was $492 million, a decrease of 2 percent on a constant currency basis. Continued growth of the AF Solutions business offset weaker ICD and Pacing sales.
CardioVascular revenue of $958 million grew 10 percent on a constant currency basis or 9 percent as reported. The Coronary business grew worldwide revenue 12 percent on a constant currency basis and U.S. revenue 24 percent on the impressive launch of the Resolute Integrity drug-eluting stent, resulting in a doubling of U.S. drug-eluting stent market share. The Structural Heart and Endovascular & Peripheral businesses grew worldwide revenue 7 percent and 10 percent, respectively, on a constant currency basis.
Restorative Therapies Group
The Restorative Therapies Group at Medtronic includes the Spine, Neuromodulation, Diabetes, and Surgical Technologies businesses. The Group had worldwide sales in the
quarter of $2.044 billion, representing an increase of 4 percent as reported and on a constant currency basis. Group revenue was driven by solid performances in Surgical Technologies, Neuromodulation, and Diabetes, partially offset by declines in U.S. Spine. Restorative Therapies Group international sales of $710 million increased 11 percent on a constant currency basis or 9 percent as reported.
Spine revenue of $818 million declined 6 percent on a constant currency basis or declined 7 percent as reported. International sales for the Spine business increased 8 percent on a constant currency basis. Core Spine revenue of $629 million, which includes core metal constructs, interspinous process decompression devices, and balloon kyphoplasty products, declined 3 percent on a constant currency basis. Biologics revenue of $189 million declined 16 percent on a constant currency basis, driven by declines in U.S. sales of INFUSE, partially offset by revenue growth in Other Biologics.
Neuromodulation revenue of $463 million increased 8 percent on a constant currency basis or 7 percent as reported. Growth was driven by an increase in new implants in pain stimulation, deep brain stimulation (DBS), and stimulation for incontinence indications. Growth in pain stimulation was driven by the successful U.S. and Japan launches of the RestoreSensor spinal cord stimulator with its proprietary AdaptiveStim technology. Sales of DBS products were driven by an increased focus on neurologist referrals. In Uro/Gastro, sales of InterStim Therapy for both urinary and bowel indications drove growth.
Diabetes revenue of $392 million grew 8 percent on a constant currency basis or 7 percent as reported. Growth in the quarter was driven by strong sales of continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) products and consumables. The Enlite CGM sensor had
solid growth in Europe, and the company continues to make progress on its IDE study for U.S. approval of this next generation sensor.
Surgical Technologies revenue of $371 million grew 25 percent on a constant currency basis or 24 percent as reported. Organic revenue growth accelerated to 14 percent, after adjusting for $34 million of revenue from the Advanced Energy business, consisting of the company's Salient Surgical Technologies and PEAK Surgical acquisitions. Revenue growth was driven by strong sales of capital equipment in the ENT and Navigation businesses.
Fiscal Year 2013 Revenue Outlook and Earnings per Share Guidance
The company today provided its initial revenue outlook and diluted earnings per share (EPS) guidance for fiscal year 2013.
The company expects fiscal year 2013 revenue growth in the range of 2 to 4 percent on a constant currency basis. The company expects fiscal year 2013 diluted EPS in the range of $3.62 to $3.70, which implies EPS growth of 5 to 7 percent.
Earnings per share guidance excludes any unusual charges or gains that might occur during the fiscal year and the impact of the non-cash charge for convertible debt interest expense. The guidance provided only reflects information available to Medtronic at this time.
In closing, Ishrak said, "We are beginning to gain momentum worldwide and are optimistic about our ability to improve long-term growth as we expand globally and identify new opportunities to deliver economic value to the changing health care system."
Webcast Information
Medtronic will host a webcast today, May 22, at 8 a.m. EDT (7 a.m. CDT), to provide information about its businesses for the public, analysts, and news media. This quarterly webcast can be accessed by clicking on the Investors link on the Medtronic home page at and this earnings release will be archived at . Within 24 hours, a replay of the webcast and a transcript of the company's prepared remarks will be available in the "Events & Presentations" section of the Investors portion of the Medtronic website.
www.medtronic.com
www.medtronic.com/newsroom
About Medtronic
Medtronic, Inc., is the world's leading medical technology company  alleviating pain, restoring health, and extending life for people with chronic disease.
This press release contains forward-looking statements related to product growth drivers, strategies for growth, regulatory developments and Medtronic's future results of operations, which are subject to risks and uncertainties, such as competitive factors, difficulties and delays inherent in the development, manufacturing, marketing and sale of medical products, government regulation and general economic conditions and other risks and uncertainties described in Medtronic's periodic reports on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Actual results may differ materially from anticipated results. Medtronic does not undertake to update its forward-looking statements.
Unless otherwise noted, all comparisons made in this news release are on an "as reported basis," and not on a constant currency basis. References to quarterly figures increasing or decreasing are in comparison to the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2011, and references to annual figures increasing or decreasing are in comparison to fiscal year 2011.
($ millions)
 
 
Note: The data in this schedule has been intentionally rounded to the nearest million and therefore the quarterly revenue may not sum to the fiscal year to date revenue.
($ millions)
 
Note: The data in this schedule has been intentionally rounded to the nearest million and therefore the quarterly revenue may not sum to the fiscal year to date revenue.
($ millions)
 
Note: The data in this schedule has been intentionally rounded to the nearest million and therefore the quarterly revenue may not sum to the fiscal year to date revenue.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


