FILE:MDT/MDT-8K-20120821073154.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):
August 21, 2012
 
 
(Registrant's telephone number, including area code):
 (763) 514-4000
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
    (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
    (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
On August 21, 2012, Medtronic, Inc. issued a press release announcing its first quarter 2013 financial results. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
(d)     Exhibit 99.1        Press release of Medtronic, Inc. dated August 21, 2012.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 Medtronic, Inc. (NYSE: MDT) today announced financial results for its first quarter of fiscal year 2013, which ended July 27, 2012.
MINNEAPOLIS  August 21, 2012
The Company reported worldwide first quarter revenue of $4.008 billion, an increase of 5 percent on a constant currency basis after adjusting for a $119 million negative foreign currency impact or 2 percent as reported. As reported, first quarter net earnings were $864 million, or $0.83 per diluted share, an increase of 5 percent and 8 percent, respectively, over the same period in the prior year. As detailed in the attached table, first quarter net earnings and diluted earnings per share on a non-GAAP basis were $883 million and $0.85, an increase of 4 percent and 8 percent, respectively, over the same period in the prior year.
First quarter international revenue of $1.781 billion increased 6 percent on a constant currency basis or declined 1 percent as reported. International sales accounted for 44 percent of Medtronic's worldwide revenue in the quarter. Emerging market revenue of $438 million increased 14 percent on a constant currency basis or 9 percent as reported and represents 11 percent of Company revenue.
"We delivered another quarter of improving revenue growth in a dynamic healthcare environment," said Omar Ishrak, Medtronic chairman and chief executive officer. "Once again, our growth was broad-based across businesses and geographies and reflects the positive impact of well-executed product launches and stabilizing end-markets."
Cardiac and Vascular Group
The Cardiac and Vascular Group includes the Cardiac Rhythm Disease Management (CRDM), Coronary, Structural Heart, and Endovascular businesses. The Group had worldwide sales in the quarter of $2.115 billion, representing an increase of 4 percent on a constant currency basis or 1 percent as reported. Group revenue performance on a constant currency basis was driven by solid growth in Coronary, Endovascular, AF Solutions, and Structural Heart, partially offset by declines in Pacing. Cardiac and Vascular Group international sales of $1.165 billion increased 5 percent on a constant currency basis or declined 2 percent as reported.
CRDM revenue of $1.193 billion declined 2 percent on a constant currency basis or 5 percent as reported. First quarter revenue from Implantable Cardioverter Defibrillators (ICDs) was $675 million, flat on a constant currency basis, while Pacing revenue was $463 million, a decline of 6 percent on a constant currency basis. Continued growth of
the AF Solutions business partially offset weaker Pacing sales, while the Company saw continued stabilization in the U.S. ICD market.
Coronary revenue of $433 million grew 16 percent on a constant currency basis or 11 percent as reported. Sales of drug-eluting stents increased 36 percent on a constant currency basis, driven by significant share gains of the Resolute Integrity drug-eluting stent in the United States market.
Structural Heart revenue of $280 million grew 7 percent on a constant currency basis or 2 percent as reported. Growth was driven by strong sales of the CoreValve transcatheter aortic heart valves in international markets.
Endovascular revenue of $209 million grew 17 percent on a constant currency basis or 12 percent as reported. The recent launch of the Endurant abdominal aortic stent in Japan, the launch of Endurant II in the U.S. and Europe, account penetration with our Complete SE vascular stent, and the continued adoption of our Assurant Cobalt iliac stent drove growth in the quarter.
Restorative Therapies Group
The Restorative Therapies Group includes the Spine, Neuromodulation, Diabetes, and Surgical Technologies businesses. The Group had worldwide sales in the quarter of $1.893 billion, representing an increase of 5 percent on a constant currency basis or 3 percent as reported. Group revenue, on a constant currency basis, was driven by growth in Surgical Technologies, Neuromodulation, Diabetes, and Core Spine, partially offset by declines in BMP. Restorative Therapies Group international sales of $616 million increased 7 percent on a constant currency basis or 1 percent as reported.
Spine revenue of $786 million declined 3 percent on a constant currency basis or 5 percent as reported. Core Spine revenue of $645 million grew 1 percent on a constant currency basis or declined 1 percent as reported. The Company saw improvement in its Core Spine business as new products reached greater scale and new procedural innovation drove increased surgeon interest in Medtronic therapies. BMP revenue of $141 million declined 19 percent, both as reported and on a constant currency basis.
Surgical Technologies revenue of $324 million grew 24 percent on a constant currency basis or 22 percent as reported. Organic revenue growth after adjusting for the acquisitions of PEAK Surgical and Salient Surgical Technologies, was 11 percent on a constant currency basis or 9 percent as reported. Surgical Technologies revenue growth was driven by strong capital equipment sales, as surgeon demand for navigated spine procedures drove greater utilization of the StealthStation S7 and O-Arm.
Neuromodulation revenue of $419 million increased 8 percent on a constant currency basis or 6 percent as reported. Growth was driven by the continued acceptance of the RestoreSensor spinal cord stimulator with its proprietary AdaptiveStim technology, solid new implant growth of DBS in the U.S., and strong sales of InterStim Therapy for both urinary and bowel indications.
Diabetes revenue of $364 million grew 6 percent on a constant currency basis or 3 percent as reported. Growth in the quarter was driven by strong sales of continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) products. The Veo insulin pump with its low glucose suspend technology, together with the Enlite CGM sensor, had solid growth in international markets.
Earnings per Share Guidance
The Company reiterated its fiscal year 2013 diluted EPS guidance range of $3.62 to $3.70, which implies annual EPS growth of 5 to 7 percent.
In closing, Ishrak said, "Our Q1 results represent another positive step toward our goal of delivering consistent and dependable growth. I am confident that our market-leading portfolio and pipeline, coupled with our focus on globalization and economic value, provide us with significant opportunities for growth."
Webcast Information
Medtronic will host a webcast today, August 21, at 8 a.m. EDT (7 a.m. CDT), to provide information about its businesses for the public, analysts, and news media. This quarterly webcast can be accessed by clicking on the Investors link on the Medtronic home page at and this earnings release will be archived at . Within 24 hours, a replay of the webcast and a transcript of the company's prepared remarks will be available in the "Events & Presentations" section of the Investors portion of the Medtronic website.
www.medtronic.com
www.medtronic.com/newsroom
About Medtronic
Medtronic, Inc., is the world's leading medical technology company  alleviating pain, restoring health, and extending life for people with chronic disease.
This press release contains forward-looking statements related to product growth drivers, market position, strategies for growth, and Medtronic's future results of operations, which are subject to risks and uncertainties, such as competitive factors, difficulties and delays inherent in the development, manufacturing, marketing and sale of medical products, government regulation and general economic conditions and other risks and uncertainties
described in Medtronic's periodic reports on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Actual results may differ materially from anticipated results. Medtronic does not undertake to update its forward-looking statements.
Earnings per share guidance excludes any unusual charges or gains that might occur during the fiscal year and the impact of the non-cash charge for convertible debt interest expense. The guidance provided only reflects information available to Medtronic at this time
.
Unless otherwise noted, all comparisons made in this news release are on an "as reported basis," and not on a constant currency basis. References to quarterly figures increasing or decreasing are in comparison to the first quarter of fiscal year 2012.
       ($ millions)
(1) Medtronic management believes that in order to properly understand Medtronic's short-term and long-term financial trends, investors may wish to consider the impact of foreign currency translation on revenue. In addition, Medtronic management uses results of operations before currency translation to evaluate the operational performance of the Company and as a basis for strategic planning. Investors should consider these non-GAAP measures in addition to, and not as a substitute for, financial performance measures prepared in accordance with GAAP.
   Note:  The data in this schedule has been intentionally rounded to the nearest million and therefore the quarterly revenue may not sum to the fiscal year to date revenue. In addition, fiscal year 2012 Other Biologics revenue, which was previously included within Biologics, has been reclassified to Core Spine.
       ($ millions)
Note:  The data in this schedule has been intentionally rounded to the nearest million and therefore the quarterly revenue may not sum to the fiscal year to date revenue. In addition, fiscal year 2012 Other Biologics revenue, which was previously included within Biologics, has been reclassified to Core Spine.
       ($ millions)
(1) Medtronic management believes that in order to properly understand Medtronic's short-term and long-term financial trends, investors may wish to consider the impact of foreign currency translation on revenue. In addition, Medtronic management uses results of operations before currency translation to evaluate the operational performance of the Company and as a basis for strategic planning. Investors should consider these non-GAAP measures in addition to, and not as a substitute for, financial performance measures prepared in accordance with GAAP.
   Note:  The data in this schedule has been intentionally rounded to the nearest million and therefore the quarterly revenue may not sum to the fiscal year to date revenue. In addition, fiscal year 2012 Other Biologics revenue, which was previously included within Biologics, has been reclassified to Core Spine.
 
 
 
 
 
(1) The data in this schedule has been intentionally rounded to the nearest $0.01, and therefore, may not sum.
(a) The $5 million (less than $0.01per share) after-tax ($5 million pre-tax) acquisition-related items include charges related to the change in fair value of contingent milestone payments associated with acquisitions subsequent to April 29, 2009. In addition to disclosing acquisition-related items that are determined in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (U.S. GAAP), Medtronic management believes that in order to properly understand its short-term and long-term financial trends, investors may find it useful to consider the impact of excluding these acquisition-related items. Management believes that the resulting non-GAAP financial measure provides useful information to investors regarding the underlying business trends and performance of the Company's ongoing operations and is useful for period over period comparisons of such operations. Medtronic management eliminates these acquisition-related items when evaluating the operating performance of the Company. Investors should consider this non-GAAP measure in addition to, and not as a substitute for, financial performance measures prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. In addition, this non-GAAP financial measure may not be the same or similar to measures presented by other companies.
(b) The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) authoritative guidance for convertible debt accounting has resulted in an after-tax impact to net earnings of $14 million ($0.01 per share) and $13 million ($0.01 per share) for the three months ended July 27, 2012 and July 29, 2011, respectively. The pre-tax impact to interest expense, net was $23 million and $21 million for the three months ended July 27, 2012 and July 29, 2011, respectively. In addition to disclosing the financial statement impact of this authoritative guidance that is determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP, Medtronic management believes that in order to properly understand its short-term and long-term financial trends, investors may find it useful to consider the impact of excluding the impact of this authoritative guidance. Management believes that the resulting non-GAAP financial measure provides useful information to investors regarding the underlying business trends and performance of the Company's ongoing operations and is useful for period over period comparisons of such operations. Medtronic management eliminates the impact of this authoritative guidance when evaluating the operating performance of the Company. Investors should consider this non-GAAP measure in addition to, and not as a substitute for, financial performance measures prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. In addition, this non-GAAP financial measure may not be the same or similar to measures presented by other companies.
(c) The $8 million ($0.01 per share) after-tax ($8 million pre-tax) acquisition-related items include charges related to the change in fair value of contingent milestone payments associated with acquisitions subsequent to April 29, 2009. In addition to disclosing acquisition-related items that are determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP, Medtronic management believes that in order to properly understand its short-term and long-term financial trends, investors may find it useful to consider the impact of excluding these acquisition-related items. Management believes that the resulting non-GAAP financial measure provides useful information to investors regarding the underlying business trends and performance of the Company's ongoing operations and is useful for period over period comparisons of such operations. Medtronic management eliminates these acquisition-related items when evaluating the operating performance of the Company. Investors should consider this non-GAAP measure in addition to, and not as a substitute for, financial performance measures prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. In addition, this non-GAAP financial measure may not be the same or similar to measures presented by other companies.
(d) The $3 million (less than $0.01 per share) after-tax ($5 million pre-tax expense) Physio-Control divestiture-related costs include transaction costs related to the divestiture of the Physio-Control business that occurred in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2012. In addition to disclosing Physio-Control divestiture-related costs that are determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP, Medtronic management believes that in order to properly understand its short-term and long-term financial trends, investors may find it useful to consider the impact of excluding Physio-Control divestiture-related costs. Management believes that the resulting non-GAAP financial measure provides useful information to investors regarding the underlying business trends and performance of the Company's ongoing operations and is useful for period over period comparisons of such operations. Medtronic management eliminates Physio-Control divestiture-related costs when evaluating the operating performance of the Company. Investors should consider this non-GAAP measure in addition to, and not as a substitute for, financial performance measures prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. In addition, this non-GAAP financial measure may not be the same or similar to measures presented by other companies.
(e) Included in our non-GAAP net earnings is $5 million (less than $0.01 per share) after-tax ($8 million pre-tax) income from the operations of the Physio-Control business for the three months ended July 29, 2011, which are included in earnings from discontinued operations on our condensed consolidated statements of earnings. The Company has included this income in its non-GAAP net earnings as the disposition did not occur until the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2012 and thus the income was earned through the operations of the Company. Medtronic management believes that in order to properly understand its short-term and long-term financial trends, investors may find it useful to consider the net impact of including the operating income of the Physio-Control business. Management believes that the resulting non-GAAP financial measure provides useful information to investors regarding the underlying business trends and performance of the Company's ongoing operations and is useful for period over period comparisons of such operations. Investors should consider this non-GAAP measure in addition to, and not as a substitute for, financial performance measures prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. In addition, this non-GAAP financial measure may not be the same or similar to measures presented by other companies.
 
(a) Medtronic management believes that in order to properly understand Medtronic's short-term and long-term financial trends, investors may wish to consider the impact of foreign currency translation on revenue. In addition, Medtronic management uses results of operations before currency translation to evaluate the operational performance of the Company and as a basis for strategic planning. Investors should consider these non-GAAP measures in addition to, and not as a substitute for, financial performance measures prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP.
Note: Fiscal year 2012 Other Biologics revenue, which was previously included within Biologics, has been reclassified to Core Spine.
 
(a) Medtronic management believes that in order to properly understand Medtronic's short-term and long-term financial trends, investors may wish to consider the impact of foreign currency translation on revenue. In addition, Medtronic management uses results of operations before currency translation to evaluate the operational performance of the Company and as a basis for strategic planning. Investors should consider these non-GAAP measures in addition to, and not as a substitute for, financial performance measures prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP.
Note: Fiscal year 2012 Other Biologics revenue, which was previously included within Biologics, has been reclassified to Core Spine.
 
(a) Medtronic management believes that in order to properly understand Medtronic's short-term and long-term financial trends, investors may wish to consider free cash flow. In addition, Medtronic management uses free cash flow to evaluate operational performance of the Company and as a basis for strategic planning. Investors should consider these non-GAAP measures in addition to, and not as a substitute for, financial performance measures prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Medtronic calculates free cash flow by subtracting additions to property, plant, and equipment from operating cash flows.
 
(a) Medtronic management believes that in order to properly understand Medtronic's short-term and long-term financial trends, investors may wish to consider the impact of foreign currency translation on revenue. In addition, Medtronic management uses results of operations before currency translation to evaluate the operational performance of the Company and as a basis for strategic planning. Investors should consider these non-GAAP measures in addition to, and not as a substitute for, financial performance measures prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP.
(b) Emerging Market Revenue includes revenues from Asia Pacific (except Australia, Japan, Korea, and New Zealand), Central and Eastern Europe, Greater China, Latin America, the Middle East and Africa, and South Asia.
 
 
(a) Medtronic management believes that in order to properly understand Medtronic's short-term and long-term financial trends, investors may wish to consider the impact of foreign currency translation and the Advanced Energy business (comprised of the August 2011 acquisitions of PEAK Surgical, Inc. and Salient Surgical Technologies, Inc.) on Surgical Technologies' revenue growth. In addition, Medtronic management uses Surgical Technologies revenue adjusted for foreign currency translation and the Advanced Energy business to evaluate operational performance of the Company. Investors should consider these non-GAAP measures in addition to, and not as a substitute for, financial performance measures prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP.
 
 


