FILE:RHT/RHT-8K-20040923170534.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
On September 21, 2004, the stockholders of Red Hat, Inc. (the "Company") approved the Company's 2004 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "Plan") by the affirmative vote of the majority of shares present, in person or represented by proxy, and voting at the Company's 2004 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.
 
A total of 5,000,000 shares of common stock, plus any shares previously authorized and available for issuance under certain of the Company's prior plans, is reserved initially for issuance under the Plan, subject to adjustment in certain events, including in the event of a stock split, stock dividend, or other similar change in the common stock or capital structure of the Company.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
 
Red Hat, Inc., a corporation existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (the "Company"), hereby establishes and adopts the following 2004 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "Plan").
 
1. PURPOSE OF THE PLAN
 
    The purpose of the Plan is to assist the Company and its Affiliates in attracting and retaining selected individuals to serve as directors, employees, consultants and/or advisors of the Company who are expected to contribute to the Company's success and to achieve long-term objectives which will inure to the benefit of all shareholders of the Company through the additional incentives inherent in the Awards hereunder.
1.1.
Purpose.
 
2. DEFINITIONS
 
"" shall mean (i) any person or entity that directly, or through one or more intermediaries, controls, or is controlled by, or is under common control with, the Company (including any Subsidiary) or (ii) any entity in which the Company has a significant equity interest, as determined by the Committee.
2.1.
Affiliate
 
"" shall mean any Option, Stock Appreciation Right, Restricted Stock Award, Restricted Stock Unit Award, Performance Award, Dividend Equivalent, Other Stock-Based Award or any other right, interest or option relating to Shares or other property (including cash) granted pursuant to the provisions of the Plan.
2.2.
Award
 
"" shall mean any written agreement, contract or other instrument or document evidencing any Award granted by the Committee hereunder.
2.3.
Award Agreement
 
"" shall mean the board of directors of the Company.
2.4.
Board
 
"" shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time, and any successor thereto. All citations to Sections of the Code are to such Sections as they may from time to time be amended or renumbered.
2.5.
Code
 
"" shall mean the Compensation Committee of the Board or such other committee appointed by the Board to administer the Plan, consisting of no fewer than two Directors, each of whom is (i) a "Non-Employee Director" within the meaning of Rule 16b-3 (or any successor rule) of the Exchange Act, (ii) an "outside director" within the meaning of Section 162(m)(4)(C)(i) of the Code, and (iii) an "independent director" for purpose of the rules and regulations of the NASDAQ stock market.
2.6.
Committee
 
"" shall mean a "covered employee" within the meaning of Section 162(m)(3) of the Code.
2.7.
Covered Employee
 
"" shall mean a non-employee member of the Board.
2.8.
Director
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 12.5.
2.9.
Dividend Equivalents
 
"" shall mean any employee (including an officer) of the Company or any Affiliate. Solely for purposes of the Plan, an Employee shall also mean any other natural person, including a consultant or advisor, who provides services to the Company or any Affiliate, so long as such person (i) renders bona fide services that are not in connection with the offer and sale of the Company's securities in a capital-raising transaction and (ii) does not directly or indirectly promote or maintain a market for the Company's securities.
2.10.
Employee
 
"" shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and any successor thereto. All citations to Sections of the Exchange Act are to such Sections as they may from time to time be amended or renumbered.
2.11.
Exchange Act
 
"" shall mean, with respect to any property other than Shares, the market value of such property determined by such methods or procedures as shall be established from time to time by the Committee. The Fair Market Value of Shares as of any date shall be the per Share closing price of the Shares as reported on the Nasdaq Stock Market ("Nasdaq") on that date (or if there was no reported closing price on such date, on the last preceding date on which the closing price was reported) or, if the Company is not then listed on Nasdaq, the Fair Market Value of Shares shall be determined by the Committee in its sole discretion using appropriate criteria.
2.12.
Fair Market Value
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6.1(a).
2.13.
Freestanding Stock Appreciation Right
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10.5.
2.14.
Limitations
 
"" shall mean any right granted to a Participant under the Plan allowing such Participant to purchase Shares at such price or prices and during such period or periods as the Committee shall determine.
2.15.
Option
 
"" shall mean the cash actually received by the Company for the option price in connection with the exercise of Options or options granted under the Prior Plans that are exercised after the effective date of the Plan, plus the maximum tax benefit that could be realized by the Company as a result of the exercise of such Options or options granted under the Prior Plans, which tax benefit shall be determined by multiplying (a) the amount that is deductible for Federal income tax purposes as a result of any such option exercise (currently, equal to the amount upon which the Participant's withholding tax obligation is calculated), times (b) the maximum federal corporate income tax rate for the year of exercise. With respect to Options or options granted under the Prior Plans, to the extent that a Participant pays the option price and/or withholding taxes with Shares, Option Proceeds shall not be calculated with respect to the amounts so paid in Shares.
2.16.
Option Proceeds
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 8.1.
2.17.
Other Stock-Based Award
 
"" shall mean an Employee or Director to whom the Committee has granted an Award under the Plan.
2.18.
Participant
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 13.1.
2.19.
Payee
 
"" shall mean any Award of Performance Shares or Performance Units granted pursuant to Section 9.
2.20.
Performance Award
 
"" shall mean that period established by the Committee at the time any Performance Award is granted or at any time thereafter during which any performance goals specified by the Committee with respect to such Award are to be measured.
2.21.
Performance Period
 
"" shall mean any grant pursuant to Section 9 of a unit valued by reference to a designated number of Shares, which value may be paid to the Participant by delivery of such property as the Committee shall determine, including cash, Shares, other property, or any combination thereof, upon achievement of such performance goals during the Performance Period as the Committee shall establish at the time of such grant or thereafter, but not later than the time permitted by Section 162(m) of the Code in the case of a Covered Employee, unless the Committee determines not to comply with Section 162(m) of the Code with respect to such Performance Share.
2.22.
Performance Share
 
"" shall mean any grant pursuant to Section 9 of a unit valued by reference to a designated amount of property (including cash) other than Shares, which value may be paid to the Participant by
2.23.
Performance Unit
 
delivery of such property as the Committee shall determine, including cash, Shares, other property, or any combination thereof, upon achievement of such performance goals during the Performance Period as the Committee shall establish at the time of such grant or thereafter, but not later than the time permitted by Section 162(m) of the Code in the case of a Covered Employee, unless the Committee determines not to comply with Section 162(m) of the Code with respect to such Performance Unit.
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 12.3.
2.24.
Permitted Assignee
 
"" shall mean the Red Hat, Inc. 1999 Stock Option and Incentive Plan (as amended and restated July 12, 2000), the Red Hat, Inc. 1998 Stock Option Plan, the Akopia, Inc. 2000 Stock Plan, the Bluecurve, Inc. 1996 Stock Plan, the Community Connexion 1996 Stock Option Plan, the C2Net Software, Inc. 1998 Stock Option Plan, the C2Net Software, Inc. 2000 Stock Option Plan, the Cygnus Solutions 1995 Stock Plan, the Cygnus Solutions 1997 Stock Plan, the Cygnus Solutions 1998 Executive Stock Plan, the Planning Technologies, Inc. Stock Incentive Plan, the Wirespeed Communications Stock Option Plan (as amended July 12, 2000), and the Sistina Software, Inc. 1997 Omnibus Stock Plan.
2.25.
Prior Plans
 
"" shall mean any Share issued with the restriction that the holder may not sell, transfer, pledge or assign such Share and with such other restrictions as the Committee, in its sole discretion, may impose (including any restriction on the right to vote such Share and the right to receive any dividends), which restrictions may lapse separately or in combination at such time or times, in installments or otherwise, as the Committee may deem appropriate.
2.26.
Restricted Stock
 
"" means an Award that is valued by reference to a Share, which value may be paid to the Participant by delivery of such property as the Committee shall determine, including without limitation, cash or Shares, or any combination thereof, and that has such restrictions as the Committee, in its sole discretion, may impose, including without limitation, any restriction on the right to retain such Awards, to sell, transfer, pledge or assign such Awards, and/or to receive any cash Dividend Equivalents with respect to such Awards, which restrictions may lapse separately or in combination at such time or times, in installments or otherwise, as the Committee may deem appropriate,
2.27.
Restricted Stock Unit
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7.1.
2.28.
Restriction Period
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7.1.
2.29.
Restricted Stock Award
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7.1.
2.30.
Restricted Stock Unit Award
 
"" shall mean a share of common stock of the Company, par value $.0001 per share
2.31.
Share
 
"" shall mean the right granted to a Participant pursuant to Section 6.
2.32.
Stock Appreciation Right
 
"" shall mean any corporation (other than the Company) in an unbroken chain of corporations beginning with the Company if, at the time of the granting of the Award, each of the corporations other than the last corporation in the unbroken chain owns stock possessing 50% or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock in one of the other corporations in the chain.
2.33.
Subsidiary
 
"S" shall mean Awards granted or Shares issued by the Company in assumption of, or in substitution or exchange for, awards previously granted, or the right or obligation to make future awards, by a company acquired by the Company or any Subsidiary or with which the Company or any Subsidiary combines.
2.34.
ubstitute Awards
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6.1(b).
2.35.
Tandem Stock Appreciation Right
 
3. SHARES SUBJECT TO THE PLAN
 
.    (a) Subject to adjustment as provided in this Section 3.1 and in Section 12.2, a total of 5,000,000 Shares shall be authorized for issuance pursuant to Awards granted under the Plan. Upon approval of this Plan by the stockholders of the Company, no further grants may be made under the Prior Plans, but Shares authorized for issuance pursuant to awards granted under the Prior Plans that have not been used for awards granted under the Prior Plans may be issued pursuant to Awards granted under this Plan in addition to the number of Shares specified immediately above. Any Shares that are subject to Awards of Options or Stock Appreciation Rights shall be counted against this limit as one (1) Share for every one (1) Share granted. Any Shares that are subject to Awards other than Options or Stock Appreciation Rights shall be counted against this limit as one-and-one-quarter (1.25) Shares for every one (1) Share granted.
3.1.
Number of Shares
 
(b) If any Shares subject to an Award or to an award under the Prior Plans are forfeited, expire or otherwise terminate without issuance of such Shares, or any Award or award under the Prior Plans is settled for cash or otherwise does not result in the issuance of all or a portion of the Shares subject to such Award, the Shares shall, to the extent of such forfeiture, expiration, termination, cash settlement or non-issuance, again be available for Awards under the Plan, as provided in Section 3.1(f) below.
 
(c) In the event that (i) any Option or other Award granted hereunder is exercised through the tendering of Shares (either actually or by attestation) or by the withholding of Shares by the Company, or (ii) withholding tax liabilities arising from such Option or other Award are satisfied by the tendering of Shares (either actually or by attestation) or by the withholding of Shares by the Company, then only the number of Shares issued net of the Shares tendered or withheld shall be counted for purposes of determining the maximum number of Shares available for grant under the Plan. In the event that (i) any option or award granted under the Prior Plans is exercised through the tendering of Shares (either actually or by attestation) or by the withholding of Shares by the Company, or (ii) withholding tax liabilities arising from such options or awards are satisfied by the tendering of Shares (either actually or by attestation) or by the withholding of Shares by the Company, then the Shares so tendered or withheld shall again be available for Awards under the Plan.
 
(d) Shares reacquired by the Company on the open market using Option Proceeds shall also be available for Awards under the Plan. The increase in Shares available pursuant to the repurchase of Shares with Option Proceeds shall not be greater than the amount of such proceeds divided by the Fair Market Value of a Share on the date of exercise of the Option giving rise to such Option Proceeds.
 
(e) Substitute Awards may be granted under the Plan and any such grants shall not reduce the Shares authorized for grant under the Plan or authorized for grant to a Participant in any calendar year. Additionally, in the event that a company acquired by the Company or any Subsidiary or with which the Company or any Subsidiary combines has shares available under a pre-existing plan approved by shareholders and not adopted in contemplation of such acquisition or combination, the shares available for grant pursuant to the terms of such pre-existing plan (as adjusted, to the extent appropriate, using the exchange ratio or other adjustment or valuation ratio or formula used in such acquisition or combination to determine the consideration payable to the holders of common stock of the entities party to such acquisition or combination) may be used for Awards under the Plan and shall not reduce the Shares authorized for grant under the Plan; provided that Awards using such available shares shall not be made after the date awards or grants could have been made under the terms of the pre-existing plan, absent the acquisition or combination, and shall only be made to individuals who were not Employees or Directors or an Affiliate prior to such acquisition or combination.
 
(f) Any Shares that again become available for grant pursuant to this Section 3 shall be added back as one (1) Share if such Shares were subject to Options or Stock Appreciation Rights granted under the Plan or options or stock appreciation rights granted under the Prior Plans, and as one-and-one-quarter (1.25) Shares if such Shares were subject to Awards other than Options or Stock Appreciation Rights granted under the Plan.
 
.    Any Shares issued hereunder may consist, in whole or in part, of authorized and unissued shares, treasury shares or shares purchased in the open market or otherwise.
3.2.
Character of Shares
 
4. ELIGIBILITY AND ADMINISTRATION
 
.    Any Employee or Director shall be eligible to be selected as a Participant.
4.1.
Eligibility
 
.    (a) The Plan shall be administered by the Committee. The Directors may remove from, add members to, or fill vacancies on, the Committee.
4.2.
Administration
 
(b) The Committee shall have full power and authority, subject to the provisions of the Plan and subject to such orders or resolutions not inconsistent with the provisions of the Plan as may from time to time be adopted by the Board, to: (i) select the Employees and Directors to whom Awards may from time to time be granted hereunder; (ii) determine the type or types of Awards, not inconsistent with the provisions of the Plan, to be granted to each Participant hereunder; (iii) determine the number of Shares to be covered by each Award granted hereunder; (iv) determine the terms and conditions, not inconsistent with the provisions of the Plan, of any Award granted hereunder; (v) determine whether, to what extent and under what circumstances Awards may be settled in cash, Shares or other property, subject to Section 8.1; (vi) determine whether, to what extent, and under what circumstances cash, Shares, other property and other amounts payable with respect to an Award made under the Plan shall be deferred either automatically or at the election of the Participant; (vii) determine whether, to what extent and under what circumstances any Award shall be canceled or suspended; (viii) interpret and administer the Plan and any instrument or agreement entered into under or in connection with the Plan, including any Award Agreement; (ix) correct any defect, supply any omission or reconcile any inconsistency in the Plan or any Award in the manner and to the extent that the Committee shall deem desirable to carry it into effect; (x) establish such rules and regulations and appoint such agents as it shall deem appropriate for the proper administration of the Plan; (xi) determine whether any Award will have Dividend Equivalents; and (xii) make any other determination and take any other action that the Committee deems necessary or desirable for administration of the Plan.
 
(c) Decisions of the Committee shall be final, conclusive and binding on all persons or entities, including the Company, any Participant, any shareholder and any Employee or any Affiliate.
 
(d) The Committee may delegate to a committee of one or more directors of the Company or, to the extent permitted by law, to one or more officers or a committee of officers the right to grant Awards to Employees who are not Directors or officers of the Company and to cancel or suspend Awards to Employees who are not Directors or officers of the Company.
 
5. OPTIONS
 
.    Options may be granted hereunder to Participants either alone or in addition to other Awards granted under the Plan. Any Option shall be subject to the terms and conditions of this Section 5 and to such additional terms and conditions, not inconsistent with the provisions of the Plan, as the Committee shall deem desirable.
5.1.
Grant of Options
 
.    All Options granted pursuant to this Section 5 shall be evidenced by a written Award Agreement in such form and containing such terms and conditions as the Committee shall determine which are not inconsistent with the provisions of the Plan. Granting of an Option pursuant to the Plan shall impose no obligation on the recipient to exercise such Option. Any individual who is granted an Option pursuant to this Section 5 may hold more than one Option granted pursuant to the Plan at the same time.
5.2.
Award Agreements
 
.    Other than in connection with Substitute Awards, the option price per each Share purchasable under any Option granted pursuant to this Section 5 shall not be less than 100% of the Fair Market Value of such Share on the date of grant of such Option. Other than pursuant to Section 12.2, the Committee
5.3.
Option Price
 
shall not be permitted to (a) lower the option price per Share of an Option after it is granted, (b) cancel an Option when the option price per Share exceeds the Fair Market Value of the underlying Shares in exchange for another Award (other than in connection with Substitute Awards), or (c) take any other action with respect to an Option that may be treated as a repricing under the rules and regulations of Nasdaq, without shareholder approval.
 
.    The term of each Option shall be fixed by the Committee in its sole discretion; provided that no Option shall be exercisable after the expiration of ten years from the date the Option is granted, except in the event of death or disability.
5.4.
Option Period
 
.    Vested Options granted under the Plan shall be exercised by the Participant or by a Permitted Assignee thereof (or by the Participant's executors, administrators, guardian or legal representative, as may be provided in an Award Agreement) as to all or part of the Shares covered thereby, by the giving of written, telephonic, or electronic notice of exercise to the Company or its designated agent pursuant to rules and procedures established by the Committee for this purpose, specifying the number of Shares to be purchased, accompanied by payment of the full purchase price for the Shares being purchased. Unless otherwise provided in an Award Agreement, full payment of such purchase price shall be made at the time of exercise and shall be made (a) in cash or cash equivalents (including certified check or bank check or wire transfer of immediately available funds), (b) by tendering previously acquired Shares (either actually or by attestation, valued at their then Fair Market Value) that have been owned for a period of at least six months (or such other period specified by the Committee for the purposes of avoiding accounting charges against the Company's earnings, as applicable), (c) with the consent of the Committee, by delivery of other consideration (including, where permitted by law and the Committee, other Awards) having a Fair Market Value on the exercise date equal to the total purchase price, (d) with the consent of the Committee, by withholding Shares otherwise issuable in connection with the exercise of the Option, (e) through any other method specified in an Award Agreement; (f) as provided by the Committee, cashless exercises as permitted under the Federal Reserve Board's Regulation T, subject to applicable securities law restrictions, or (g) any combination of any of the foregoing. The notice of exercise, accompanied by such payment, shall be delivered to the Company at its principal business office or such other office as the Committee may from time to time direct, and shall be in such form, containing such further provisions consistent with the provisions of the Plan, as the Committee may from time to time prescribe. In no event may any Option granted hereunder be exercised for a fraction of a Share. No adjustment shall be made for cash dividends or other rights for which the record date is prior to the date of such issuance. Except under certain circumstances contemplated by Section 11 or as may be set forth in an Award Agreement with respect to death or disability of a Participant, Options will not be exercisable before the expiration of one year from the date the Option is granted.
5.5.
Exercise of Options
 
.    In its sole discretion, the Committee may provide, at the time of grant, that the Shares to be issued upon an Option's exercise shall be in the form of Restricted Stock or other similar securities, or may reserve the right so to provide after the time of grant.
5.6.
Form of Settlement
 
6. STOCK APPRECIATION RIGHTS
 
.    The Committee may provide Stock Appreciation Rights alone or in tandem with other Awards (including Options), in each case upon such terms and conditions, not inconsistent with the Plan, as the Committee may establish. The provisions of Stock Appreciation Rights need not be the same with respect to each recipient.
6.1.
Grant and Exercise
 
(a) Stock Appreciation Rights granted without regard to any Option or other Award (a "Freestanding Stock Appreciation Right") shall generally have the same terms and conditions as Options, including (i) an exercise price not less than Fair Market Value on the date of grant (except in the case of Substitute Awards or in connection with an adjustment provided in Section 12.2) (ii) a term not greater than ten years, and (iii) a vesting schedule not less than one year from the date of grant, except under certain circumstances contemplated by Section 11 or as may be set forth in an Award Agreement with respect to death or disability
 
of a Participant. Upon the exercise of a Freestanding Stock Appreciation Right, the holder shall have the right to receive the excess of (i) the Fair Market Value of one Share on the date of exercise or such other amount as the Committee shall so determine at any time during a specified period before the date of exercise over (ii) the grant price of the right on the date of grant.
 
(b) Stock Appreciation Rights may be granted in conjunction with all or part of any Option granted under the Plan (a "Tandem Stock Appreciation Right"). Any Tandem Stock Appreciation Right may be granted at the same time as the related Option is granted or at any time thereafter before exercise or expiration of such Option. Upon the exercise of a Tandem Stock Appreciation Right, the holder shall have the right to receive (i) the excess of the Fair Market Value of one Share on the date of exercise or such other amount as the Committee shall so determine at any time during a specified period before the date of exercise over (ii) the related Option exercise price. Any Tandem Stock Appreciation Right may be exercised only when the related Option would be exercisable and the Fair Market Value of the Shares subject to the related Option exceeds the option price at which Shares can be acquired pursuant to the Option. Tandem Stock Appreciation Rights shall terminate and no longer be exercisable upon and to the extent of the termination or exercise of the related Option; provided that, unless the Committee otherwise determines at or after the time of grant, a Tandem Stock Appreciation Right granted with respect to less than the full number of Shares covered by a related Option shall not terminate until the number of Shares then exercisable under such Option equals the number of Shares to which the Tandem Stock Appreciation Right applies. Any Option related to a Tandem Stock Appreciation Right shall no longer be exercisable to the extent the Tandem Stock Appreciation Right has been exercised.
 
(c) The Committee may impose such terms and conditions on Stock Appreciation Rights granted in conjunction with any Award (other than an Option) as the Committee shall determine in its sole discretion.
 
(d) The Committee shall determine in its sole discretion whether payment upon the exercise of a Stock Appreciation Right, shall be made in cash, in whole Shares or other property, or any combination thereof. If payment will be made in Shares, the number of Shares shall be determined based on the Fair Market Value of a Share on the date of exercise. If the Committee elects to make full payment in Shares, no fractional Shares shall be issued and cash payments shall be made in lieu of fractional Shares. The Committee shall have sole discretion as to the timing of any payment made in cash or Shares, or a combination thereof, upon exercise of Stock Appreciation Rights. Payment may be made in a lump sum, in annual installments or may be otherwise deferred; and the Committee shall have sole discretion to determine whether any deferred payments may bear amounts equivalent to interest or cash dividends.
 
(e) Other than pursuant to Section 12.2, the Committee shall not be permitted to (i) lower the exercise price per Share of a Stock Appreciation Right after it is granted, (ii) cancel a Stock Appreciation Right when the exercise price per Share exceeds the Fair Market Value of the underlying Shares in exchange for another Award (other than in connection with Substitute Awards), and (iii) take any other action with respect to a Stock Appreciation Right that may be treated as a repricing under the rules and regulations of Nasdaq, without shareholder approval.
 
7. RESTRICTED STOCK AWARDS AND RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AWARDS
 
.    Awards of Restricted Stock and of Restricted Stock Units may be granted hereunder to Participants either alone or in addition to other Awards granted under the Plan (a "Restricted Stock Award" or "Restricted Stock Unit Award", respectively). A Restricted Stock Award or Restricted Stock Unit Award shall be subject to restrictions imposed by the Committee covering a period of time specified by the Committee (the "Restriction Period"). The provisions of Restricted Stock Awards and Restricted Stock Unit Awards need not be the same with respect to each recipient. The Committee has absolute discretion to determine whether any consideration (other than services) is to be received by the Company or any Affiliate as a condition precedent to the issuance of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units.
7.1.
Grants
 
.    The terms of any Restricted Stock Award or Restricted Stock Unit Award granted under the Plan shall be set forth in a written Award Agreement which shall contain provisions determined by the Committee and not inconsistent with the Plan.
7.2.
Award Agreements
 
    Beginning on the date of grant of the Restricted Stock Award and subject to execution of the Award Agreement, the Participant shall become a shareholder of the Company with respect to all Shares subject to the Award Agreement and shall have all of the rights of a shareholder, including the right to vote such Shares and the right to receive distributions made with respect to such Shares. A Participant receiving a Restricted Stock Unit Award shall not possess voting rights with respect to such Award. Any Shares or any other property (other than cash) distributed as a dividend, Dividend Equivalent or otherwise with respect to any Restricted Stock Award or Restricted Stock Unit Award as to which the restrictions have not yet lapsed shall be subject to the same restrictions as such Restricted Stock Award or Restricted Stock Unit Award.
7.3.
Rights of Holders of Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units.
 
    Except in limited situations as determined by the Committee (including termination of employment, a Change in Control referred to in Section 11, grants to new hires to replace forfeited compensation, grants representing payment of earned Performance Awards or other incentive compensation, or grants to Directors), Restricted Stock Awards and Restricted Stock Unit Awards subject solely to future service requirements shall have a Restriction Period of not less than three years from date of grant (but permitting pro-rata vesting over such time).
7.4.
Minimum Vesting Period.
 
8. OTHER STOCK-BASED AWARDS
 
.    Other Awards of Shares and other Awards that are valued in whole or in part by reference to, or are otherwise based on, Shares or other property ("Other Stock-Based Awards") may be granted hereunder to Participants, either alone or in addition to other Awards granted under the Plan, and such Other Stock-Based Awards shall also be available as a form of payment in the settlement of other Awards granted under the Plan. Other Stock-Based Awards shall be paid only in Shares. Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Committee shall have sole and complete authority to determine the Employees and Directors to whom and the time or times at which such Other Stock-Based Awards shall be made, the number of Shares to be granted pursuant to such Awards, and all other conditions of the Awards. The provisions of Other Stock-Based Awards need not be the same with respect to each recipient. Except for certain limited situations (including termination of employment, a Change in Control referred to in Section 11, grants to new hires to replace forfeited compensation, grants representing payment of earned Performance Awards or other incentive compensation, or grants to Directors), Other Stock-Based Awards subject solely to future service requirements shall have a Restriction Period of not less than three years from date of grant (but permitting pro-rata vesting over such time).
8.1.
Stock and Administration
 
.    Shares (including securities convertible into Shares) subject to Awards granted under this Section 8 may be issued for no consideration or for such minimum consideration as may be required by applicable law. Shares (including securities convertible into Shares) purchased pursuant to a purchase right awarded under this Section 8 shall be purchased for such consideration as the Committee shall determine in its sole discretion.
8.2.
Terms and Conditions
 
9. PERFORMANCE AWARDS
 
.    Performance Awards may be issued hereunder to Participants, for no consideration or for such minimum consideration as may be required by applicable law, either alone or in addition to other Awards granted under the Plan. The performance criteria to be achieved during any Performance Period and the length of the Performance Period shall be determined by the Committee upon the grant of each Performance Award; provided, however, that a Performance Period shall not be shorter than 12 months nor longer than five years. Except as provided in Section 11 or as may be provided in an Award Agreement, Performance Awards will be distributed only after the end of the relevant Performance Period. Performance Awards may be paid in cash, Shares, other property, or any combination thereof, in the sole
9.1.
Terms of Performance Awards
 
discretion of the Committee at the time of payment. The performance goals to be achieved for each Performance Period shall be conclusively determined by the Committee and may be based upon the criteria set forth in Section 10.1. The amount of the Award to be distributed shall be conclusively determined by the Committee. Performance Awards may be paid in a lump sum or in installments following the close of the Performance Period or, in accordance with procedures established by the Committee, on a deferred basis.
 
10. CODE SECTION 162(m) PROVISIONS
 
.    Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, if the Committee determines at the time a Restricted Stock Award, a Restricted Stock Unit Award, a Performance Award or an Other Stock-Based Award is granted to a Participant who is, or is likely to be, as of the end of the tax year in which the Company would claim a tax deduction in connection with such Award, a Covered Employee, then the Committee may provide that this Section 10.1 is applicable to the Award and that the lapsing of restrictions thereon and the distribution of cash, Shares or other property pursuant thereto, as applicable, shall accordingly be subject to the achievement of one or more objective performance goals established by the Committee, which shall be based on the attainment of specified levels of one or any combination of the following: revenue growth; earnings before taxes; earnings before interest and taxes; earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization; operating income; pre- or after-tax income; cash flow; cash flow per share; net earnings; earnings per share; return on equity; return on invested capital; return on assets; economic value added (or an equivalent metric); share price performance; total shareholder return; improvement in or attainment of expense levels; improvement in or attainment of working capital levels; attainment of strategic and operational initiatives; market share; gross profits; and/or comparisons with various stock market indices of the Company or any Affiliate, division or business unit of the Company for or within which the Participant is primarily employed. Such performance goals also may be based solely by reference to the Company's performance or the performance of an Affiliate, division or business unit of the Company, or based upon the relative performance of other companies or upon comparisons of any of the indicators of performance relative to other companies. The Committee may also exclude the impact of an event or occurrence which the Committee determines should appropriately be excluded, including (a) restructurings, discontinued operations, extraordinary items, and other unusual or non-recurring charges, (b) an event either not directly related to the operations of the Company or not within the reasonable control of the Company's management, or (c) a change in accounting standards required by generally accepted accounting principles. Such performance goals shall be set by the Committee within the time period prescribed by, and shall otherwise comply with the requirements of, Section 162(m) of the Code, or any successor provision thereto, and the regulations thereunder.
10.1.
Covered Employees and Performance Criteria
 
.    Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan (other than Sections 11 and 12.2), with respect to any Restricted Stock Award, Restricted Stock Unit Award, Performance Award or Other Stock-Based Award that is subject to this Section 10, the Committee may adjust downwards, but not upwards, the amount payable pursuant to such Award, and the Committee may not waive the achievement of the applicable performance goals, except in the case of the death or disability of the Participant.
10.2.
Adjustments
 
.    The Committee shall have the power to impose such other restrictions on Awards subject to this Section 10 as it may deem necessary or appropriate to ensure that such Awards satisfy all requirements for "performance-based compensation" within the meaning of Section 162(m)(4)(C) of the Code, or any successor provision thereto.
10.3.
Restrictions
 
    Subject to adjustment as provided in Section 12.2, no Participant may be granted (i) Options, Freestanding Stock Appreciation Rights, or Option/Tandem Stock Appreciation Rights during any 12-month period with respect to more than two million (2,000,000) Shares or (ii) Restricted Stock Awards, Restricted Stock Unit Awards, Performance Awards and/or Other Stock-Based Awards that are denominated in Shares in any 12-month period with respect to more than one million (1,000,000) Shares (the "Limitations"). In addition to the foregoing, the maximum dollar value payable to any Participant in any 12-month period with respect to Performance Awards that are valued with reference to property other than Shares is $10,000,000. If an Award is cancelled, the cancelled Award shall continue to be counted toward the
10.4.
Limitations on Grants to Individual Participant.
 
applicable Limitations. The per-Participant limit described in this Section 10.4 shall be construed and applied consistently with Section 162(m) of the Code, or any successor provision thereto, and the regulations thereunder.
 
11. CHANGE IN CONTROL PROVISIONS
 
.    The terms of any Award may provide in the Award Agreement evidencing the Award that, upon a "Change in Control" of the Company (as that term may be defined therein), (a) Options and Stock Appreciation Rights outstanding as of the date of the Change in Control shall become exercisable in full or part (b) restrictions and deferral limitations on Restricted Stock Awards and Restricted Stock Unit Awards lapse and the Restricted Stock Awards and Restricted Stock Unit Awards become free of all restrictions and limitations and become vested, and (c) the restrictions and deferral limitations and other conditions applicable to any Other Stock-Based Awards or any other Awards shall lapse, and such Other Stock-Based Awards or such other Awards shall become free of all restrictions, limitations or conditions and become fully vested in full or part and transferable to the full extent of the original grant, subject in each case to any terms and conditions contained in the Award Agreement evidencing such Award, including but not limited to a condition that such treatment will apply only if the Participant remains employed on the effective date of the Change in Control or has incurred an involuntary termination of employment without cause on account of the Change in Control, as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion, within a period of up to 3 months prior to the effective date of the Change in Control. Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, the Committee, in its discretion, may determine that, upon the occurrence of a Change in Control of the Company, each Option and Stock Appreciation Right outstanding shall terminate within a specified number of days after notice to the Participant, and such Participant shall receive, with respect to each Share subject to such Option or Stock Appreciation Right, an amount equal to the excess of the Fair Market Value of such Share immediately prior to the occurrence of such Change in Control over the exercise price per share of such Option and/or Stock Appreciation Right; such amount to be payable in cash, in one or more kinds of stock or property (including the stock or property, if any, payable in the transaction) or in a combination thereof, as the Committee, in its discretion, shall determine.
11.1.
Impact of Change in Control on Options, Stock Appreciation Rights, Restricted Stock Awards, Restricted Stock Unit Awards and Other Stock-Based Awards
 
.    In the event of a Change in Control, the successor company may assume or substitute for an Option, Stock Appreciation Right, Restricted Stock Award, Restricted Stock Unit Award, or Other Stock-Based Award. For the purposes of this Section 11.2, an Option, Stock Appreciation Right, Restricted Stock Award, Restricted Stock Unit Award, or Other Stock-Based Award shall be considered assumed or substituted for if following the Change in Control the award confers the right to purchase or receive, for each Share subject to the Option, Stock Appreciation Right, Restricted Stock Award, Restricted Stock Unit Award, or Other Stock-Based Award immediately prior to the Change in Control, the consideration (whether stock, cash or other securities or property) received in the transaction constituting a Change in Control by holders of Shares for each Share held on the effective date of such transaction (and if holders were offered a choice of consideration, the type of consideration chosen by the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares); provided, however, that if such consideration received in the transaction constituting a Change in Control is not solely common stock of the successor company, the Committee may, with the consent of the successor company, provide that the consideration to be received upon the exercise or vesting of an Option, Stock Appreciation Right, Restricted Stock Award, Restricted Stock Unit Award, or Other Stock-Based Award, for each Share subject thereto, will be solely common stock of the successor company substantially equal in fair market value to the per share consideration received by holders of Shares in the transaction constituting a Change in Control. The determination of such substantial equality of value of consideration shall be made by the Committee in its sole discretion and its determination shall be conclusive and binding. Notwithstanding the foregoing, on such terms and conditions as may be set forth in an Award Agreement, in the event of an involuntary termination of a Participant's employment without cause in such successor company within the period of up to 24 months following such Change in Control, each Award held by such Participant at the time of the Change in Control shall be accelerated as described in Sections 11.1 above.
11.2.
Assumption of Options, Stock Appreciation Rights, Restricted Stock Awards, Restricted Stock Unit Awards, and Other Stock-Based Awards Upon Change in Control
 
    The terms of any Performance Award may provide in the Award Agreement evidencing the Performance Award that, upon a Change in Control of the Company (as that term may be defined therein),
11.3.
Impact of Change in Control on Performance Awards.
 
(a) a pro rata portion of Performance Awards shall be considered to be earned and payable based on the portion of the Performance Period completed as of the date of the Change in Control and based on performance to such date, or if performance to such date is not determinable, based on target performance, and
 
(b) the remaining portion of Performance Awards shall be assumed, converted or replaced with restricted stock in the successor company's shares (if Performance Shares) or restricted deferred compensation (if Performance Units) based on the portion of the Performance Period not yet completed and based on target performance. Such assumed, converted or replaced portion of the Performance Award shall be restricted for the remainder of the Performance Period or vesting period, as applicable. If the successor company does not assume, convert or replace the remaining portion of the Performance Award as described in this Section 11.3(b), the full award shall be considered earned and payable upon consummation of the Change in Control. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Award Agreement for a Performance Award may provide that in the event of an involuntary termination of the Participant's employment with the Company or any Affiliate without cause on account of the Change in Control, as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion, within a period of up to 3 months prior to the effective date of the Change in Control and/or in the event of an involuntary termination of the Participant's employment without cause in such successor company within the period of up to 24 months following such Change in Control, the vesting of the restricted stock or restricted deferred compensation, as applicable, held by such Participant at the time of the Change in Control shall be accelerated.
 
12. GENERALLY APPLICABLE PROVISIONS
 
.    The Board may, from time to time, alter, amend, suspend or terminate the Plan as it shall deem advisable, subject to any requirement for shareholder approval imposed by applicable law, including the rules and regulations of Nasdaq or any rule or regulation of any stock exchange or quotation system on which Shares are listed or quoted; provided that the Board may not amend the Plan in any manner that would result in noncompliance with Rule 16b-3 of the Exchange Act; and further provided that the Board may not, without the approval of the Company's shareholders, amend the Plan to (a) increase the number of Shares that may be the subject of Awards under the Plan (except for adjustments pursuant to Section 12.2), (b) expand the types of awards available under the Plan, (c) materially expand the class of persons eligible to participate in the Plan, (d) amend any provision of Section 5.3, (e) increase the maximum permissible term of any Option specified by Section 5.4, or (f) amend any provision of Section 10.4. In addition, no amendments to, or termination of, the Plan shall in any way materially impair the rights of a Participant under any Award previously granted without such Participant's consent.
12.1.
Amendment and Modification of the Plan
 
.    In the event of any merger, reorganization, consolidation, recapitalization, dividend or distribution (whether in cash, shares or other property), stock split, reverse stock split, spin-off or similar transaction or other change in corporate structure affecting the Shares or the value thereof, such adjustments and other substitutions shall be made to the Plan and to Awards as the Committee, in its sole discretion, deems equitable or appropriate, including such adjustments in the aggregate number, class and kind of securities that may be delivered under the Plan and, in the aggregate or to any one Participant, in the number, class, kind and option or exercise price of securities subject to outstanding Awards granted under the Plan (including, if the Committee deems appropriate, the substitution of similar options to purchase the shares of, or other awards denominated in the shares of, another company) as the Committee may determine to be appropriate in its sole discretion; provided, however, that the number of Shares subject to any Award shall always be a whole number.
12.2.
Adjustments
 
.    Except as provided below, and except as otherwise authorized by the Committee in an Award Agreement, no Award and no Shares subject to Awards described in Section 8 that have
12.3.
Transferability of Awards
 
not been issued or as to which any applicable restriction, performance or deferral period has not lapsed, may be sold, assigned, transferred, pledged or otherwise encumbered, other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution, and such Award may be exercised during the life of the Participant only by the Participant or the Participant's guardian or legal representative. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee may, in its discretion, permit the transfer of an Award to an individual or entity other than the Company (each transferee thereof, a "Permitted Assignee").
 
.    The Committee shall determine and set forth in each Award Agreement whether any Awards granted in such Award Agreement will continue to be exercisable, and the terms of such exercise, on and after the date that a Participant ceases to be employed by or to provide services to the Company or any Affiliate (including as a Director), whether by reason of death, disability, voluntary or involuntary termination of employment or services, or otherwise. The date of termination of a Participant's employment or services will be determined by the Committee, which determination will be final.
12.4.
Termination of Employment
 
; .    The Committee shall be authorized to establish procedures pursuant to which the payment of any Award may be deferred. Subject to the provisions of the Plan and any Award Agreement, the recipient of an Award (including any deferred Award) may, if so determined by the Committee, be entitled to receive, currently or on a deferred basis, cash, stock or other property dividends, or cash payments in amounts equivalent to cash, stock or other property dividends on Shares ("Dividend Equivalents") with respect to the number of Shares covered by the Award, as determined by the Committee, in its sole discretion, and the Committee may provide that such amounts (if any) shall be deemed to have been reinvested in additional Shares or otherwise reinvested.
12.5.
Deferral
Dividend Equivalents
 
13. MISCELLANEOUS
 
.    The Company shall have the right to make all payments or distributions pursuant to the Plan to a Participant (or a Permitted Assignee thereof) (any such person, a "Payee") net of any applicable Federal, State and local taxes required to be paid or withheld as a result of (a) the grant of any Award, (b) the exercise of an Option or Stock Appreciation Right, (c) the delivery of Shares or cash, (d) the lapse of any restrictions in connection with any Award or (e) any other event occurring pursuant to the Plan. The Company or any Affiliate shall have the right to withhold from wages or other amounts otherwise payable to such Payee such withholding taxes as may be required by law, or to otherwise require the Payee to pay such withholding taxes. If the Payee shall fail to make such tax payments as are required, the Company or its Affiliates shall, to the extent permitted by law, have the right to deduct any such taxes from any payment of any kind otherwise due to such Payee or to take such other action as may be necessary to satisfy such withholding obligations. The Committee shall be authorized to establish procedures for election by Participants to satisfy such obligation for the payment of such taxes by tendering previously acquired Shares (either actually or by attestation, valued at their then Fair Market Value) that have been owned for a period of at least six months (or such other period to avoid accounting charges against the Company's earnings), or by directing the Company to retain Shares (up to the employee's minimum required tax withholding rate) otherwise deliverable in connection with the Award.
13.1.
Tax Withholding
 
.    Nothing in the Plan nor the grant of an Award hereunder shall confer upon any Employee or Director the right to continue in the employment or service of the Company or any Affiliate or affect any right that the Company or any Affiliate may have to terminate the employment or service of (or to demote or to exclude from future Awards under the Plan) any such Employee or Director at any time for any reason. Except as specifically provided by the Committee, the Company shall not be liable for the loss of existing or potential profit from an Award granted in the event of termination of an employment or other relationship. No Employee or Participant shall have any claim to be granted any Award under the Plan, and there is no obligation for uniformity of treatment of Employees or Participants under the Plan.
13.2.
Right of Discharge Reserved; Claims to Awards
 
.    The prospective recipient of any Award under the Plan shall not, with respect to such Award, be deemed to have become a Participant, or to have any rights with respect to such Award, until
13.3.
Prospective Recipient
 
and unless such recipient shall have executed an agreement or other instrument evidencing the Award and delivered a copy thereof to the Company, and otherwise complied with the then applicable terms and conditions.
 
.    Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, all outstanding Awards granted to any Participant shall be canceled if the Participant, without the consent of the Company, while employed by the Company or any Affiliate or after termination of such employment or service, establishes a relationship with a competitor of the Company.
13.4.
Cancellation of Award
 
.    All certificates for Shares delivered under the Plan pursuant to any Award shall be subject to such stop-transfer orders and other restrictions as the Committee may deem advisable under the rules, regulations and other requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission, any stock exchange upon which the Shares are then listed, and any applicable federal or state securities law, and the Committee may cause a legend or legends to be put on any such certificates to make appropriate reference to such restrictions. Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, the Company shall have no liability to deliver any Shares under the Plan or make any other distributions or the benefits under the Plan unless such delivery or distribution would comply with all applicable laws (including, without limitation, the requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, and the applicable requirements of any securities exchange or similar entity.
13.5.
Stop Transfer Orders
 
.    All Awards made pursuant to the Plan are in consideration of services performed or to be performed for the Company or any Affiliate, division or business unit of the Company. Any income or gain realized pursuant to Awards under the Plan constitute a special incentive payment to the Participant and shall not be taken into account, to the extent permissible under applicable law, as compensation for purposes of any of the employee benefit plans of the Company or any Affiliate except as may be determined by the Committee or by the Board or board of directors of the applicable Affiliate.
13.6.
Nature of Payments
 
.    Nothing contained in the Plan shall prevent the Board from adopting other or additional compensation arrangements, subject to shareholder approval if such approval is required; and such arrangements may be either generally applicable or applicable only in specific cases.
13.7.
Other Plans
 
.    If any provision of the Plan shall be held unlawful or otherwise invalid or unenforceable in whole or in part by a court of competent jurisdiction, such provision shall (a) be deemed limited to the extent that such court of competent jurisdiction deems it lawful, valid and/or enforceable and as so limited shall remain in full force and effect, and (b) not affect any other provision of the Plan or part thereof, each of which shall remain in full force and effect. If the making of any payment or the provision of any other benefit required under the Plan shall be held unlawful or otherwise invalid or unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, such unlawfulness, invalidity or unenforceability shall not prevent any other payment or benefit from being made or provided under the Plan, and if the making of any payment in full or the provision of any other benefit required under the Plan in full would be unlawful or otherwise invalid or unenforceable, then such unlawfulness, invalidity or unenforceability shall not prevent such payment or benefit from being made or provided in part, to the extent that it would not be unlawful, invalid or unenforceable, and the maximum payment or benefit that would not be unlawful, invalid or unenforceable shall be made or provided under the Plan.
13.8.
Severability
 
.    All references in the Plan to "" are intended to refer to the Section or Sections, as the case may be, of the Plan. As used in the Plan, the words "" and "," and variations thereof, shall not be deemed to be terms of limitation, but rather shall be deemed to be followed by the words "."
13.9.
Construction
Section or Sections
include
including
without limitation
 
    The Plan is intended to constitute an "unfunded" plan for incentive and deferred compensation. With respect to any payments not yet made to a Participant by the Company, nothing contained herein shall give any such Participant any rights that are greater than those of a general creditor of the Company. In its sole discretion, the Committee may authorize the creation of trusts or other arrangements to meet the obligations created under the Plan to deliver the Shares or payments in lieu of or with respect to Awards hereunder; provided, however, that the existence of such trusts or other arrangements is consistent with the unfunded status of the Plan.
13.10.
Unfunded Status of the Plan.
 
.    The Plan and all determinations made and actions taken thereunder, to the extent not otherwise governed by the Code or the laws of the United States, shall be governed by the laws of the State of Delaware and construed accordingly.
13.11.
Governing Law
 
.    The Plan shall be effective on the date of the approval of the Plan by the holders of a majority of the shares entitled to vote at a duly constituted meeting of the shareholders of the Company. The Plan shall be null and void and of no effect if the foregoing condition is not fulfilled and in such event each Award shall, notwithstanding any of the preceding provisions of the Plan, be null and void and of no effect. Awards may be granted under the Plan at any time and from time to time on or prior to the tenth anniversary of the effective date of the Plan, on which date the Plan will expire except as to Awards then outstanding under the Plan. Such outstanding Awards shall remain in effect until they have been exercised or terminated, or have expired.
13.12.
Effective Date of Plan; Termination of Plan
 
.    Awards may be granted to Participants who are foreign nationals or employed outside the United States, or both, on such terms and conditions different from those applicable to Awards to Employees employed in the United States as may, in the judgment of the Committee, be necessary or desirable in order to recognize differences in local law or tax policy. The Committee also may impose conditions on the exercise or vesting of Awards in order to minimize the Company's obligation with respect to tax equalization for Employees on assignments outside their home country. The Committee may approve such supplements to or amendments, restatements or alternative versions of this Plan as it may consider necessary or appropriate for such purposes, without thereby affecting the terms of this Plan as in effect for any other purpose, and the Secretary or other appropriate officer of the Company may certify any such document as having been approved and adopted in the same manner as this Plan.
13.13.
Foreign Employees
 
.    The captions in the Plan are for convenience of reference only, and are not intended to narrow, limit or affect the substance or interpretation of the provisions contained herein.
13.14.
Captions
 


