FILE:RHT/RHT-8K-20040902060043.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
On August 31, 2004, the Registrant granted Charles E. Peters, Jr. an incentive stock option to purchase 32,624 shares of the Registrant's common stock, $0.0001 par value per share ("Common Stock") and a non-qualified stock option (together with the incentive stock option, the "Options") to purchase 317,376 shares of Common Stock, each at an exercise price of $12.26 per share. The Options were granted pursuant to, and are subject to the terms and conditions of, the Registrant's 1999 Stock Option and Incentive Plan. The options vest as to 25% of the shares in one year from date of grant and 6.25% of the shares on the first day of each subsequent three month period following the first anniversary of the date of grant. Upon a change in ownership of the Registrant of greater than 50% of its outstanding shares (a "Change of Control") and in the event that Mr. Peters is terminated, either involuntarily or constructively as a result of the Change of Control, 100% of the unvested Options shall vest and become immediately exercisable. Any involuntary termination shall be considered a result of a Change of Control if (a) it occurs within twelve months of the transaction resulting in the Change of Control and (b) it is not for cause. Constructive termination shall be deemed to have occurred if within twelve months of the transaction resulting in the Change of Control the following conditions exist: (1) the combined company diminishes Mr. Peters responsibilities and authority, or reduces the rate of Mr. Peters compensation (including the target level of bonus or incentive compensation and stock options for which Mr. Peters is eligible), in either case as compared with Mr. Peters responsibilities and authority or rate of compensation, as the case may be, in effect immediately preceding the Change of Control; or (2) Mr. Peters is required to work in an office that is more than 50 miles from the current location; and (3) within ninety days following such diminution, reduction or required relocation, Mr. Peters resigns from his employment with the Registrant.
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
 
Effective August 30, 2004, Kevin B. Thompson resigned as the Registrant's Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer, and the Registrant appointed Charles E. Peters, Jr. to serve as its Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. The Registrant executed an offer letter dated August 16, 2004 (the "Offer Letter") with Mr. Peters. The Offer Letter provides that Mr. Peters will receive an initial annual salary of $275,000. In addition, Mr. Peters is eligible to participate in the Registrant's Executive Variable Compensation Plan (the "EVC Plan") pursuant to which he will have a target bonus of $200,000 per year. To facilitate his relocation, Mr. Peters is guaranteed a bonus of at least $50,000 under the EVC Plan for the fiscal year ending February 28, 2005. The Offer Letter also provides for reimbursement of certain costs and expenses in connection with Mr. Peters' relocation. In addition, the Offer Letter provides that, subject to the approval of the Registrant's Board of Directors, Mr. Peters will be granted an option to purchase 350,000 shares of the Registrant's common stock pursuant to the Registrant's 1999 Stock Option Plan. Mr. Peters may elect to reduce the number of shares subject to options that he will receive in exchange for shares of restricted stock. Subject to the approval of the Registrant's Board of Directors, Mr. Peters is eligible to receive an annual grant of an option to purchase 140,000 shares of the Registrant's common stock. Finally, the Offer Letter provides that, subject to the approval of the Registrant's Board of Directors, upon a change of control (as defined in the Offer Letter) of the Registrant and in the event that Mr. Peters' employment is involuntarily terminated for reasons other than for cause or constructively terminated (as defined in the Offer Letter) as a result of such change of control, all of the unvested options held by Mr. Peters will immediately vest and become exercisable.
 
Prior to joining the Registrant, Mr. Peters, age 53, served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Burlington Industries, Inc., a manufacturer of fabrics and textiles for apparel and interior furnishings, from November 1995 until November 2003.
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure
 
On September 2, 2004, the Registrant issued a press release announcing Mr. Peters' appointment. A copy of such press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. The information furnished in this report pursuant to Item 7.01, Regulation FD Disclosure, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
See Exhibit Index attached hereto.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
RALEIGH, NC, Sept. 2, 2004, Red Hat, Inc. (Nasdaq:RHAT), the world's premier open source and Linux provider, today announced the appointment of Charles E. Peters, Jr. as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Peters, a CPA, brings over 30 years of financial leadership including 20 years in publicly traded companies. Most recently Peters held the position of Chief Financial Officer with multi-national Burlington Industries. Peters' responsibilities as Chief Financial Officer at Red Hat will include accounting, finance, treasury, tax, credit and investor relations.
 
"Charlie is a seasoned professional with a unique depth and breadth of experience in international finance and publicly traded companies that will help lead Red Hat's next phase of growth," said Matthew Szulik, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
 
Peters began his career with Price Waterhouse in 1973, serving in Boston and London in the audit division. In 1982, he joined GenRad, Inc., an NYSE-listed multi-national manufacturer of scientific test equipment where he served as Chief Financial Officer for six years. In 1991 he joined NYSE-listed Boston Edison Company, a $1.5 billion electric power company serving the Boston area. He was Senior Vice President-Finance of Boston Edison Company from 1991 to 1995.
 
"Red Hat and open source will continue to make a global impact on how enterprises consume software," said Charlie Peters. "This is an outstanding opportunity. I am pleased to be part of the Red Hat management team and look forward to helping to lead the organization in realizing its market potential."
 
Peters' new position is effective immediately. He will be based at Red Hat's headquarters in Raleigh, NC. For more information on Red Hat please visit .
http://www.redhat.com
 
 
About Red Hat, Inc.
 
Red Hat, the world's leading open source and Linux provider, is headquartered in Raleigh, NC with satellite offices spanning the globe. Red Hat is leading Linux and open source solutions into the mainstream by making high quality, low cost technology accessible. Red Hat provides operating system software along with middleware, applications and management solutions. Red Hat also offers support, training and consulting services to its customers worldwide and through top-tier partnerships. Red Hat's Open Source strategy offers customers a long term plan for building infrastructures that are based on and leverage open source technologies with focus on security and ease of management. Learn more: http://www.redhat.com
 
LINUX is a trademark of Linus Torvalds. RED HAT is a registered trademark of Red Hat, Inc. All other names and trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
Forward-looking statements in this press release are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Investors are cautioned that statements in this press release that are not strictly historical statements, including, without limitation, management's plans and objectives for future operations, and management's assessment of market factors, constitute forward-looking
statements which involve risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties include, without limitation, reliance upon strategic relationships, management of growth, the possibility of undetected software errors, the risks of economic downturns generally, and in Red Hat's industry specifically, the risks associated with competition and competitive pricing pressures, the viability of the Internet, and other risks detailed in Red Hat's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, copies of which may be accessed through the SEC's Web site at http://www.sec.gov


