FILE:RHT/RHT-8K-20060929110342.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
2006 Non-Employee Director
            
Compensation Plan
                        
On September 25, 2006, the Board of Directors of Red Hat, Inc. ("Red Hat" or the "Company") revised the compensation program for non-employee directors, which will become effective on October 1, 2006 (the "2006 Director Compensation Plan").
Cash Compensation
Under the 2006 Director Compensation Plan, non-employee directors receive cash fees, paid in equal quarterly amounts, as follows:
 
 
 
 
All cash compensation shall be paid in equal quarterly installments on February 15, May 15, August 15 and November 15 of each year.
In addition, directors may choose to defer all or a portion of their cash compensation into fully vested deferred stock units, which represent the right to receive shares of the Company's common stock, at the earlier of (1) termination of the director's board service or (2) a future date, at least three years following the date of issuance of the deferred stock unit, as designated by the director on or before the issuance of the deferred stock unit. The number of deferred stock units shall be calculated based on the fair market value of the Company's Common Stock on the date of grant.
Equity Compensation
Non-employee directors are also eligible to receive equity compensation under Red Hat's Amended and Restated 2004 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "2004 Plan") and any successor plans. All awards to non-employee directors under the 2004 Plan will have a maximum term of five years and my not be exercised following the expiration of the option term. Under the 2006 Director Compensation Plan, non-employee directors receive equity compensation under the Company's then-effective equity compensation plan as follows.
 
In addition, non-employee directors may choose to receive any portion of their initial or annual option grants in the form of deferred stock units or restricted stock awards (at the ratio of 35 deferred stock units for every 100 shares of common stock underlying options granted). The deferred stock units or restricted stock awards vest on the same terms as the underlying grant. The deferred stock units may be converted into shares of the Company's common stock at the earlier of (1) termination of the director's board service or (2) a future date, at least three years following the date of issuance of the deferred stock unit but not before vesting, as designated by the director on or before the issuance of the deferred stock unit.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
The exhibits listed in the accompanying Exhibit Index are filed as part of this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
Cash Compensation
 


