FILE:RHT/RHT-8K-20071220162450.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Effective January 1, 2008, Matthew Szulik, the President, Chief Executive Officer ("CEO") and Chairman of the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Red Hat, Inc. (the "Company") will resign his positions as President and CEO of the Company. Mr. Szulik will continue to serve as the Chairman of the Board.
 
Effective as of January 1, 2008, James M. Whitehurst will become the President and CEO of the Company. Mr. Whitehurst previously served as the Chief Operating Officer of Delta Air Lines, Inc. ("Delta") from July 2005 to August 2007. Prior to that time, Mr. Whitehurst served as the Senior Vice President and Chief Network and Planning Officer of Delta from 2004 - July 2005; and Senior Vice President  Finance, Treasury & Business Development of Delta from 2002  2004. Mr. Whitehurst is 40 years of age.
Mr. Whitehurst and the Company entered into an Executive Employment Agreement, dated as of December 19, 2007 (the "Employment Agreement"), pursuant to which Mr. Whitehurst will receive an initial base salary of $700,000 per annum and be eligible to receive an annual incentive bonus in an amount equal to 100% of his base salary in effect at the beginning of such fiscal year and may receive up to 200% of his base salary, as determined in the sole discretion of the Compensation Committee of the Board. The Company has also agreed to pay up to $150,000 in the aggregate for Mr. Whitehurst's reasonable relocation expenses incurred in his move from the Atlanta, Georgia area and a tax gross-up related to the taxable portion of any reimbursement of these relocation expenses. If Mr. Whitehurst is unable to sell his current principal residence in Atlanta, Georgia, within a commercially reasonable period of time, then the Company will provide Mr. Whitehurst with an additional $150,000.
Within 10 days of the time that Mr. Whitehurst begins serving as the President and CEO, the Employment Agreement provides that he will be granted options to purchase 500,000 shares of the Company's common stock and 175,000 shares of restricted stock under the Company's 2004 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "Stock Plan"). The options will have a per share exercise price equal to 100% of the closing price of the Company's common stock as traded on the New York Stock Exchange on the date of grant, shall vest in equal amounts on an annual basis over a four year period following the date of grant, and, with limited exceptions, will contain the same terms and conditions as the Company's standard form of non-qualified stock option agreement adopted for use under the Stock Plan. The restricted stock granted to Mr. Whitehurst will vest in equal amounts on an annual basis over a four year period following the date of grant and, with limited exceptions, will contain the same terms and conditions as the Company's standard form of restricted stock agreement adopted for use under the Stock Plan. The Compensation Committee will consider the grant of additional compensatory stock awards to Mr. Whitehurst no less frequently than annually.
If Mr. Whitehurst's employment is terminated by the Company without Cause (as defined in the Employment Agreement) or if Mr. Whitehurst resigns for Good Reason (as defined in the Employment Agreement), subject to the Company receiving a valid release of claims and Mr. Whitehurst's compliance with certain restrictive covenants, Mr. Whitehurst will be entitled to receive (1) 150% of his then current annualized base salary, (2) a prorated portion of his current target bonus, and (3) health care coverage paid by the Company for himself and his beneficiaries for a period of no longer than 18 months following his termination. In addition, any portion of a prior stock award that is outstanding but unvested and which would otherwise have vested during the subsequent 18 months, will immediately vest. Mr. Whitehurst's right to exercise any outstanding stock options will end on the earlier of the first anniversary of his termination or the expiration of the option's maximum term.
Alternatively, if (a) Mr. Whitehurst's employment is terminated by the Company without Cause either within 3 months prior to or upon or within 24 months following a Change in Control (as such terms are defined in the Employment Agreement), or (b) Mr. Whitehurst terminates his employment for Good Reason upon or within 24 months following the occurrence of a Change in Control (as such terms are defined in the Employment Agreement), subject to the Company receiving a valid release of claims, he will be entitled to receive (1) 200% of his then current annualized base salary, (2) 200% of his then current target bonus, (3) a prorated portion of his then current target bonus, (4) health care coverage paid by the Company for himself and his beneficiaries for a period of no longer than 24 months following his termination, and (5) term life insurance in the same amount of death benefit protection that
he enjoyed under Company-provided life insurance coverage on the date of his termination of employment paid by the Company for a period of 24 months following his termination. In addition, any portion of a prior stock award previously granted to Mr. Whitehurst will immediately vest. If any amounts payable under the Employment Agreement or any other amounts in the nature of compensation, result in the imposition of the "golden parachute" excise tax, Mr. Szulik will receive a tax gross-up payment to offset the tax liabilities created by the excise tax.
Alternatively, if (a) Mr. Whitehurst's employment is terminated by the Company for Cause or (b) Mr. Whitehurst resigns without Good Reason, he will be entitled to payment of his base salary through the date his employment is terminated.
 
On December 19, 2007, Mr. Whitehurst was elected to the Board as a Class III director of the Company, with his service as a director commencing at the time that Mr. Whitehurst begins his employment as the President and CEO of the Company. Pursuant to the terms of Mr. Whitehurst's Employment Agreement, the Board will nominate him to the Board for so long as he remains President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company and, if elected, Mr. Whitehurst will serve in such capacity without additional consideration.
 
See description in response to Item 5.02(c) above.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
For Information:
Kerrin Catallozzi
Red Hat
(919)754-4268
kcatallo@redhat.com
Raleigh, N.C.  December 20, 2007  Red Hat, Inc. (NYSE: RHT) today announced that its Board of Directors has elected James M. Whitehurst, as President and Chief Executive Officer and a member of the Board of Directors of Red Hat, effective January 1, 2008. Mr. Whitehurst will succeed Matthew J. Szulik as President and Chief Executive Officer. Szulik will continue to serve as Chairman of the Board of Directors.
On behalf of Red Hat's Board of Directors, William S. Kaiser, lead director, said, "For nearly a decade, Matthew Szulik's vision and leadership legitimized free, open source software as an innovative and profitable business model. From Red Hat's early days as a small, private company, Szulik transformed Red Hat into a globally recognized brand whose approach to technology development and customer service has redefined the software industry."
Kaiser added, "The Board is delighted that Jim Whitehurst will serve as CEO. We are confident that he will bring a combination of strategic insight and operational excellence needed to sustain growth while continuing to deliver industry leading customer service. His experience with large, global companies will be essential as Red Hat continues to scale to $1 billion in revenue and beyond."
"After an extensive search, Red Hat has selected a talented executive who has successfully led a global technology-focused organization at Delta," added Szulik. "Jim is a hands on guy who will be a strong cultural fit at Red Hat." "Red Hat has changed the way people consume technology. This is an outstanding company that I feel privileged to join," said Jim Whitehurst. "Our outlook is positive with strong technology, great people, solid management and a global brand. Red Hat leads the software
industry in delivering value to its customers. I welcome this opportunity to lead Red Hat into the future."
Whitehurst joined Delta Airlines in 2002, serving in various roles, most recently as Chief Operating Officer, responsible for Operations, Sales and Customer Service, Network and Revenue Management, Marketing and Corporate Strategy.
Prior to joining Delta, Whitehurst served as Vice President and Director of The Boston Consulting Group (BCG) and held various leadership roles in their Chicago, Hong Kong, Shanghai and Atlanta offices.
A native of Columbus, Ga., Whitehurst graduated from Rice University in Houston, Texas, with a bachelor's degree in Computer Science and Economics. He also attended Friedrich-Alexander University in Erlangen, Germany, holds a general course degree from the London School of Economics and an MBA from Harvard Business School.
Nosal Partners, an executive search firm, assisted the Red Hat Board of Directors in this search.
About Red Hat
Red Hat, the world's leading open source solutions provider, is headquartered in Raleigh, NC with over 50 satellite offices spanning the globe. CIOs have ranked Red Hat first for value in Enterprise Software for four consecutive years in the CIO Insight Magazine Vendor Value study. Red Hat provides high-quality, low-cost technology with its operating system platform, Red Hat Enterprise Linux, together with applications, management and Services Oriented Architecture (SOA) solutions, including the JBoss Enterprise Middleware Suite. Red Hat also offers support, training and consulting services to its customers worldwide. Learn more: .
http://www.redhat.com
Forward-Looking Statements
Certain statements contained in this press release may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements provide current expectations of future events based on certain
assumptions and include any statement that does not directly relate to any historical or current fact. Actual results may differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements as a result of various important factors, including: risks related to the integration of acquisitions; the ability of the Company to effectively compete; the inability to adequately protect Company intellectual property and the potential for infringement or breach of license claims of or relating to third party intellectual property; risks related to data and information security vulnerabilities; ineffective management of, and control over, the Company's growth and international operations; adverse results in litigation; changes in and dependence on key personnel as well as other factors contained in our most recent Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (copies of which may be accessed through the Securities and Exchange Commission's website at http://www.sec.gov), including those found therein under the captions "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations". In addition, the forward-looking statements included in this press release represent the Company's views as of the date of this press release and these views could change. However, while the Company may elect to update these forward-looking statements at some point in the future, the Company specifically disclaims any obligation to do so. These forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as representing the Company's views as of any date subsequent to the date of the press release.
###
LINUX is a trademark of Linus Torvalds. RED HAT and JBOSS are registered trademarks of Red Hat, Inc. and its subsidiaries in the US and other countries.


