FILE:RHT/RHT-8K-20070516162456.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
On May 10, 2007, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (the "Committee") of Red Hat, Inc. (the "Company") approved and adopted the Company's Executive Variable Compensation Plan (the "EVC Plan") and established performance objectives that will be used to determine the amounts payable to the Company's executive officers for the fiscal year ending February 28, 2008 ("FY2008") under the EVC Plan.
The EVC Plan
The EVC Plan is designed to motivate and reward key management employees whose efforts impact the Company's performance. Participation in the EVC Plan is subject to certain eligibility restrictions. The EVC Plan is a component plan of the Company's 2006 Performance Compensation Plan ("PCP") with respect to employees who participate in the PCP. Under the EVC Plan, performance is measured during the Company's fiscal year (the "Performance Period"). The Committee approves financial performance objectives and individual performance objectives for participants as well as the percentage of each to be used in determining awards. Individual performance objectives must be determined in writing and discussed with each of the EVC Plan participants during the first half of the Performance Period and upon conclusion of the Performance Period.
The Committee establishes a target award payment for each eligible participant. The target award represents the expected level of performance, which results in a payment equal to 100% of the target award. The maximum award under the EVC Plan is limited to 200% of the target award, and the threshold award under the EVC Plan is limited to 25% of the target award. In no event may the amount of an award under the EVC Plan to an employee exceed the limit on grants prescribed by the Committee and the PCP. The attainment of financial performance objectives are measured based upon actual financial results versus the financial targets established under the EVC Plan. Bonus awards under the EVC Plan are expressed as a percentage of a participant's target bonus award.
All awards under the EVC Plan must be approved by the Committee. The Committee may, under certain circumstances involving the occurrence of unanticipated economic or market conditions that render the pre-established financial performance objectives unattainable, permit the payment of not more than 50% of the target bonus award for participants, in its discretion. In addition, the Committee, in its discretion, also may modify pre-established financial performance objectives for the Performance Period or, subject to certain limitations, may make a bonus payment under the EVC Plan that is higher or lower than the amount calculated on the basis of the financial and individual performance objectives of the award, provided that the maximum payment may not exceed 200% of the target award. Any awards generated during the Performance Period will be paid no later than the fifteenth day of the third month following the end of the fiscal year of the Company in which the applicable Performance Period ends. Payments under the EVC Plan are subject to proration for participants not employed by the Company for the full Performance Period, and participants are not eligible to receive an award under the EVC Plan if they are terminated by reason other than retirement or economic reduction in workforce.
The foregoing summary of terms of the EVC Plan is subject to, and qualified in its entirety by, the EVC Plan, which is attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Performance Objectives
As approved by the Committee, the financial performance objectives for FY2008 under the EVC Plan for each eligible participant are based on the Company's achievement of (a) a specified dollar amount of net revenues, (b) a specified dollar amount of cash flows from operations, excluding the impact
of the reclassification of "excess tax benefits" from share-based compensation as cash flows from financing activities under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (Revised 2004), Share-Based Payment ("FAS 123R"), and (c) a specified percentage of operating margin, excluding the impact of share-based compensation expense under FAS 123R, for FY2008. The established financial performance objectives, other than the amount of net revenues, are non-GAAP financial measures.
For FY2008, the Committee determined that 75% of a participant's bonus award under the EVC Plan will be based upon those financial performance objectives and 25% of a participant's bonus award under the EVC Plan will be based on individual performance objectives that may include subjective factors for individual participants, such as business strategy development and implementation, succession planning, retention of key employees and executive development. The Committee determined that each of the financial performance objectives discussed above will represent 25% of the award. With respect to each financial metric and the individual performance objectives metric, payments may range from 0  50% of the target bonus award per metric.
The following named executive officers are participants in the EVC Plan for FY2008:
Matthew J. Szulik, President and Chief Executive Officer
Charles E. Peters, Jr., Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Alex Pinchev, Executive Vice President, Worldwide Sales
Joanne Rohde, Executive Vice President, Worldwide Operations
Paul J. Cormier, Executive Vice President, Engineering
The Committee has not yet determined the amount of each participant's target bonus award for FY2008 but has determined that such target bonus awards may range from 10% to 100% of each participant's base salary at the beginning or the conclusion of the Performance Period, as determined by the Committee.
 
(d) Exhibits
See Exhibit Index attached hereto.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Red Hat, Inc.'s Executive Variable Compensation Plan (the "Plan") is set forth below.
 
The Plan has been designed to motivate and reward key management employees whose efforts impact the performance of Red Hat, Inc. (the "Company") and its subsidiaries through the achievement of pre-established financial and individual objectives.
Performance under the Plan is measured during the performance period (the Company's fiscal year) and payments under the Plan are made following the end of the performance period.
 
Officers and key management employees may be eligible to participate in the Plan, upon the recommendation by the Chief Executive Officer of the Company and approval by the Compensation Committee ("Committee"). An employee who is eligible to participate in any other cash incentive plan of the Company, other than the Company's 2006 Performance Compensation Plan (the "2006 PCP"), is not eligible to participate in this Plan. This Plan is a component plan of the 2006 PCP with respect to employees who participate in the 2006 PCP.
 
The Committee must approve the Company performance objectives and individual objectives that are used to determine awards paid under this Plan as well as the percentage of each to be used in determining awards. Individual objectives must be determined in writing and discussed with each of the Plan participants during the first half of the performance period and upon conclusion of the performance period.
 
A Target Award payment is established for each eligible participant. Target Awards remain fixed even if the participant's base pay in effect at the beginning or the conclusion of the performance period changes. Pro rata amounts are provided for participants hired or terminated during the fiscal year. Generally, the participants receive the Target Award when performance under the Plan meets the pre-established performance objectives.
Payouts under the Plan will be in accordance with the Plan and the mechanism established by the Committee for determining payouts. The weight applied to each component of an award will be determined by the Committee and may vary for each participant.
The Target Award represents the expected level of performance which results in a payment equal to 100% of the Target Award. The maximum award under the Plan is limited to 200% of the Target Award, and the threshold award under the Plan is limited to 25% of the Target Award. In no event may the amount of an award under the Plan to an employee exceed the limit on grants prescribed by the Committee and the 2006 PCP.
Attainment of the financial objectives of the Plan is measured based on actual results versus Plan targets. Payouts are expressed as a percentage of the Target Award for each participant versus actual levels of financial performance. If actual results are between stated percentages, interpolations of payout percentages are to be applied.
 
The Committee shall approve the use of individual objectives as part of the participant's performance criteria under the Plan. The use of individual objectives is subject to the following requirements:
 
 
 
There may be circumstances under which the financial performance of the Company does not generate an award under the Plan. The nature and scope of the Company's operations are such that at times unanticipated economic and market conditions may render pre-established financial objectives unattainable in any given performance period. If, in the opinion of the Committee, such circumstances should arise, then bonus payments not to exceed 50% of the Target Award may be paid.
 
If, during a performance period, there has occurred or should occur, in the opinion of the Committee, a significant beneficial or adverse change in economic conditions, the indicators of growth or recession in the Company's business segments, the nature of the operations of the Company, or applicable laws, regulations or accounting practices, or other matters which were not anticipated by the Committee when it approved objectives for the performance period and which, in the Committee's judgment, had, have, or are expected to have a substantial positive or negative effect on the performance of the Company as a whole, the Committee may modify or revise the financial performance objectives for the performance period in such a manner as it may deem appropriate in its sole judgment. By way of illustration, and not limitation, such significant changes might result from sales of assets, or mergers, acquisitions, divestitures, or spin-offs.
 
Any awards generated under the Plan must be approved by the Committee. The Committee, in its discretion, subject to the last paragraph of this Article IX, may make payment of a bonus under the Plan in an amount that is higher or lower than the amount calculated on the basis of the financial and individual objectives of the award; provided, however, that the maximum bonus payable to a participant under the Plan shall not exceed 200% of such participant's Target Award. Any awards generated during the performance period will be paid no later than the fifteenth day of the third month following the end of the fiscal year of the Company in which the applicable performance period ends, subject to prior notification and approval by the Committee.
Participants hired during the fiscal year will receive a prorated bonus based upon the actual date of hire. Employees terminating prior to the payout date are not eligible for payment of any award under this Plan unless termination is due to retirement or economic reduction in force. In
such cases, any bonus payments will be prorated to the date of termination and determined on the basis of bonuses actually paid to similarly situated employees.
This Plan is a component plan of the 2006 PCP with respect to employees who participate in the 2006 PCP. In no event may the amount of an award under the Plan to an employee participating in the 2006 PCP exceed the limit on grants prescribed by the Committee and the 2006 PCP.


