FILE:RHT/RHT-8K-20080924160154.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, DC 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15 (d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of report (Date of earliest event reported): September 24, 2008
Red Hat, Inc.
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Its Charter)
Delaware
(State or Other Jurisdiction of Incorporation)
(919) 754-3700
(
Registrants Telephone Number, Including Area Code)
Not Applicable
(Former Name or Former Address, if Changed Since Last Report)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
 General Instruction A.2. below):
     
 - 
  
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
       
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
       
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
       
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 2.02.     Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On September 24, 2008, Red Hat, Inc. announced its financial results for the quarter ended August 31, 2008. The full text of the press release issued in connection with the announcement is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
We disclosed non-GAAP financial information in the press release for the three months and six months ended August 31, 2008 and August 31, 2007. These non-GAAP disclosures include a reconciliation of GAAP net income to adjusted net income based on:
the impact of non-cash share-based compensation expense under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (Revised 2004), Share-Based Payment ("SFAS 123R"); and
the impact of GAAP income tax expense, which includes an estimated annual effective tax rate versus our estimated annual effective cash-basis tax rate.
These non-GAAP disclosures should not be used as a substitute for our GAAP results, but rather read in conjunction with our GAAP results. The non-GAAP financial measures we disclosed and the methods we used to calculate non-GAAP results are not in accordance with GAAP and may be materially different from the non-GAAP measures and methods used by other companies.
Prior to March 1, 2006, we accounted for share-based compensation pursuant to the provisions of Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, and accordingly no compensation expense was recorded for stock options or other share-based awards to employees and non-employee directors that were granted with an exercise price equal to or above the market value per share of our common stock on the grant date. For awards granted with an exercise price less than the market value of our stock on the grant date, the award's intrinsic value was recorded as deferred compensation and reported as a separate component of stockholders' equity. This deferred compensation was amortized to compensation expense over the vesting period of the award.
Effective March 1, 2006, we adopted the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS 123R, using the modified prospective transition method. Compensation costs recognized in the three months and six months ended August 31, 2008 and August 31, 2007,  include compensation costs based on the grant date fair value of the share-based awards.  The fair values have been estimated using the Black-Scholes-Merton option-pricing model.  In accordance with the provisions of the modified prospective transition method, results for prior periods have not been restated. Our reconciliation includes GAAP non-cash, share-based compensation expense of $10.9 million and $21.4 million for the three and six months ended August 31, 2008, and $8.6 million and $17.0 million for the three and six months ended August 31, 2007, respectively, versus the non-GAAP exclusion of such expense.
We excluded GAAP share-based compensation expense for the purpose of calculating non-GAAP adjusted net income and non-GAAP adjusted net income per share because it is a non-cash expense, and management believes that by excluding such expense we provide an alternative and useful measure of operating performance.  Management also believes that non-GAAP measures of  profitability that exclude share-based compensation expense are used by a number of financial analysts in the software industry to compare current performance to prior periods and to forecast future performance.
During the three months and six months ended August 31, 2008, we recorded GAAP income tax expense of $13.5 million and $24.6 million, respectively, which reflected an estimated annual effective tax rate of 39.0%. We currently have approximately $145.2 million of tax net operating loss carryforwards ("NOL") available, subject to restrictions, to offset future taxable income, resulting in an estimated annual effective cash-basis tax rate of approximately 5.0% through at least the end of our fiscal year ending February 28, 2009. For this reason, in our non-GAAP presentation, we have adjusted the GAAP income tax expense for these periods to reflect the estimated annual effective cash-basis tax rate, resulting in non-GAAP adjusted income tax expense for the three months and six months ended August 31, 2008 of $2.3 million and $4.2 million, respectively. In our reconciliation, the recorded GAAP income tax expense of $12.1 million and $22.9 million for the three and six months ended August 31, 2007, was adjusted to reflect our estimated annual effective cash-basis tax rate of 5.0%, resulting in non-GAAP adjusted income tax expense of $1.9 million and $3.7 million for these periods.
Management believes that these adjusted non-GAAP results, when read in conjunction with the GAAP results, offer a useful view of our business performance in that they provide a more consistent means of comparing performance to prior periods in light of the prospective-only application of SFAS 123R in March 2006 (under the modified prospective transition method) and due to the availability of our tax NOL position to substantially offset cash costs of our GAAP effective tax rates through at least the end of our fiscal year ending February 28, 2009. Management also uses non-GAAP measures as a component of its regular internal reporting to evaluate performance of the business and compare it to prior performance, to make operating decisions, including internal budgeting and the calculation of incentive compensation, and to forecast future performance. Our disclosure of non-GAAP financial measures allows investors to evaluate the Company's performance using the same methodology and information as that used by management.
The information furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 of this Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99.1 referenced herein, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
Item 9.01.     Financial Statements and Exhibits
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit 99.1
Red Hat Reports Second Quarter Results
Revenue of $164.4 Million, up 29% Year-over-Year
Deferred Revenue of $496.9 Million, up 32% Year-over-Year
RALEIGH, N.C.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Red Hat, Inc. (NYSE: RHT), the world's leading provider of open source solutions, today announced financial results for its fiscal year 2009 second quarter ended August 31, 2008.
Our focused execution has delivered another quarter of solid growth and financial results, stated Jim Whitehurst, President and Chief Executive Officer of Red Hat. Also in Q2, we continued to execute on our virtualization strategy with our award winning RHEL platform as the solid, certified foundation. Our goal is for Red Hat to deliver a comprehensive virtualization solution from server to desktop which will enable our customers to deploy any application, anywhere, anytime.
Total revenue for the quarter was $164.4 million, an increase of 29% from the year ago quarter and 5% from the prior quarter. Subscription revenue for the quarter was $135.7 million, up 24% year-over-year and 4% sequentially.
Net income for the quarter was $21.1 million, or $0.10 per diluted share, compared with $18.2 million, or $0.09 per diluted share, in the year ago quarter. Non-GAAP adjusted net income for the quarter was $43.2 million, or $0.20 per diluted share, after adjusting for stock compensation and tax expense as detailed in the tables below. This compares to non-GAAP adjusted net income of $36.9 million, or $0.17 per diluted share in the year ago quarter.
Operating cash flow totaled $54.3 million, compared to $49.2 million from the year ago quarter and $63.4 million from the prior quarter. At quarter end, the companys total deferred revenue balance was $496.9 million, an increase of 32% on a year-over-year basis and 1% sequentially. Total cash, cash equivalents and investments as of August 31, 2008 were $1.4 billion.
Other highlights include the following:
JBoss Enterprise Application Platform is now available along with Red Hat Enterprise Linux on the Amazon EC2 Cloud.
Red Hat Enterprise Linux was named the 2008 Product of the Year by Channel Insider, in the Server Operating Systems category.
Red Hats annual customer and user event, the Red Hat Summit, was held in Boston this year to record attendance.
In early September, Red Hat announced the acquisition of Qumranet, Inc. which is expected to accelerate the time to market to deliver an expanded virtualization solution portfolio to the rapidly growing virtualization market. This acquisition increases Red Hats investment in and stewardship of core open source virtualization technology including KVM, the only hypervisor embedded in the Linux Kernel. The acquisition also establishes Red Hat in the nascent Virtual Desktop Infrastructure (VDI) market.
"Our performance this quarter demonstrated strong demand for our products and services, good execution, and the consistency of results afforded by our subscription business model, stated Charlie Peters, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Red Hat. Key factors to our growth include the value message, the cost efficiencies of open source solutions and our world-class customer service.
Additional information on Red Hat's reported results, including a reconciliation of the non-GAAP adjusted results, are included in the financial tables below. A live webcast of Red Hat's results will begin at 5:00 pm ET today and can be accessed by the general public at Red Hat's investor relations website at . A replay of the webcast will be available shortly after the live event will have ended.
http://investors.redhat.com
About Red Hat, Inc.
Red Hat, the world's leading open source solutions provider, is headquartered in Raleigh, NC with over 60 offices spanning the globe. CIOs have ranked Red Hat first for value in Enterprise Software for four consecutive years in the CIO Insight Magazine Vendor Value survey. Red Hat provides high-quality, affordable technology with its operating system platform, Red Hat Enterprise Linux, together with applications, management and Services Oriented Architecture (SOA) solutions, including the JBoss Enterprise Middleware Suite. Red Hat also offers support, training and consulting services to its customers worldwide. Learn more:
http://www.redhat.com.
Forward-Looking Statements
Certain statements contained in this press release may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements provide current expectations of future events based on certain assumptions and include any statement that does not directly relate to any historical or current fact. Actual results may differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements as a result of various important factors, including: risks related to the integration of acquisitions and the ability to market successfully acquired technology and products; the ability of the Company to effectively compete; the inability to adequately protect Company intellectual property and the potential for infringement or breach of license claims of or relating to third party intellectual property; risks related to data and information security vulnerabilities; ineffective management of, and control over, the Company's growth and international operations; adverse results in litigation; and changes in and a dependence on key personnel, as well as other factors contained in our most recent Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (copies of which may be accessed through the Securities and Exchange Commission's website at ), including those found therein under the captions "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations". In addition to these factors, actual future performance, outcomes, and results may differ materially because of more general factors including (without limitation) general industry and market conditions and growth rates, economic conditions, and governmental and public policy changes. The forward-looking statements included in this press release represent the Company's views as of the date of this press release and these views could change. However, while the Company may elect to update these forward-looking statements at some point in the future, the Company specifically disclaims any obligation to do so. These forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as representing the Company's views as of any date subsequent to the date of the press release.
http://www.sec.gov
LINUX is a trademark of Linus Torvalds. RED HAT and JBOSS are registered trademarks of Red Hat, Inc. and its subsidiaries in the US and other countries.
CONTACT: Red Hat, Inc. Corporate Communications: Kerrin Catallozzi, 919-754-4268 or Investor Relations: Tom McCallum, 919-754-4630
kcatallo@redhat.com
investors@redhat.com


