FILE:RHT/RHT-8K-20081107145424.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On November 3, 2008, the Board of Directors of Red Hat, Inc. (the "Company") elected Micheline Chau and Jeff Clarke to serve on the Company's Board of Directors, effective immediately. A press release announcing the elections was issued on November 7, 2008, and is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Ms. Chau, currently the President and Chief Operating Officer of Lucasfilm Ltd., will be a Class I director with a term expiring in 2009. Mr. Clarke, currently the Chief Executive Officer and President of Travelport, Inc., will be a Class II director with a term expiring in 2010. Ms. Chau and Mr. Clarke have not yet been appointed to any committees of the Company's Board. The elections bring the size of Company's Board to nine members.
There are no arrangements or understandings pursuant to which Ms. Chau or Mr. Clarke was selected as a director.
In the ordinary course of business, Travelport, Inc. and Lucasfilm Ltd. and certain of their respective affiliates purchase goods and services from the Company from time to time. Since March 1, 2007, the beginning of the Company's last fiscal year, Travelport and related entities have purchased goods and services from the Company amounting to approximately $1.25 million, and Lucasfilm and related entities have purchased goods and services from the Company that are de minimus in amount.
Ms. Chau and Mr. Clarke will be compensated under the Company's 2008 Independent Director Compensation Plan (the "2008 Director Compensation Plan"). Under the 2008 Director Compensation Plan, each will be eligible to receive an annual cash retainer of $50,000 for their service as a member of the Board. In addition, the 2008 Director Compensation Plan provides for the following annual cash retainers for service on committees of the Board: (i) $15,000 for service on the Audit Committee; (ii) $10,000 for service on the Compensation Committee; and (iii) $5,000 for service on the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee.
Under the 2008 Director Compensation Plan, directors may elect to receive all or a portion of any cash compensation in the form of the Company's deferred stock units ("DSUs"). DSUs represent the right to receive shares of the Company's common stock at a future date. The number of DSUs to be granted is determined by dividing the portion of the cash compensation with respect to which the election is made by the closing price of the Company's common stock on the date the cash compensation is due to be paid. DSUs issued in lieu of cash compensation are fully vested upon issuance and will be settled in shares of the Company's common stock upon termination of service on the Board of Directors.
In connection with their election to the Board, Ms. Chau and Mr. Clarke will be granted, on the next regularly scheduled grant date for employees, a restricted stock award equal to a number of shares of the Company's common stock determined by dividing $300,000 by the closing price of the Company's common stock on the date of grant. These shares will vest equally over a three-year period on the anniversary of the date of grant.
In addition to an initial equity grant, each of Ms. Chau and Mr. Clarke will be eligible to receive an annual equity award consisting of a restricted stock award for a number of shares of the Company's common stock determined by dividing $150,000 by the closing price of the Company's common stock on the date of grant. These shares of restricted stock shall vest on the first anniversary of the grant date. However, shares granted to Ms. Chau and Mr. Clarke in connection with their first annual equity award in 2009 will be prorated based on the number of months of service as of the grant date. Under the 2008 Director Compensation Plan, directors may also elect to receive DSUs on a one-for-one basis in lieu of annual equity awards. The DSUs will vest on the same basis as the restricted stock award and will be settled in shares of the Company's common stock upon termination of service on the Board of Directors.
The foregoing description of the terms of the 2008 Director Compensation Plan does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by the provisions of the 2008 Director Compensation Plan, which was filed as Exhibit 10.42 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended February 29, 2008, and is incorporated herein by this reference.
The Company does not pay meeting fees. Non-employee directors are reimbursed for reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred in attending meetings of the Board of Directors and meetings of any committees of the Board of Directors on which they serve.
Ms. Chau and Mr. Clarke each have entered into an indemnification agreement with the Company. In general, the indemnification agreements provide that the Company will, to the fullest extent permitted by law, and subject to certain limitations and exceptions, indemnify the indemnitee against expenses, judgments, fines, penalties and amounts paid in settlement that may be incurred in connection with the defense or settlement of threatened, pending or completed proceedings to which the indemnitee becomes subject in connection with his or her service as director of the Company.
The indemnification agreements provide for indemnification rights regarding both third-party claims and proceedings brought by or in the right of the Company. In addition, the indemnification agreements provide for the advancement of expenses incurred by the indemnitee under certain circumstances. The indemnification agreements are not exclusive of any other rights to indemnification or advancement of expenses to which the indemnitee may be entitled, including any rights arising under the charter or bylaws of the Company, a separate agreement with the Company, or applicable law.
The foregoing summary of the indemnification agreements is qualified in its entirety by reference to the provisions of the Form of Indemnification Agreement, a copy of which was filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on February 28, 2007, and incorporated herein by this reference.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
RALEIGH, N.C.(BUSINESS WIRE)Nov. 7, 2008Red Hat, Inc. (NYSE:RHT), the world's leading provider of open source solutions, today announced that Micheline Chau, President and COO of Lucasfilm Ltd., and Jeff Clarke, President and CEO of Travelport, Inc., have joined Red Hat's Board of Directors.
"Both Micheline and Jeff have extensive experience in operational and financial roles at an executive level," said James M. Whitehurst, Chief Executive Officer of Red Hat. "In their current leadership positions in the media and travel industry, they will bring a broad perspective of managing technology innovation in rapidly evolving businesses."
Ms. Chau joined Lucasfilm Ltd., one of the world's leading film and entertainment companies, in 1991 as chief financial officer and was named to her current position in 2003. She is also a member of Lucasfilm's board of directors. In addition to Lucasfilm's motion-picture and television productions, Ms. Chau guides the activities of Industrial Light & Magic and Skywalker Sound, among the entertainment industry's leading visual-effects and audio post-production facilities; LucasArts Entertainment, which develops and publishes entertainment software for computer and console platforms worldwide; Lucas Online, creator of starwars.com; Lucasfilm Animation, a creator of animated feature and television productions; and Lucas Licensing, which manages the global merchandising activities for Lucasfilm's entertainment properties.
Prior to joining Lucasfilm, Ms. Chau was a business executive with experience in several industries, and most recently was chief financial/administrative officer for Bell Atlantic Healthcare Systems. Ms. Chau received her undergraduate degree in English from Wellesley College and a masters of business administration degree from Stanford University.
Mr. Clarke joined Travelport, the parent company of the Travelport group of companies, as Chief Executive Officer and President in April of 2006 and was appointed as a member of the Board of Directors in May 2006. Travelport is one of the world's largest travel companies, offering broad-based services to businesses operating in the global travel industry. The company is comprised of Travelport GDS, a global distribution system business that includes the Worldspan and Galileo brands; GTA, a group travel and wholesale hotel business; Business Intelligence Services, a data analysis business; and IT Services and Software, which hosts mission critical applications and provides business solutions for major airlines. Travelport also owns approximately 48% of Orbitz Worldwide, Inc. (NYSE: OWW), a leading global online travel company. Mr. Clarke serves as chairman of the board of directors of Orbitz.
Prior to joining Travelport, Mr. Clarke was Chief Operating Officer for CA, Inc. (formerly Computer Associates Inc.). Before joining CA, Mr. Clarke served as Executive Vice President, Global Operations for Hewlett-Packard Company (HP). Prior to joining HP, Mr. Clarke served in various positions at Compaq Computer, most recently serving as Compaq's Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Clarke holds a bachelor's degree in economics from the State University of New York at Geneseo and a masters of business administration degree from Northeastern University.
About Red Hat, Inc.
Red Hat, the world's leading open source solutions provider, is headquartered in Raleigh, NC with over
60 offices spanning the globe. CIOs have ranked Red Hat first for value in Enterprise Software for four consecutive years in the CIO Insight Magazine Vendor Value survey. Red Hat provides high-quality, affordable technology with its operating system platform, Red Hat Enterprise Linux, together with applications, management and Services Oriented Architecture (SOA) solutions, including the JBoss Enterprise Middleware Suite. Red Hat also offers support, training and consulting services to its customers worldwide. Learn more:
http://www.redhat.com.
Forward-Looking Statements
Certain statements contained in this press release may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements provide current expectations of future events based on certain assumptions and include any statement that does not directly relate to any historical or current fact. Actual results may differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements as a result of various important factors, including: risks related to the integration of acquisitions and the ability to market successfully acquired technology and products; the ability of the Company to effectively compete; the inability to adequately protect Company intellectual property and the potential for infringement or breach of license claims of or relating to third party intellectual property; risks related to data and information security vulnerabilities; ineffective management of, and control over, the Company's growth and international operations; adverse results in litigation; and changes in and a dependence on key personnel, as well as other factors contained in our most recent Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (copies of which may be accessed through the Securities and Exchange Commission's website at ), including those found therein under the captions "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations". In addition to these factors, actual future performance, outcomes, and results may differ materially because of more general factors including (without limitation) general industry and market conditions and growth rates, economic conditions, and governmental and public policy changes. The forward-looking statements included in this press release represent the Company's views as of the date of this press release and these views could change. However, while the Company may elect to update these forward-looking statements at some point in the future, the Company specifically disclaims any obligation to do so. These forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as representing the Company's views as of any date subsequent to the date of the press release.
http://www.sec.gov
LINUX is a trademark of Linus Torvalds. RED HAT and JBOSS are registered trademarks of Red Hat, Inc. and its subsidiaries in the US and other countries.


