FILE:RHT/RHT-8K-20080428170342.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(e) On April 22, 2008, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (the "Committee") of Red Hat, Inc. (the "Company"):
 
 
 
 
FY2008 Payouts Under EVCP and Other Contractual Obligations
The Committee approved a payout of $137,518 to Mr. Whitehurst and a payout of $589,262 to Mr. Szulik.
Executive Base Salaries
The annual base salaries for the Company's principal executive officer, principal financial officer and other named executive officers, as approved by the Committee, are set forth on Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
FY2009 Target Award Amounts under the EVCP
The target award amounts for FY2009 for the Company's principal executive officer, principal financial officer and other named executive officers under the EVCP, as approved by the Committee, are set forth on Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
For a discussion of the EVCP, see the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 16, 2007.
FY2009 Performance Objectives under the EVCP
As approved by the Committee, the financial performance objectives under the EVCP for each eligible participant are (a) a specified dollar amount of total revenues, (b) a specified dollar amount of cash flow from operations and (c) a specified percentage of operating margin, excluding the impact of stock-based compensation charges under FAS 123R, for FY2009. The established operating margin financial performance objective is considered a non-GAAP financial measure.
The Committee determined that 75% of a participant's target award amount under the EVCP will be based upon the financial performance objectives discussed above and 25% of a participant's bonus award under the EVCP will be based on individual performance objectives or achievement of goals, which may be objectively or subjectively determined (the "Individual Objectives"). Individual Objectives
relate to business/strategy planning and implementation, succession planning, retention of key employees, executive development and operational improvements. The Committee determined that each of the financial performance objectives discussed above will represent 25% of the financial component of the award, and, with respect to each financial metric and the individual performance objectives metric, payments range from 0  50% per metric.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event that cumulative total shareholder return for the one- and three-year periods ending February 28, 2009 is negative, then the maximum payment shall not exceed 100% of the target award amount.
 
 
See Exhibit Index attached hereto.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 


