FILE:RHT/RHT-8K-20080327160040.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15 (d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): March 27, 2008
(State or other jurisdiction of incorporation)
Red Hat, Inc.
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Its Charter)
Delaware
(
(919) 754-3700
Registrants Telephone Number, Including Area Code)
Not Applicable
(Former Name or Former Address, if Changed Since Last Report)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 2.02     Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On March 27, 2008, Red Hat, Inc. announced its financial results for the fiscal fourth quarter and fiscal year ended February 29, 2008. The full text of the press release issued in connection with the announcement is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
We disclosed non-GAAP financial information in the press release for the three months and fiscal years ended February 29, 2008 and February 28, 2007. These non-GAAP disclosures include a reconciliation of GAAP net income to adjusted net income and a reconciliation of GAAP cash flows from operating activities to non-GAAP adjusted cash flows from operating activities based on:
the impact of non-cash share-based compensation expense under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (Revised 2004), Share-Based Payment ("SFAS 123R");
the impact of GAAP income tax expense, which includes an estimated annual effective tax rate versus our estimated annual effective cash-basis tax rate; and
the impact of cash flow characterization of excess tax benefits from share-based arrangements under SFAS 123R.
These non-GAAP disclosures should not be used as a substitute for our GAAP results, but rather read in conjunction with our GAAP results. The non-GAAP financial measures we disclosed and the methods we used to calculate non-GAAP results are not in accordance with GAAP and may be materially different from the non-GAAP measures and methods used by other companies.
Prior to March 1, 2006, we accounted for share-based compensation pursuant to the provisions of Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, and accordingly no compensation expense was recorded for stock options or other share-based awards to employees and non-employee directors that were granted with an exercise price equal to or above the market value per share of our common stock on the grant date. For awards granted with an exercise price less than the market value of our stock on the grant date, the award's intrinsic value was recorded as deferred compensation and reported as a separate component of stockholders' equity. This deferred compensation was amortized to compensation expense over the vesting period of the award.
Effective March 1, 2006, we adopted the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS 123R, using the modified prospective transition method. Compensation costs recognized in the three months and fiscal years ended February 29, 2008 and February 28, 2007 include compensation costs based on the grant date fair value of the share-based awards. The fair values have been estimated using the Black-Scholes-Merton option-pricing model. In accordance with the provisions of the modified prospective transition method, results for prior periods have not been restated. Our reconciliation includes GAAP non-cash, share-based compensation expense of $10.0 million and $36.5 million for the three months and fiscal year ended February 29, 2008 and $8.0 million and $32.4 million for the three months and fiscal year ended February 28, 2007, respectively, versus the non-GAAP exclusion of such expense.
We excluded GAAP share-based compensation expense for the purpose of calculating non-GAAP adjusted net income and non-GAAP adjusted net income per share because it is a non-cash expense, and management believes that by excluding such expense we provide an alternative and useful measure of operating performance. Management also believes that non-GAAP measures of profitability that exclude share-based compensation expense are used by a number of financial analysts in the software industry to compare current performance to prior periods and to forecast future performance.
During the three months and fiscal year ended February 29, 2008, we recorded GAAP income tax expense of $12.9 million and $47.9 million, respectively, which reflected an annual effective tax rate of 38.4%. We currently have approximately $228.8 million of tax net operating loss carryforwards ("NOL") available, subject to restrictions, to offset future taxable income, resulting in an estimated annual effective cash-basis tax rate of approximately 5.0% through at least the end of our fiscal year ending February 28, 2009. For this reason, in our non-GAAP presentation, we have adjusted the GAAP income tax expense for these periods to reflect the estimated annual effective cash-basis tax rate, resulting in non-GAAP adjusted income tax expense for the three months and fiscal year ended February 29, 2008 of $2.3 million and $8.1 million, respectively. In our reconciliation, the recorded GAAP income tax expense of $6.5 million and $29.7 million for the three months and fiscal year ended February 28, 2007, was adjusted to reflect our estimated annual effective cash-basis tax rate of 5.0%, resulting in non-GAAP adjusted income tax expense of $1.8 million and $6.1 million for these periods.
Our adoption of SFAS 123R also impacts the comparability of our cash flows from operating activities for periods subsequent to our adoption of SFAS 123R with our cash flows from operating activities for prior periods. SFAS 123R requires that the portion of income tax benefits resulting from tax deductions in excess of a share-based award's original grant date fair value, the "excess tax benefits", be presented as a source of cash flows from financing activities. Prior to our adoption of SFAS 123R, under the provisions of APB 25 we would have presented these excess tax benefits from the exercise of share-based awards as a source of cash flows from operating activities.
In the three months and fiscal year ended February 29, 2008, we recognized $17.0 million and $61.3 million, respectively, of cash tax benefits resulting from tax deductions in excess of the share-based award's original grant date fair value. For improved comparability with prior periods, we have added these excess cash tax benefits to GAAP cash flows from operating activities of $54.5 million and $203.1 million, respectively, for these periods. In our reconciliation, the recorded GAAP cash flows from operating activities of $45.6 million and $201.6 million for the three months and fiscal year ended February 28, 2007, was adjusted to reflect the addition of recognized excess cash tax benefits of $10.8 million and $16.0 million, respectively, resulting in non-GAAP adjusted cash flows from operating activities of $56.4 million and $217.5 million for these periods.
Management believes that these adjusted non-GAAP results, when read in conjunction with the GAAP results, offer a useful view of our business performance in that they provide a more consistent means of comparing performance to prior periods in light of the prospective-only application of SFAS 123R in March 2006 (under the modified prospective transition method) and due to the availability of our tax NOL position to substantially offset cash costs of our GAAP effective tax rates for the foreseeable future. Management also uses non-GAAP measures as a component of its regular internal reporting to evaluate performance of the business and compare it to prior performance, to make operating decisions, including internal budgeting and the calculation of incentive compensation, and to forecast future performance. Our disclosure of non-GAAP financial measures allows investors to evaluate the Company's performance using the same methodology and information as that used by management.
The information furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 of this Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99.1 referenced herein, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
Item  9.01.          Financial Statements and Exhibits
           (d)      Exhibits
                             99.1     Press Release dated March 27, 2008.
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit 99.1
Red Hat Reports Fiscal Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year 2008 Results
Annual Revenue up 31% from Prior Year
Deferred Revenue up 40% from Prior Year
Repurchased $66 Million of its Common Stock
RALEIGH, N.C.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Red Hat, Inc. (NYSE: RHT), the world's leading provider of open source solutions, today announced financial results for its fiscal fourth quarter and fiscal year ended February 29, 2008.
During the fourth quarter, I spent a significant amount of time meeting with customers, partners, employees and thought leaders from the open source community. The momentum of open source solutions is strong and growing, and we believe there is a significant opportunity to expand our presence with existing customers and the many companies and industries that have only just begun to adopt open source solutions in a meaningful way, stated Jim Whitehurst, President and Chief Executive Officer of Red Hat. In addition, feedback I received supports why Red Hat has been rated the number one enterprise software vendor for value by Magazine for four consecutive years. As a result of these factors, we are optimistic about the growth outlook for the Linux market and Red Hat as we begin fiscal 2009.
CIO Insight
Total revenue for the quarter was $141.5 million, an increase of 27% from the year ago quarter and 5% from the prior quarter. Subscription revenue for the quarter was $121.9 million, up 27% year-over-year and 5% sequentially. For the full year, total revenue was $523.0 million, an increase of 31% over fiscal 2007 revenue, and subscription revenue was $449.8 million, up 32% from the prior year.
Net income for the quarter was $22.0 million, or $0.10 per diluted share, compared with $20.3 million, or $0.10 per diluted share, for the prior quarter and $20.5 million, or $0.10 per diluted share, in the year ago quarter. Non-GAAP adjusted net income for the quarter was $42.7 million, or $0.20 per diluted share, after adjusting for stock compensation and tax expense as detailed in the tables below. This compares to non-GAAP adjusted net income of $39.7 million, or $0.19 per diluted share in the prior quarter.
For the full year, net income was $76.7 million or $0.36 per diluted share, compared with $59.9 million or $.29 per diluted share in the prior year. Non-GAAP adjusted net income for the year was $152.9 million or $0.72 per diluted share, compared to $115.9 million and $0.56 per diluted share the year before.
Non-GAAP operating cash flow, as detailed in the tables below, totaled $71.6 million or approximately 50% of revenue for the quarter and $264.3 million for the full year. At year end, the companys total deferred revenue balance was $472.9 million, an increase of 40% on a year-over-year basis and 12% sequentially. Total cash, cash equivalents and investments as of February 29, 2008 were $1.3 billion.
Other highlights include the following:
During the quarter, Red Hat repurchased approximately 3.7 million shares of its common stock for approximately $66 million.
Red Hat Enterprise Linux 5 won SearchEnterpriseLinux.coms 'Product of the Year' Gold for leadership in virtualization.
Strong JBoss business growth and a record number of attendees and IT decision makers at JBoss World in February.
Subsequent to the quarter close, Red Hat announced the acquisition of Amentra, a regional provider of systems integration and consulting services around middleware, service-oriented architecture and open source solutions.
"It was an outstanding year. Our annual revenue grew over 30%, our deferred revenue grew 40% and we produced operating cash flow margins of 50%. The companys performance was driven by growing demand for our open source solutions and the convincing value which we are able to demonstrate with our customers. We are also realizing returns on the increased investment which we have made over the past year in engineering, sales and marketing, combined with solid execution by our associates. stated Charlie Peters, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Red Hat.
Red Hat Summit Boston, the fourth annual conference and exhibition, will take place at the Hynes Convention Center in Boston, MA, June 18-20, 2008. Details on this years Red Hat Summit and registration information can be found at www.redhat.summit.2008.
Additional information on Red Hat's reported results, including a reconciliation of the non-GAAP adjusted results, are included in the financial tables below. A live webcast of Red Hat's results will begin at 5:00 pm ET today and can be accessed by the general public at Red Hat's investor relations website at http://investors.redhat.com. A replay of the webcast will be available shortly after the live event will have ended.
About Red Hat, Inc.
Red Hat, the world's leading open source solutions provider, is headquartered in Raleigh, NC with over 50 offices spanning the globe. CIOs have ranked Red Hat first for value in Enterprise Software for four consecutive years in the CIO Insight Magazine Vendor Value study. Red Hat provides high-quality, affordable technology with its operating system platform, Red Hat Enterprise Linux, together with applications, management and Services Oriented Architecture (SOA) solutions, including the JBoss Enterprise Middleware Suite. Red Hat also offers support, training and consulting services to its customers worldwide. Learn more: www.redhat.com.
Forward-Looking Statements
Certain statements contained in this press release may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements provide current expectations of future events based on certain assumptions and include any statement that does not directly relate to any historical or current fact. Actual results may differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements as a result of various important factors, including: risks related to the integration of acquisitions; the ability of the Company to effectively compete; the inability to adequately protect Company intellectual property and the potential for infringement or breach of license claims of or relating to third party intellectual property; risks related to data and information security vulnerabilities; ineffective management of, and control over, the Company's growth and international operations; adverse results in litigation; and changes in and a dependence on key personnel, as well as other factors contained in our most recent Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (copies of which may be accessed through the Securities and Exchange Commission's website at http://www.sec.gov), including those found therein under the captions "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations". In addition to these factors, actual future performance, outcomes, and results may differ materially because of more general factors including (without limitation) general industry and market conditions and growth rates, economic conditions, and governmental and public policy changes. The forward-looking statements included in this press release represent the Company's views as of the date of this press release and these views could change. However, while the Company may elect to update these forward-looking statements at some point in the future, the Company specifically disclaims any obligation to do so. These forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as representing the Company's views as of any date subsequent to the date of the press release.
LINUX is a trademark of Linus Torvalds. RED HAT and JBOSS are registered trademarks of Red Hat, Inc. and its subsidiaries in the US and other countries.
CONTACT: Red Hat Corporate Communications Kerrin Catallozzi, 919-754-4268 kcatallo@redhat.com or Investor Relations Tom McCallum, 919-754-4630 investors@redhat.com


