FILE:RHT/RHT-8K-20090925172035.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(d) Election of Director
On September 21, 2009, the Board of Directors of Red Hat, Inc. (the "Company") elected Donald H. Livingstone to serve on the Company's Board of Directors (the "Board"), effective immediately. A press release announcing the election was issued on September 25, 2009, and is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Mr. Livingstone, currently a teaching professor at Brigham Young University's Marriott School of Business, will be a Class I director with a term expiring in 2012. His election brings the size of the Board to nine members. In addition to electing Mr. Livingstone as a director of the Company, the Board appointed him to the Board's Audit Committee and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee.
There are no arrangements or understandings pursuant to which Mr. Livingstone was selected as a director.
Mr. Livingstone will be compensated under the compensation plan currently in effect for the Company's independent directors, the 2008 Independent Director Compensation Plan (the "2008 Director Compensation Plan"). Under the 2008 Director Compensation Plan, he will be eligible to receive an annual cash retainer of $50,000 for his service as a member of the Board, an additional $15,000 annually for his service as a member of the Audit Committee and an additional $5,000 annually for his service as a member of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee.
Under the 2008 Director Compensation Plan, a director may elect to receive all or a portion of any cash compensation in the form of the Company's deferred stock units ("DSUs"). DSUs represent the right to receive shares of the Company's common stock ("Shares") at a future date. The number of DSUs to be granted is determined by dividing the portion of the cash compensation with respect to which the election is made by the closing price of the Company's common stock on the date the cash compensation is due to be paid. DSUs issued in lieu of cash compensation are fully vested upon issuance and will be settled in Shares upon termination of service on the Board.
In connection with his election to the Board, Mr. Livingstone will be granted, on the next regularly scheduled grant date for employees, a restricted stock award equal to a number of Shares determined by dividing $300,000 by the closing price of the Company's common stock on the date of grant. These shares of restricted stock will vest equally over a three-year period on the anniversary of the date of grant.
In addition to an initial equity grant, Mr. Livingstone will be eligible to receive an annual equity award consisting of a restricted stock award for a number of Shares determined by dividing $150,000 by the closing price of the Company's common stock on the date of grant. These shares of restricted stock will vest on the first anniversary of the grant date. However, Shares granted to Mr. Livingstone in connection with his first annual equity award in 2010 will be prorated based on the number of months of service as of the grant date. Under the 2008 Director Compensation Plan, directors may also elect to receive DSUs on a one-for-one basis in lieu of annual equity awards. The DSUs will vest on the same basis as the restricted stock award and will be settled in Shares upon termination of service on the Board.
The foregoing description of the terms of the 2008 Director Compensation Plan does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by the provisions of the 2008 Director Compensation Plan, which was filed as Exhibit 10.42 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended February 29, 2008, and is incorporated herein by this reference.
The Company does not pay meeting fees. Non-employee directors are reimbursed for reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred in attending meetings of the Board and meetings of any committees of the Board on which they serve.
Mr. Livingstone has entered into an indemnification agreement with the Company. In general, the indemnification agreement provides that the Company will, to the fullest extent permitted by law, and subject to certain limitations and exceptions, indemnify the indemnitee against expenses, judgments, fines, penalties and amounts paid in settlement that may be incurred in connection with the defense or settlement of threatened, pending or completed proceedings to which the indemnitee becomes subject in connection with his service as a director of the Company.
The indemnification agreement provides for indemnification rights regarding both third-party claims and proceedings brought by or in the right of the Company. In addition, the indemnification agreement provides for the advancement of expenses incurred by the indemnitee under certain circumstances. The indemnification agreement is not exclusive of any other rights to indemnification or advancement of expenses to which the indemnitee may be entitled, including any rights arising under the charter or bylaws of the Company, a separate agreement with the Company, or applicable law.
The foregoing summary of the indemnification agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the provisions of the Form of Indemnification Agreement, a copy of which was filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on February 28, 2007, and incorporated herein by this reference.
 
99.1 Press Release dated September 25, 2009.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
September 25, 2009Red Hat, Inc. (NYSE:RHT), the world's leading provider of open source solutions, today announced that Donald H. Livingstone, a Teaching Professor in the Department of Finance at Brigham Young University's Marriott School of Business, has joined Red Hat's Board of Directors.
RALEIGH, N.C.(BUSINESS WIRE)
"I am pleased to welcome Don to our Board," said James M. Whitehurst, Chief Executive Officer of Red Hat, "He brings a proven record of dedication and achievement in the field of Accounting and in his work with entrepreneurial business leaders. His experience and financial acumen will be key as we look to drive further growth in our business."
Mr. Livingstone has been a teaching professor at Brigham Young University's Marriott School of Business (the "Marriott School") since 1994. In addition to his teaching duties, Mr. Livingstone served as director of the Center for Entrepreneurship at the Marriott School from 1995 until 2007. Mr. Livingstone took a leave of absence from the Marriott School from July 2007 until June 2009 to serve on a voluntary missionary assignment in Africa for his church. Prior to joining BYU, Mr. Livingstone had a 29-year career with Arthur Andersen LLP that included service as an audit partner in the San Francisco and Los Angeles offices.
About Red Hat, Inc.
Red Hat, the world's leading open source solutions provider, is headquartered in Raleigh, NC with over 65 offices spanning the globe. CIOs ranked Red Hat as one of the top vendors delivering value in Enterprise Software for five consecutive years in the CIO Insight Magazine Vendor Value survey. Red Hat provides high-quality, affordable technology with its operating system platform, Red Hat Enterprise Linux, together with applications, management and Services Oriented Architecture (SOA) solutions, including JBoss Enterprise Middleware. Red Hat also offers support, training and consulting services to its customers worldwide. Learn more: .
http://www.redhat.com
Forward-Looking Statements
Certain statements contained in this press release may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements provide current expectations of future events based on certain assumptions and include any statement that does not directly relate to any historical or current fact. Actual results may differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements as a result of various important factors, including: risks related to delays or reductions in information
technology spending, the integration of acquisitions and the ability to market successfully acquired technologies and products; the ability of the Company to effectively compete; the inability to adequately protect Company intellectual property and the potential for infringement or breach of license claims of or relating to third party intellectual property; the ability to deliver and stimulate demand for new products and technological innovations on a timely basis; risks related to data and information security vulnerabilities; ineffective management of, and control over, the Company's growth and international operations; fluctuations in exchange rates; adverse results in litigation; and changes in and a dependence on key personnel, as well as other factors contained in our most recent Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (copies of which may be accessed through the Securities and Exchange Commission's website at ), including those found therein under the captions "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations". In addition to these factors, actual future performance, outcomes, and results may differ materially because of more general factors including (without limitation) general industry and market conditions and growth rates, economic conditions, and governmental and public policy changes. The forward-looking statements included in this press release represent the Company's views as of the date of this press release and these views could change. However, while the Company may elect to update these forward-looking statements at some point in the future, the Company specifically disclaims any obligation to do so. These forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as representing the Company's views as of any date subsequent to the date of the press release.
http://www.sec.gov
LINUX is a trademark of Linus Torvalds. RED HAT and JBOSS are registered trademarks of Red Hat, Inc. and its subsidiaries in the US and other countries.


