FILE:RHT/RHT-8K-20090923160158.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, DC 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of report (Date of earliest event reported): September 23, 2009
(State or Other Jurisdiction of Incorporation)
Red Hat, Inc.
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Its Charter)
Delaware
(919) 754-3700
(
Registrants Telephone Number, Including Area Code)
Not Applicable
(Former Name or Former Address, if Changed Since Last Report)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
  General Instruction A.2. below):
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 2.02.     Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On September 23, 2009, Red Hat, Inc. announced its financial results for the quarter ended August 31, 2009. The full text of the press release issued in connection with the announcement is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
We disclosed non-GAAP financial information in the press release for the three months and six months ended August 31, 2009 and August 31, 2008. These non-GAAP disclosures include a reconciliation of GAAP net income to non-GAAP adjusted net income based on:
the impact of non-cash share-based compensation expense under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (Revised 2004), Share-Based Payment ("SFAS 123R"); and
the impact of expense associated with the amortization of intangible assets primarily related to business combinations.
These non-GAAP disclosures should not be used as a substitute for our GAAP results, but rather read in conjunction with our GAAP results. The non-GAAP financial measures we disclosed and the methods we used to calculate non-GAAP results are not in accordance with GAAP and may be materially different from the non-GAAP measures and methods used by other companies.
Prior to March 1, 2006, we accounted for share-based compensation pursuant to the provisions of Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, and accordingly no compensation expense was recorded for stock options or other share-based awards to employees and non-employee directors that were granted with an exercise price equal to or above the market value per share of our common stock on the grant date. For awards granted with an exercise price less than the market value of our stock on the grant date, the award's intrinsic value was recorded as deferred compensation and reported as a separate component of stockholders' equity. This deferred compensation was amortized to compensation expense over the vesting period of the award.
Effective March 1, 2006, we adopted the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS 123R, using the modified prospective transition method. Compensation costs recognized in the three months and six months ended August 31, 2009 and August 31, 2008 include compensation costs based on the grant date fair value of the share-based awards.  The fair values have been estimated using the Black-Scholes-Merton option-pricing model.  In accordance with the provisions of the modified prospective transition method, results for prior periods have not been restated. Our reconciliation of GAAP net income to non-GAAP adjusted net income includes GAAP non-cash, share-based compensation expense of $11.0 million and $21.7 million for the three months and six months ended August 31, 2009, and $10.9 million and $21.4 million for the three months and six months ended August 31, 2008, respectively, versus the non-GAAP exclusion of such expense.
We excluded GAAP share-based compensation expense for the purpose of calculating non-GAAP adjusted net income and non-GAAP adjusted net income per share because it is a non-cash expense, and management believes that by excluding such expense we provide an alternative and useful measure of operating performance.  Management also believes that non-GAAP measures of profitability that exclude share-based compensation expense are used by a number of financial analysts in the software industry to compare current performance to prior periods and to forecast future performance.
Amortization expense related to intangible assets results primarily from business combinations.  These costs are fixed in connection with an acquisition, are then amortized over a number of years after the acquisition and generally cannot be changed or influenced by management after the acquisition.  Accordingly, management generally does not consider such costs for the purpose of evaluating the performance of the business or its managers or when making decisions to allocate resources.  Management also believes that non-GAAP measures of profitability that exclude amortization expense related to intangible assets are used by a number of financial analysts in the software industry to compare current performance to prior periods and to forecast future performance.  Our reconciliation of GAAP net income to non-GAAP adjusted net income includes GAAP non-cash amortization expense of $5.0 million and $10.0 million for the three months and six months ended August 31, 2009 and $3.9 million and $7.6 million for the three months and six months ended August 31, 2008, respectively, versus the non-GAAP exclusion of such expense.
Management believes that these adjusted non-GAAP results, when read in conjunction with the GAAP results, offer a useful view of our business performance in that they provide a more consistent means of comparing performance to prior periods in light of the prospective-only application of SFAS 123R in March 2006 (under the modified prospective transition method) and the irregularity with which management acquires intangible assets. Management also uses non-GAAP measures as a component of its regular internal reporting to evaluate performance of the business and compare it to prior performance, to make operating decisions, including internal budgeting and the calculation of incentive compensation, and to forecast future performance. Our disclosure of non-GAAP financial measures allows investors to evaluate the Company's performance using the same methodology and information as that used by management.
The information furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 of this Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99.1 referenced herein, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
Item 9.01.   Financial Statements and Exhibits
           (d)     Exhibits
                     99.1     Press Release dated September 23, 2009.
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit 99.1
Red Hat Reports Second Quarter Results
Revenue of $184 million, up 12% year-over-year
Deferred Revenue of $581 million, up 17% year-over-year
Repurchased $47 million, or 2.3 million shares, of common stock
RALEIGH, N.C.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--September 23, 2009--Red Hat (NYSE: RHT), the world's leading provider of open source solutions, today announced financial results for its fiscal year 2010 second quarter ended August 31, 2009.
Total revenue for the quarter was $183.6 million, an increase of 12% from the year ago quarter. Subscription revenue for the quarter was $156.3 million, up 15% year-over-year.
IT organizations continue to move ahead with purchases of high value solutions, and Red Hat is capitalizing on this demand as a result of our strong customer relationships and proven value proposition. These factors contributed to our better than expected total revenue in the second quarter, and drove annual subscription revenue growth of 15% for both the quarter and first half of fiscal year 2010. We continue to be optimistic about Red Hats future and believe the company is well positioned when the economic and IT spending environment improves, stated Jim Whitehurst, President and Chief Executive Officer of Red Hat. In addition to solid second quarter results, we also marked a new milestone in Red Hats ten year history as a public company by our inclusion in July as a component of the S&P 500.
GAAP operating income for the quarter was $27.5 million, up 29% from $21.4 million in the year ago quarter. After adjusting for stock compensation and amortization expenses as detailed in the tables below, non-GAAP operating income for the quarter was $43.6 million, up 21% year-over-year. GAAP operating margin was 15.0%. Non-GAAP operating margin was 23.7%, up 170 basis points from the year ago quarter.
GAAP net income for the quarter was $28.9 million, or $0.15 per diluted share, compared with $21.1 million, or $0.10 per diluted share, in the year ago quarter. Non-GAAP adjusted net income for the quarter was $39.4 million, or $0.20 per diluted share, after adjusting for stock compensation and amortization expenses as detailed in the tables below, as compared to $30.1 million, or $0.14 per diluted share, in the year ago quarter. Both GAAP and non-GAAP net income for the quarter include a discrete tax benefit of $7.3 million, adding approximately $0.04 per diluted share. Excluding this tax benefit, GAAP earnings per share would have been $0.11 and non-GAAP earnings per share would have been $0.16.
Operating cash flow totaled $62.0 million compared to $54.3 million from the year ago quarter, up 14% year-over-year. At quarter end, the companys total deferred revenue balance was $580.9 million, an increase of 17% on a year-over-year basis. Total cash, cash equivalents and investments as of August 31, 2009 were $911.8 million.
During the second quarter, Red Hats financial performance was strong across all of our key metrics. We delivered double digit growth in revenue and deferred revenue, expanded our non-GAAP operating margins and generated strong cash flow from operations, stated Charlie Peters, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Red Hat. We are particularly pleased with the growth of the current portion of deferred revenue combined with the lengthening of our average subscription duration.
Additional information on Red Hat's reported results, including a reconciliation of the non-GAAP adjusted results, are included in the financial tables below. A live webcast of Red Hat's results will begin at 5:00 pm ET today and can be accessed by the general public at Red Hat's investor relations website at . A replay of the webcast will be available shortly after the live event has ended.
http://investors.redhat.com
About Red Hat, Inc.
Red Hat, the world's leading open source solutions provider, is headquartered in Raleigh, NC with over 65 offices spanning the globe. CIOs ranked Red Hat as one of the top vendors delivering value in Enterprise Software for five consecutive years in the CIO Insight Magazine Vendor Value survey. Red Hat provides high-quality, affordable technology with its operating system platform, Red Hat Enterprise Linux, together with applications, management and Services Oriented Architecture (SOA) solutions, including JBoss Enterprise Middleware. Red Hat also offers support, training and consulting services to its customers worldwide. Learn more: .
http://www.redhat.com
Forward-Looking Statements
Certain statements contained in this press release may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements provide current expectations of future events based on certain assumptions and include any statement that does not directly relate to any historical or current fact. Actual results may differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements as a result of various important factors, including: risks related to delays or reductions in information technology spending, the integration of acquisitions and the ability to market successfully acquired technologies and products; the ability of the Company to effectively compete; the inability to adequately protect Company intellectual property and the potential for infringement or breach of license claims of or relating to third party intellectual property; the ability to deliver and stimulate demand for new products and technological innovations on a timely basis; risks related to data and information security vulnerabilities; ineffective management of, and control over, the Company's growth and international operations; fluctuations in exchange rates; adverse results in litigation; and changes in and a dependence on key personnel, as well as other factors contained in our most recent Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (copies of which may be accessed through the Securities and Exchange Commission's website at ), including those found therein under the captions "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations". In addition to these factors, actual future performance, outcomes, and results may differ materially because of more general factors including (without limitation) general industry and market conditions and growth rates, economic conditions, and governmental and public policy changes. The forward-looking statements included in this press release represent the Company's views as of the date of this press release and these views could change. However, while the Company may elect to update these forward-looking statements at some point in the future, the Company specifically disclaims any obligation to do so. These forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as representing the Company's views as of any date subsequent to the date of the press release.
http://www.sec.gov
 2009 Red Hat, Inc. Red Hat, the Shadowman logo and JBoss are registered trademarks of Red Hat, Inc. in the U.S. and other countries. Linux is a registered trademark of Linus Torvalds.
CONTACT: Red Hat Inc. Kara Schiltz, 919-301-3002; or Tom McCallum, 919-754-4630;
Media Contact:
kschiltz@redhat.com
Investor Relations:
tmccallum@redhat.com


