FILE:RHT/RHT-8K-20100922160551.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, DC 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of report (Date of earliest event reported): September 22, 2010
(State or Other Jurisdiction of Incorporation)
Red Hat, Inc.
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Its Charter)
Delaware
(919) 754-3700
(
Registrants Telephone Number, Including Area Code)
Not Applicable
(Former Name or Former Address, if Changed Since Last Report)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
 General Instruction A.2. below):
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 2.02.         Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On September 22, 2010, Red Hat, Inc. announced its financial results for the fiscal quarter ended August 31, 2010. The full text of the press release issued in connection with the announcement is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
We disclosed non-GAAP financial information in the press release for the three months and six months ended August 31, 2010 and August 31, 2009. These non-GAAP disclosures include a reconciliation of GAAP net income to adjusted net income based on:
the impact of non-cash share-based compensation expense under FASB ASC Section 718 Compensation-Stock Compensation (formerly referenced as Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (Revised 2004), Share-Based Payment) ("ASC 718"); and
the impact of expense associated with the amortization of intangible assets primarily related to business combinations.
These non-GAAP disclosures should not be used as a substitute for our GAAP results, but rather read in conjunction with our GAAP results. The non-GAAP financial measures we disclosed and the methods we used to calculate non-GAAP results are not in accordance with GAAP and may be materially different from the non-GAAP measures and methods used by other companies.
Prior to March 1, 2006, we accounted for share-based compensation pursuant to the provisions of Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, and accordingly no compensation expense was recorded for stock options or other share-based awards to employees and non-employee directors that were granted with an exercise price equal to or above the market value per share of our common stock on the grant date. For awards granted with an exercise price less than the market value of our stock on the grant date, the award's intrinsic value was recorded as deferred compensation and reported as a separate component of stockholders' equity. This deferred compensation was amortized to compensation expense over the vesting period of the award.
Effective March 1, 2006, we adopted the fair value recognition provisions of ASC 718, using the modified prospective transition method. Compensation costs recognized in the three months and six months ended August 31, 2010 and August 31, 2009 include compensation costs based on the grant date fair value of the share-based awards.  In accordance with the provisions of the modified prospective transition method, results for periods prior to adoption have not been restated. Our reconciliation of GAAP net income to non-GAAP adjusted net income includes GAAP non-cash, share-based compensation expense of $15.7 million and $28.8 million for the three months and six months ended August 31, 2010, and $11.0 million and $21.7 million for the three months and six months ended August 31, 2009, respectively, versus the non-GAAP exclusion of such expense.
We excluded GAAP share-based compensation expense for the purpose of calculating non-GAAP adjusted net income and non-GAAP adjusted net income per share because it is a non-cash expense and management believes that by excluding such expense we provide an alternative and useful measure of operating performance.  Management also believes that non-GAAP measures of profitability that exclude share-based compensation expense are used by a number of financial analysts in the software industry to compare current performance to prior periods and to forecast future performance.
Amortization expense related to intangible assets results primarily from business combinations.  These costs are fixed in connection with an acquisition, are then amortized over a number of years after the acquisition and generally cannot be changed or influenced by management after the acquisition.  Accordingly, management generally does not consider such costs for the purpose of evaluating the performance of the business or its managers or when making decisions to allocate resources.  Management also believes that non-GAAP measures of profitability that exclude amortization expense related to intangible assets are used by a number of  financial analysts in the software industry to compare current performance to prior periods and to forecast future performance.  Our reconciliation of GAAP net income to non-GAAP adjusted net income includes GAAP non-cash amortization expense of $4.5 million and $9.1 million for the three months and six months ended August 31, 2010, and $5.0 million and $10.0 million for the three months and six months ended August 31, 2009, respectively, versus the non-GAAP exclusion of such expense.
Management believes that these adjusted non-GAAP results, when read in conjunction with the GAAP results, offer a useful view of our business performance in that they provide a more consistent means of comparing performance to prior periods in light of the prospective-only application of ASC 718 in March 2006 (under the modified prospective transition method) and the irregularity with which management acquires intangible assets. Management also uses non-GAAP measures as a component of its regular internal reporting to evaluate performance of the business and compare it to prior performance, to make operating decisions, including internal budgeting and the calculation of incentive compensation, and to forecast future performance. Our disclosure of non-GAAP financial measures allows investors to evaluate the Company's performance using information used by management.
The information furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 of this Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99.1 referenced herein, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
Item 9.01.         Financial Statements and Exhibits
           (d)      Exhibits
                 99.1     Press Release dated September 22, 2010
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit 99.1
Red Hat Reports Second Quarter Results
Revenue of $220 million, up 20% from the prior year
GAAP operating income up 24%, non-GAAP operating income up 25% from the prior year
Deferred revenue of $650 million, up 12% from the prior year
RALEIGH, N.C.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--September 22, 2010--Red Hat, Inc. (NYSE: RHT), the world's leading provider of open source solutions, today announced financial results for its fiscal year 2011 second quarter ended August 31, 2010.
Total revenue for the quarter was $219.8 million, an increase of 20% from the year ago quarter. Subscription revenue for the quarter was $186.2 million, up 19% year-over-year.
We continued to benefit from new project spending, expansion and cross selling of our product solutions and strong renewals in our top accounts. Our sales execution in the quarter resulted in organic revenue growth of 20% and the best billings growth rate in two years, stated Jim Whitehurst, President and Chief Executive Officer of Red Hat. During the quarter, we introduced our Cloud Foundations portfolio in an effort to help our customers take advantage of the benefits from cloud computing in an open and cost effective way. Our flexible cloud stack will enable customers to run enterprise applications across physical servers, virtual platforms, private clouds and multiple public clouds. We are beginning to see solid interest in our cloud and virtualization initiatives as well as some early deal activity, including our first private cloud management deal over a million dollars.
GAAP operating income for the second quarter was $34.1 million, up 24% year-over-year. After adjusting for stock compensation and amortization expenses as detailed in the tables below, non-GAAP operating income for the second quarter was $54.3 million, up 25% year-over-year.
Net income for the quarter was $23.7 million, or $0.12 per diluted share, compared with $28.9 million, or $0.15 per diluted share, in the year ago quarter which included a one time tax benefit of $7.3 million, or approximately $0.04 per diluted share. Non-GAAP net income for the quarter was $36.8 million, or $0.19 per diluted share, after adjusting for stock compensation and amortization expenses as detailed in the tables below, as compared to $39.4 million, or $0.20 per diluted share, in the year ago quarter which also included the one time tax benefit of $7.3 million, or approximately $0.04 per diluted share.
Operating cash flow totaled $64.3 million, as compared to $62.0 million in the year ago quarter. At quarter end, the companys total deferred revenue balance was $649.6 million, an increase of 12% on a year-over-year basis. Total cash, cash equivalents and investments as of August 31, 2010 was $1.05 billion.
Our revenue and operating income growth continued this quarter with strong double digit gains in both, despite the foreign currency head wind, stated Charlie Peters, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Red Hat. Our performance was broad based with strong results across all geographic regions and routes to market. It is clear that our value proposition is resonating with customers.
Additional information on Red Hat's reported results, including a reconciliation of the non-GAAP adjusted results, are included in the financial tables below. A live webcast of Red Hat's results will begin at 5:00 pm ET today and can be accessed by the general public at Red Hat's investor relations website at . A replay of the webcast will be available shortly after the live event has ended.
http://investors.redhat.com
About Red Hat, Inc.
Red Hat, the world's leading provider of open source solutions and an S&P 500 company, is headquartered in Raleigh, NC, with over 65 offices spanning the globe. CIOs ranked Red Hat as one of the top vendors delivering value in Enterprise Software for six consecutive years in the CIO Insight Magazine Vendor Value survey. Red Hat provides high-quality, affordable technology with its operating system platform, Red Hat Enterprise Linux, together with virtualization, applications, management and Services Oriented Architecture (SOA) solutions, including Red Hat Enterprise Virtualization and JBoss Enterprise Middleware. Red Hat also offers support, training and consulting services to its customers worldwide. Learn more: .
http://www.redhat.com
Forward-Looking Statements
Certain statements contained in this press release may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements provide current expectations of future events based on certain assumptions and include any statement that does not directly relate to any historical or current fact. Actual results may differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements as a result of various important factors, including: risks related to delays or reductions in information technology spending, the effects of industry consolidation, uncertainty and adverse results in litigation and related settlements, the integration of acquisitions and the ability to market successfully acquired technologies and products; the ability of the Company to effectively compete; the inability to adequately protect Company intellectual property and the potential for infringement or breach of license claims of or relating to third party intellectual property; the ability to deliver and stimulate demand for new products and technological innovations on a timely basis; risks related to data and information security vulnerabilities; ineffective management of, and control over, the Company's growth and international operations; fluctuations in exchange rates; and changes in and a dependence on key personnel, as well as other factors contained in our most recent Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (copies of which may be accessed through the Securities and Exchange Commission's website at ), including those found therein under the captions "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations". In addition to these factors, actual future performance, outcomes, and results may differ materially because of more general factors including (without limitation) general industry and market conditions and growth rates, economic conditions, and governmental and public policy changes. The forward-looking statements included in this press release represent the Company's views as of the date of this press release and these views could change. However, while the Company may elect to update these forward-looking statements at some point in the future, the Company specifically disclaims any obligation to do so. These forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as representing the Company's views as of any date subsequent to the date of the press release.
http://www.sec.gov
 2010 Red Hat, Inc. Red Hat, the Shadowman logo and JBoss are registered trademarks of Red Hat, Inc. in the U.S. and other countries. Linux is a registered trademark of Linus Torvalds.
CONTACT: Red Hat Inc. Kara Schiltz, 919-301-3002 Tom McCallum, 919-754-4630
Media Contact:
kschiltz@redhat.com
Investor Relations:
tmccallum@redhat.com


