FILE:RHT/RHT-8K-20100526163158.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02              Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
(b)              On May 20, 2010, Matthew J. Szulik notified Red Hat, Inc. (the "Company") that he will not stand for re-election as a director of the Company in order to devote more time to his family and personal interests outside of the Company. Mr. Szulik will serve the remainder of his term as a director and Chairman of the Company's Board of Directors (the "Board"), and his resignation is effective August 12, 2010, the scheduled date of the Company's 2010 annual meeting of stockholders. Mr. Szulik has informed the Company that his resignation is not the result of a disagreement with the Company on any matter.
A copy of the letter of resignation sent by Mr. Szulik to the Board is attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01.              Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)    Exhibits
99.1    Letter of Resignation from Matthew J. Szulik dated May 20, 2010
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Board of Directors
Red Hat, Inc.
1801 Varsity Drive
Raleigh, NC 27606
Attn: General H. Hugh Shelton, Lead Director
Members of the Board,
This letter is to inform you that I do not intend to stand for re-election to the Board of Directors of Red Hat when my term ends in August. Please let this letter serve as my resignation from the Board as of August 12, 2010, the date of our Annual Meeting of Stockholders. I have had the honor of participating in Red Hat's growth from a start-up company through its current status as an S&P 500 corporation that is the world's leading provider of open source solutions. Throughout my ten-plus years with Red Hat, I have enjoyed the opportunity to work with the many talented and dedicated individuals who have helped make Red Hat what it is today, including my fellow board members and the Red Hat employees, past and present, who believed enough in the possibilities of the open source way to make Red Hat a success. However, I am at stage in my life when I would like to have more time and energy available to devote to my family and some of my personal interests outside of Red Hat. My decision is not, of course, the result of any disagreement with or concerns about Red Hat, the Board or company management on any matters.
It is hard for me to make this decision, but I know that I will leave the Company strong in its position, proud of my contributions to its success, confident in the abilities of Jim, our CEO, and the rest of my fellow board members to guide Red Hat into the future and excited to see what new developments Red Hat employees have in store for us in the years to come.
Regards,
/s/ Matthew
Matthew J. Szulik
 


