FILE:RHT/RHT-8K-20100426165634.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On April 21, 2010, the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Red Hat, Inc. (the "Company"), a Delaware corporation, amended and restated the Company's by-laws (the "By-Laws"). The amendments adopted by the Board are summarized below.
Section 1.6 relating to a quorum at stockholders' meetings was revised to conform to New York Stock Exchange Rule 452 and Listed Company Manual Section 402.08 relating to broker discretionary voting, both of which were amended in 2009.
Section 1.9 relating to action taken at stockholders' meetings was revised to change the voting standard for the election of directors in uncontested elections from a plurality to a majority of votes cast. A director nominee in an uncontested election will be elected to the Board if the votes cast "for" a director exceed the number of votes cast "against" that director. In contested elections, the vote standard will continue to be a plurality of votes cast.
The foregoing summary is qualified by reference to the full text of the amended and restated by-laws attached hereto as Exhibit 3.1, which is incorporated by reference herein. The attached By-Laws are marked to show changes made. A clean copy of the By-Laws will be posted to the Company's website at under Company  Company Profile  Investor Relations  Corporate Governance.
www.redhat.com
In connection with the adoption of a majority voting standard for uncontested director elections, on April 21, 2010, the Board also amended and restated the Company's Corporate Governance Guidelines, adding a director resignation policy for uncontested elections. The director resignation policy in the Corporate Governance Guidelines provides that an incumbent director who fails to receive the required number of votes for re-election in accordance with the By-Laws will tender his or her written resignation for consideration by the Board in accordance with the procedures set forth in the Corporate Governance Guidelines. The foregoing summary of the changes to the Company's Corporate Governance Guidelines is qualified in its entirety by the full text of the Corporate Governance Guidelines, which is available at the Company's website at under Company  Company Profile  Investor Relations  Corporate Governance.
www.redhat.com
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 3.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.1 PLACE OF MEETINGS. All meetings of stockholders shall be held at such place within or without the State of Delaware as may be designated from time to time by the Chairman of the Board (if any), the board of directors of the Corporation (the "Board of Directors"), the Chief Executive Officer or the President or, if not so designated, at the registered office of the Corporation.
1.2 ANNUAL MEETING. The annual meeting of stockholders shall be held on a date to be fixed by the Chairman of the Board (if any), Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer or the President (which date shall not be a legal holiday in the place where the meeting is to be held) at the time and place to be fixed by the Chairman of the Board, the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer or the President and stated in the notice of the meeting.
1.3 SPECIAL MEETINGS. Special meetings of stockholders may be called at any time only by the Chairman of the Board (if any), a majority of the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer or the President, and may not be called by any other person or persons. Special meetings of stockholders shall be held at such place, on such date and at such time as shall be fixed by the Board of Directors or the person calling the meeting. The Board of Directors may postpone or reschedule any previously scheduled special meeting of stockholders. Only such business shall be conducted at a special meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting.
1.4 NOTICE OF MEETINGS. Except as otherwise provided by law, written notice of each meeting of stockholders, whether annual or special, shall be given not less than 10 nor more than 60 days before the date of the meeting to each stockholder entitled to vote at such meeting. The notices of all meetings shall state the place, date and hour of the meeting. The notice of a special meeting shall state, in addition, the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called. If mailed, notice is given when deposited in the United States mail, postage prepaid, directed to the stockholder at his or her address as it appears on the records of the Corporation.
1.5 VOTING LIST. The officer who has charge of the stock ledger of the Corporation shall prepare, at least 10 days before every meeting of stockholders, a complete list of the stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting, arranged in alphabetical order, and showing the address of each stockholder and the number of shares registered in the name of each stockholder. Such list shall be open to the examination of any stockholder, for any purpose
 
germane to the meeting, during ordinary business hours, for a period of at least 10 days prior to the meeting, either at a place within the city where the meeting is to be held, which place shall be specified in the notice of the meeting, or if not so specified, at the place where the meeting is to be held. The list shall also be produced and kept at the time and place of the meeting during the whole time of the meeting, and may be inspected by any stockholder who is present. This list shall presumptively determine the identity of the stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting and the number of shares held by each of them.
1.6 QUORUM. Except as otherwise provided by law, the Corporation's Certificate of Incorporation, as such may be amended from time to time, or these Amended and Restated By-Laws, as such may be amended from time to time (the "Restated By-Laws"), the holders of a majority in voting power of the shares of the capital stock of the Corporation issued and outstanding and entitled to vote at the meeting, present in person or represented by proxy, shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. If a quorum has been established for the purpose of conducting the meeting, a quorum shall be deemed to be present for the purpose of all votes to be conducted at such meeting, provided that where a separate vote by a class or classes, or series thereof, is required, a majority of the voting power of the shares of such class or classes, or series, present in person or represented by proxy shall constitute a quorum entitled to take action with respect to that vote on that matter.
Shares held by brokers which such brokers are prohibited from voting (pursuant to their discretionary authority on behalf of beneficial owners of such shares who have not submitted a proxy with respect to such shares) on some or all of the matters before the stockholders, but which shares would otherwise be entitled to vote at the meeting ("Broker Non-Votes") shall be counted, for the purpose of determining the presence or absence of a quorum, both (a) toward the total voting power of the shares of capital stock of the Corporation and (b) as being represented by proxy.
1.7 ADJOURNMENTS. Any meeting of stockholders may be adjourned to any other time and to any other place at which a meeting of stockholders may be held under these Restated By-Laws, whether or not a quorum exists, by a majority of the voting power of the shares of stock entitled to vote who are present, in person or by proxy, or by the chairman of the meeting. It shall not be necessary to notify any stockholder of any adjournment of less than 30 days if the date, time and place of the adjourned meeting are announced at the meeting at which adjournment is taken, unless after the adjournment a new record date is fixed for the adjourned meeting. At the adjourned meeting, the Corporation may transact any business which might have been transacted at the original meeting.
1.8 VOTING AND PROXIES. At any meeting of the stockholders, each stockholder shall have one vote for each share of stock entitled to vote at such meeting held of record by such stockholder and a proportionate vote for each fractional share so held, unless otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation or required by law. Each stockholder of record entitled to vote at a meeting of stockholders may vote in person or may authorize another person or persons to vote or act for such stockholder by written proxy executed by such stockholder or his or her authorized agent or by a transmission permitted by law and delivered to the Secretary of the Corporation. No such proxy shall be voted or acted upon after three years from the date of its execution, unless the proxy expressly provides for a longer period. Any copy, facsimile telecommunication or other reliable reproduction of the writing or transmission created pursuant to this Section 1.8 may be substituted or used in lieu of the original writing or transmission for any and all purposes for which the original writing or transmission could be used, provided that such copy, facsimile telecommunication or reproduction shall be a complete reproduction of the entire original writing or transmission.
In the election of directors, voting shall be by written ballot, and for any other action, voting need not be by ballot.
 
The Corporation may, and to the extent required by law or the Certificate of Incorporation, shall, in advance of any meeting of stockholders, appoint one or more inspectors to act at such meeting and make a written report thereof. The Corporation may designate one or more persons as alternate inspectors to replace any inspector who fails to act. If no inspector or alternate is able to act at a meeting of stockholders, the person presiding at such meeting may, and to the extent required by law or the Certificate of Incorporation, shall, appoint one or more inspectors to act at such meeting. Each inspector, before entering upon the discharge of his duties, shall take and sign an oath faithfully to execute the duties of inspector with strict impartiality and according to the best of his or her ability.
1.9 ACTION AT MEETING. When a quorum is present at any meeting of stockholders, the holders of a majority in voting power of the stock present or represented and voting on a matter (or if there are two or more classes of stock entitled to vote as separate classes, then in the case of each such class, the holders of a majority in voting power of the stock of that class present or represented and voting on such matter) shall decide any matter to be voted upon by the stockholders at such meeting (other than the election of directors), except when a different vote is required by express provision of law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Restated By-Laws.
Any election of directors by the stockholders shall be determined by a plurality of the votes cast by the stockholders entitled to vote at such election, except as otherwise provided by the Certificate of Incorporation. For the purposes of this paragraph, Broker Non-Votes represented at the meeting but not permitted to vote on a particular matter shall not be counted, with respect to the vote on such matter, in the number of (a) votes cast, (b) votes cast affirmatively, or (c) votes cast negatively.
At all meetings of stockholders for the election of directors at which a quorum is present, each director shall be elected by the vote of the majority of the votes cast with respect to the director nominee; provided, however, that if, as of a date that is five (5) business days in advance of the date that the Corporation files its definitive proxy statement (regardless of whether or not thereafter revised or supplemented) with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the number of director nominees exceeds the number of directors to be elected, the directors (not exceeding the authorized number of directors as fixed by the Board of Directors in accordance with the Certificate of Incorporation) shall be elected by a plurality of the voting power of the shares of stock entitled to vote who are present, in person or by proxy at any such meeting and entitled to vote on the election of directors. For purposes of this Section 1.9, a majority of the votes cast means that the number of shares voted for' a director must exceed the number of shares voted against' that director. If, for any cause, the entire Board of Directors shall not have been elected at an annual meeting, they may be elected as soon thereafter as convenient at a special meeting of the stockholders called for that purpose in the manner provided in these Restated By-Laws.
1.10 NOTICE OF BUSINESS AND NOMINATIONS.
A. NOMINATIONS OF DIRECTORS.
(1) Except for (a) any directors entitled to be elected by the holders of Preferred Stock, (b) any directors elected in accordance with Section 2.7 hereof by the Board of Directors to fill a vacancy or newly-created directorship or (c) as otherwise required by applicable law or stock exchange regulation, at any meeting of stockholders, only persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures in Section 1.10(A) shall be eligible for election as directors. Subject to the additional requirements described in the last sentence of this paragraph, nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors at a meeting of stockholders may be made (i) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (ii) by any stockholder of the Corporation who (x) was a
 
stockholder of record on the date of the giving of the notice provided for in this Section 1.10(A) and on the record date for the determination of stockholders entitled to vote at such meeting, (y) is entitled to vote at the meeting and (z) timely complies with the notice procedures set forth in Sections 1.10(A) and 1.10(C). A stockholder may nominate persons for election as directors at a special meeting of stockholders only if the Corporation's notice of meeting relating to such meeting specifies that directors shall be elected at such meeting and any nomination made by the stockholder is for election to such position(s) as specified in the Corporation's notice of meeting.
(2) To be timely, a stockholder's notice pursuant to Section 1.10(A) must be received by the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation as follows: (a) in the case of an election of directors at an annual meeting of stockholders, not later than the close of business on the one hundred twentieth (120th) day nor earlier than the one hundred fiftieth (150th) day prior to the first anniversary of the date of the preceding year's annual meeting; , , that if either (i) the date of the annual meeting is more than thirty (30) days before or more than sixty (60) days after such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder to be timely must be so received not earlier than the ninetieth (90th) day prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of (x) the sixtieth (60th) day prior to such annual meeting or (y) the tenth (10th) day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made; or (b) in the case of an election of directors at a special meeting of stockholders, provided that the Board of Directors has determined that directors shall be elected at such meeting, not earlier than the ninetieth (90
provided
however
th
) day prior to such special meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of (i) the sixtieth (60th) day prior to such special meeting and (ii) the tenth (10
th
) day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such special meeting is first made.
(3) The stockholder's notice to the Secretary shall set forth: (a) as to each proposed nominee (i) such person's name, age, business address and, if known, residence address, (ii) such person's principal occupation or employment, (iii) the class or series and number of shares of stock of the Corporation that are, directly or indirectly, beneficially owned by such person, (iv) a description of any agreement, arrangement or understanding (including any derivative or short positions, profit interests, options, warrants, stock appreciation or similar rights, hedging transactions, and borrowed or loaned shares) that has been entered into by, or on behalf of, such person, the effect or intent of which is to mitigate loss to, manage risk or benefit of share price changes for, or increase or decrease the voting power of, such person with respect to shares of stock of the Corporation, (v) a description of all direct and indirect compensation and other material monetary agreements, arrangements and understandings during the past three years, and any other material relationships, between or among (x) the stockholder, the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination is being made and the respective affiliates and associates of, or others acting in concert with, such stockholder and such beneficial owner, on the one hand, and (y) each proposed nominee, and his or her respective affiliates and associates, or others acting in concert with such nominee(s), on the other hand, including all information that would be required to be disclosed pursuant to Item 404 of Regulation S-K if the stockholder making the nomination and any beneficial owner on whose behalf the nomination is made or any affiliate or associate
 
thereof or person acting in concert therewith were the "registrant" for purposes of such Item and the proposed nominee were a director or executive officer of such registrant, and (vi) any other information concerning such person that must be disclosed as to nominees in proxy solicitations pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"); and (b) as to the stockholder giving the notice and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination is being made (i) the name and address of such stockholder, as they appear on the Corporation's books, and of such beneficial owner, (ii) the class or series and number of shares of stock of the Corporation that are, directly or indirectly, owned, beneficially and of record, by such stockholder and such beneficial owner, (iii) a description of any agreement, arrangement or understanding between such stockholder and/or such beneficial owner and each proposed nominee and any other person or persons (including their names) pursuant to which the nomination(s) are being made or who may participate in the solicitation of proxies in favor of electing such nominee(s), (iv) a description of any agreement, arrangement or understanding (including any derivative or short positions, profit interests, options, warrants, stock appreciation or similar rights, hedging transactions, and borrowed or loaned shares) that has been entered into by, or on behalf of, such stockholder or such beneficial owner, the effect or intent of which is to mitigate loss to, manage risk or benefit of share price changes for, or increase or decrease the voting power of, such stockholder or such beneficial owner with respect to shares of stock of the Corporation, (v) any other information relating to such stockholder and such beneficial owner that would be required to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filings required to be made in connection with solicitations of proxies for the election of directors in a contested election pursuant to Section 14 of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, (vi) a representation that such stockholder intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to nominate the person(s) named in its notice and (vii) a representation whether such stockholder and/or such beneficial owner intends or is part of a group which intends (X) to deliver a proxy statement and/or form of proxy to holders of at least the percentage of the Corporation's outstanding capital stock reasonably believed by such stockholder or such beneficial owner to be sufficient to elect the nominee (and such representation shall be included in any such proxy statement and form of proxy) and/or (Y) otherwise to solicit proxies from stockholders in support of such nomination (and such representation shall be included in any such solicitation materials). Not later than 10 days after the record date for the meeting, the information required by Items (a)(i)-(v) and (b)(i)-(v) of the prior sentence shall be supplemented by the stockholder giving the notice to provide updated information as of the record date. In addition, to be effective, the stockholder's notice must be accompanied by the written consent of the proposed nominee to serve as a director if elected. The Corporation may require any proposed nominee to furnish such other information as may reasonably be required to determine the eligibility of such proposed nominee to serve as a director of the Corporation or whether such nominee would be independent under applicable Securities and Exchange Commission and stock exchange rules and the Corporation's publicly disclosed corporate governance guidelines.
B. NOTICE OF BUSINESS AT ANNUAL MEETINGS.
 
(1) At any annual meeting of the stockholders, only such business shall be conducted as shall have been properly brought before the meeting. To be properly brought before an annual meeting, business must be (a) specified in the notice of meeting (or any supplement thereto) given by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, (b) otherwise properly brought before the meeting by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, or (c) properly brought before the meeting by a stockholder. For business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a stockholder, (i) if such business relates to the nomination of a person for election as a director of the Corporation, the procedures in Sections 1.10(A) and 1.10(C) must be complied with and (ii) if such business relates to any other matter, the business must constitute a proper matter under Delaware law for stockholder action and the stockholder must (x) have given timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary in accordance with the procedures in Sections 1.10(B) and 1.10(C), (y) be a stockholder of record on the date of the giving of such notice and on the record date for the determination of stockholders entitled to vote at such annual meeting and (z) be entitled to vote at such annual meeting.
(2) To be timely, a stockholder's notice pursuant to Section 1.10(B)(1) must be received in writing by the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the one hundred twentieth (120th) day nor earlier than the one hundred fiftieth (150th) day prior to the first anniversary of the date of the preceding year's annual meeting; , , that if either (i) the date of the annual meeting is more than thirty (30) days before or more than sixty (60) days after such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder to be timely must be so received not earlier than the ninetieth (90th) day prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of (x) the sixtieth (60th) day prior to such annual meeting or (y) the tenth (10th) day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made.
provided
however
(3) The stockholder's notice to the Secretary shall set forth: (a) as to each matter the stockholder proposes to bring before the annual meeting (i) a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the annual meeting, (ii) the text of the proposal (including the exact text of any resolutions proposed for consideration and, in the event that such business includes a proposal to amend these Restated By-laws, the exact text of the proposed amendment), and (iii) the reasons for conducting such business at the annual meeting, and (b) as to the stockholder giving the notice and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is being made (i) the name and address of such stockholder, as they appear on the Corporation's books, and of such beneficial owner, (ii) the class or series and number of shares of stock of the Corporation that are, directly or indirectly, owned, beneficially and of record, by such stockholder and such beneficial owner, (iii) a description of any material interest of such stockholder or such beneficial owner and the respective affiliates and associates of, or others acting in concert with, such stockholder or such beneficial owner in such business, (iv) a description of any agreement, arrangement or understanding between such stockholder and/or such beneficial owner and any other person or persons (including their names) in connection with the proposal of such business or who may participate in the solicitation of proxies in favor of such proposal, (v) a description of any agreement, arrangement or understanding (including any derivative or short positions, profit interests, options,
 
warrants, stock appreciation or similar rights, hedging transactions, and borrowed or loaned shares) that has been entered into by, or on behalf of, such stockholder or such beneficial owner, the effect or intent of which is to mitigate loss to, manage risk or benefit of share price changes for, or increase or decrease the voting power of, such stockholder or such beneficial owner with respect to shares of stock of the Corporation, (vi) any other information relating to such stockholder and such beneficial owner that would be required to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filings required to be made in connection with solicitations of proxies for the business proposed pursuant to Section 14 of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, (vii) a representation that such stockholder intends to appear in person or by proxy at the annual meeting to bring such business before the meeting and (viii) a representation whether such stockholder and/or such beneficial owner intends or is part of a group which intends (X) to deliver a proxy statement and/or form of proxy to holders of at least the percentage of the Corporation's outstanding capital stock required to approve or adopt the proposal (and such representation shall be included in any such proxy statement and form of proxy) and/or (Y) otherwise to solicit proxies from stockholders in support of such proposal (and such representation shall be included in any such solicitation materials). Not later than 10 days after the record date for the meeting, the information required by Items (a)(iii) and (b)(i)-(vi) of the prior sentence shall be supplemented by the stockholder giving the notice to provide updated information as of the record date.
C. GENERAL.
(1) The chairman of any meeting shall have the power and duty to determine whether a nomination was made or business was properly brought before the meeting, as the case may be, in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 1.10 (including whether the stockholder or beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination or proposal is made, solicited (or is part of a group which solicited) or did not so solicit, as the case may be, proxies in support of such stockholder's nominee or proposal in compliance with the representations with respect thereto required by this Section 1.10) and, if the chairman should determine that a nomination or business was not made or properly brought before the meeting in accordance with the provisions of this Section 1.10, the chairman shall so declare to the meeting and such nomination or proposal shall not be brought before the meeting. A stockholder shall not have complied with this Section 1.10 if the stockholder (or beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination or proposal is made) solicits or does not solicit, as the case may be, proxies in support of such stockholder's nominee or proposal in contravention of the representations with respect thereto required by Section 1.10(A) or 1.10(B), as the case may be.
(2) In no event shall the adjournment or postponement of a meeting (or the public announcement thereof) commence a new time period (or extend any time period) for the giving of a stockholder's notice.
(3) Except as otherwise required by law, nothing in this Section 1.10 shall obligate the Corporation or the Board of Directors to include in any proxy statement or other stockholder communication distributed on behalf of the Corporation or the Board
 
of Directors information with respect to any nominee for director or proposal submitted by a stockholder.
(4) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 1.10, if the stockholder (or a qualified representative of the stockholder) does not appear at the meeting to present a nomination or business, as the case may be, such nomination or business shall not be brought before the meeting, notwithstanding that proxies in respect of such nominee or business may have been received by the Corporation. For purposes of this Section 1.10, to be considered a qualified representative of the stockholder, a person must be authorized by a valid and legally binding written instrument executed by such stockholder to act for such stockholder as proxy at the meeting of stockholders and such person must produce such written instrument, or a reliable reproduction of the written instrument, at the meeting of stockholders.
(5) For purposes of this Section 1.10, "public announcement" shall mean disclosure in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Associated Press or comparable national news service or in a document publicly filed by the Corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act.
(6) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 1.10, (i) the requirements of this Section 1.10 shall not apply to a stockholder proposal if a stockholder has notified the Corporation of his or her intention to present such stockholder proposal at an annual meeting only pursuant to an in compliance with Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act and such proposal has been included in a proxy statement that has been prepared by the Corporation to solicit proxies for such annual meeting and (ii) nothing in this Section 1.10 shall be deemed to affect any rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock to elect directors under specified circumstances.
2.1 GENERAL POWERS. The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed by or under the direction of a Board of Directors, who may exercise all of the powers of the Corporation except as otherwise provided by law or the Certificate of Incorporation. In the event of a vacancy in the Board of Directors, the remaining directors, except as otherwise provided by law or the Certificate of Incorporation, may exercise the powers of the full Board of Directors until the vacancy is filled. Without limiting the foregoing, the Board of Directors may:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.2 NUMBER; ELECTION AND QUALIFICATION. The number of directors which shall constitute the whole Board of Directors shall be determined by resolution of the Board of Directors, but in no event shall be less than three. The number of directors may be decreased at any time and from time to time by a majority of the directors then in office, but only to eliminate vacancies existing by reason of the death, resignation, removal or expiration of the term of one or more directors. Except as otherwise expressly provided in these Restated By-laws, the directors shall be elected at the annual meeting of stockholders (or, if so determined by the Board of Directors pursuant to Section 1.10 hereof, at a special meeting of stockholders), by such stockholders as have the right to vote on such election. Directors need not be stockholders of the Corporation.
2.3 CLASSES OF DIRECTORS. Subject to the rights of holders of any series of Preferred Stock to elect directors, the Board of Directors shall be and is divided into three classes: Class I, Class II and Class III. No one class shall have more than one director more than any other class.
2.4 TERMS IN OFFICE. Subject to the rights of holders of any series of Preferred Stock to elect directors, each director shall serve for a term ending on the date of the third annual meeting following the annual meeting at which such director was elected.
2.5 ALLOCATION OF DIRECTORS AMONG CLASSES IN THE EVENT OF INCREASES OR DECREASES IN THE NUMBER OF DIRECTORS. Subject to the rights of holders of any series of Preferred Stock to elect directors, in the event of any increase or decrease in the authorized number of directors, (i) each director then serving as such shall nevertheless continue as a director of the class of which he or she is a member until the expiration of such director's current term or his or her prior death, removal or resignation and (ii) the newly created
 
or eliminated directorships resulting from such increase or decrease shall be apportioned by the Board of Directors among the three classes of directors, subject to the second sentence of Section 2.3. To the extent possible, consistent with the foregoing rule, any newly created directorships shall be added to those classes whose terms of office are to expire at the earliest dates following such allocation, unless otherwise provided for from time to time by resolution adopted by a majority of the directors then in office, although less than a quorum. No decrease in the number of directors constituting the whole Board of Directors shall shorten the term of an incumbent Director.
2.6 TENURE. Notwithstanding any provisions to the contrary contained herein, each director shall hold office until his or her successor is elected and qualified, or until his or her earlier death, resignation or removal.
2.7 VACANCIES. Unless and until filled by the stockholders, any vacancy in the Board of Directors, however occurring, including a vacancy resulting from an enlargement thereof, may be filled by vote of a majority of the directors then in office, although less than a quorum, or by a sole remaining director. A director elected to fill a vacancy shall be elected for the unexpired term of his or her predecessor in office, if any, and a director chosen to fill a position resulting from an increase in the number of directors shall hold office until the next election of directors of the class for which such director was chosen and until his or her successor is elected and qualified, or until his or her earlier death, resignation or removal.
2.8 RESIGNATION. Any director may resign by delivering his or her written resignation to the Corporation at its principal office or to the President or Secretary. Such resignation shall be effective upon receipt unless it is specified to be effective at some other time or upon the happening of some other event.
2.9 REGULAR MEETINGS. Regular meetings of the Board of Directors may be held without notice at such time and place, either within or without the State of Delaware, as shall be determined from time to time by the Board of Directors; provided that any director who is absent when such a determination is made shall be given notice of the determination.
2.10 SPECIAL MEETINGS. Special meetings of the Board of Directors may be held at any time and place, within or without the State of Delaware, designated in a call by the Chairman of the Board (if any), the Chief Executive Officer, the President, two or more directors, or by one director in the event that there is only a single director in office.
2.11 NOTICE OF SPECIAL MEETINGS. Notice of any special meeting of directors shall be given to each director by the Secretary or by the officer or one of the directors calling the meeting. Notice shall be duly given to each director (i) by giving notice to such director in person or by telephone at least 48 hours in advance of the meeting, (ii) by delivering written notice by electronic transmission or by hand, to his or her last known business or home address at least 48 hours in advance of the meeting, or (iii) by mailing written notice to his or her last known business or home address at least 72 hours in advance of the meeting. A notice or waiver of notice of a meeting of the Board of Directors need not specify the purposes of the meeting.
 
2.12 MEETINGS BY TELEPHONE CONFERENCE CALLS. Directors or any members of any committee designated by the Board of Directors may participate in a meeting of the Board of Directors or such committee by means of conference telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and participation by such means shall be deemed to constitute presence in person at such meeting.
2.13 QUORUM. A majority of the total number of the whole Board of Directors shall constitute a quorum at all meetings of the Board of Directors. In the event one or more of the directors shall be disqualified to vote at any meeting, then the required quorum shall be reduced by one for each such director so disqualified; provided, however, that in no case shall less than one-third (
 1
/
3
) of the total number of the whole Board of Directors constitute a quorum. In the absence of a quorum at any such meeting, a majority of the directors present may adjourn the meeting from time to time without further notice other than announcement at the meeting, until a quorum shall be present.
2.14 ACTION AT MEETING. At any meeting of the Board of Directors at which a quorum is present, the vote of a majority of those present shall be sufficient to take any action, unless a different vote is specified by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Restated By-Laws.
2.15 ACTION BY WRITTEN CONSENT. Any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors or of any committee of the Board of Directors may be taken without a meeting, if all members of the Board of Directors or committee, as the case may be, consent to such action in writing, and the written consents are filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board of Directors or committee.
2.16 REMOVAL. Unless otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation and subject to the rights of holders of any series of Preferred Stock, any one or more or all of the directors may be removed with cause only by the holders of at least seventy-five percent (75%) of the shares then entitled to vote at an election of directors. Directors may not be removed without cause.
2.17 COMMITTEES. The Board of Directors may, by resolution passed by a majority of the whole Board, designate one or more committees, each committee to consist of one or more of the directors of the Corporation. The Board of Directors may designate one or more directors as alternate members of any committee, who may replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of such committee. In the absence or disqualification of a member of a committee, the member or members of such committee present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not such member or members constitute a quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the Board of Directors to act at such meeting in the place of any such absent or disqualified member. Any such committee, to the extent provided in the resolution of the Board of Directors and subject to the provisions of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, shall have and may exercise all the powers and authority of the Board of Directors in the management of the business and affairs of the Corporation and may authorize the seal of the Corporation to be affixed to all papers which may require it. Each such committee shall keep minutes and make such reports as the Board of Directors may from time to time request. Except
 
as the Board of Directors may otherwise determine or as provided herein, any committee may make rules for the conduct of its business, but unless otherwise provided by the directors or in such rules, its business shall be conducted as nearly as possible in the same manner as is provided in these Restated By-Laws for the Board of Directors. Adequate provisions shall be made for notice to members of all meeting of committees. One-third (
 1
/
3
) of the members of any committee shall constitute a quorum unless the committee shall consist of one (1) or two (2) members, in which event one (1) member shall constitute a quorum; and all matters shall be determined by a majority vote of the members present. Action may be taken by any committee without a meeting if all members thereof consent thereto in writing, and the writing or writings are filed with the minutes of the proceedings of such committee.
2.18 COMPENSATION OF DIRECTORS. Directors may be paid such compensation for their services and such reimbursement for expenses of attendance at meetings as the Board of Directors may from time to time determine. No such payment shall preclude any director from serving the Corporation or any of its parent or subsidiary corporations in any other capacity and receiving compensation for such service.
2.19 AMENDMENTS TO ARTICLE. Notwithstanding any other provisions of law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Restated By-Laws, and notwithstanding the fact that a lesser percentage may be specified by law, the affirmative vote of the holders of a least seventy-five percent (75%) of the votes which all the stockholders would be entitled to cast at any annual election of directors or class of directors shall be required to amend or repeal, or to adopt any provision inconsistent with, this Article 2.
3.1 ENUMERATION. The officers of the Corporation shall consist of a President, a Secretary, a Treasurer and such other officers with such other titles as the Board of Directors shall determine, including, but not limited to, a Chairman of the Board, a Vice-Chairman of the Board, and one or more Vice Presidents, Assistant Treasurers and Assistant Secretaries. The Board of Directors may appoint such other officers as it may deem appropriate.
3.2 ELECTION. The President, Treasurer and Secretary shall be elected annually by the Board of Directors at its first meeting following the annual meeting of stockholders. Other officers may be appointed by the Board of Directors at such meeting or at any other meeting.
3.3 QUALIFICATION. No officer need be a stockholder. Any two or more offices may be held by the same person.
3.4 TENURE. Except as otherwise provided by law, by the Certificate of Incorporation or by these Restated By-Laws, each officer shall hold office until his or her successor is elected and qualified, unless a different term is specified in the vote choosing or appointing such officer, or until his or her earlier death, resignation or removal.
3.5 RESIGNATION AND REMOVAL. Any officer may resign by delivering his or her written resignation to the Chairman of the Board (if any), to the Board of Directors at a
 
meeting thereof, to the Corporation at its principal office or to the President or Secretary. Such resignation shall be effective upon receipt unless it is specified to be effective at some other time or upon the happening of some other event.
Any officer may be removed at any time, with or without cause, by vote of a majority of the entire number of directors then in office.
Except as the Board of Directors may otherwise determine, no officer who resigns or is removed shall have any right to any compensation as an officer for any period following his or her resignation or removal, or any right to damages on account of such removal, whether his or her compensation be by the month or by the year or otherwise, unless such compensation is expressly provided in a duly authorized written agreement with the Corporation.
3.6 VACANCIES. The Board of Directors may fill any vacancy occurring in any office for any reason and may, in its discretion, leave unfilled for such period as it may determine any offices other than those of President, Treasurer and Secretary. Each such successor shall hold office for the unexpired term of his predecessor and until his or her successor is elected and qualified, or until his or her earlier death, resignation or removal.
3.7 CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD AND VICE-CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD. The Chairman of the Board, if any, shall preside at all meetings of the Board of Directors and stockholders at which he or she is present and shall perform such duties and possess such powers as are designated by the Board of Directors. If the Board of Directors appoints a Vice-Chairman of the Board, he or she shall, in the absence or disability of the Chairman of the Board, perform the duties and exercise the powers of the Chairman of the Board and shall perform such other duties and possess such other powers as may from time to time be designated by the Board of Directors.
3.8 PRESIDENT. The President shall, subject to the direction of the Board of Directors, have general charge and supervision of the business of the Corporation. Unless otherwise provided by the Board of Directors, and provided that there is no Chairman of the Board or that the Chairman and Vice-Chairman, if any, are not available, the President shall preside at all meetings of the stockholders, and, if a director, at all meetings of the Board of Directors. Unless the Board of Directors has designated another officer as the Chief Executive Officer, the President shall be the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation. The President shall perform such other duties and shall have such other powers as the Board of Directors may from time to time prescribe. The President shall have the power to enter into contracts and otherwise bind the Corporation in matters arising in the ordinary course of the Corporation's business.
3.9 VICE PRESIDENTS. Any Vice President shall perform such duties and possess such powers as the Board of Directors or the President may from time to time prescribe. In the event of the absence, inability or refusal to act of the President, the Vice President (or if there shall be more than one, the Vice Presidents in the order determined by the Board of Directors) shall perform the duties of the President and, when so performing, shall have all the powers of and be subject to all the restrictions upon the President. The Board of Directors may assign to any Vice President the title of Executive Vice President, Senior Vice President or any other title
 
selected by the Board of Directors. Unless otherwise determined by the Board of Directors, any Vice President shall have the power to enter into contracts and otherwise bind the Corporation in matters arising in the ordinary course of the Corporation's business.
3.10 SECRETARY AND ASSISTANT SECRETARIES. The Secretary shall perform such duties and shall have such powers as the Board of Directors or the President may from time to time prescribe. In addition, the Secretary shall perform such duties and have such powers as are incident to the office of secretary, including without limitation the duty and power to give notices of all meetings of stockholders and special meetings of the Board of Directors, to attend all meetings of stockholders and the Board of Directors and keep a record of the proceedings, to maintain a stock ledger and prepare lists of stockholders and their addresses as required, to be custodian of corporate records and the corporate seal and to affix and attest to the same on documents.
Any Assistant Secretary shall perform such duties and possess such powers as the Board of Directors, the President or the Secretary may from time to time prescribe. In the event of the absence, inability or refusal to act of the Secretary, the Assistant Secretary (or if there shall be more than one, the Assistant Secretaries in the order determined by the Board of Directors) shall perform the duties and exercise the powers of the Secretary.
In the absence of the Secretary or any Assistant Secretary at any meeting of stockholders or directors, the person presiding at the meeting shall designate a temporary secretary to keep a record of the meeting.
3.11 TREASURER AND ASSISTANT TREASURERS. The Treasurer shall perform such duties and shall have such powers as the Board of Directors or the President may from time to time prescribe. In addition, the Treasurer shall perform such duties and have such powers as are incident to the office of treasurer, including without limitation the duty and power to keep and be responsible for all funds and securities of the Corporation, to deposit funds of the Corporation in depositories selected in accordance with these Restated By-Laws, to disburse such funds as ordered by the Board of Directors, to make proper accounts for such funds, and to render as required by the Board of Directors statements of all such transactions and of the financial condition of the Corporation.
The Assistant Treasurers shall perform such duties and possess such powers as the Board of Directors, the President or the Treasurer may from time to time prescribe. In the event of the absence, inability or refusal to act of the Treasurer, the Assistant Treasurer (or if there shall be more than one, the Assistant Treasurers in the order determined by the Board of Directors) shall perform the duties and exercise the powers of the Treasurer.
3.12 SALARIES. Officers of the Corporation shall be entitled to such salaries, compensation or reimbursement as shall be fixed or allowed from time to time by the Board of Directors.
3.13 ACTION WITH RESPECT TO SECURITIES OF OTHER CORPORATIONS. Unless otherwise directed by the Board of Directors, the President or any officer of the Corporation authorized by the President shall have power to vote and otherwise act on behalf of
 
the Corporation, in person or by proxy, at any meeting of stockholders of or with respect to any action of stockholders of any other corporation in which the Corporation may hold securities and otherwise to exercise any and all rights and powers which this Corporation may possess by reason of its ownership of securities in such other corporation.
4.1 ISSUANCE OF STOCK. Subject to the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation, the whole or any part of any unissued balance of the authorized capital stock of the Corporation or the whole or any part of any issued, authorized capital stock of the Corporation held in its treasury may be issued, sold, transferred or otherwise disposed of by vote of the Board of Directors in such manner, for such consideration and on such terms as the Board of Directors may determine.
4.2 CERTIFICATES OF STOCK. The shares of the Corporation shall be represented by certificates, provided that the Board of Directors may provide by resolution or resolutions that some or all of any or all classes or series of the Corporation's stock shall be uncertificated shares. Every holder of stock of the Corporation represented by certificates shall be entitled to have a certificate, in such form as may be prescribed by law and by the Board of Directors, certifying the number and class of shares owned by such stockholder in the Corporation registered in certificate form. Each such certificate shall be signed by, or in the name of the Corporation by, the Chairman or Vice-Chairman, if any, of the Board of Directors, or the President or a Vice President, and the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer, or the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Corporation. Any or all of the signatures on such certificate may be a facsimile.
Each certificate for shares of stock which are subject to any restriction on transfer pursuant to the Certificate of Incorporation, the Restated By-Laws, applicable securities laws or any agreement among any number of shareholders or among such holders and the Corporation shall have conspicuously noted on the face or back of such certificate either the full text of such restriction or a statement of the existence of such restriction.
If the Corporation shall be authorized to issue more than one class of stock or more than one series of any class, the powers, designations, preferences and relative participating, optional or other special rights of each class of stock or series thereof and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions of such preferences and/or rights shall be set forth in full or summarized on the face or back of each certificate representing shares of such class or series of stock, provided that in lieu of the foregoing requirements there may be set forth on the face or back of each certificate representing shares of such class or series of stock a statement that the Corporation will furnish without charge to each stockholder who so requests a copy of the full text of the powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights of each class of stock or series thereof and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions of such preferences and/or rights.
Within a reasonable time after the issuance or transfer of uncertificated shares, the Corporation shall send to the registered owner thereof a written notice containing the information
 
required to be set forth or stated on certificates pursuant to Sections 151, 156, 202(a) or 218(a) of the Delaware General Corporation Law or, with respect to Section 151 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, a statement that the Corporation will furnish without charge to each stockholder who so requests the powers, designations, preferences and relative participating, optional or other special rights of each class of stock or series thereof and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions of such preferences and/or rights.
4.3 TRANSFERS. Shares of stock of the Corporation shall be transferable in the manner prescribed by law and in these Restated By-laws. Transfers of shares of stock of the Corporation shall be made only on the books of the Corporation or by transfer agents designated to transfer shares of stock of the Corporation. Except as otherwise established by rules and regulations adopted by the Board of Directors, and subject to applicable law, shares of stock represented by certificates shall be transferred only on the books of the Corporation by the surrender to the Corporation or its transfer agent of the certificate representing such shares, properly endorsed or accompanied by a written assignment or power of attorney properly executed, and with such proof of authority or the authenticity of signature as the Corporation or its transfer agent may reasonably require. Except as may be otherwise required by law, by the Certificate of Incorporation or by these Restated By-Laws, the Corporation shall be entitled to treat the record holder of stock as shown on its books as the owner of such stock for all purposes, including the payment of dividends and the right to vote with respect to such stock, regardless of any transfer, pledge or other disposition of such stock, until the shares have been transferred on the books of the Corporation in accordance with the requirements of these Restated By-Laws.
4.4 LOST, STOLEN OR DESTROYED CERTIFICATES. The Corporation may issue a new certificate of stock in place of any previously issued certificate alleged to have been lost, stolen, or destroyed, upon such terms and conditions as the President may prescribe, including the presentation of reasonable evidence of such loss, theft or destruction and the giving of such indemnity as the President may require for the protection of the Corporation or any transfer agent or registrar.
4.5 RECORD DATE. The Board of Directors may fix in advance a date as a record date for the determination of the stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of stockholders or entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of stock, or for the purpose of any other lawful action. Such record date shall not be more than 60 nor less than 10 days before the date of such meeting, nor more than 60 days prior to any other action to which such record date relates.
If no record date is fixed, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall be at the close of business on the day before the day on which notice is given, or, if notice is waived, at the close of business on the day before the day on which the meeting is held. The record date for determining stockholders entitled to express consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting (to the extent permitted by the Certificate of Incorporation and these Restated By-laws) when no prior action by the Board of Directors is necessary, shall be the day on which the first written consent is expressed. If no record date is fixed, the
1
record date for determining stockholders for any other purpose shall be
 
 
 
at the close of business on the day on which the Board of Directors adopts the resolution relating to such purpose.
A determination of stockholders of record entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall apply to any adjournment of the meeting; provided, however, that the Board of Directors may fix a new record date for the adjourned meeting.
5.1 FISCAL YEAR. The fiscal year of the Corporation shall be fixed by resolution of the Board of Directors.
5.2 CORPORATE SEAL. The corporate seal shall be in such form as shall be approved by the Board of Directors.
5.3 NOTICES. Except as otherwise specifically provided herein or required by law or the Certificate of Incorporation, all notices required to be given to any stockholder, director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation shall be in writing and may in every instance be effectively given by hand delivery to the recipient thereof, by depositing such notice in the mails, postage paid, or by sending such notice by electronic transmission. Any such notice shall be addressed to such stockholder, director, officer, employee or agent at his or her last known address as the same appears on the books of the Corporation.
5.4 WAIVER OF NOTICE. Whenever any notice whatsoever is required to be given by law, by the Certificate of Incorporation or by these Restated By-Laws, a waiver of such notice either in writing signed by the person entitled to such notice or such person's duly authorized attorney, or by telegraph, facsimile transmission or any other available method, whether before, at or after the time stated in such waiver, or the appearance of such person or persons at such meeting in person or by proxy, shall be deemed equivalent to such notice.
5.5 EVIDENCE OF AUTHORITY. A certificate by the Secretary, or an Assistant Secretary, or a temporary Secretary, as to any action taken by the stockholders, directors, a committee or any officer or representative of the Corporation shall, as to all persons who rely on the certificate in good faith, be conclusive evidence of such action.
5.6 FACSIMILE SIGNATURES. In addition to the provisions for use of facsimile signatures elsewhere specifically authorized in these Restated By-Laws, facsimile signatures of any officer or officers of the Corporation may be used whenever and as authorized by the Board of Directors or a committee thereof.
5.7 RELIANCE UPON BOOKS, REPORTS AND RECORDS. Each director, each member of any committee designated by the Board of Directors, and each officer of the Corporation shall, in the performance of his or her duties, be fully protected in relying in good faith upon the books of account or other records of the Corporation and upon such information, opinions, reports or statements presented to the Corporation by any of its officers or employees or committees of the Board of Directors so designated, or by any other person as to matters
 
which such director or committee member reasonably believes are within such other person's professional or expert competence and who has been selected with reasonable care by or on behalf of the Corporation.
5.8 TIME PERIODS. In applying any provision of these Restated By-Laws that requires that an act be done or not be done a specified number of days prior to an event or that an act be done during a period of a specified number of days prior to an event, calendar days shall be used, the day of the doing of the act shall be excluded, and the day of the event shall be included.
5.9 CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION. All references in these Restated By-Laws to the Certificate of Incorporation shall be deemed to refer to the Third Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, as amended and in effect from time to time.
5.10 TRANSACTIONS WITH INTERESTED PARTIES. No contract or transaction between the Corporation and one or more of the directors or officers, or between the Corporation and any other corporation, partnership, association, or other organization in which one or more of the directors or officers are directors or officers, or have a financial interest, shall be void or voidable solely for this reason, or solely because such director or officer is present at or participates in the meeting of the Board of Directors or a committee of the Board of Directors which authorizes the contract or transaction or solely because his, her or their votes are counted for such purpose, if:
(1) The material facts as to his or her relationship or interest and as to the contract or transaction are disclosed or are known to the Board of Directors or the committee, and the Board or committee in good faith authorizes the contract or transaction by the affirmative vote of a majority of the disinterested directors, even though the disinterested directors be less than a quorum;
(2) The material facts as to his or her relationship or interest and as to the contract or transaction are disclosed or are known to the stockholders entitled to vote thereon, and the contract or transaction is specifically approved in good faith by vote of the stockholders; or
(3) The contract or transaction is fair as to the Corporation as of the time it is authorized, approved or ratified, by the Board of Directors, a committee of the Board of Directors, or the stockholders.
Common or interested directors may be counted in determining the presence of a quorum at a meeting of the Board of Directors or of a committee which authorizes the contract or transaction.
5.11 SEVERABILITY. Any determination that any provision of these Restated By-Laws is for any reason inapplicable, illegal or ineffective shall not affect or invalidate any other provision of these Restated By-Laws.
 
5.12 PRONOUNS. All pronouns used in these Restated By-Laws shall be deemed to refer to the masculine, feminine or neuter, singular or plural, as the identity of the persons or persons so designated may require.
6.1 BY THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS. Except as is otherwise set forth in these Restated By-Laws, these Restated By-Laws may be altered, amended or repealed, or new by-laws may be adopted, by the affirmative vote of a majority of the directors present at any regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors at which a quorum is present.
6.2 BY THE STOCKHOLDERS. Except as otherwise set forth in these Restated By-Laws, these Restated By-Laws may be altered, amended or repealed or new by-laws may be adopted by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least seventy-five percent (75%) of the voting power of all of the then outstanding shares of the capital stock of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting together as a single class, at any annual meeting of stockholders, or at any special meeting of stockholders, provided notice of such alteration, amendment, repeal or adoption of new by-laws shall have been stated in the notice of such special meeting.
7.1 ACTIONS OTHER THAN BY OR IN THE RIGHT OF THE CORPORATION. The Corporation shall indemnify and hold harmless, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law as it presently exists or may hereafter be amended, any person who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party or is otherwise involved in any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (other than an action by or in the right of the Corporation) by reason of the fact that such person, or a person for whom such person is the legal representative, is or was a director, trustee, partner, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation, or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise or non-profit entity, against all liability, losses, expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines, and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by such person in connection with such action, suit or proceeding if such person acted in good faith and in a manner he or she reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interest of the Corporation, and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, had no reasonable cause to believe his or her conduct was unlawful. The termination of any action, suit or proceeding by judgment, order, settlement, conviction, or upon a plea of nolo contendere or its equivalent, shall not, of itself, create a presumption that such person did not act in good faith and in a manner which he or she reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interest of the Corporation, and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, had reasonable cause to believe that his or her conduct was unlawful.
 
7.2 ACTIONS BY OR IN THE RIGHT OF THE CORPORATION. The Corporation shall indemnify any person who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to any threatened, pending or completed action or suit by or in the right of the Corporation to procure a judgment in its favor by reason of the fact that he or she is or was a director, trustee, partner, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation, or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise or non-profit entity against expenses (including attorneys' fees) actually and reasonably incurred by him or her in connection with the defense or settlement of such action or suit if such person acted in good faith and in a manner such person reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation; except that no indemnification shall be made in respect of any claim, issue or matter as to which such person shall have been adjudged to be liable for negligence or misconduct in the performance of his duty to the Corporation unless and only to the extent that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware or the court in which such action or suit was brought shall determine upon application that despite the adjudication of liability but in view of all the circumstances of the case, such person fairly and reasonably entitled to indemnity for such expenses which the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware or such other court shall deem proper.
7.3 SUCCESS ON THE MERITS. To the extent that any person referred to in Sections 7.1 or 7.2 has been successful on the merits or otherwise in defense of any action, suit or proceeding referred to therein, or in defense of any claim, issue or matter therein, he or she shall be indemnified against expenses (including attorneys' fees) actually and reasonably incurred by him or her in connection therewith.
7.4 AUTHORIZATION. Any indemnification under Sections 7.1, 7.2 or 7.3 (unless ordered by a court) shall be made by the Corporation only as authorized in the specific case upon a determination that indemnification of the director, trustee, partner, officer, employee or agent is proper in the circumstances because he has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in Sections 7.1 and 7.2. Such determination shall be made: (a) by the Board of Directors, by a majority vote of directors who are not parties to such action, suit or proceeding (whether or not a quorum), or (b) if there are no disinterested directors or if a majority of disinterested directors so directs, by independent legal counsel (who may be regular legal counsel to the corporation) in a written opinion, or (c) by the stockholders.
7.5 EXPENSE ADVANCE. Expenses (including attorneys' fees) incurred by a current or former officer or director of the Corporation (regardless if such expenses were incurred in such person's capacity as an officer or director of the Corporation or, while a director or officer of the Corporation and at the request of the Corporation, as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise or non-profit entity) in defending any pending or threatened civil, criminal, administrative or investigative action, suit or proceeding shall be paid by the Corporation in advance of the final disposition of such action, suit or proceeding upon receipt of an undertaking by or on behalf of such officer or director to repay such amount, if it shall ultimately be determined that he or she is not entitled to be indemnified by the Corporation as authorized in this Article. Such expenses (including attorneys' fees) incurred by other employees or agents of the Corporation may be so paid upon such terms and conditions, if any, as the Board of Directors deems appropriate.
 
7.6 NONEXCLUSIVITY. The indemnification and advancement of expenses provided by, or granted pursuant to, the other Sections of this Article shall not be deemed exclusive of any other rights to which any person seeking indemnification or advancement of expenses may be entitled under any statute, by-law, agreement, vote of stockholders or disinterested directors or otherwise, both as to action in his or her official capacity and as to action in another capacity while holding such office, and shall continue as to a person who has ceased to be a director, officer, employee or agent and shall inure to the benefit of the heirs, executors and administrators of such a person.
7.7 INSURANCE. The Corporation shall have power to purchase and maintain insurance on behalf of any person who is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation, or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, trustee, partner, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise or non-profit entity against any liability asserted against and incurred by such person in any such capacity, or arising out of his or her status as such, whether or not the Corporation would have the power to indemnify such person against such liability under the provisions of this Article or Section 145 of the Delaware General Corporation Law.
7.8 "THE CORPORATION." For the purposes of this Article, references to "the Corporation" shall include the resulting corporation and, to the extent that the Board of Directors of the resulting corporation so decides, all constituent corporations (including any constituent of a constituent) absorbed in a consolidation or merger which, if its separate existence had continued, would have had power and authority to indemnify its directors, officers and employees or agents so that any person who is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of such a constituent corporation or is or was serving at the request of such constituent corporation as director, trustee, partner, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise or non-profit entity shall stand in the same position under the provisions of this Article with respect to the resulting or surviving corporation as he or she would have with respect to such constituent corporation if its separate existence had continued.
7.9 OTHER INDEMNIFICATION. The Corporation's obligation, if any, to indemnify any person who was or is serving at its request as a director, trustee, partner, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise or non-profit entity shall be reduced by any amount such person may collect as indemnification from such other corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise or non-profit entity or from insurance.
7.10 OTHER DEFINITIONS. For purposes of this Article, references to "other enterprises" shall include employee benefit plans; references to "fines" shall include any excise taxes assessed on a person with respect to an employee benefit plan; and references to "serving at the request of the Corporation" shall include any service as a director, trustee, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation which imposes duties on, or involves services by, such director, trustee, officer, employee, or agent with respect to an employee benefit plan, its participants, or beneficiaries; and a person who acted in good faith and in a manner he reasonably believed to be in the interest of the participants and beneficiaries of an employee benefit plan shall be deemed to have acted in a manner "not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation" as referred to in this Article.
 
7.11 CONTINUATION OF INDEMNIFICATION. The rights conferred upon directors, trustees, partners, officers, employees or agents in this Article VII shall vest at the time an individual becomes a director, trustee, partner, officer, employee or agent and shall be contract rights. Such rights shall continue as to a director, trustee, partner, officer, employee or agent who has ceased to be a director, trustee, partner, officer, employee or agent and shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of such director's, trustee's, partner's, officer's, employee's and agent's heirs, personal representatives and estate. Any amendment, alteration or repeal of this Article VII that adversely affects any right of directors, trustees, partners, officers, employees and agents shall be prospective only and shall not limit or eliminate any such right with respect to any action, suit or proceeding involving any occurrence or alleged occurrence of any action or omission to act that took place prior to such amendment, alteration or repeal.
 


