FILE:RHT/RHT-8K-20110323160612.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, DC 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of report (Date of earliest event reported): March 23, 2011
(State or Other Jurisdiction of Incorporation)
Red Hat, Inc.
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Its Charter)
Delaware
(919) 754-3700
(
Registrants Telephone Number, Including Area Code)
Not Applicable
(Former Name or Former Address, if Changed Since Last Report)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
 General Instruction A.2. below):
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 2.02.          Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On March 23, 2011, Red Hat, Inc. announced its financial results for the fiscal fourth quarter and fiscal year ended February 28, 2011. The full text of the press release issued in connection with the announcement is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
We disclosed non-GAAP financial information in the press release for the three months and fiscal years ended February 28, 2011 and February 28, 2010. These non-GAAP disclosures include a reconciliation of GAAP net income to adjusted net income based on:
These non-GAAP disclosures should not be used as a substitute for our GAAP results, but rather read in conjunction with our GAAP results. The non-GAAP financial measures we disclosed and the methods we used to calculate non-GAAP results are not in accordance with GAAP and may be materially different from the non-GAAP measures and methods used by other companies.
Prior to March 1, 2006, we accounted for share-based compensation pursuant to the provisions of Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, and accordingly no compensation expense was recorded for stock options or other share-based awards to employees and non-employee directors that were granted with an exercise price equal to or above the market value per share of our common stock on the grant date. For awards granted with an exercise price less than the market value of our stock on the grant date, the award's intrinsic value was recorded as deferred compensation and reported as a separate component of stockholders' equity. This deferred compensation was amortized to compensation expense over the vesting period of the award.
Effective March 1, 2006, we adopted the fair value recognition provisions of ASC 718, using the modified prospective transition method. Compensation costs recognized in the three months and fiscal years ended February 28, 2011 and February 28, 2010 include compensation costs based on the grant date fair value of the share-based awards.  The fair values have been estimated using the Black-Scholes-Merton option-pricing model.  In accordance with the provisions of the modified prospective transition method, results for prior periods have not been restated. Our reconciliation of GAAP net income to non-GAAP adjusted net income includes GAAP non-cash, share-based compensation expense of $16.4 million and $60.6 million for the three months and fiscal year ended February 28, 2011, and $14.0 million and $48.3 million for the three months and fiscal year ended February 28, 2010, respectively, versus the non-GAAP exclusion of such expense.
We excluded GAAP share-based compensation expense for the purpose of calculating non-GAAP adjusted net income and non-GAAP adjusted net income per share because it is a non-cash expense and management believes that by excluding such expense we provide an alternative and useful measure of operating performance.  Management also believes that non-GAAP measures of profitability that exclude share-based compensation expense are used by a number of financial analysts in the software industry to compare current performance to prior periods and to forecast future performance.
Amortization expense related to intangible assets results primarily from business combinations.  These costs are fixed in connection with an acquisition, are then amortized over a number of years after the acquisition and generally cannot be changed or influenced by management after the acquisition.  Accordingly, management generally does not consider such costs for the purpose of evaluating the performance of the business or its managers or when making decisions to allocate resources.  Management also believes that non-GAAP measures of profitability that exclude amortization expense related to intangible assets are used by a number of  financial analysts in the software industry to compare current performance to prior periods and to forecast future performance.  Our reconciliation of GAAP net income to non-GAAP adjusted net income includes GAAP non-cash amortization expense of $5.2 million and $19.0 million for the three months and fiscal year ended February 28, 2011, and $4.6 million and $19.6 million for the three months and fiscal year ended February 28, 2010, respectively, versus the non-GAAP exclusion of such expense.
We also excluded GAAP expense relating to a charge we recorded in connection with the settlement of the Restatement Litigation.  Our reconciliation of GAAP net income to non-GAAP adjusted net income includes GAAP litigation settlement expense of $8.8 million for the year ended February 28, 2010.
Management believes that these adjusted non-GAAP results, when read in conjunction with the GAAP results, offer a useful view of our business performance in that they provide a more consistent means of comparing performance to prior periods in light of the prospective-only application of ASC 718 in March 2006 (under the modified prospective transition method), the irregularity with which management acquires intangible assets and the non-recurring nature of the litigation settlement expense. Management also uses non-GAAP measures as a component of its regular internal reporting to evaluate performance of the business and compare it to prior performance, to make operating decisions, including internal budgeting and the calculation of incentive compensation, and to forecast future performance. Our disclosure of non-GAAP financial measures allows investors to evaluate the Company's performance using the same methodology and information as that used by management.
The information furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 of this Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99.1 referenced herein, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
Item 9.01.          Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)      Exhibits
99.1     Press Release dated March 23, 2011
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit 99.1
Red Hat Reports Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year 2011 Result
s
Fourth quarter revenue of $245 million, up 25% year-over-year
Fourth quarter subscription revenue of $209 million, up 24% year-over-year
Fourth quarter GAAP EPS of $0.17, up 42% year-over-year; non-GAAP EPS of $0.26, up 37% year-over-year
Fourth quarter operating cash flow of $95 million, up 22% year-over-year
RALEIGH, N.C.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--March 23, 2011--Red Hat, Inc. (NYSE: RHT), the world's leading provider of open source solutions, today announced financial results for its fiscal fourth quarter and fiscal year ended February 28, 2011.
Total revenue for the quarter was $244.8 million, an increase of 25% from the year ago quarter. Subscription revenue for the quarter was $209.3 million, up 24% year-over-year. For the full year, total revenue was $909.3 million, an increase of 22% over the prior year, and subscription revenue was $773.4 million, up 21% year-over-year.
With record bookings and billings in the fourth quarter, we are on a run rate to become the first pure-play open source company to achieve a billion dollars in revenues next fiscal year, a milestone achievement for Red Hat and the open source community, stated Jim Whitehurst, President and Chief Executive Officer of Red Hat. We believe the strong demand we experienced was largely driven by customers who are modernizing their data centers and preparing their infrastructure for cloud computing. The comprehensive portfolio that Red Hat has developed with platform, virtualization and middleware products provides enterprise customers with a foundation to deploy the next generation infrastructure.
GAAP operating income for the fourth quarter and the full fiscal year 2011 was $39.4 million and $145.7 million, respectively. GAAP operating margin was 16.1% in the fourth quarter and 16.0% for the full year. After adjusting for stock compensation, amortization expenses, and in the prior year, the charge for a litigation settlement as detailed in the tables below, non-GAAP operating income for the quarter was $61.0 million, or a 24.9% operating margin, and full year non-GAAP operating income was $225.2 million. Full year non-GAAP operating margin was 24.8%, representing an increase of 110 basis points from the prior year.
GAAP net income for the fourth quarter was $33.5 million, or $0.17 per diluted share, compared with $26.0 million, or $0.13 per diluted share, for the prior quarter and $23.4 million, or $0.12 per diluted share, in the year ago quarter. Non-GAAP adjusted net income for the fourth quarter was $51.4 million, or $0.26 per diluted share, after adjusting for stock compensation and amortization expenses as detailed in the tables below. This compares to non-GAAP adjusted net income of $39.1 million, or $0.20 per diluted share in the prior quarter and $36.5 million, or $0.19 per diluted share in the year ago quarter.
For the full year, GAAP net income was $107.3 million or $0.55 per diluted share, compared with $87.3 million or $0.45 per diluted share in the prior year. After adjusting for stock compensation, amortization expenses, and in the prior year, the charge for a litigation settlement, as detailed in the tables below, non-GAAP adjusted net income for the year was $162.8 million or $0.83 per diluted share, compared to $138.1 million and $0.71 per diluted share for the fiscal year ended February 28, 2010.
Fourth quarter GAAP and non-GAAP net income benefited by approximately $0.02/share as a result of the retroactive reenactment in December 2010, of the research tax credit into US tax law. This, together with other tax benefits, including additional US foreign tax credits, reduced the fourth quarter fiscal 2011 effective tax rate for both GAAP and non-GAAP to 17%. The resulting full year effective tax rate for both GAAP and non-GAAP for fiscal 2011 is 30%.
GAAP operating cash flow totaled $95.0 million for the fourth quarter and $290.7 million for the full year. At year end, the companys total deferred revenue balance was $772.3 million, an increase of 20% on a year-over-year basis and 13% sequentially. Cash and investments at February 28, 2011 totaled $1.2 billion after repurchasing approximately $11 million, or approximately 250,000 shares, of common stock in the quarter. For the full fiscal year, Red Hat repurchased approximately $90 million, or 2.9 million shares, of common stock.
Our fourth quarter results were strong and capped off a year of accelerated billings growth. Broad- based, global demand for our products and services, coupled with strong execution by our associates, resulted in over 30% year-over-year growth in billings this quarter; our fastest billings growth in 12 quarters, stated Charlie Peters, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Red Hat. This year we focused on growth with aggressive hiring for sales and engineering, launched major product releases and invested in technologies focused on cloud computing. These investments produced greater than 20% growth in revenues and non-GAAP operating income for both the quarter and the year. At the same time, we increased non-GAAP operating margins by 110 basis points and improved cash flow. It was a good year.
Additional information on Red Hat's reported results, including a reconciliation of the non-GAAP adjusted results, are included in the financial tables below. A live webcast of Red Hat's results will begin at 5:00 pm ET today and can be accessed by the general public at Red Hat's investor relations website at . A replay of the webcast will be available shortly after the live event has ended.
http://investors.redhat.com
About Red Hat, Inc.
Red Hat, the world's leading provider of open source solutions and an S&P 500 company, is headquartered in Raleigh, NC with over 65 offices spanning the globe. CIOs ranked Red Hat as one of the top vendors delivering value in Enterprise Software for seven consecutive years in the CIO Insight Magazine Vendor Value survey. Red Hat provides high-quality, affordable technology with its operating system platform, Red Hat Enterprise Linux, together with virtualization, applications, management and Services Oriented Architecture (SOA) solutions, including Red Hat Enterprise Virtualization and JBoss Enterprise Middleware. Red Hat also offers support, training and consulting services to its customers worldwide. Learn more: .
http://www.redhat.com
Forward-Looking Statements
Certain statements contained in this press release may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements provide current expectations of future events based on certain assumptions and include any statement that does not directly relate to any historical or current fact. Actual results may differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements as a result of various important factors, including: risks related to delays or reductions in information technology spending, the effects of industry consolidation, uncertainty and adverse results in litigation and related settlements, the integration of acquisitions and the ability to market successfully acquired technologies and products; the ability of the Company to effectively compete; the inability to adequately protect Company intellectual property and the potential for infringement or breach of license claims of or relating to third party intellectual property; the ability to deliver and stimulate demand for new products and technological innovations on a timely basis; risks related to data and information security vulnerabilities; ineffective management of, and control over, the Company's growth and international operations; fluctuations in exchange rates; and changes in and a dependence on key personnel, as well as other factors contained in our most recent Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (copies of which may be accessed through the Securities and Exchange Commission's website at ), including those found therein under the captions "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." In addition to these factors, actual future performance, outcomes, and results may differ materially because of more general factors including (without limitation) general industry and market conditions and growth rates, economic and political conditions, governmental and public policy changes and the impact of natural disasters such as the earthquakes and related events in Japan. The forward-looking statements included in this press release represent the Company's views as of the date of this press release and these views could change. However, while the Company may elect to update these forward-looking statements at some point in the future, the Company specifically disclaims any obligation to do so. These forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as representing the Company's views as of any date subsequent to the date of the press release.
http://www.sec.gov
LINUX is a trademark of Linus Torvalds. and JBoss are registered trademarks of and its subsidiaries in the US and other countries.
CONTACT: Kara Schiltz, 919-301-3002 or Tom McCallum, 919-754-4630
Red Hat, Inc.
Media Contact:
kschiltz@redhat.com
Investor Relations:
tmccallum@redhat.com


