FILE:RHT/RHT-8K-20110328161937.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On March 22, 2011, the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Red Hat, Inc. (the "Company") elected Sohaib Abbasi and W. Steve Albrecht to serve on the Board, effective immediately. A press release announcing the elections was issued on March 28, 2011, and is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Mr. Abbasi is a Class III director with a term expiring in 2011. Mr. Abbasi is the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Informatica Corporation (NASDAQ: INFA).
Dr. Albrecht, who previously served on the Board from April 2003 until his resignation in June 2009, is a Class II director with a term expiring in 2013. Dr. Albrecht is the Andersen Alumni Professor of Accounting at the Marriott School of Management at Brigham Young University.
Their election brings the size of the Board to ten members. There are no arrangements or understandings pursuant to which either Mr. Abbasi or Dr. Albrecht was selected as a director. Neither Mr. Abbasi nor Dr. Albrecht has yet been appointed to any committees of the Board.
Both Mr. Abbasi and Dr. Albrecht will be compensated under the compensation plan currently in effect for the Company's non-employee directors, the 2010 Non-Employee Director Compensation Plan (the "2010 Director Compensation Plan"). Under the 2010 Director Compensation Plan, each will be eligible to receive an annual cash retainer of $50,000 for his service as a member of the Board. In addition, the 2010 Director Compensation Plan provides for the following annual cash retainers for service on committees of the Board: (i) $20,000 for service on the Audit Committee; (ii) $15,000 for service on the Compensation Committee; and (iii) $7,500 for service on the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee.
Under the 2010 Director Compensation Plan, a director may elect to receive all or a portion of any cash compensation in the form of the Company's deferred stock units ("DSUs"). DSUs represent the right to receive shares of the Company's common stock ("Common Stock") at a future date. The number of DSUs to be granted is determined by dividing the portion of the cash compensation with respect to which the election is made by the closing price of a share of Common Stock on the date the cash compensation is due to be paid. DSUs issued in lieu of cash compensation are fully vested upon issuance and will be settled in shares of Common Stock upon termination of service on the Board.
In connection with their election to the Board, Mr. Abbasi and Dr. Albrecht will each be granted, on the next regularly scheduled grant date for employees, a restricted stock award equal to a number of shares of Common Stock determined by dividing $300,000 by the closing price of a share of Common Stock on the date of grant. These shares of restricted stock will vest equally over a three-year period on the anniversary of the date of grant.
In addition to an initial equity grant, each of Mr. Abbasi and Dr. Albrecht will be eligible to receive an annual equity award consisting of a restricted stock award for a number of shares of Common Stock determined by dividing $175,000 by the closing price of a share of Common Stock on the date of grant. These shares of restricted stock will vest on the first anniversary of the grant date. However, shares granted to each of Mr. Abbasi and Dr. Albrecht in connection with his first annual equity award in 2011 will be prorated based on the number of months of service as of the grant date. Under the 2010 Director Compensation Plan, directors may also elect to receive DSUs on a one-for-one basis in lieu of any annual restricted stock award. These DSUs would vest on the same basis as the annual restricted stock award and will be settled in shares of Common Stock upon termination of service on the Board.
The foregoing description of the terms of the 2010 Director Compensation Plan does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by the provisions of the 2010 Director Compensation Plan, which was filed as Exhibit 10.59 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended February 28, 2010, and is incorporated herein by this reference.
The Company does not pay meeting fees. Non-employee directors are reimbursed for reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred in attending meetings of the Board and meetings of any committees of the Board on which they serve.
Each of Mr. Abbasi and Dr. Albrecht has entered into an indemnification agreement with the Company. In general, the indemnification agreement provides that the Company will, to the fullest extent permitted by law, and subject to certain limitations and exceptions, indemnify the indemnitee against expenses, judgments, fines, penalties and amounts paid in settlement that may be incurred in connection with the defense or settlement of threatened, pending or completed proceedings to which the indemnitee becomes subject in connection with his service as director of the Company.
The indemnification agreement provides for indemnification rights regarding both third-party claims and proceedings brought by or in the right of the Company. In addition, the indemnification agreement provides for the advancement of expenses incurred by the indemnitee under certain circumstances. The indemnification agreement is not exclusive of any other rights to indemnification or advancement of expenses to which the indemnitee may be entitled, including any rights arising under the charter or bylaws of the Company, a separate agreement with the Company, or applicable law.
The foregoing summary of the indemnification agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the provisions of the Form of Indemnification Agreement, a copy of which was filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on February 28, 2007, and incorporated herein by this reference.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Media Contact:
Kara Schiltz
kschiltz@redhat.com
919-301-3002
RALEIGH, N.C. March 28, 2011Red Hat, Inc. (NYSE:RHT), the world's leading provider of open source solutions, today announced that Sohaib Abbasi, chairman and chief executive officer of Informatica Corporation (NASDAQ: INFA) will join its Board of Directors. The company also announced that Dr. Steve Albrecht, Professor of Accounting at the Marriott School of Management at Brigham Young University, will return to the Red Hat Board.
"We are pleased to welcome Sohaib Abbasi to our Board. Sohaib's industry experience and strong track record of success in executive roles at leading technology companies will be a tremendous asset as we continue to drive innovation and work to meet and exceed customer expectations," said General H. Hugh Shelton (U.S. Army Retired), Chairman of Red Hat's Board of Directors. "We are also thrilled and honored to have Dr. Albrecht rejoin Red Hat's Board. Steve is a thought leader in the accounting field with an incredibly broad range of experience, and the value of his expertise and stewardship will be significant as we look to grow our business responsibly."
Abbasi has served as the chief executive officer and president of Informatica since July 2004 and as chairman of its board of directors since March 2005. Until 2003, Mr. Abbasi was senior vice president, Oracle Tools Division and Oracle Education at Oracle Corporation, which he joined in 1982. From 1994 to 2000, he was senior vice president, Oracle Tools Product Division. Mr. Abbasi graduated with honors from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign in 1980, where he earned both a Bachelor of Science and a Master of Science degree in computer science.
Dr. Albrecht, who previously served on Red Hat's Board from April 2003 through June 2009, is the Andersen Alumni Professor of Accounting at the Marriott School of Management at Brigham Young University ("BYU"). He served as Associate Dean of the school until July 2008. Dr. Albrecht, a certified public accountant, certified internal auditor, and certified fraud examiner, joined BYU in 1977 after teaching at Stanford University and the University of Illinois. Prior to becoming a professor, he worked as an accountant for Deloitte & Touche. Dr. Albrecht currently serves on the board of directors of Cypress Semiconductor Corporation (NASDAQ:CY) and SunPower Corporation (NASDAQ:SPWRA). He is the past president of the American Accounting Association and the Association of Certified Fraud Examiners and is a former trustee of the Financial Accounting Foundation that oversees the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) and the Governmental Accounting Standards Board (GASB). Mr. Albrecht holds a Bachelor of Science degree from Brigham Young University, a Masters degree in Business Administration and a Doctorate degree in Accounting from the University of Wisconsin.
About Red Hat, Inc.
Red Hat, the world's leading provider of open source solutions and an S&P 500 company, is headquartered in Raleigh, North Carolina, USA, with over 65 offices spanning the globe. CIOs ranked Red Hat as one of the top vendors delivering value in Enterprise Software for seven consecutive years in the CIO Insight Magazine Vendor Value survey. Red Hat provides high-quality, affordable technology with its operating system platform, Red Hat Enterprise Linux, together with virtualization, applications, management and Services Oriented Architecture (SOA) solutions, including Red Hat Enterprise Virtualization and JBoss Enterprise Middleware. Red Hat also offers support, training and consulting services to its customers worldwide. Learn more: .
www.redhat.com
Forward-Looking Statements
Certain statements contained in this press release may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements provide current expectations of future events based on certain assumptions and include any statement that does not directly relate to any historical or current fact. Actual results may differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements as a result of various important factors, including: risks related to delays or reductions in information technology spending, the effects of industry consolidation, uncertainty and adverse results in litigation and related settlements, the integration of acquisitions and the ability to market successfully acquired technologies and products; the ability of the Company to effectively compete; the inability to adequately protect Company intellectual property and the potential for infringement or breach of license claims of or relating to third party intellectual property; the ability to deliver and stimulate demand for new products and technological innovations on a timely basis; risks related to data and information security vulnerabilities; ineffective management of, and control over, the Company's growth and international operations; fluctuations in exchange rates; and changes in and a dependence on key personnel, as well as other factors contained in our most recent Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (copies of which may be accessed through the Securities and Exchange Commission's website at ), including those found therein under the captions "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations". In addition to these factors, actual future performance, outcomes, and results may differ materially because of more general factors including (without limitation) general industry and market conditions and growth rates, economic and political conditions, governmental and public policy changes and the impact of natural disasters such as the earthquakes and related events in Japan. The forward-looking statements included in this press release represent the Company's views as of the date of this press release and these views could change. However, while the Company may elect to update these forward-looking statements at some point in the future, the Company specifically disclaims any obligation to do so. These forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as representing the Company's views as of any date subsequent to the date of the press release.
http://www.sec.gov
Red Hat and JBoss are trademarks of Red Hat, Inc., registered in the U.S. and other countries. Linux is the registered trademark of Linus Torvalds in the U.S. and other countries


