FILE:VLO/VLO-8K-20030729155846.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (c)  Exhibits.
Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On July 29, 2003, Valero Energy Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release announcing financial results for the Company's second quarter 2003 earnings. A copy of the press release is furnished with this report as Exhibit 99.1, and is incorporated herein by reference. The press release discloses a financial measure (EBITDA) that is a non-GAAP financial measure as defined under SEC rules. The press release furnishes a reconciliation of EBITDA to its nearest GAAP financial measure. Reasons for the Company's use of EBITDA are disclosed in the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002, under the caption "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  Results of Operations  2002 Compared to 2001  Corporate Expenses and Other."
The information in this report is being furnished, not filed, pursuant to Item 12 of Form 8-K. Accordingly, the information in Item 12 of this report will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed by the Company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated therein by reference.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
SAN ANTONIO, July 29, 2003  Valero Energy Corporation (NYSE: VLO) today reported net income of $128.4 million, or $1.08 per share, for the second quarter of 2003, compared to net income of $11.3 million, or $.10 per share, for the same period last year. For the six months ended June 30, 2003, Valero's net income was $298.8 million, or $2.59 per share, compared to a net loss of $27.3 million, or $.26 per share, for the six months ended June 30, 2002. Operating income for the second quarter was $274.4 million, compared to operating income of $100.1 million for the same period last year.
Second quarter operating income for the company's refining segment was $279.2 million, compared to $118.2 million for the same period last year. The company's average throughput margin in the second quarter was $4.72 per barrel, compared to $3.87 per barrel in the second quarter of 2002. The increase in throughput margin per barrel was primarily due to better sour crude oil discounts, distillate margins and CARB gasoline margins in the second quarter of this year.
Operating income for the company's retail segment was $74.4 million for the second quarter  a record $53.1 million of which was earned in the U.S. system while $21.3 million was earned in the Northeast system. This compares to a total of $47.4 million earned in last year's second quarter. The increase in retail earnings was primarily related to higher fuel margins in both the U.S. and Northeast retail systems. Valero's average U.S. retail fuel margin of $0.179 per gallon was up significantly from last year's $0.137 per gallon. Fuel margins for Valero's Northeast retail operations averaged $0.213 per gallon for the second quarter of 2003, compared to $0.177 per gallon last year.
"Although our earnings were up substantially compared to last year's second quarter, they were lower than the first quarter of this year," said Bill Greehey, Valero's Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer. "The second quarter started off very strong but refined product margins, particularly distillate margins, weakened considerably in May and early June. In addition, sour crude oil discounts also narrowed in June with the removal of Iraqi crude from the market, and natural gas costs remained high. Second quarter earnings were also affected by unplanned outages at several of our refineries resulting in lost operating income of roughly $60 million for the quarter.
 
"The great news though is that we did complete the acquisition of the Orion refinery in Louisiana on schedule. We have been operating the plant since July 1 and have installed a new management team at the refinery, which we have renamed the St. Charles Refinery. We are aggressively implementing various operational initiatives and expect a big improvement in the reliability and profitability of this plant in the future. And, our financial position remains strong. Our debt-to-capitalization ratio at the end of the quarter was 42.6%, net of the $697.5 million of cash on our balance sheet. In addition, we have approximately one billion dollars available to us under our revolving credit facilities.
"Turning to industry fundamentals, we are encouraged by the low refined product inventories, good refined product demand and moderating imports. Lower natural gas prices are also having a positive impact on operating expenses. Offsetting these positive factors, though, is the fact that Saudi sour crude discounts for July narrowed to $2.55 per barrel. However, the discount for August deliveries has improved to $3.20 per barrel and is expected to widen further for September deliveries given the return of additional Iraqi barrels to the market. All of these factors should translate into above average margins for the back half of this year," said Greehey.
Valero's senior management will hold a conference call at 11:00 a.m. ET (10:00 a.m. CT) today, (July 29), to discuss this earnings release. A live broadcast of the conference call will be available on the company's website at www.valero.com.
Valero Energy Corporation is a Fortune 500 company based in San Antonio, with approximately 20,000 employees and annual revenues of more than $30 billion. The company currently owns and operates 14 refineries in 13 locations throughout the United States and Canada. Valero's refineries have a combined throughput capacity of over two million barrels per day, which represents approximately 10 percent of the total U.S. refining capacity. Valero is also one of the nation's largest retail operators with approximately 4,000 retail outlets in the United States and Canada under various brand names including Diamond Shamrock, Ultramar, Valero, Beacon and Total.
 
Statements contained in this press release that state the company's or management's expectations or predictions of the future are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the safe harbor provisions of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The words "believe," "expect," "should," "estimates," and other similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. It is important to note that the company's actual results could differ materially from those projected in its forward-looking statements. For more information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ from those expressed or forecast, see the company's annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and available on the company's web site at http://www.valero.com. These factors include potential changes in gasoline, crude oil, distillate and other commodity prices, varying market conditions, actions of government, hostilities in oil producing regions, adverse rulings in litigation and potential delays or other changes in work and repair schedules. The company undertakes no obligation to update or publicly release the result of any revisions to any forward-looking statements that may be made to reflect events or circumstances that occur, or which the company becomes aware of after the date of this release or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.
 
 
 
 
 


