FILE:VLO/VLO-8K-20030206090916.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: 
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure.
     On February 6, 2003, executives of Valero Energy Corporation (the "Company") presented to certain investors the information about the Company described in the slides attached to this report as Exhibit 99.1. Exhibit 99.1 and the slides thereof are incorporated by reference herein. A webcast of the Company's presentation of these slides at the Credit Suisse First Boston 2003 Energy Summit will be available on the Company's website at www.valero.com beginning at 11:05 a.m. CT on Friday, February 7, 2003. The information in Item 9 of this report is being furnished, not filed, pursuant to Regulation FD. Accordingly, the information in Item 9 of this report will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed by the Company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated therein by reference. The furnishing of the information in this report is not intended to, and does not, constitute a determination or admission by the Company, that the information in this report is material or complete, or that investors should consider this information before making an investment decision with respect to any security of the Company or any of its affiliates.
Safe Harbor Statement
     Statements contained in the exhibit to this report that state the Company's or its management's expectations or predictions of the future are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the safe harbor provisions of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. It is important to note that the Company's actual results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements. Factors that could affect those results include those mentioned in the documents that the Company has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


