FILE:VLO/VLO-8K-20031030103011.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): OCTOBER 30, 2003 VALERO ENERGY CORPORATION (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) DELAWARE 1-3175 74-1828067 (State or other jurisdiction (Commission File Number) (IRS Employer of incorporation) Identification No.) ONE VALERO PLACE SAN ANTONIO, TEXAS 78212 (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code) Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (210) 370-2000 ------------------------------
ITEM 7. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS. (c) Exhibits. 99.1 Press Release dated October 30, 2003. ITEM 12. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION. On October 30, 2003, Valero Energy Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release announcing financial results for the Company's third quarter 2003 earnings. A copy of the press release is furnished with this report as Exhibit 99.1, and is incorporated herein by reference. The press release discloses a financial measure (EBITDA) that is a non-GAAP financial measure as defined under SEC rules. The press release furnishes a reconciliation of EBITDA to its nearest GAAP financial measure. Reasons for the Company's use of EBITDA are disclosed in the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002, under the caption "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Results of Operations - 2002 Compared to 2001 - Corporate Expenses and Other." The information in this report is being furnished, not filed, pursuant to Item 12 of Form 8-K. Accordingly, the information in Item 12 of this report will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed by the Company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated therein by reference. 2
SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. VALERO ENERGY CORPORATION Date: October 30, 2003 By: /s/ Jay D. Browning ----------------------------- Jay D. Browning Vice President and Secretary 3
EXHIBIT INDEX 4

EXHIBIT 99.1 VALERO ENERGY CORPORATION REPORTS RECORD THIRD QUARTER EARNINGS SAN ANTONIO, October 30, 2003 -- Valero Energy Corporation (NYSE: VLO) today reported net income of $191.1 million, or $1.50 per share, for the third quarter of 2003, compared to net income of $29.8 million, or $.27 per share, for the same period last year. The net income for the third quarter of 2003 is the highest third quarter net income reported by Valero and is 50 percent higher than the previous record third quarter reported in 2000. For the nine months ended September 30, 2003, Valero's net income was $489.9 million, or $4.10 per share, compared to net income of $2.5 million, or $.02 per share, for the nine months ended September 30, 2002. Operating income for the third quarter of 2003 was $357.4 million, compared to operating income of $130.3 million for the same period last year. Third quarter operating income for the company's refining segment was $393.4 million, compared to $162 million for the same period last year. The company's average throughput margin in the third quarter was $5.33 per barrel, compared to $4.03 per barrel in the third quarter of 2002. The increase in throughput margin per barrel was primarily due to strong refined product margins during the months of August and September. Operating income for the company's retail segment was $47.3 million for the third quarter, the majority of which was realized during the month of September. The U.S. retail system contributed $33.3 million of this amount with the remaining $14 million coming from the Northeast retail system. This compares to a total of $31 million in operating income last year during the third quarter. Valero's average U.S. retail fuel margin this quarter was $.159 per gallon, which compares to $.124 per gallon in last year's third quarter. Fuel margins for Valero's Northeast retail operations averaged $.174 per gallon for the third quarter of 2003, compared to $.165 per gallon for the third quarter of 2002. "During the quarter, refined product margins rose dramatically in August and remained attractive in September due to strong gasoline demand, industry-wide refinery outages and moderating imports," said Bill Greehey, Valero's Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer. "In addition to the good refining margins, we were pleased with the strong contribution from our retail and wholesale operations in September, as the rapid decline in crude prices allowed the marketing side of our business to capture higher margins. Our Canadian operations were again a key contributor to our strong earnings, generating over $90 million in operating income this quarter. In total, our record net income this quarter would have been even higher if it were not
for the impact of several unit outages in our system early in the quarter, which amounted to approximately $75 million of lost operating income. "We are also pleased with the contribution that the St. Charles refinery is making following its acquisition on July 1. The refinery contributed $10 million of operating income this quarter. Once we complete the turnaround and expansion of that plant in the first quarter of next year, we expect its contribution to increase significantly. "We remain in excellent financial condition with our debt-to-capitalization ratio at 42 percent at the end of the quarter, net of the $310 million of cash on our balance sheet. In addition, we have approximately one billion dollars available to us under our revolving credit facilities. In fact, we are nearing completion of the renewal of our one-year, $750 million revolving credit facility on terms similar to our existing facility. And, we have extended the duration of the line to three years. "Thus far in the fourth quarter, gasoline margins have remained above historical average levels for this time of year. For the month of October, gasoline margins have averaged over $5.00 per barrel on the Gulf Coast and over $12.35 per barrel in California. We are already benefiting from good distillate margins and, as winter approaches, we expect these margins to improve even further. "As we look to next year, the industry is facing several major changes that should limit refined product supplies in the U.S. Beginning in 2004, gasoline sold in the U.S. must meet the lower annual average sulfur specification of 120 parts per million and be MTBE-free in California, New York and Connecticut. With these new regulations, we see the potential for a significant reduction in gasoline supplies in the U.S. due to the loss of octane from de-sulfurization, the removal of over 80,000 barrels per day of MTBE from the gasoline pool and fewer imports. As a result of these changes and the fact that the U.S. and other world economies are showing signs of improvement, we expect refined product inventories to remain tight and we believe that 2004 will be a very strong year for the refining industry," said Greehey. Valero's senior management will hold a conference call at 10:00 a.m. ET (9:00 a.m. CT) today, (October 30), to discuss this earnings release. A live broadcast of the conference call will be available on the company's website at www.valero.com. -MORE-
Valero Energy Corporation is a Fortune 500 company based in San Antonio, with approximately 20,000 employees and annual revenues of more than $30 billion. The company currently owns and operates 14 refineries in 13 locations throughout the United States and Canada. Valero's refineries have a combined throughput capacity of over two million barrels per day, which represents approximately 10 percent of the total U.S. refining capacity. Valero is also one of the nation's largest retail operators with approximately 4,000 retail outlets in the United States and Canada under various brand names including Diamond Shamrock, Ultramar, Valero, Beacon and Total. Statements contained in this press release that state the company's or management's expectations or predictions of the future are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the safe harbor provisions of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The words "believe," "expect," "should," "estimates," and other similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. It is important to note that the company's actual results could differ materially from those projected in its forward-looking statements. For more information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ from those expressed or forecast, see the company's annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and available on the company's web site at http://www.valero.com. These factors include potential changes in gasoline, crude oil, distillate and other commodity prices, varying market conditions, actions of government, hostilities in oil producing regions, adverse rulings in litigation and potential delays or other changes in work and repair schedules. The company undertakes no obligation to update or publicly release the result of any revisions to any forward-looking statements that may be made to reflect events or circumstances that occur, or which the company becomes aware of after the date of this release or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.
VALERO ENERGY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES EARNINGS RELEASE (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS, EXCEPT PER SHARE, PER BARREL AND PER GALLON AMOUNTS) (UNAUDITED)
VALERO ENERGY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES EARNINGS RELEASE (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS, EXCEPT PER SHARE, PER BARREL AND PER GALLON AMOUNTS) (UNAUDITED)
VALERO ENERGY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES EARNINGS RELEASE (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS, EXCEPT PER SHARE, PER BARREL AND PER GALLON AMOUNTS) (UNAUDITED)
VALERO ENERGY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES EARNINGS RELEASE (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS, EXCEPT PER SHARE, PER BARREL AND PER GALLON AMOUNTS) (UNAUDITED)
VALERO ENERGY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES EARNINGS RELEASE (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS, EXCEPT PER SHARE, PER BARREL AND PER GALLON AMOUNTS) (UNAUDITED) (1) On March 18, 2003, Valero Energy Corporation's ownership interest in Valero L.P. decreased from approximately 73.6% to approximately 49.5%. As a result of this decrease in ownership of Valero L.P., combined with certain other corporate governance changes, Valero Energy Corporation ceased consolidating Valero L.P. as of that date and began using the equity method to account for its investment in the partnership. (2) The following is a reconciliation of the debt-to-capitalization ratio. This information is presented because Valero is required to maintain a certain debt-to-capitalization ratio under its bank credit facilities. (3) The following is a reconciliation of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA): (4) The regions depicted herein contain the following refineries: GULF COAST-Corpus Christi East and West Refineries, Texas City Refinery, Houston Refinery, Three Rivers Refinery, Krotz Springs Refinery and St. Charles Refinery; MID-CONTINENT-McKee Refinery, Ardmore Refinery and Denver Refinery; NORTHEAST-Quebec Refinery and Paulsboro Refinery; and WEST COAST-Benicia Refinery and Wilmington Refinery. (5) The market reference differential for sour crude oil is based on 50% Arab Medium and 50% Arab Light posted prices.


