FILE:VLO/VLO-8K-20030422125239.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (c)  Exhibits.
Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure (including Item 12 information).
The following information, which is intended to be furnished under Item 12 "Results of Operations and Financial Condition," is being furnished under this Item 9 in accordance with SEC Release No. 33-8216.
On April 22, 2003, Valero Energy Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release announcing financial results for the Company's first quarter 2003 earnings. A copy of the press release is furnished with this report as Exhibit 99.1, and is incorporated herein by reference. The press release discloses a financial measure (EBITDA) that is a non-GAAP financial measure as defined under SEC rules. The press release furnishes a reconciliation of EBITDA to its nearest GAAP financial measure. Reasons for the Company's use of EBITDA are disclosed in the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002, under the caption "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  Results of Operations  2002 Compared to 2001  Corporate Expenses and Other."
The information in this report is being furnished, not filed, pursuant to Item 12 of Form 8-K. Accordingly, the information in Item 12 of this report will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed by the Company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated therein by reference.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
SAN ANTONIO, April 22, 2003  Valero Energy Corporation (NYSE: VLO) today reported net income of $170.4 million, or $1.51 per share, for the first quarter of 2003, compared to a net loss of $38.6 million, or $.37 per share, for the same period last year. Operating income for the first quarter was $358.1 million, compared to operating income of $.2 million for the same period last year.
 
"Valero's strong first quarter earnings highlight Valero's high leverage to improving industry fundamentals," said Bill Greehey, Valero's Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer. "Average first quarter U.S. Gulf Coast margins for both gasoline and distillate were the highest we've seen in almost 20 years. And, refined product margins throughout our system are expected to remain strong throughout the year  supported by good consumer demand and lower than average product inventories.
"The improved earnings environment, in combination with some recently completed transactions, has allowed us to significantly strengthen our balance sheet and position the company for further growth," said Greehey. "In fact, we have decreased debt, net of cash, by $1.9 billion in the last year  $1.2 billion of which was reduced in the first quarter alone."
Greehey noted that in mid-March Valero reduced its ownership interest in Valero L.P. by selling back partnership common units to the L.P. for about $135 million. As a result of this and other Valero L.P. transactions, Valero no longer consolidates the L.P. on its balance sheet, which eliminates the L.P.'s debt from Valero Energy's books. In addition, Valero Energy sold $350 million of pipeline and storage assets to the L.P. In total, the net improvement from these transactions to Valero's balance sheet was nearly $600 million. Greehey also noted that in late-March the company successfully completed the placement of $250 million of Valero common stock to the public.
 
"These transactions combined with our strong cash flow, allowed us to reduce our debt-to-capitalization ratio from 50.4% at the end of 2002 to 41.2% at the end of the first quarter reflecting a reduction in our debt, net of cash, from $4.6 billion at year-end 2002 to $3.4 billion at the end of the first quarter.
"And, our financial position should continue to improve as we expect refining fundamentals to remain strong," said Greehey. "On the product side, gasoline inventories are very low relative to normal seasonal levels as we head toward the summer driving season. Given that gasoline inventories in Europe are also well below average levels, we expect imports to moderate from current levels as the more stringent summer specifications take hold. Gasoline demand is also expected to be strong this summer as many people opt to drive rather than fly for shorter trips. And with the outlook for continued high natural gas prices, we continue to see above average demand for distillates due to unseasonably high levels of fuel switching away from natural gas consumption. This is significant, given that distillate inventories are already near historic lows for this time of year. With respect to sour crude oil fundamentals, increased OPEC crude oil production coupled with the return of Venezuelan crude oil to the world market, has kept sour crude oil discounts at very favorable levels. As a result, we are seeing the widest discounts since 2001 when discounts were at record levels. And, high production of sour crude oil throughout the world is expected to result in continued favorable discounts. All of these factors point to a strong earnings environment for Valero going forward," said Greehey.
Valero's senior management will hold a conference call at 10:00 a.m. ET (9:00 a.m. CT) today, (April 22), to discuss this earnings release. A live broadcast of the conference call will be available on the company's website at www.valero.com.
 
Valero Energy Corporation is a Fortune 500 company based in San Antonio, with approximately 20,000 employees and annual revenues of nearly $30 billion. The company currently owns and operates 12 refineries in the United States and Canada with a combined throughput capacity of approximately two million barrels per day, making it one of the nation's top refiners of petroleum products. Valero is also one of the nation's largest retail operators with approximately 4,100 retail outlets in the United States and Canada under various brand names including Diamond Shamrock, Ultramar, Valero, Beacon and Total.
Statements contained in this press release that state the company's or management's expectations or predictions of the future are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the safe harbor provisions of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The words "believe," "expect," "should," "estimates," and other similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. It is important to note that the company's actual results could differ materially from those projected in its forward-looking statements. For more information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ from those expressed or forecast, see the company's annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and available on the company's web site at http://www.valero.com. These factors include potential changes in gasoline, crude oil, distillate and other commodity prices, varying market conditions, actions of government, hostilities in oil producing regions, adverse rulings in litigation and potential delays or other changes in work and repair schedules. The company undertakes no obligation to update or publicly release the result of any revisions to any forward-looking statements that may be made to reflect events or circumstances that occur, or which the company becomes aware of after the date of this release or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.
 
 
 
 
 


