FILE:VLO/VLO-8K-20041025160434.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
On October 21, 2004, the board of directors ("Board") of Valero Energy Corporation (the "Company"), upon recommendation from its Compensation Committee, approved certain long-term incentive awards for its named executive officers (as defined in Item 402(a)(3) of Regulation S-K).
Options to purchase shares of common stock, $0.01 par value, of the Company (the "Options") were issued to four named executives of the Company in the quantities listed below. The Options were granted pursuant to the Company's 2001 Executive Stock Incentive Plan (the "2001 ESIP"). The Options have a term of 10 years and will vest in annual one-fifth increments beginning on the first anniversary of the grant date. The Options have an exercise price of $42.71, representing the fair market value of the Company's common stock on the date of grant. The Options are subject to forfeiture as provided in the 2001 ESIP.
Stock options.
. Shares of restricted stock of the Company ("Restricted Shares") were issued to four named executives of the Company in the quantities listed below. The Restricted Shares were granted pursuant to the 2001 ESIP. The Restricted Shares will vest in annual one-fifth increments beginning on the first anniversary of the grant date. The Restricted Shares are subject to forfeiture prior to vesting per the terms of the 2001 ESIP.
Restricted stock
The Committee and the Board determined to make an award to Mr. William E. Greehey, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board, consisting of 138,350 restricted stock units, payable in the form of cash. The award will vest in annual one-third increments beginning on the first anniversary of the date of grant. On the date of each vesting, the cash payment to Mr. Greehey will be equal to one-third of the number of original units granted multiplied by the average price of the Company's common stock on the vesting date. Accordingly, the value of the award will increase or decrease depending on whether the price of the Company's common stock increases or decreases during each vesting period, thereby aligning Mr. Greehey's interests with the share-price performance of the Company's common stock for each of the next three years.
Restricted stock units.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


