FILE:VLO/VLO-8K-20040428144918.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (c) Exhibits.
     99.1 Press Release dated April 28, 2004.
.
Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On April 28, 2004, Valero Energy Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release announcing financial results for the Company's first quarter 2004 earnings. A copy of the press release is furnished with this report as Exhibit 99.1, and is incorporated herein by reference. The press release discloses two financial measures, EBITDA and Debt-to-Capitalization Ratio (net of cash), which are non-GAAP financial measures as defined under SEC rules. The press release furnishes a reconciliation of these measures to their nearest respective GAAP financial measures. Reasons for the Company's use of these financial measures are disclosed in the press release furnished with this report and in the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003, under the caption "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  Results of Operations  2003 Compared to 2002  Corporate Expenses and Other."
The information in this report is being furnished, not filed, pursuant to Item 12 of Form 8-K. Accordingly, the information in this report, including the press release, will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed by the Company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated therein by reference.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
SAN ANTONIO, April 28, 2004  Valero Energy Corporation (NYSE: VLO) today reported record net income of $248.1 million, or $1.82 per share, for the first quarter of 2004, compared to net income of $170.4 million, or $1.51 per share, for the same period last year.
First quarter operating income for the company's refining segment was $494.8 million, compared to $390.7 million for the same period last year. Refining operations in the first quarter benefited from higher throughput levels, primarily due to the acquisition of the St. Charles and Aruba refineries, record first quarter refined product margins in all of the company's operating regions and improved sour crude discounts.
Operating income for the company's retail segment was $34.7 million for the first quarter, compared to $46.8 million in the first quarter last year. The lower retail operating income was primarily attributable to lower throughput volumes in the Northeast system and weaker U.S. retail fuel margins.
"Our first quarter results were outstanding, especially given the fact that four of our refineries were down during the quarter for significant turnarounds," said Bill Greehey, Valero's Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer. "We found out last week that we will be added to the S&P 500 Index at the close of business today, which is a testament to the growth and returns that we have delivered to our shareholders.
"With respect to operations, our most complex refineries, which process heavier sour crude oils, were particularly strong contributors in the first quarter, with Corpus Christi, Texas City, Benicia and St. Charles contributing over half of the total refining operating income. And, our Quebec refinery once again had an excellent quarter, contributing $105 million to operating income. Most of our turnaround work was completed by early March, which enabled us to take advantage of the strong gasoline margins and sour crude discounts that we saw during the month of March. In fact, over half of our net income for the first quarter was earned in March.
"Both of our recently acquired refineries, Aruba and St. Charles, are running very well and are quickly being upgraded and integrated into the Valero system. In addition, the new coker at our Texas City refinery, which was commissioned in the fourth quarter of 2003, is operating well and has significantly enhanced the profitability of that refinery. With these new facilities, we now have the capacity to process around 1.3 million barrels per day of sour crude oil, which means that nearly 70% of our crude throughputs are sour crudes. Given the abundance of sour crudes on the world market, increasing demand for sweet crude oils to make lower sulfur products and depressed prices for other heavy, high sulfur feedstocks such as residual fuel oil, we believe that sour crude discounts will remain favorable for an extended period of time.
 
"With respect to refined product fundamentals, gasoline margins remain at record levels. Gasoline demand is up 3 percent year to date and is at an all-time high, which has pushed gasoline inventories on a days-of-supply basis to the lowest level in three decades. Globally, gasoline inventories are also tight due to strong gasoline demand in Asia and low gasoline stocks in Europe. And, when you combine the effect of the lower vapor pressure requirements for summer grade gasoline with the new lower sulfur specifications in the U.S., we expect to see higher gasoline margins this summer in order to attract the imports necessary to meet demand. Distillate fundamentals have also strengthened considerably due to a combination of higher demand for on-road and agricultural diesel and increased exports. The market for petrochemical feedstocks also remains exceptionally strong with aromatics and propylene prices at record levels.
"As we look at the balance of 2004, it's obvious that this is going to be another year of record earnings for us. It is also just as obvious that 2004 earnings estimates for Valero continue to be significantly too low.
"For the second quarter, the current First Call consensus estimate is $1.83 per share, which is in line with what we earned in the first quarter. Second quarter estimates do not reflect the significantly improved margin environment as compared to the first quarter. For example, the forward curve for the Gulf Coast gasoline margin for the second quarter is currently over $11.00 per barrel, which compares to the first quarter average of $8.22 per barrel. West Coast gasoline margins are also exceptionally strong, averaging well over $20 per barrel in April. In addition, our benchmark sour crude discount is $1 per barrel better than the average for the first quarter. And, with all of our plants in full operation, throughputs are projected to be 2.2 million barrels per day in the second quarter, or about 15 percent higher than they were in the first quarter. In this environment, Valero would earn well over $3.00 per share in the second quarter, which is more than $1 per share higher than the current First Call consensus estimate," said Greehey.
Valero's senior management will hold a conference call at 11:00 a.m. ET (10:00 a.m. CT) today, April 28, to discuss this earnings release. A live broadcast of the conference call will be available on the company's website at www.valero.com.
Valero Energy Corporation is a Fortune 500 company based in San Antonio, with approximately 20,000 employees and annual revenues of more than $38 billion. The company currently owns and operates 15 refineries throughout the United States, Canada and the Caribbean. Valero's refineries have a combined throughput capacity of approximately 2.4 million barrels per day, which represents approximately 10 percent of the total U.S. refining capacity. Valero is also one of the nation's largest retail operators with over 4,500 retail outlets in the United States, Canada and the Caribbean under various brand names including Diamond Shamrock, Ultramar, Valero, and Beacon.
 
Statements contained in this press release that state the company's or management's expectations or predictions of the future are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the safe harbor provisions of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The words "believe," "expect," "should," "estimates," and other similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. It is important to note that the company's actual results could differ materially from those projected in its forward-looking statements. For more information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ from those expressed or forecast, see the company's annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and available on the company's web site at http://www.valero.com. These factors include potential changes in gasoline, crude oil, distillate and other commodity prices, varying market conditions, actions of government, hostilities in oil producing regions, adverse rulings in litigation and potential delays or other changes in work and repair schedules. The company undertakes no obligation to update or publicly release the result of any revisions to any forward-looking statements that may be made to reflect events or circumstances that occur, or which the company becomes aware of after the date of this release or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.
 
 
 
 
 


