FILE:VLO/VLO-8K-20040127165443.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (c) Exhibits.
     99.1 Press Release dated January 27, 2004.
Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On January 27, 2004, Valero Energy Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release announcing financial results for the Company's fourth quarter 2003 earnings. A copy of the press release is furnished with this report as Exhibit 99.1, and is incorporated herein by reference. The press release discloses a financial measure (EBITDA) that is a non-GAAP financial measure as defined under SEC rules. The press release furnishes a reconciliation of EBITDA to its nearest GAAP financial measure. Reasons for the Company's use of EBITDA are disclosed in the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002, under the caption "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  Results of Operations  2002 Compared to 2001  Corporate Expenses and Other."
The information in this report is being furnished, not filed, pursuant to Item 12 of Form 8-K. Accordingly, the information in this report, including the press release, will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed by the Company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated therein by reference.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
SAN ANTONIO, January 27, 2004  Valero Energy Corporation (NYSE: VLO) today reported record net income of $131.6 million, or $1.01 per share, for the fourth quarter of 2003, compared to net income of $89.0 million, or $0.81 per share, for the same period last year. Results for the fourth quarter include a $25.8 million pre-tax, or $16.3 million after-tax, write-down of the company's headquarters facility to its fair market value in anticipation of sale. In addition, the fourth quarter results include a $17.0 million pre-tax, or $10.7 million after-tax, gain from the sale of notes previously issued to Valero by Tesoro Petroleum Corporation in connection with its acquisition of the Golden Eagle refinery in 2002. Excluding these special items, net income for the fourth quarter of 2003 would have been $137.2 million, or $1.05 per share.
For the full year 2003, Valero's net income was $621.5 million, or $5.09 per share, representing the highest annual net income ever reported for Valero. This compares to net income of $91.5 million, or $0.83 per share, for the twelve months ended December 31, 2002. Excluding the special items described above, Valero's net income for 2003 would have been $627.1 million, or $5.14 per share.
Operating income for the fourth quarter of 2003, excluding the $25.8 million pre-tax write-down of the headquarters facility, was $257.9 million, compared to operating income of $240.3 million for the same period last year. Fourth quarter operating income for the company's refining segment was $300.2 million, compared to $280.7 million for the same period last year. Refining operations in the fourth quarter of 2003 benefited from higher throughput levels across the company's refining system, strong West Coast and Northeast refining margins and improved sour crude discounts. The company also benefited from a $21 million decline in net interest expense due to lower average borrowings, lower interest rates and higher capitalized interest.
Operating income for the company's retail segment was $43.2 million for the fourth quarter of 2003, compared to $46.7 million in the fourth quarter last year. Of this amount, the U.S. retail system contributed $20.8 million on 120 fewer retail sites, compared to $28.3 million last year. Valero's average U.S. retail fuel margin for the fourth quarter was 12.9 cents per gallon, compared to 13.7 cents per gallon in last year's fourth quarter. The lower U.S. retail fuel margins were primarily attributable to the rapid rise in crude oil prices during the quarter. The Northeast retail system contributed $22.4 million to fourth quarter retail operating income, compared to $18.4 million last year. Fuel margins for Valero's Northeast retail operations averaged 20.7 cents per gallon for the fourth quarter of 2003, compared to 18.7 cents per gallon for the fourth quarter of 2002.
 
"Our strong fourth quarter results were a good way to close out what was a record year for Valero," said Bill Greehey, Valero's Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer. "We particularly benefited from the contribution of our Canadian operations, which achieved record earnings in 2003, and strong refining margins on the West Coast. Looking back at 2003, several key accomplishments have positioned us well heading into what we expect will be another record year for Valero. These accomplishments include reducing our debt by over $725 million and ending the year with a debt-to-capitalization ratio of approximately 40 percent, the acquisition of the St. Charles refinery from Orion Refining Corporation and the start-up of a new 45,000 barrel-per-day coker unit at Texas City. We set new earnings records in all of our major operations, which is a testament to the hard work and dedication of our employees.
"With respect to current industry fundamentals, refined product margins in January are up over 25 percent from fourth quarter levels. Continued cold weather in the Northeast has driven heating oil margins to higher levels. Over the coming weeks, we expect distillate inventories to decline substantially and the strong heating oil margins to continue.
"The outlook for gasoline margins is also exceptional for several reasons. The economic recovery in the U.S. has continued to push gasoline demand to new highs. And, globally the improvement in economic activity, particularly in Asia, is leading to higher demand for gasoline and petrochemical feedstocks such as naphtha and aromatics, which is tightening the global supply and demand balance for these products. In addition, gasoline margins are already strengthening due to the new lower sulfur specifications, which took effect January 1, and the impact of the removal of MTBE from gasoline in California, New York and Connecticut. Plus, gasoline imports thus far in January are down 150,000 barrels per day from year ago levels. As summer approaches and refiners are required to lower the vapor pressure in gasoline, meeting the new low sulfur specifications will become even more difficult for domestic and foreign refiners.
"On top of these bullish factors, first quarter industry turnaround activity is projected to be at record levels for crude and upgrading units, which we expect will further limit refined product supplies this spring. In fact, the futures market supports our bullish outlook. For gasoline margins, the forward curve for 2004 is currently valued at $6.40 per barrel, which is an all-time high. And for heating oil margins, the forward curve for 2004 is currently valued at $3.25 per barrel, which is in line with the record years of 2000 and 2001.
"Not only are we excited about the product margin environment in 2004, but we also see sour crude discounts widening substantially over 2003 levels. For example, the discount for Maya crude is currently around $9 per barrel. Of the 1.1 million barrels of sour crude we can process daily, over one-third is heavy sour crude, similar in quality to Maya. The new lower sulfur gasoline specifications are also impacting sour crude oil supplies by causing some refiners to switch to processing more sweet and less sour crude oils. And, given the favorable economic outlook for 2004, more incremental sour crude will be produced to satisfy demand, leading to wider sour crude discounts than we saw in 2003.
 
"With the strength in the forward curve for refined products and the favorable outlook for sour crude discounts, we believe the First Call consensus estimates for the first quarter and full year 2004 are understated. Overall, we've never had a more positive outlook for the future than we have today," said Greehey.
Valero's senior management will hold a conference call at 11:00 a.m. ET (10:00 a.m. CT) today, January 27, to discuss this earnings release. A live broadcast of the conference call will be available on the company's website at www.valero.com.
Valero Energy Corporation is a Fortune 500 company based in San Antonio, with approximately 20,000 employees and annual revenues of approximately $38 billion. The company currently owns and operates 14 refineries in 13 locations throughout the United States and Canada. Valero's refineries have a combined throughput capacity of over two million barrels per day, which represents approximately 10 percent of the total U.S. refining capacity. Valero is also one of the nation's largest retail operators with over 4,500 retail outlets in the United States and Canada under various brand names including Diamond Shamrock, Valero, Ultramar and Beacon.
Statements contained in this press release that state the company's or management's expectations or predictions of the future are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the safe harbor provisions of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The words "believe," "expect," "should," "estimates," and other similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. It is important to note that the company's actual results could differ materially from those projected in its forward-looking statements. For more information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ from those expressed or forecast, see the company's annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and available on the company's web site at http://www.valero.com. These factors include potential changes in gasoline, crude oil, distillate and other commodity prices, varying market conditions, actions of government, hostilities in oil producing regions, adverse rulings in litigation and potential delays or other changes in work and repair schedules. The company undertakes no obligation to update or publicly release the result of any revisions to any forward-looking statements that may be made to reflect events or circumstances that occur, or which the company becomes aware of after the date of this release or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.
 
 
 
 
 


