FILE:VLO/VLO-8K-20050425172428.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): 
April 24, 2005
 
VALERO ENERGY CORPORATION
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13.e-4(c)
o
 
Item 1.01         Entry Into A Definitive Material Agreement.
 
On April 24, 2005, Valero Energy Corporation ("Valero") and Premcor Inc. ("Premcor") entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the "Merger Agreement"), pursuant to which, among other things, Premcor will be merged with and into Valero, with Valero as the surviving corporation (the "Merger").  A copy of the Merger Agreement is filed as Exhibit 2.1 hereto and is incorporated by reference herein.  A copy of the joint press release of Valero and Premcor announcing the execution of the Merger Agreement is filed as Exhibit 99.1 hereto.  Additionally, Valero hereby files the Investor Presentation attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2.
 
The Merger Agreement
 
On the terms and subject to the conditions of the Merger Agreement, which has been approved by the Board of Directors of each of Valero and Premcor, at the effective time of the Merger (the "Effective Time"), and as a result thereof, each share of common stock, par value $0.01, of Premcor ("Premcor Common Stock") will be converted into the right to receive, at the election of the holder thereof and subject to proration, either (1) 0.99 (the "Exchange Ratio") of a share of common stock, par value $0.01, of Valero ("Valero Common Stock") or (2) $72.76 in cash.  At the Effective Time, each outstanding option to purchase Premcor Common Stock will be converted into an option to purchase Valero Common Stock on the same terms and conditions that are applicable to such Premcor option, except that the number of shares of Valero Common Stock that are subject to such option and the exercise price will be adjusted by the Exchange Ratio so as to preserve the economic value of the option.  The Merger will be accounted for as a "purchase" and is intended to be a reorganization under Section 368(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code").
 
Elections by holders of Premcor Common Stock will be subject to proration so that the number of shares of Premcor Common Stock outstanding at the Effective Time that will be converted into cash will be equal to 50% of the fully-diluted number of shares of Premcor Common Stock outstanding at such time (calculated on the treasury method using the closing price of Premcor Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Tape on the last trading day immediately preceding the Effective Time as the market price of Premcor Common Stock).  The balance of shares of Premcor Common Stock will be converted into Valero Common Stock at the Exchange Ratio.  However, the number of shares of Premcor Common Stock converted into cash will in no event be greater than the greatest number that would permit the desired tax treatment of the Merger.
 
Valero and Premcor have made customary representations, warranties and covenants in the Merger Agreement, including, among others, covenants (i) that both Valero and Premcor will conduct their respective businesses in the ordinary course consistent with past practice during the interim period between the execution of the Merger Agreement and the Effective Time and (ii) not to engage in certain kinds of transactions during such period.  In addition, Premcor has agreed to cause a meeting of holders of Premcor common stock to be held by Premcor to consider adoption of the Merger Agreement.  Premcor has also made certain additional customary covenants, including, among others, covenants not to: (i) solicit proposals relating to alternative business combination transactions or (ii) subject to certain exceptions, enter into discussions concerning, or provide confidential information in connection with, any proposals for alternative business combination transactions.
 
Consummation of the Merger is subject to customary conditions, including (i) approval of the holders of Premcor Common Stock, (ii) absence of any law or order prohibiting the consummation of the Merger, and (iii) expiration or termination of the Hart-Scott-Rodino waiting period and certain other regulatory approvals.  In addition, each party's obligation to consummate the Merger is subject to certain other conditions, including (i) subject to certain exceptions, the accuracy of the representations and warranties of the other party, (ii) material compliance of the other party with its covenants, and (iii) the delivery of customary opinions from counsel to Valero and counsel to Premcor that the Merger will qualify as a reorganization under Section 368(a) of the Code.
 
The Merger Agreement contains certain termination rights for both Valero and Premcor, and further provides that, upon termination of the Merger Agreement under specified circumstances, Premcor may be required to pay Valero a termination fee of $150,000,000.
The foregoing description of the Merger and the Merger Agreement does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Merger Agreement.
 
Other than in respect of the Merger Agreement, there is no material relationship between Valero or its affiliates and Premcor.
 
The Merger Agreement has been included to provide investors with information regarding its terms. It is not intended to provide any other factual information about Valero or Premcor. The Merger Agreement contains representations and warranties each of Valero and Premcor made to the other. The assertions embodied in those representations and warranties are qualified by information in confidential disclosure schedules that the parties have exchanged in connection with signing the Merger Agreement. The disclosure schedules contain information that modifies, qualifies and/or creates exceptions to the representations and warranties set forth in the Merger Agreement. Accordingly, investors should not rely on the representations and warranties as characterizations of the actual state of facts at the time they were made or otherwise.
 
Additional Information Regarding the Transaction
 
www.sec.gov.  The proxy statement/prospectus and these other documents may also be obtained, when available, free of charge from Valero and Premcor.  Stockholders should read the definitive proxy statement/prospectus carefully before making a decision concerning the merger.
Investors and security holders are urged to read the proxy statement/prospectus that will be sent to Premcor stockholders regarding the proposed merger when it becomes available, because it will contain important information. The proxy statement/prospectus will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission by Valero and Premcor. Investors and security holders may obtain a free copy of the proxy statement/prospectus, when it is available, and other documents filed by Valero and Premcor with the Commission at the Commission's web site at
 
Premcor, and its directors, executive officers and certain other of its employees, may be soliciting proxies from its stockholders in favor of the approval of the merger. Information regarding the persons who may, under Commission rules, be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of Premcor stockholders in connection with the merger is set forth in Premcor's proxy statement for its 2005 annual meeting, filed with the Commission on April 1, 2005, and additional information will be set forth in the definitive proxy statement/prospectus referred to above when it is filed with the Commission.
 
Item 8.01 Other Events
 
The disclosure set forth under Item 1.01 above is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c) Exhibits.
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 2.1
 
EXECUTION COPY
 
 
AGREEMENT AND PLAN OF MERGER
 
DATED AS OF APRIL 24, 2005
 
BY AND BETWEEN
 
VALERO ENERGY CORPORATION
 
AND
 
PREMCOR INC.
 
AGREEMENT AND PLAN OF MERGER, dated as of April 24, 2005 (this ""), by and between VALERO ENERGY CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation ("") and PREMCOR INC., a Delaware corporation ("").
Agreement
Valero
Premcor
 
W I T N E S S E T H:
 
WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of each of Valero and Premcor has approved the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and the Board of Directors of Premcor has recommended the adoption of this Agreement by Premcor stockholders; and
 
WHEREAS, for Federal income tax purposes, it is intended that the Merger (as defined below) shall qualify as a "reorganization" within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the ""), and the regulations promulgated thereunder.
Code
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and the respective representations, warranties, covenants and agreements set forth in this Agreement, and intending to be legally bound, the parties agree as follows:
 
ARTICLE I
 
CERTAIN DEFINITIONS
 
As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the respective meanings set forth below:
 
"" means, other than the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, any proposal, offer or inquiry with respect to, or a transaction to effect, a merger, reorganization, share exchange, consolidation, business combination, recapitalization, liquidation, dissolution or similar transaction involving, Premcor or any of its Significant Subsidiaries, or any purchase or sale of 20% or more of the consolidated assets (including stock of its Subsidiaries) of Premcor and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, or any purchase or sale of, or tender or exchange offer for, Premcor's or any of its Subsidiaries' equity securities that, if consummated, would result in any Person (or the stockholders of such Person) beneficially owning securities representing 20% or more of any class of Premcor's equity or voting securities (or of the surviving parent entity in such transaction) or of the equity or voting securities of any of its Significant Subsidiaries or any of its Subsidiaries whose assets, individually or in the aggregate, constitute more than 20% of the consolidated assets of Premcor and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole.
Acquisition Proposal
 
"" shall have the meaning given such term in Rule 12b-2 under the Exchange Act.
Affiliate
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6.10.
Affiliate Agreement
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble.
Agreement
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6.12.
Assumed Indentures
"" or "" shall have the meaning ascribed to such terms under Section 13(d) of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder.
beneficial ownership
beneficially own
 
"" means, with respect to any entity, any employee compensation, benefit plan, program, policy, practice, agreement, contract or other arrangement providing benefits to any current or former employee, officer or director of such entity or any of its Subsidiaries or any beneficiary or dependent thereof that is sponsored or maintained by such entity or any of its Subsidiaries or to which such entity or any of its Subsidiaries contributes or is obligated to contribute, or is a party to, whether or not written, including without limitation, any employee welfare benefit plan within the meaning of Section 3(1) of ERISA, any employee pension benefit plan within the meaning of Section 3(2) of ERISA (whether or not such plan is subject to ERISA) and any bonus, incentive, deferred compensation, vacation, stock purchase, stock option, severance, employment, change of control or fringe benefit plan, program, policy or agreement and any related trusts or other funding vehicles.
Benefit Plan
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6.7(a).
Benefit Protection Period
 
"" means any day on which banks are not required or authorized to close in the City of New York.
Business Day
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.1(b).
Cash Consideration
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.1(e)(i).
Cash Election
 
"" shall mean, subject to Section 3.1(j), the Premcor Closing Share Number multiplied by 0.5.
Cash Election Number
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.l(f).
Cash Election Shares
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.1(f).
Cash Fraction
 
"" means the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended.
CERCLA
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.2.
Certificate of Merger
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.4.
Closing
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.4.
Closing Date
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the recitals.
Code
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6.2.
Confidentiality Agreement
 
means any and all liabilities (i) under Title IV of ERISA, (ii) under Section 302 of ERISA, (iii) under Sections 412 and 4971 of the Code and (iv) as a result of a failure to comply with the continuation coverage requirements of Section 601 . of ERISA and Section 4980B of the Code.
""
Controlled Group Liability
et
seq
"" means the Delaware General Corporation Law.
DGCL
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.1(d).
Dissenting Shares
 
"" means the Antitrust Division of the U.S. Department of Justice.
DOJ
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.2.
Effective Time
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.1(i).
Election Deadline
 
"" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended.
ERISA
 
"" means, with respect to any entity, trade or business, any other entity, trade or business that is a member of a group described in Section 414(b), (c), (m) or (o) of the Code or Section 4001(b)(1) of ERISA that includes the first entity, trade or business, or that is a member of the same "controlled group" as the first entity, trade or business pursuant to Section 4001(a)(14) of ERISA.
ERISA Affiliate
 
"" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.3.
Exchange Agent
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.3.
Exchange Fund
 
"" shall mean 0.99.
Exchange Ratio
 
"" means all out-of-pocket expenses (including all fees and expenses of counsel, accountants, investment bankers, experts and consultants to a party and its Affiliates) incurred by a party or on its behalf in connection with or related to the authorization, preparation, negotiation, execution and performance of this Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereby, including the preparation, printing, filing and mailing of the Proxy Statement/Prospectus and the Form S-4 and the solicitation of the Premcor Stockholder Approval and all other matters related to the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby.
Expenses
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.1(d)(iii).
Form S-4
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.1(e).
Form of Election
 
"" means the U.S. Federal Trade Commission.
FTC
 
"" means U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
GAAP
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.1(d)(vii).
Governmental Entity
 
"" means the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended.
HSR Act
"" means all patents, trademarks, trade names, service marks, copyrights, and any applications therefor, technology, know-how, computer software programs or applications, and tangible or intangible proprietary information or materials (including trade secrets).
Intellectual Property
 
"" or "" means, with respect to any entity, the knowledge of such entity's executive officers after reasonable inquiry.
knowledge
known
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.4(a).
Letter of Transmittal
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.1(b)(ii).
Liens
 
"" means, with respect to any entity, a material adverse effect on (i) the business, operations, results of operations or financial condition of such entity and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole or (ii) the ability of such entity to timely consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, except, in each case, to the extent such effect is reasonably attributable to (a) general economic conditions in the United States (including prevailing interest rate and stock market levels), (b) the general state of the industries in which such entity operates or (c) the negotiation, announcement, execution, delivery or consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
Material Adverse Effect
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.1.
Merger
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.1(b).
Merger Consideration
 
"" means any "multiemployer plan" within the meaning of Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA.
Multiemployer Plan
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.1(l)(vi).
Multiple Employer Plan
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.1(d)(vi).
Necessary Consents
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6.7(b).
New Plans
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.1(r)(iii).
NOL Carryforwards
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.1(e).
Non-Election
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.1(h).
Non-Election Cash Fraction
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.l(f).
Non-Election Shares
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.1(b)(ii).
Non-Subsidiary Affiliate
 
"" means The New York Stock Exchange, Inc.
NYSE
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6.7(b).
Old Plans
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.1(d)(ii).
Other Approvals
"" means, with respect to Valero, Premcor, and with respect to Premcor, Valero.
other party
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.1(e)(ii).
Partial Cash Election
 
"" means an individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership, association, trust, unincorporated organization, other entity or group (as defined in the Exchange Act).
Person
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.1(l)(v).
PBGC
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble.
Premcor
 
"" means Premcor's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004, as filed with the SEC.
Premcor 2004 10-K
 
"" means each Premcor Stock Plan and any other Benefit Plan maintained or contributed to by Premcor or a Subsidiary of Premcor, or to which Premcor or any Subsidiary of Premcor is required to contribute.
Premcor Benefit Plan
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.1(b)(i)(B).
Premcor Capital Stock
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.1(b).
Premcor Certificate
 
"" shall mean the total number of fully-diluted shares of Premcor Common Stock outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time computed on the "treasury stock method" of calculating diluted earnings per share set forth in Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 128, as in effect as of the date of this Agreement, in all cases using the closing price of a share of Premcor Common Stock as reported on the NYSE Composite Tape on the last full trading day immediately prior to the Closing Date as the "average market price" of Premcor Common Stock, other than such shares that are to be cancelled in the Merger pursuant to the first sentence of Section 3.1(a).
Premcor Closing Share Number
 
"" means common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of Premcor.
Premcor Common Stock
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.1(j)(i).
Premcor Contract
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.2(a).
Premcor Converted Option
 
"" means the Credit Agreement, dated as of April 13, 2004, among PRG, the Lenders and Issuers Party Thereto, Citicorp North America, Inc., Fleet National Bank and Bank One, NA and SunTrust Bank, as the same may have been amended or restated prior to the date of this Agreement.
Premcor Credit Agreement
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.1.
Premcor Disclosure Schedule
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6.7(a).
Premcor Employees
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5.1(g)(ii).
Premcor Indebtedness
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6.11.
Premcor Insider
 
"" means any Premcor Benefit Plan other than a Multiemployer Plan.
Premcor Plan
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.1(b)(i)(B).
Premcor Preferred Stock
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.1(l)(iii).
Premcor Qualified Plans
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.1(e).
Premcor SEC Documents
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.2(a).
Premcor Stock Option
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.1(b)(i).
Premcor Stock Plans
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.1(c)(i).
Premcor Stockholder Approval
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.1(c)(i).
Premcor Stockholders Meeting
 
"" means The Premcor Refining Group Inc., a Delaware corporation and an indirect, wholly owned Subsidiary of Premcor.
PRG
 
"" means the HSR Act, and all other federal, state and foreign, if any, statutes, rules, regulations, orders, decrees, administrative and judicial doctrines and other laws that are designed or intended to prohibit, restrict or regulate (i) mergers, acquisitions or other business combinations, (ii) foreign investment, or (iii) actions having the purpose or effect of monopolization or restraint of trade or lessening of competition.
Regulatory Law
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6.3(a)(i).
Required Approvals
 
"" means the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
SEC
 
"" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Securities Act
 
"" shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in Rule 1-02 of Regulation S-X of the SEC.
Significant Subsidiary
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.1(b)(i).
Stock Consideration
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.1(e)(iii).
Stock Election
 
"" shall mean the Premcor Closing Share Number minus the sum of (1) the Cash Election Number and (2) the number of shares of Premcor Common
Stock Election Number
Stock, if any, owned by any wholly owned Subsidiary of Valero or Premcor converted pursuant to Section 3.1(a).
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.l(f).
Stock Election Shares
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.1(g).
Stock Fraction
 
"" shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in Rule 1-02 of Regulation S-X of the SEC.
Subsidiary
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.1.
Surviving Corporation
 
"" means any and all federal, state, local, foreign or other taxes or charges of any kind (together with any and all interest, penalties, additions to tax and additional amounts imposed with respect thereto) imposed by any taxing authority, including taxes or other charges on or with respect to income, franchises, windfall or other profits, gross receipts, property, sales, use, capital stock, payroll, employment, social security, workers' compensation, unemployment compensation, or net worth, and taxes or other charges in the nature of excise, withholding, or value added.
Taxes
ad
valorem
 
"" means any return, report or similar statement (including any attached schedules) required to be filed with respect to any Tax, including any information return, claim for refund, amended return or declaration of estimated Tax.
Tax Return
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 8.1(b).
Termination Date
 
"" means $150 million.
Termination Fee
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble.
Valero
 
"" means Valero's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004, as filed with the SEC.
Valero 2004 10-K
 
"" means the Notice of 2005 Annual Meeting of Stockholders and Proxy Statement of Valero, as filed with the SEC on March 25, 2005.
Valero 2005 Proxy Statement
 
"" means each Benefit Plan maintained or contributed to by Valero or a Subsidiary of Valero, or to which Valero or any Subsidiary of Valero is required to contribute.
Valero Benefit Plan
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.2(b)(i)(B).
Valero Capital Stock
 
"" means common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of Valero.
Valero Common Stock
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.2(b)(i)(B).
Valero Convertible Preferred Stock
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.2.
Valero Disclosure Schedule
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.2(b)(i)(B).
Valero Preferred Stock
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.1(b).
Valero Rights
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.1(b).
Valero Rights Agreement
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.2(e).
Valero SEC Documents
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.2(a).
Valero Stock Option
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.2(b)(i).
Valero Stock Plans
 
"" means any bonds, debentures, notes or other indebtedness having the right to vote on any matters on which holders of capital stock of the same issuer may vote.
Voting Debt
 
"" means liability to a Multiemployer Plan as a result of a complete or partial withdrawal from such Multiemployer Plan, as those terms are defined in Part I of Subtitle E of Title IV of ERISA.
Withdrawal Liability
 
ARTICLE II
 
THE MERGER
 
           . Upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in this Agreement, at the Effective Time, Premcor shall be merged (the "") with and into Valero, with Valero as the surviving corporation in the Merger (the ""), and the separate existence of Premcor shall thereupon cease.
2.1
The Merger
Merger
Surviving Corporation
 
           . The Merger shall become effective as set forth in a properly executed certificate of merger duly filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware (the ""), which filing shall be made on the Closing Date. As used in this Agreement, the term "" shall mean the date and time when the Merger becomes effective, as set forth in the Certificate of Merger.
2.2
Effective Time of the Merger
Certificate of Merger
Effective Time
 
           . The Merger shall have the effects set forth in the applicable provisions of the DGCL. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, and subject thereto, at the Effective Time, except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, all of the property, rights, privileges, powers and franchises of Premcor shall vest in the Surviving Corporation, and all debts, liabilities and duties of Premcor shall become the debts, liabilities and duties of the Surviving Corporation.
2.3
Effects of the Merger
 
           . Upon the terms of this Agreement and subject to the conditions set forth in Article VII and the termination rights set forth in Article VIII, the closing of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement (the "") will take place at the offices of Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz, 51 West 52nd Street, New York, New York, 10019 at 10:00 A.M. on the second Business Day following the satisfaction or waiver (subject to applicable law) of the conditions (excluding conditions that, by their nature, cannot be satisfied until the Closing Date, but subject to the satisfaction of such conditions) set forth in Article VII (,
2.4
Closing
Closing
provided
, that Valero shall be permitted to extend the date of the Closing as required to accommodate the Election Deadline determined by the parties in good faith in accordance with Section 3.1(i); and that, without Valero's consent, the date of Closing shall not be prior to January 2, 2006), unless this Agreement has been theretofore terminated pursuant to Article VIII or unless another place, time or date is agreed to in writing by the parties (the date of the Closing being referred to as the "").
however
provided
further
Closing Date
 
           . Subject to Section 6.6 or any changes permitted by Section 5.2(c), at the Effective Time, the Certificate of Incorporation of Valero as in effect immediately prior to the Effective Time shall be the Certificate of Incorporation of the Surviving Corporation, until thereafter changed or amended as provided therein or by applicable law.
2.5
Certificate of Incorporation
 
           . Subject to Section 6.6 or any changes permitted by Section 5.2(c), the by-laws of Valero as in effect immediately prior to the Effective Time shall be the by-laws of the Surviving Corporation, until thereafter changed or amended as provided therein or by applicable law.
2.6
By-Laws
 
           . The directors and officers of Valero immediately prior to the Effective Time shall be the directors and officers of the Surviving Corporation.
2.7
Directors and Officers
 
ARTICLE III
 
CONVERSION OF SECURITIES
 
           . At the Effective Time, by virtue of the Merger and without any action on the part of any holder of any capital stock of Premcor:
3.1
Effect of the Merger on Capital Stock
 
(a)           All shares of capital stock of Premcor that are held by Premcor as treasury stock or that are owned by Valero immediately prior to the Effective Time shall cease to be outstanding and shall be canceled and retired and shall cease to exist. Subject to Section 3.7, each share of Premcor Common Stock that is owned by any direct or indirect wholly owned Subsidiary of Premcor or Valero shall be converted into the right to receive the Stock Consideration.
 
(b)           Subject to Sections 3.1(a), 3.1(c), 3.1(d) and 3.7, each outstanding share of Premcor Common Stock issued and outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time shall be converted into the right to receive, at the option of the holder as contemplated by Sections 3.1(e) through 3.1(j), either (i) an amount of Valero Common Stock equal to the product of one share of Valero Common Stock and the Exchange Ratio (the "") or (ii) an amount in cash equal to $72.76 (the "" and, together with the Stock Consideration and, if applicable, any shares of Valero Common Stock issued pursuant to Section 3.1(a), the ""). All of the shares of Valero Common Stock to be issued as Merger Consideration shall be duly authorized, validly issued, fully paid, nonassessable and free of preemptive rights, with no personal liability attaching to the ownership thereof. One preferred share purchase right issuable pursuant to the Rights Agreement, dated as of July 17, 1997, between Valero and Computershare Investor Services, LLC, as successor rights agent to Harris
Stock Consideration
Cash Consideration
Merger Consideration
Trust and Savings Bank (as amended to the date of this Agreement, the ""), or any other purchase right issued in substitution thereof (the ""), shall be issued together with and shall attach to each share of Valero Common Stock issued pursuant to Section 3.1(a) and Section 3.1(b), subject and pursuant to the terms of the Valero Rights Agreement. All shares of Premcor Common Stock converted into the right to receive the Merger Consideration pursuant to this Section 3.1(b) shall cease to be outstanding and shall be canceled and retired and shall cease to exist, and each holder of a certificate that immediately prior to the Effective Time represented any such shares of Premcor Common Stock (a "") shall thereafter cease to have any rights with respect to such shares of Premcor Common Stock, except the right to receive the Merger Consideration to be issued in consideration therefor and any dividends or other distributions to which holders of Premcor Common Stock become entitled, all in accordance with this Article III, upon the surrender of such Premcor Certificate.
Valero Rights Agreement
Valero Rights
Premcor Certificate
 
(c)           If, between the date of this Agreement and the Effective Time, there is a reclassification, recapitalization, stock split, split-up, stock dividend, combination or exchange of shares with respect to, or rights issued in respect of, Premcor Common Stock or Valero Common Stock that is permitted under this Agreement, each of the Exchange Ratio and, in the case of such a change to the Premcor Common Stock, the Cash Consideration, shall be adjusted accordingly, without duplication, to provide to the holders of Premcor Common Stock the same economic effect as contemplated by this Agreement prior to such event.
 
(d)           Notwithstanding any other provision contained in this Agreement, no shares of Premcor Common Stock that are issued and outstanding as of the Effective Time and that are held by a stockholder who has properly exercised such stockholder's appraisal rights (any such shares being referred to herein as "") under the DGCL shall be converted into the right to receive the Merger Consideration as provided in Section 3.1(b) unless and until such stockholder shall have failed to perfect, or shall have effectively withdrawn or lost, such stockholder's right to dissent from the Merger under the DGCL and to receive such consideration as may be determined to be due with respect to such Dissenting Shares pursuant to and subject to the requirements of the DGCL. If any such stockholder shall have failed to perfect or shall have effectively withdrawn or lost such right prior to the Election Deadline, each of such holder's shares of Premcor Common Stock shall thereupon be deemed to be Non-Election Shares for all purposes of this Article III. If any holder of Dissenting Shares shall have so failed to perfect or has effectively withdrawn or lost such stockholder's right to dissent from the Merger after the Election Deadline, each of such holder's shares of Premcor Common Stock shall thereupon be deemed to have been converted into and to have become, as of the Effective Time, the right to receive the Stock Consideration or the Cash Consideration, or a combination thereof, as determined by Valero in its sole discretion.
Dissenting Shares
 
(e)           Subject to the provisions of this Section 3.1, each record holder of shares of Premcor Common Stock outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time to be converted in the Merger pursuant to Section 3.1(b) will be entitled to elect to receive (i) the Cash Consideration for all of such holder's shares (""), or (ii) the Cash Consideration for a stated whole number of such holder's shares and a number of shares of Valero Common Stock equal to the Exchange Ratio per share of Premcor Common Stock for the balance of such holder's shares of Premcor Common Stock (""), or (iii) a number of shares
Cash Election
Partial Cash Election
of Valero Common Stock equal to the Exchange Ratio per share of Premcor Common Stock for all of such holder's shares of Premcor Common Stock (""). All Cash Elections, Partial Cash Elections and Stock Elections shall be unconditional and made on a form designed for that purpose and mutually agreeable to Valero and Premcor (a ""). Any holder of Premcor Common Stock who fails to properly make a Cash Election, Partial Cash Election or Stock Election and any holder who fails to submit to the Exchange Agent a properly completed and signed and properly and timely submitted Form of Election shall be deemed to have indicated no preference as to the receipt of cash or Valero Common Stock with respect to such holder's shares (a "") and will receive for such Premcor Common Stock the Merger Consideration described in Section 3.1(f), 3.1(g) or 3.1(h), as applicable. Notwithstanding any other provision set forth herein, the aggregate number of shares of Premcor Common Stock to be converted into the right to receive cash in the Merger (which shall for this purpose be deemed to include Dissenting Shares, if any) shall be equal to the Cash Election Number.
Stock Election
Form of Election
Non-Election
 
(f)            If the aggregate number of shares of Premcor Common Stock for which cash is elected under a Cash Election or a Partial Cash Election and Dissenting Shares, if any (collectively, the ""), exceeds the Cash Election Number, then all shares of Premcor Common Stock for which Valero Common Stock was elected under a Stock Election or Partial Cash Election (collectively, the "") and all shares of Premcor Common Stock covered by Non-Elections (the "") shall be converted into the right to receive Valero Common Stock, and the Cash Election Shares (other than Dissenting Shares) shall be converted into the right to receive cash and Valero Common Stock in the following manner:
Cash Election Shares
Stock Election Shares
Non-Election Shares
 
Each Cash Election Share (other than Dissenting Shares) shall be converted into the right to receive (A) an amount of cash (rounded to the nearest cent), without interest, equal to the product of (1) the Cash Consideration and (2) a fraction (the ""), the numerator of which shall be the Cash Election Number and the denominator of which shall be the total number of Cash Election Shares and (B) a number of shares of Valero Common Stock equal to the product of (1) the Exchange Ratio and (2) one minus the Cash Fraction.
Cash Fraction
 
(g)         If the aggregate number of Stock Election Shares exceeds the Stock Election Number, all Cash Election Shares and all Non-Election Shares shall be converted into the right to receive cash, and all Stock Election Shares shall be converted into the right to receive Valero Common Stock and cash in the following manner:
 
Each Stock Election Share shall be converted into the right to receive (A) a number of shares of Valero Common Stock equal to the product of (1) the Exchange Ratio and (2) a fraction (the ""), the numerator of which shall be the Stock Election Number and the denominator of which shall be the total number of Stock Election Shares, and (B) an amount of cash (rounded to the nearest cent), without interest, equal to the product of (1) the Cash Consideration and (2) one minus the Stock Fraction.
Stock Fraction
(h)           In the event that neither Section 3.1(f) or 3.1(g) is applicable, each Cash Election Share shall be converted into the right to receive the Cash Consideration, each Stock Election Share shall be converted into the right to receive the Stock Consideration and each Non-Election Share shall be converted into the right to receive (A) an amount of cash (rounded to the nearest cent), without interest, equal to the product of (1) the Cash Consideration and (2) a fraction (the ""), the numerator of which shall be the Cash Election Number less the number of Cash Election Shares and the denominator of which shall be the number of Non-Election Shares, and (B) a number of shares of Valero Common Stock equal to the product of (1) the Exchange Ratio and (2) one minus the Non-Election Cash Fraction.
Non-Election Cash Fraction
 
(i)            Valero shall use all reasonable best efforts to cause copies of the Form of Election (which shall contain a Letter of Transmittal) to be mailed to holders of Premcor Common Stock so as to permit those holders to exercise their right to make an Election prior to the Election Deadline. Valero shall initially make available the Form of Election to holders of Premcor Common Stock not less than 20 Business Days prior to the anticipated Election Deadline and Valero and Premcor shall use all reasonable efforts to make available as promptly as possible a Form of Election to any holder of Premcor Common Stock that requests a Form of Election after the initial mailing of the Form of Election and before the Election Deadline. In order to be effective, a properly completed Form of Election must be received by the Exchange Agent by 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the date the parties shall agree is as near as practicable to three Business Days prior to the expected Closing Date, taking into account Valero' intention to minimize the effect of certain limitations under Applicable Law that might apply during the period from the initial mailing of the Form of Election until such date (the ""). The parties shall cooperate to issue a press release reasonably satisfactory to the parties between five and 15 Business Days prior to the Election Deadline. An election by a holder of Premcor Common Stock shall be validly made only if the Exchange Agent shall have timely received a Form of Election properly completed and executed (with the signature or signatures thereon guaranteed as required by the Form of Election) by that stockholder accompanied either by the Premcor Certificate or Premcor Certificates representing all of the shares of Premcor Common Stock owned by that stockholder, duly endorsed in blank or otherwise in form acceptable for transfer on the books of Premcor, or by an appropriate guarantee of delivery in the form customarily used in transactions of this nature from a member of a national securities exchange, a member of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc., or a commercial bank or trust company in the United States. All elections may be revoked until the Election Deadline in writing by the record holders submitting Forms of Election. Valero shall have the authority, in its sole discretion, to make all determinations as to whether or not a Form of Election has been timely received.
Election Deadline
 
(j)            Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, the Cash Election Number shall not be greater than the greatest number that would permit the satisfaction of the conditions set forth in Sections 7.2(c) and 7.3(c).
 
           . (a) Each option to purchase Premcor Common Stock (a "") granted under Premcor Stock Plans that is outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time shall cease to represent a right to acquire shares of Premcor Common Stock and shall be converted (as so converted, a ""), at the Effective Time and subject to the immediately following sentence, into an option to purchase Valero
3.2
Stock Options
Premcor Stock Option
Premcor Converted Option
Common Stock (a ""), on the same terms and conditions as were applicable under the Premcor Stock Option.  The number of shares of Valero Common Stock subject to each such Valero Stock Option shall be the number of shares of Premcor Common Stock subject to the Premcor Stock Option multiplied by the Exchange Ratio, rounded, if necessary, to the nearest whole share of Valero Common Stock, and such Valero Stock Option shall have an exercise price per share (rounded to the nearest one-hundredth of a cent) equal to the per share exercise price of such Premcor Stock Option divided by the Exchange Ratio; , , that the exercise price and the number of shares of Valero common stock purchasable pursuant to the Premcor Converted Option shall be determined in a manner consistent with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code; and , , that in the case of any Premcor Stock Option to which Section 421 of the Code as of the Effective Time (after taking into account the effect of any accelerated vesting thereof) applies by reason of its qualification under Section 422 of the Code, the exercise price, the number of shares subject to such option and the terms and conditions of exercise of such option shall be determined in a manner consistent with the requirements of Section 424(a) of the Code. As of the Effective Time, Valero shall assume the obligations of Premcor under the Premcor Stock Plans, and from and after the Effective Time, except as otherwise set forth herein, the terms of each Premcor Stock Option and the Premcor Stock Plan under which such Premcor Stock Option was initially granted, in each case, as in effect immediately prior to the Effective Time, shall continue to apply to the corresponding Valero Stock Option.
Valero Stock Option
provided
however
provided
further
 
(b)           Prior to the Effective Time, Premcor shall take all necessary action for the adjustment of Premcor Converted Options under this Section 3.2. Valero shall reserve for issuance a number of shares of Valero Common Stock at least equal to the number of shares of Valero Common Stock that will be subject to Premcor Converted Options. As soon as practicable following the Effective Time, Valero shall file a registration statement on Form S-8 (or any successor, or if Form S-8 is not available, other appropriate, forms) with respect to the shares of Valero Common Stock subject to Premcor Converted Options and shall maintain the effectiveness of such registration statement or registration statements (and maintain the current status of the prospectus or prospectuses contained therein) for so long as such options remain outstanding.
 
           . Prior to the Effective Time, Valero shall appoint a commercial bank or trust company, or a subsidiary thereof, mutually agreed upon by Valero and Premcor to act as exchange agent in connection with the Merger for the purpose of exchanging Premcor Certificates for the Merger Consideration (the ""). At or prior to the Effective Time, Valero shall deposit with the Exchange Agent, in trust for the benefit of holders of shares of Premcor Common Stock, (a) certificates representing shares of Valero Common Stock and (b) cash, to be issued and paid pursuant to Section 3.1(b) and Section 3.7 in respect of shares of Premcor Common Stock converted pursuant to Section 3.1(b) in exchange for outstanding shares of Premcor Common Stock upon due surrender of Premcor Certificates pursuant to this Article III. Following the Effective Time, Valero agrees to make available to the Exchange Agent, from time to time as needed, cash sufficient to pay any dividends and other distributions pursuant to Section 3.5. Any cash and certificates representing Valero Common Stock deposited with the Exchange Agent (including the amount of any dividends or other distributions payable with respect thereto and such cash in lieu of fractional shares to be paid pursuant to Section 3.7) shall hereinafter be referred to as the "."
3.3
Exchange Fund
Exchange Agent
Exchange Fund
           . Promptly after the Effective Time, Valero shall cause the Exchange Agent to mail to each holder of a Premcor Certificate (other than Premcor Certificates representing Dissenting Shares) that has not timely submitted a properly completed and executed Form of Election accompanied by an appropriately endorsed Certificate or Certificates representing all of the shares of Company Common Stock owned by that stockholder (or, alternatively, by an appropriate guarantee of delivery) (a) a letter of transmittal (the "") that shall specify that delivery shall be effected, and risk of loss and title to the Premcor Certificates shall pass, only upon proper delivery of the Premcor Certificates to the Exchange Agent, and which Letter of Transmittal shall be in customary form and have such other provisions as Valero or Premcor may reasonably specify (such letter to be reasonably acceptable to Premcor and Valero prior to the Effective Time) and (b) instructions for effecting the surrender of such Premcor Certificates in exchange for the Merger Consideration, together with any dividends and other distributions with respect thereto and any cash in lieu of fractional shares pursuant to this Article III. Upon surrender of a Premcor Certificate to the Exchange Agent together with such Letter of Transmittal or the Form of Election pursuant to Section 3.1(i), duly executed and completed in accordance with the instructions thereto, and such other documents as may reasonably be required by the Exchange Agent, the holder of such Premcor Certificate shall be entitled to receive in exchange therefor (i) shares of Valero Common Stock (which shall be in uncertificated book-entry form, unless a physical certificate is requested by such holder or is otherwise required by applicable law or regulation) representing, in the aggregate, the whole number of shares that such holder has the right to receive pursuant to Section 3.1 (in each case, after taking into account all shares of Premcor Common Stock then held by such holder), (ii) a check in the amount equal to the cash, if any, that such holder has the right to receive pursuant to Section 3.1, and (iii) a check in the amount equal to the cash, if any, that such holder has the right to receive in lieu of any fractional shares of Valero Common Stock pursuant to Section 3.7 and in respect of any dividends and other distributions pursuant to Section 3.5. No interest will be paid or will accrue on any cash payable pursuant to the provisions of this Article III. In the event of a transfer of ownership of Premcor Common Stock that is not registered in the transfer records of Premcor, one or more shares of Valero Common Stock evidencing, in the aggregate, the proper number of shares of Valero Common Stock pursuant to Section 3.1, a check in the proper amount of cash representing Cash Consideration pursuant to Section 3.1, a check in the proper amount of cash in lieu of any fractional shares of Valero Common Stock pursuant to Section 3.7 and any dividends or other distributions to which such holder is entitled pursuant to Section 3.5, may be issued with respect to such Premcor Common Stock to such a transferee if the Premcor Certificate representing such shares of Premcor Common Stock is presented to the Exchange Agent, accompanied by all documents required to evidence and effect such transfer and to evidence that any applicable stock transfer taxes have been paid.
3.4
Exchange Procedures
Letter of Transmittal
 
           . No dividends or other distributions with a record date after the Effective Time shall be paid to the holder of any unsurrendered Premcor Certificate with respect to the shares of Valero Common Stock that such holder would be entitled to receive upon surrender of such Premcor Certificate, and no cash payment in lieu of fractional shares of Valero Common Stock shall be paid to any such holder pursuant to Section 3.7, until such holder shall surrender such Premcor Certificate in accordance with Section 3.1(i) or Section 3.4. Subject to the effect of applicable laws, following the later of the surrender of any such Premcor Certificate and the Effective Time, there shall be paid to the
3.5
Distributions with Respect to Unexchanged Shares
record holder thereof without interest, (a) promptly after such time, the amount of any cash payable in lieu of fractional shares of Valero Common Stock to which such holder is entitled pursuant to Section 3.7 and the amount of dividends or other distributions with a record date after the Effective Time theretofore paid with respect to such whole shares of Valero Common Stock and (b) at the appropriate payment date, the amount of dividends or other distributions with a record date after the Effective Time, but prior to surrender, and a payment date subsequent thereto, payable with respect to such whole shares of Valero Common Stock.
 
           . All shares of Valero Common Stock issued and cash paid upon conversion of shares of Premcor Common Stock in accordance with the terms of this Article III (including any cash paid pursuant to Section 3.5 or 3.7) shall be deemed to have been issued or paid in full satisfaction of all rights pertaining to the shares of Premcor Common Stock.
3.6
No Further Ownership Rights in Premcor Common Stock
 
           . No certificates or scrip or shares of Valero Common Stock representing fractional shares of Valero Common Stock or book-entry credit of the same shall be issued upon the surrender for exchange of Premcor Certificates, and such fractional share interests will not entitle the owner thereof to vote or to have any rights of a stockholder of Valero or a holder of shares of Valero Common Stock. In lieu of any such fractional share, each holder of shares of Premcor Common Stock who would otherwise have been entitled to a fraction of a share of Valero Common Stock either pursuant to Section 3.1(b) upon surrender of Premcor Certificates or pursuant to Section 3.1(a) (determined in each case after taking into account all Premcor Certificates delivered by such holder) shall be paid, in the case of conversion pursuant to Section 3.1(b), upon such surrender or, in the case of conversion pursuant to Section 3.1(a), as soon as practicable after the Effective Time, cash (without interest) in an amount equal to the value (determined with reference to the closing price of a share of Valero Common Stock as reported on the NYSE Composite Tape on the last full trading day immediately prior to the Closing Date) of such fractional interest. Such payment with respect to fractional shares is merely intended to provide a mechanical rounding off of, and is not a separately bargained for, consideration.
3.7
No Fractional Shares of Valero Common Stock
 
           . Any portion of the Exchange Fund that remains undistributed to the holders of Premcor Certificates one year after the Effective Time shall, at Valero's request, be delivered to Valero or otherwise on the instruction of Valero, and any holders of Premcor Certificates who have not theretofore complied with this Article III shall after such delivery look only to Valero for the Merger Consideration with respect to the shares of Premcor Common Stock formerly represented thereby to which such holders are entitled pursuant to Sections 3.1 and 3.4, any cash in lieu of fractional shares of Valero Common Stock to which such holders are entitled pursuant to Section 3.7 and any dividends or distributions with respect to shares of Valero Common Stock to which such holders are entitled pursuant to Section 3.5. Any such portion of the Exchange Fund remaining unclaimed by holders of shares of Premcor Common Stock immediately prior to such time as such amounts would otherwise escheat to or become property of any Governmental Entity shall, to the extent permitted by law, become the property of Valero free and clear of any claims or interest of any Person previously entitled thereto.
3.8
Termination of Exchange Fund
           . None of Valero, Premcor or the Exchange Agent shall be liable to any Person in respect of any Merger Consideration from the Exchange Fund delivered to a public official pursuant to any applicable abandoned property, escheat or similar law.
3.9
No Liability
 
         . The Exchange Agent shall invest any cash included in the Exchange Fund as directed by Valero on a daily basis; that no such investment or loss thereon shall affect the amounts payable or the timing of the amounts payable to Premcor stockholders pursuant to the other provisions of this Article III. Any interest and other income resulting from such investments shall promptly be paid to Valero.
3.10
Investment of the Exchange Fund
provided
 
         . If any Premcor Certificate (other than any Premcor Certificate representing Dissenting Shares) shall have been lost, stolen or destroyed, upon the making of an affidavit of that fact by the Person claiming such Premcor Certificate to be lost, stolen or destroyed and, if required by Valero, the posting by such Person of a bond in such reasonable amount as Valero may direct as indemnity against any claim that may be made against it with respect to such Premcor Certificate, following the Effective Time the Exchange Agent will deliver in exchange for such lost, stolen or destroyed Premcor Certificate the Merger Consideration with respect to the shares of Premcor Common Stock formerly represented thereby, any cash in lieu of fractional shares of Valero Common Stock, and unpaid dividends and distributions on whole shares of Valero Common Stock deliverable in respect thereof, pursuant to this Agreement.
3.11
Lost Certificates
 
         . Valero shall be entitled to deduct and withhold from the consideration otherwise payable pursuant to this Agreement such amounts as it is required to deduct and withhold with respect to the making of such payment under the Code and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, or any provision of state, local or foreign Tax law. To the extent that amounts are so withheld or paid over to or deposited with the relevant Governmental Entity by Valero, such amounts shall be treated for all purposes of this Agreement as having been paid to the Person in respect of which such deduction and withholding was made by Valero.
3.12
Withholding Rights
 
         . At and after the Effective Time, the officers and directors of the Surviving Corporation shall be authorized to execute and deliver, in the name and on behalf of the Surviving Corporation or Premcor, any deeds, bills of sale, assignments or assurances and to take and do, in the name and on behalf of the Surviving Corporation or Premcor, any other actions and things necessary to vest, perfect or confirm of record or otherwise in the Surviving Corporation any and all right, title and interest in, to and under any of the rights, properties or assets acquired or to be acquired by the Surviving Corporation as a result of, or in connection with, the Merger.
3.13
Further Assurances
 
         . The stock transfer books of Premcor shall be closed immediately upon the Effective Time, and there shall be no further registration of transfers of shares of Premcor Common Stock thereafter on the records of Premcor. On or after the Effective Time, any Premcor Certificates presented to the Exchange Agent, Valero or the Surviving Corporation for any reason shall be converted into the right to receive the Merger Consideration with respect to the shares of Premcor Common Stock formerly represented thereby (including any cash in lieu of fractional shares of Valero Common Stock to which the holders thereof are
3.14
Stock Transfer Books
entitled pursuant to Section 3.7, and any dividends or other distributions to which the holders thereof are entitled pursuant to Section 3.5).
 
ARTICLE IV
 
REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES
 
           . Except as disclosed in the section of the Premcor disclosure schedule delivered to Valero concurrently with this Agreement (the "") corresponding to the subsection of this Section 4.1 to which such disclosure applies, Premcor hereby represents and warrants to Valero as follows:
4.1
Representations and Warranties of Premcor
Premcor Disclosure Schedule
 
(a)           . (i) Premcor is a corporation duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware. Premcor has the corporate power and authority to own or lease all of its properties and assets and to carry on its business as it is now being conducted, and is duly licensed or qualified to do business in each jurisdiction in which the nature of the business conducted by it or the character or location of the properties and assets owned or leased by it makes such licensing or qualification necessary, except where the failure to be so licensed or qualified would not, either individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect on Premcor. True and complete copies of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and the Amended and Restated By-Laws of Premcor, as in effect as of the date of this Agreement, have previously been made available by Premcor to Valero.
Corporate Organization
 
(ii)           Each Subsidiary of Premcor (A) is duly organized and validly existing under the laws of its jurisdiction of organization, (B) is duly qualified to do business and in good standing in all jurisdictions (whether federal, state, local or foreign) where its ownership or leasing of property or the conduct of its business requires it to be so qualified and in which the failure to be so qualified would, individually or in the aggregate with all other such failures by Subsidiaries of Premcor, have a Material Adverse Effect on Premcor, and (C) has all requisite corporate (or, as applicable, equivalent partnership or company) power and authority to own or lease its properties and assets and to carry on its business as now conducted.
 
(b)           . (i) The authorized capital stock of Premcor consists of (A) 150,000,000 shares of Premcor Common Stock, of which, as of March 4, 2005, 89,216,910 shares were issued and outstanding and no shares were held in treasury and (B) 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $0.01 per share, of Premcor ("," together with the Premcor Common Stock, the ""), of which no shares are issued and outstanding. From March 4, 2005, to the date of this Agreement, no shares of Premcor Capital Stock have been issued except pursuant to the exercise of Premcor Stock Options granted under the Premcor 2002 Special Stock Incentive Plan, the Premcor 2002 Equity Incentive Plan or the Premcor 1999 Stock Incentive Plan, each as in effect as of the date of this Agreement (the ""). Except pursuant to the terms of Premcor Stock Options granted pursuant to Premcor Stock Plans and outstanding as of the date of this Agreement, Premcor does not have and is not bound by any outstanding subscriptions, options, warrants, calls, commitments or agreements of any character calling for the purchase or issuance of any shares
Capitalization
Premcor Preferred Stock
Premcor Capital Stock
Premcor Stock Plans
of Premcor Capital Stock or any other equity securities of Premcor or any securities of Premcor representing the right to purchase or otherwise receive any shares of Premcor Capital Stock. As of March 4, 2005, no shares of Premcor Capital Stock were reserved for issuance, except for 9,267,675 shares of Premcor Common Stock reserved for issuance upon the exercise of Premcor Stock Options pursuant to the Premcor Stock Plans. Premcor has no Voting Debt issued or outstanding. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, as of immediately prior to the Effective Time, the total number of shares of Premcor Common Stock that are issued and outstanding and that are then issuable, or that may become issuable in the future, with respect to any outstanding subscriptions, options, warrants, calls, commitments or agreements of any character, shall not exceed 96,650,000. No Subsidiary of Premcor owns any capital stock of Premcor.
 
(ii)           Premcor owns, directly or indirectly, all of the issued and outstanding shares of capital stock or other equity ownership or voting interests of each Subsidiary of Premcor, free and clear of any liens, pledges, charges, encumbrances and security interests whatsoever (""), and all of such shares or equity ownership or voting interests are duly authorized and validly issued and are fully paid, nonassessable and free of preemptive rights, with no personal liability attaching to the ownership thereof. No Subsidiary of Premcor has or is bound by any outstanding subscriptions, options, warrants, calls, commitments or agreements of any character calling for the purchase, issuance or voting of any shares of capital stock or any other equity security of such Subsidiary or any securities representing the right to purchase or otherwise receive any shares of capital stock or any other equity security of such Subsidiary. Section 4.2(b)(ii) of the Premcor Disclosure Schedule sets forth a list of each material investment of Premcor in any corporation, joint venture, partnership, limited liability company or other entity other than its Subsidiaries, that, individually or taken together in the aggregate, would be considered a Significant Subsidiary if such investment constituted control of such entity (each a "").
Liens
Non-Subsidiary Affiliate
 
(c)           . (i) Premcor has full corporate power and authority to execute and deliver this Agreement and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby. The execution and delivery of this Agreement, and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, have been duly and validly approved by the Board of Directors of Premcor. The Board of Directors of Premcor has directed that this Agreement be submitted to Premcor stockholders for approval at a meeting of Premcor stockholders for the purpose of approving the Merger and this Agreement (the ""), and, except for the approval of the Merger and of this Agreement by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of Premcor Common Stock (the ""), no other corporate proceedings on the part of Premcor are necessary to approve this Agreement and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby. This Agreement has been duly and validly executed and delivered by Premcor and (assuming due authorization, execution and delivery by Valero) constitutes a valid and binding obligation of Premcor, enforceable against Premcor in accordance with its terms.
Authority; No Violation
Premcor Stockholders Meeting
Premcor Stockholder Approval
 
(ii)           Neither the execution and delivery of this Agreement by Premcor, nor the consummation by Premcor of the transactions contemplated hereby, nor compliance by Premcor with any of the terms or provisions of this Agreement, will (A) violate any
provision of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation or the Amended and Restated By-Laws of Premcor, or (B) assuming that the consents and approvals referred to in Section 4.1(d) are duly obtained, (1) violate any statute, code, ordinance, rule, regulation, judgment, order, writ, decree or injunction applicable to Premcor, any of its Subsidiaries or Non-Subsidiary Affiliates or any of their respective properties or assets or (2) violate, conflict with, result in a breach of any provision of or the loss of any benefit under, constitute a default (or an event that, with notice or lapse of time, or both, would constitute a default) under, result in the termination of or a right of termination or cancellation under, accelerate the performance required by, accelerate any right or benefit provided by, or result in the creation of any Lien upon any of the respective properties or assets of Premcor, any of its Subsidiaries or its Non-Subsidiary Affiliates under, any of the terms, conditions or provisions of any note, bond, mortgage, indenture, deed of trust, license, lease, agreement or other instrument or obligation to which Premcor, any of its Subsidiaries or Non-Subsidiary Affiliates is a party, or by which they or any of their respective properties or assets may be bound or affected, except (in the case of clause (B)(2) above) for such violations, conflicts, breaches or defaults that either individually or in the aggregate will not have a Material Adverse Effect on Premcor or the Surviving Corporation.
 
(d)           . Except for (i) the filing of a notification and report form under the HSR Act and the termination or expiration of the waiting period under the HSR Act, (ii) the filing of any other required applications or notices with any state or foreign agencies and approval of such applications and notices (the ""), (iii) the filing with the SEC of a proxy statement/prospectus relating to the matters to be submitted to Premcor's stockholders at the Premcor Stockholders Meeting (such proxy statement/prospectus, and any amendments or supplements thereto, the "") and a registration statement on Form S-4 with respect to the issuance of Valero Common Stock in the Merger (such Form S-4, and any amendments or supplements thereto, the ""), (iv) the filing of the Certificate of Merger, (v) any consents, authorizations, approvals, filings or exemptions in connection with compliance with the rules of the NYSE, (vi) such filings and approvals as are required to be made or obtained under the securities or "Blue Sky" laws of various states in connection with the issuance of Valero Common Stock pursuant to this Agreement (the consents, approvals, filings and registration required under or in relation to the foregoing clauses (i) though (vi) being referred to as "") and (vii) such other consents, approvals, filings and registrations the failure of which to obtain or make would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect on Premcor or the Surviving Corporation, no consents or approvals of or filings or registrations with any supranational, national, state, municipal, local or foreign government, any instrumentality, subdivision, court, administrative agency or commission or other authority thereof, or any quasi-governmental or private body exercising any regulatory, taxing, importing or other governmental or quasi-governmental authority (each, a "") are necessary in connection with (A) the execution and delivery by Premcor of this Agreement and (B) the consummation by Premcor of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
Consents and Approvals
Other Approvals
Proxy Statement/Prospectus
Form S-4
Necessary Consents
Governmental Entity
 
(e)           . (i) Premcor has filed all required reports, schedules, registration statements and other documents with the SEC since April 30, 2002.  The Premcor 2004 10-K and all other reports, registration statements, definitive proxy
Financial Reports and SEC Documents
statements or information statements, including any certifications pursuant to Section 302 or Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 or similar certifications, filed or to be filed by Premcor or any of its Subsidiaries subsequent to April 30, 2002, under the Securities Act or under Sections 13(a), 13(c), 14 and 15(d) of the Exchange Act in the form filed, or to be filed (collectively, the ""), with the SEC, (A) complied or will comply in all material respects as to form with the applicable requirements under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, as the case may be, and (B) as of its filing date, did not or will not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements made therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; and each of the balance sheets contained in or incorporated by reference into any such Premcor SEC Document (including the related notes and schedules thereto) fairly presents or will fairly present the financial position of the entity or entities to which it relates as of its date, and each of the statements of operations and changes in stockholders' equity and cash flows or equivalent statements in such Premcor SEC Documents (including any related notes and schedules thereto) fairly presents or will fairly present the results of operations, changes in stockholders' equity and changes in cash flows, as the case may be, of the entity or entities to which it relates for the periods to which it relates, in each case in accordance with GAAP consistently applied during the periods involved, except, in each case, as may be noted therein, subject to normal year-end audit adjustments in the case of unaudited statements.
Premcor SEC Documents
 
(ii)           Premcor and its Subsidiaries have designed and maintain a system of internal controls over financial reporting (as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) of the Exchange Act) sufficient to provide reasonable assurances regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with GAAP.  Premcor (A) has designed and maintains disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) of the Exchange Act) to ensure that material information required to be disclosed by Premcor in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC's rules and forms and is accumulated and communicated to Premcor's management as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure, and (B) has disclosed, based on its most recent evaluation of such disclosure controls and procedures prior to the date of this Agreement, to Premcor's auditors and the audit committee of Premcor's Board of Directors (1) any significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal controls over financial reporting that are reasonably likely to adversely affect in any material respect Premcor's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information and (2) any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in Premcor's internal controls over financial reporting. Premcor has made available to Valero a summary of any such disclosure made by management to Premcor's auditors and audit committee since January 1, 2003.
 
(i) Except for (A) those liabilities that are fully reflected or reserved for in the consolidated financial statements (or notes thereto) of Premcor included in the Premcor 2004 10-K, as filed with the SEC prior to the date of this Agreement, (B) liabilities incurred since December 31, 2004 in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice, and (C) liabilities that would not, individually or in the aggregate,
.
(f)           
Absence of Undisclosed Liabilities
reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect on Premcor, Premcor and its Subsidiaries do not have, and since December 31, 2004, Premcor and its Subsidiaries have not incurred (except as permitted by Section 5.1), any liabilities or obligations of any nature whatsoever (whether accrued, absolute, contingent or otherwise and whether or not required to be reflected in Premcor's financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles).
 
(ii)           Premcor has delivered to Valero complete and correct copies of any and all material documentation creating or governing all securitization transactions and "off-balance sheet arrangements" (as defined in Item 303 of Regulation S-K) effected by Premcor or any of its Subsidiaries since December 31, 2002.
 
(iii)          Neither Premcor nor PRG has, since July 30, 2002, either directly or indirectly, including through any Subsidiary or Affiliate, extended or maintained credit, arranged for the extension of credit or renewed any extension of credit, in the form of a personal loan to or for any director or executive officer (or equivalent thereof) of Premcor or PRG. Section 4.1(f)(iii) of the Premcor Disclosure Schedule describes any loan or extension of credit maintained by Premcor or PRG to which the second sentence of Section 13(k)(1) of the Exchange Act applies.
 
(g)           . (i) Since December 31, 2004, except as set forth in Premcor SEC Documents filed since December 31, 2004 and prior to the date of this Agreement, no event or events have occurred that has had or would reasonably be expected to have, either individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on Premcor.
Absence of Certain Changes or Events
 
(ii)           Since December 31, 2004, Premcor and its Subsidiaries have carried on their respective businesses in all material respects in the ordinary course.
 
(iii)          Since December 31, 2004, neither Premcor nor any of its Subsidiaries has (A) except for such actions as were in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice or except as required by applicable law, (I) increased the wages, salaries, compensation, pension, or other fringe benefits or perquisites payable to any executive officer or director from the amount thereof in effect as of December 31, 2004, or (II) granted any severance or termination pay, entered into any contract to make or grant any severance or termination pay, or paid any bonuses, to any executive officer or director or (B) suffered any strike, work stoppage, slowdown, or other labor disturbance that would reasonably be expected to have, (in the case of clause (A) or (B) above), either individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on Premcor.
 
(iv)          Since December 31, 2004, Premcor has not declared any dividends on Premcor Common Stock, other than regular quarterly dividends in an amount equal to $0.02 per share.
 
(h)           . There is no suit, action or proceeding or investigation pending or, to the knowledge of Premcor, threatened, against or affecting Premcor or any of its Subsidiaries that would, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect on Premcor, nor is there any judgment, decree, injunction, rule or order
Legal Proceedings
of any Governmental Entity or arbitrator outstanding against Premcor or its Subsidiaries that, individually or in the aggregate, would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect on Premcor.
 
(i)            . Premcor and each of its Subsidiaries hold all licenses, franchises, permits and authorizations necessary for the lawful conduct of their respective businesses under and pursuant to each, and have complied in all respects with and are not in default under any, applicable law, statute, order, rule or regulation of any Governmental Entity relating to Premcor or any of its Subsidiaries, except where the failure to hold such license, franchise, permit or authorization or such noncompliance or default would not, either individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect on Premcor.
Compliance with Applicable Law
 
(j)            . (i) Neither Premcor nor any of its Subsidiaries is a party to or bound by any contract, arrangement, commitment or understanding (whether written or oral) (A) with respect to the employment of any directors, officers or employees other than in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice, (B) that, upon the consummation or stockholder approval of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, will (either alone or upon the occurrence of any additional acts or events) result in any payment (whether of severance pay or otherwise) becoming due from Valero, Premcor, the Surviving Corporation or any of their respective Subsidiaries, (C) that is a "material contract" (as such term is defined in Item 601(b)(10) of Regulation S-K of the SEC) to be performed after the date of this Agreement that has not been filed or incorporated by reference in the Premcor SEC Documents filed prior to the date of this Agreement, or (D) that materially restricts the conduct of any line of business by Premcor or any of its Subsidiaries (including geographical restrictions) or upon consummation of the Merger will materially restrict the ability of Valero, the Surviving Corporation or any of their respective Subsidiaries to engage in any line of business (including geographical restrictions). Each contract, arrangement, commitment or understanding of the type described in this Section 4.1(j), whether or not set forth in the Premcor Disclosure Schedule or in such Premcor SEC Documents, is referred to herein as a ""
Contracts
Premcor Contract.
 
(ii)           (A) Each Premcor Contract is valid and binding on Premcor and any of its Subsidiaries that is a party thereto, as applicable, and in full force and effect, (B) Premcor and each of its Subsidiaries has in all material respects performed all obligations required to be performed by it to date under each Premcor Contract, except where such noncompliance, either individually or in the aggregate, would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect on Premcor, and (C) neither Premcor nor any of its Subsidiaries knows of, or has received notice of, the existence of any event or condition that constitutes, or, after notice or lapse of time or both, will constitute, a material default on the part of Premcor or any of its Subsidiaries under any such Premcor Contract, except where such default, either individually or in the aggregate, would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect on Premcor.
 
(k)           . There are no legal, administrative, arbitral or other proceedings, claims, actions, causes of action, private environmental investigations or remediation activities or governmental investigations of any nature seeking to impose, or that could reasonably result in the imposition of, on Premcor, any liability or obligation arising under
Environmental Liability
common law or under any local, state, federal or foreign environmental statute, regulation or ordinance including CERCLA, pending or threatened in writing against Premcor, which liability or obligation, either individually or in the aggregate, would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect on Premcor. Premcor is not subject to any agreement, order, judgment, decree, letter or memorandum by or with any Governmental Entity or third party imposing any liability or obligation with respect to the foregoing that, either individually or in the aggregate, would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect on Premcor.
 
(l)            . (i) Section 4.1(l)(i) of the Premcor Disclosure Schedule includes a complete list of all Premcor Benefit Plans.
Employee Benefit Plans; Labor Matters
 
(ii)           With respect to each Premcor Plan, Premcor has delivered or made available to Valero a true, correct and complete copy of: (A) each Premcor Plan document or a summary of any unwritten Premcor Plan, trust agreement and insurance contract or other funding vehicle; (B) the most recent Annual Report (Form 5500 Series) and accompanying schedule, if any; (C) the current summary plan description and any material modifications thereto, if any (in each case, whether or not required to be furnished under ERISA); (D) the most recent annual financial report, if any; (E) the most recent actuarial report, if any; and (F) the most recent determination letter from the Internal Revenue Service, if any. Except as specifically provided in the foregoing documents delivered or made available to Valero, there are no amendments to any Premcor Plan that have been adopted or approved nor has Premcor or any of its Subsidiaries undertaken to make any such amendments or to adopt or approve any new Premcor Plan.
 
(iii)          Section 4.1(l)(iii) of the Premcor Disclosure Schedule identifies each Premcor Plan that is intended to be a "qualified plan" within the meaning of Section 401(a) of the Code (""). The Internal Revenue Service has issued a favorable determination letter with respect to each Premcor Qualified Plan and the related trust, and such determination letter has not been revoked. No circumstances exist and no events have occurred that could adversely affect the qualified status of any Premcor Qualified Plan or the related trust, which could not be corrected under the Internal Revenue Service's Employee Plans Compliance Resolution System (Revenue Procedure 2001-17) without material liability. No Premcor Plan is intended to meet the requirements of Code Section 501(c)(9).
Premcor Qualified Plans
 
(iv)          All contributions required to be made to any Premcor Plan by applicable law or regulation or by any plan document or other contractual undertaking, and all premiums due or payable with respect to insurance policies funding any Premcor Plan, for any period through the date of this Agreement have been timely made.
 
(v)           With respect to each Premcor Plan that is subject to Title IV or Section 302 of ERISA or Section 412 or 4971 of the Code: (A) there does not exist any accumulated funding deficiency within the meaning of Section 412 of the Code or Section 302 of ERISA, whether or not waived; (B) the fair market value of the assets of such Premcor Plan equals or exceeds the actuarial present value of all accrued benefits under such Premcor Plan (whether or not vested) on an accumulated benefits obligation basis based on the most recent actuarial report for each such plan; (C) no reportable event within the
meaning of Section 4043(c) of ERISA for which the 30-day notice requirement has not been waived has occurred, and the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement will not result in the occurrence of any such reportable event; (D) all premiums to the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (the "") have been timely paid in full; (E) no liability (other than for premiums to the PBGC) under Title IV of ERISA has been or is expected to be incurred by Premcor or any of its Subsidiaries; and (F) the PBGC has not instituted proceedings to terminate any such Premcor Plan and, to Premcor's knowledge, no condition exists that presents a risk that such proceedings will be instituted or which would constitute grounds under Section 4042 of ERISA for the termination of, or the appointment of a trustee to administer, any such Premcor Plan.
PBGC
 
(vi)          (A) No Premcor Benefit Plan is a Multiemployer Plan or a plan that has two or more contributing sponsors at least two of whom are not under common control, within the meaning of Section 4063 of ERISA (a ""); and (B) none of Premcor and its Subsidiaries nor any ERISA Affiliates has incurred any Withdrawal Liability that has not been satisfied in full. With respect to each Premcor Benefit Plan that is a Multiemployer Plan, none of Premcor and its Subsidiaries, nor any of their respective ERISA Affiliates has received any notification, nor has any reason to believe, that any such Multiemployer Plan is in reorganization, has been terminated, is insolvent, or may reasonably be expected to be in reorganization, to be insolvent, or to be terminated.
Multiple Employer Plan
 
(vii)         Except as would not reasonably be expected, individually or in the aggregate, to have a Material Adverse Effect on Premcor, (A) each of the Premcor Plans has been operated and administered in all material respects in accordance with applicable law and administrative rules and regulations of any Governmental Entity, including, but not limited to, ERISA and the Code, and (B) there are no pending or threatened claims (other than claims for benefits in the ordinary course), lawsuits or arbitrations that have been asserted or instituted against the Premcor Plans, any fiduciaries thereof with respect to their duties to the Premcor Plans or the assets of any of the trusts under any of the Premcor Plans that could reasonably be expected to result in any material liability of Premcor or any of its Subsidiaries to the PBGC, the U.S. Department of the Treasury, the U.S. Department of Labor, any Premcor Plan, any participant in a Premcor Plan, or any other party.
 
(viii)        Premcor and its Subsidiaries have no liability for life, health, medical or other welfare benefits to former employees or beneficiaries or dependents thereof, except for health continuation coverage as required by Section 4980B of the Code or Part 6 of Title I of ERISA and at no expense to Premcor and its Subsidiaries. Each of Premcor and its Subsidiaries has reserved the right to amend, terminate or modify at any time all plans or arrangements providing for retiree health or life insurance coverage.
 
(ix)           Section 4.1(l)(ix) of the Premcor Disclosure Schedule sets forth (A) an accurate and complete list of each Premcor Plan under which the execution and delivery of this Agreement, stockholder approval of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement could (either alone or in conjunction with any other event), result in, cause the accelerated vesting, funding or delivery of, or increase the amount or value of, any
payment or benefit (including the forgiveness of indebtedness) to any employee, officer or director of Premcor or any of its Subsidiaries, or could limit the right of Premcor or any of its Subsidiaries to amend, merge, terminate or receive a reversion of assets from any Premcor Plan or related trust or any material employment agreement or related trust, (B) the maximum amount of the severance benefits and benefits under any non-qualified deferred compensation and non-qualified excess or supplemental retirement plan that could become payable to each of the employees, officers, directors and senior management of Premcor if their employment were terminated at the Effective Time and (C) the number of any Premcor Stock Options, the exercise price of such Premcor Stock Options held by each of the employees, officers and directors of Premcor that could become vested as a result of the execution and delivery of this Agreement, stockholder approval of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement (either alone or in conjunction with any other event).
 
(x)            Except as would not reasonably be expected, individually or in the aggregate, to have a Material Adverse Effect on Premcor, all Premcor Benefit Plans subject to the laws of any jurisdiction outside of the United States (A) have been maintained in accordance with all applicable requirements; (B) if they are intended to qualify for special tax treatment meet all requirements for such treatment; and (C) if they are intended to be funded and/or book-reserved are fully funded and/or book reserved, as appropriate, based upon reasonable actuarial assumptions.
 
(xi)           There does not now exist, nor do any circumstances exist that could result in, any liability (A) under Title IV of ERISA, (B) under Section 302 of ERISA, (C) under Sections 412 and 4971 of the Code, (D) as a result of a failure to comply with the continuation coverage requirements of Section 601 . of ERISA and Section 4980B of the Code, and (E) under corresponding or similar provisions of foreign laws or regulations, that is or could be a liability of Premcor or any of its Subsidiaries. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, neither Premcor nor any of its Subsidiaries, nor any of their respective ERISA Affiliates, has engaged in any transaction described in Section 4069 or Section 4204or 4212of ERISA.
et
seq
 
(m)          . Except as would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect on Premcor, (i) Premcor and its Subsidiaries own, or are licensed to use, all Intellectual Property used in and necessary for the conduct of their business as it is currently conducted, (ii) to the knowledge of Premcor, the use of Intellectual Property by Premcor and its Subsidiaries does not infringe on or otherwise violate the rights of any third party, and, to the extent such Intellectual Property is licensed, its use is in accordance in all material respects with the applicable license pursuant to which Premcor acquired the right to use such Intellectual Property, (iii) to the knowledge of Premcor, no third party is challenging, infringing on or otherwise violating any right of Premcor in the Intellectual Property, (iv) neither Premcor nor any of its Subsidiaries has received any notice of any pending or, to the knowledge of Premcor, threatened claim, order or proceeding with respect to any Intellectual Property used in and necessary for the conduct of Premcor's and its Subsidiaries' business as it is currently conducted, and (v) to the knowledge of Premcor, no Intellectual Property is being used or enforced by Premcor or its Subsidiaries in a manner that
Intellectual Property
would reasonably be expected to result in the abandonment, cancellation or unenforceability of any Intellectual Property used in and necessary for the conduct of Premcor's and its Subsidiaries' business as it is currently conducted.
 
(n)           . The Board of Directors of Premcor has approved this Agreement and the transactions contemplated by this Agreement as required under Section 203 of the DGCL and any other applicable state takeover laws and any applicable provision of the Premcor Certificate of Incorporation so that any such state takeover laws and such provisions will not apply to this Agreement or any of the transactions contemplated hereby.
State Takeover Laws
 
(o)           . Premcor has received the opinion of Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated, dated as of April 22, 2005, to the effect that, as of the date of such opinion, the Merger Consideration to be received by holders of Premcor Common Stock in the Merger is fair to such stockholders from a financial point of view.
Opinion of Financial Advisor
 
(p)           . The Board of Directors of Premcor, at a meeting duly called and held, has by unanimous vote of those directors present (i) determined that this Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereby are advisable, fair to and in the best interests of the stockholders of Premcor, (ii) approved and adopted this Agreement and (iii) recommended that the plan of merger contained in this Agreement be adopted by the holders of Premcor Common Stock.
Board Approval
 
(q)           . Neither Premcor nor any of its Subsidiaries nor any of their respective officers or directors has employed any broker or finder or incurred any liability for any broker's fees, commissions or finder's fees in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, excluding fees to be paid to Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated. Prior to the date of this Agreement, Premcor has provided Valero with a complete and correct copy of the engagement letter with Morgan Stanley & Co., which provides for the payment of all such fees.
Broker's Fees
 
(r)            . (i) Except as would not reasonably be expected, individually or in the aggregate, to have a Material Adverse Effect on Premcor, (A) Premcor and each of its Subsidiaries has duly and timely filed all Tax Returns required to be filed by it, and all such Tax Returns are true, complete and accurate in all respects; (B)  Premcor and each of its Subsidiaries has paid all Taxes required to be paid by it, and has paid all Taxes that it was required to withhold from amounts owing to any employee, creditor, independent contractor, stockholder or third party; (C) there are no pending or, to the knowledge of Premcor, threatened audits, examinations, investigations, deficiencies, claims or other proceedings in respect of Taxes relating to Premcor or any Subsidiary of Premcor; (D) there are no liens for Taxes upon the assets of Premcor or any Subsidiary of Premcor, other than liens for current Taxes not yet due and liens for Taxes that are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and for which adequate reserves have been established in accordance with GAAP; (E) neither Premcor nor any of its Subsidiaries has requested any extension of time within which to file any Tax Returns in respect of any taxable year that have not subsequently been filed when due (pursuant to such extension), nor provided or been requested to provide any waivers of the time to assess any Taxes that are pending or outstanding; (F) the consolidated federal income Tax Returns of Premcor have been examined, or the statute of limitations has closed, with respect to all taxable years through and including December 31, 2000; (G) neither Premcor nor any of its Subsidiaries
Taxes
has any liability for Taxes of any Person (other than Premcor and its Subsidiaries) under Treasury Regulation Section 1.1502-6 (or any comparable provision of state, local or foreign law); and (H) neither Premcor nor any Subsidiary of Premcor is a party to any agreement (with any Person other than Premcor and/or any of its Subsidiaries) relating to the allocation or sharing of Taxes that is currently in force.
 
(ii)           Premcor has not constituted either a "distributing corporation" or a "controlled corporation" within the meaning of Section 355(a)(1)(A) of the Code in a distribution of stock intended to qualify under Section 355(a) of the Code (A) in the two years prior to the date of this Agreement (or will constitute such a corporation in the two years prior to the Closing Date) or (B) in a distribution that otherwise constitutes part of a "plan" or "series of related transactions" within the meaning of Section 355(e) of the Code in conjunction with the Merger.
 
The "section 382 limitation" (within the meaning of Section 382(b)(1) of the Code) applicable to the NOL Carryforwards and the Credit Carryforwards is not materially less than $181 million. Except as may result from the Merger, none of the NOL Carryforwards or the Credit Carryforwards is currently subject to limitation under Treasury Regulations Section 1.1502-15 or -21.
(iii)          None of Premcor nor any of its Subsidiaries has participated in a "reportable transaction" within the meaning of Section 6011 of the Code and the Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder. As of December 31, 2004, Premcor and its Subsidiaries had net operating loss carryforwards for U.S. federal income tax purposes totaling not materially less than $165.7 million (the "") and U.S. federal business tax credit carryforwards totaling not materially less than $15.3 million (the ""), in each case, immediately prior to the date of this Agreement.
NOL Carryforwards
Credit Carryforwards
 
(s)           . As of the date of this Agreement, neither Premcor nor any of its Subsidiaries has taken any action or knows of any fact that would reasonably be expected to prevent the Merger from qualifying as a "reorganization" within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Code.
Reorganization under the Code
 
(t)            . None of the information to be supplied by Premcor or its Subsidiaries in the Form S-4 or the Proxy Statement/Prospectus will, at the time of the mailing of the Proxy Statement/Prospectus and any amendments or supplements thereto, and at the time of the Premcor Stockholders Meeting, contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they are made, not misleading. The Proxy Statement/Prospectus will comply, as of its mailing date, as to form in all material respects with all applicable laws, including the provisions of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, except that no representation is made by Premcor with respect to information supplied by Valero for inclusion therein.
Form S-4; Proxy Statement/Prospectus
 
(u)           . Schedule 4.1(u) contains a complete and accurate list of all collective bargaining or other labor union contracts applicable to persons employed by Premcor or any Subsidiary of Premcor. No collective
Labor Relations; Collective Bargaining Agreements
bargaining agreement or other labor union contract is being negotiated by Premcor or any Subsidiary of Premcor. No labor organization or group of employees of Premcor or any of its Subsidiaries has made a pending demand for recognition or certification, and there are no representation or certification proceedings or petitions seeking a representation proceeding presently pending or threatened to be brought or filed, with the National Labor Relations Board or any other labor relations tribunal or authority. To the knowledge of Premcor, except as would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect on Premcor, (i) there is no labor dispute, strike, slowdown or work stoppage against Premcor or any Subsidiary of Premcor pending or, to the knowledge of Premcor, threatened against Premcor or any Subsidiary of Premcor and (ii) no unfair labor practice or labor charge or complaint has occurred with respect to Premcor or any Subsidiary of Premcor.
 
           . Except as disclosed in the section of the Valero disclosure schedule delivered to Premcor concurrently with this Agreement (the "") corresponding to the subsection of this Section 4.2 to which such disclosure applies, Valero hereby represents and warrants to Premcor as follows:
4.2
Representations and Warranties of Valero
Valero Disclosure Schedule
 
(a)           . (i) Valero is a corporation duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware. Valero has the corporate power and authority to own or lease all of its properties and assets and to carry on its business as it is now being conducted, and is duly licensed or qualified to do business in each jurisdiction in which the nature of the business conducted by it or the character or location of the properties and assets owned or leased by it makes such licensing or qualification necessary, except where the failure to be so licensed or qualified would not, either individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect on Valero. True and complete copies of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, and Amended and Restated By-Laws of Valero, as in effect as of the date of this Agreement, have previously been made available by Valero to Premcor.
Corporate Organization
 
(ii)           Each Subsidiary of Valero (A) is duly organized and validly existing under the laws of its jurisdiction of organization, (B) is duly qualified to do business and in good standing in all jurisdictions (whether federal, state, local or foreign) where its ownership or leasing of property or the conduct of its business requires it to be so qualified and in which the failure to be so qualified would, individually or in the aggregate with all other such failures by Subsidiaries of Valero, have a Material Adverse Effect on Valero and (C) has all requisite corporate (or, as applicable, equivalent partnership or company) power and authority to own or lease its properties and assets and to carry on its business as now conducted.
 
(b)           . (i) The authorized capital stock of Valero consists of (A) 600,000,000 shares of Valero Common Stock (each of which includes one Valero Right), of which, as of February 28, 2005, 256,645,166 shares were issued and outstanding and 5,462,610 shares were held in treasury and (B) 20,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $0.01 per share, of Valero (the "," together with the Valero Common Stock, the ""), of which 10,000,000 shares have been designated as "2% Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock" (the "") 7,785,224 shares of which were issued and outstanding as of April 11, 2005. From February 28, 2005, to the date of this Agreement, no shares of Valero Capital Stock have been issued except pursuant to employee
Capitalization
Valero Preferred Stock
Valero Capital Stock
Valero Convertible Preferred Stock
and director stock plans of Valero in effect as of the date of this Agreement (the ""). All of the issued and outstanding shares of Valero Capital Stock have been duly authorized and validly issued and are fully paid, nonassessable and free of preemptive rights, with no personal liability attaching to the ownership thereof. As of the date of this Agreement, except pursuant to the terms of options and stock issued pursuant to Valero Stock Plans, the Valero Convertible Preferred Stock and pursuant to the Valero Rights, Valero does not have and is not bound by any outstanding subscriptions, options, warrants, calls, commitments or agreements of any character calling for the purchase or issuance of any shares of Valero Capital Stock or any other equity securities of Valero or any securities representing the right to purchase or otherwise receive any shares of Valero Capital Stock. As of February 28, 2005, no shares of Valero Capital Stock were reserved for issuance, except for shares of Valero Common Stock reserved for issuance upon the exercise of stock options pursuant to the Valero Stock Plans and in respect of the employee and director savings, compensation and deferred compensation plans described in the Valero 2005 Proxy Statement and the Valero 2004 10-K and upon the conversion of the Valero Convertible Preferred Stock, and shares of Junior Participating Preferred Stock, Series I, reserved for issuance in connection with the Valero Rights Agreement. Valero has no Voting Debt issued or outstanding. Valero owns, directly or indirectly, all of the issued and outstanding shares of capital stock or other equity ownership interests of each Subsidiary of Valero, free and clear of any Liens, and all of such shares or equity ownership interests are duly authorized and validly issued and are fully paid, nonassessable and free of preemptive rights, with no personal liability attaching to the ownership thereof. No Subsidiary of Valero has or is bound by any outstanding subscriptions, options, warrants, calls, commitments or agreements of any character calling for the purchase or issuance of any shares of capital stock or any other equity security of such Subsidiary or any securities representing the right to purchase or otherwise receive any shares of capital stock or any other equity security of such Subsidiary.
Valero Stock Plans
 
(c)           . (i) Valero has full corporate power and authority to execute and deliver this Agreement and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby. The execution and delivery of this Agreement and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby have been duly and validly approved by the Board of Directors of Valero. No other corporate proceedings on the part of Valero are necessary to approve this Agreement and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby. This Agreement has been duly and validly executed and delivered by Valero and (assuming due authorization, execution and delivery by Premcor) constitutes a valid and binding obligation of Valero, enforceable against Valero in accordance with its terms.
Authority; No Violation
 
(ii)           Neither the execution and delivery of this Agreement by Valero, nor the consummation by Valero of the transactions contemplated hereby, nor compliance by Valero with any of the terms or provisions of this Agreement, will (A) violate any provision of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, or Amended and Restated By-Laws of Valero or (B) assuming that the consents and approvals referred to in Section 4.2(d) are duly obtained, (1) violate any statute, code, ordinance, rule, regulation, judgment, order, writ, decree or injunction applicable to Valero, any of its Subsidiaries or Non-Subsidiary Affiliates or any of its properties or assets or (2) violate, conflict with, result in a breach of any provision of or the loss of any benefit under, constitute a default (or an event that, with notice or lapse of time, or both, would
constitute a default) under, result in the termination of or a right of termination or cancellation under, accelerate the performance required by, accelerate any right or benefit provided by, or result in the creation of any Lien upon any of the properties or assets of Valero, any of its Subsidiaries or Non-Subsidiary Affiliates under any of the terms, conditions or provisions of any note, bond, mortgage, indenture, deed of trust, license, lease, agreement or other instrument or obligation to which Valero, any of its Subsidiaries or Non-Subsidiary Affiliates is a party, or by which they or any of their properties or assets may be bound or affected, except (in the case of clause (2) above) for such violations, conflicts, breaches or defaults that, either individually or in the aggregate, will not have a Material Adverse Effect on Valero.
 
(d)           . Except for (i) the filing of a notification and report form under the HSR Act and the termination or expiration of the waiting period under the HSR Act, (ii) the Other Approvals, (iii) the filing with the SEC of the Proxy Statement/Prospectus and the Form S-4, (iv) the filing of the Certificate of Merger, (v) any consents, authorizations, approvals, filings or exemptions in connection with compliance with the rules of the NYSE, (vi) such filings and approvals as are required to be made or obtained under the securities or "Blue Sky" laws of various states in connection with the issuance of the shares of Valero Common Stock pursuant to this Agreement and (vii) such other consents, approvals, filings and registrations the failure of which to obtain or make would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect on Valero, no consents or approvals of or filings or registrations with any Governmental Entity are necessary in connection with (A) the execution and delivery by Valero of this Agreement and (B) the consummation by Valero of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
Consents and Approvals
 
(e)           . (i) Valero has filed all required reports, schedules, registration statements and other documents with the SEC since December 31, 2002. The Valero 2004 10-K and all other reports, registration statements, definitive proxy statements or information statements, including any certifications pursuant to Section 302 or Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 or similar certifications, filed or to be filed by Valero or any of its Subsidiaries subsequent to December 31, 2002 under the Securities Act or under Sections 13(a), 13(c), 14 and 15(d) of the Exchange Act, in the form filed, or to be filed (collectively, the ""), with the SEC (A) complied or will comply in all material respects as to form with the applicable requirements under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, as the case may be, and (B) as of its filing date, did not or will not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements made therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; and each of the balance sheets contained in or incorporated by reference into any such Valero SEC Document (including the related notes and schedules thereto) fairly presents or will fairly present the financial position of the entity or entities to which it relates as of its date, and each of the statements of income and changes in stockholders' equity and cash flows or equivalent statements in such Valero SEC Documents (including any related notes and schedules thereto) fairly presents or will fairly present the results of operations, changes in stockholders' equity and changes in cash flows, as the case may be, of the entity or entities to which it relates for the periods to which it relates, in each case in accordance with GAAP consistently applied during the periods involved, except, in each case, as may be noted therein, subject to normal year-end audit adjustments in the case of unaudited statements.
Financial Reports and SEC Documents
Valero SEC Documents
and its Subsidiaries have designed and maintain a system of internal controls over financial reporting (as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) of the Exchange Act) sufficient to provide reasonable assurances regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Valero (A) has designed and maintains disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) of the Exchange Act) to ensure that material information required to be disclosed by Valero in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC's rules and forms and is accumulated and communicated to Valero's management as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure, and (B) has disclosed, based on its most recent evaluation of such disclosure controls and procedures prior to the date of this Agreement, to Valero's auditors and the audit committee of Valero's Board of Directors (1) any significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal controls over financial reporting that are reasonably likely to adversely affect in any material respect Valero's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information and (2) any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in Valero's internal controls over financial reporting. Valero has made available to Premcor a summary of any such disclosure made by management to Valero's auditors and audit committee since January 1, 2003.
(ii)           Valero
and its Subsidiaries have designed and maintain a system of internal controls over financial reporting
 
(f)            . (i) Except for (A) those liabilities that are fully reflected or reserved for in the consolidated financial statements (or notes thereto) of Valero included in the Valero 2004 10-K, as filed with the SEC prior to the date of this Agreement, (B) liabilities incurred since December 31, 2004 in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice, and (C) liabilities that would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect on Valero, Valero and its Subsidiaries do not have, and since December 31, 2004, Valero and its Subsidiaries have not incurred (except as permitted by Section 5.2), any liabilities or obligations of any nature whatsoever (whether accrued, absolute, contingent or otherwise and whether or not required to be reflected in Valero's financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles).
Absence of Undisclosed Liabilities
 
(ii)           Valero has delivered to Premcor complete and correct copies of any and all material documentation creating or governing all securitization transactions and "off-balance sheet arrangements" (as defined in Item 303 of Regulation S-K) effected by Valero or any of its Subsidiaries since December 31, 2002.
 
(iii)          Valero has not, since July 30, 2002, either directly or indirectly, including through any Subsidiary or Affiliate, extended credit, arranged for the extension of credit or renewed any extension of credit, in the form of a personal loan to or for any director or executive officer (or equivalent thereof) of Valero. Section 4.2(f)(iii) of the Valero Disclosure Schedule describes any loan or extension of credit maintained by Valero to which the second sentence of Section 13(k)(1) of the Exchange Act applies.
 
(g)           . (i) Since December 31, 2004, except as set forth in Valero SEC Documents filed since December 31, 2004 and prior to the date
Absence of Certain Changes or Events
of this Agreement, no event or events have occurred that has had or would reasonably be expected to have, either individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on Valero.
 
(ii)           Since December 31, 2004, Valero and its Subsidiaries have carried on their respective businesses in all material respects in the ordinary course.
 
(iii)          Since December 31, 2004, Valero has not declared any dividends on Valero Common Stock of Valero Convertible Preferred Stock other than its regular quarterly dividends.
 
(h)           . There is no suit, action or proceeding or investigation pending or, to the knowledge of Valero, threatened, against or affecting Valero or any of its Subsidiaries that would, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect on Valero, nor is there any judgment, decree, injunction, rule or order of any Governmental Entity or arbitrator outstanding against Valero or its Subsidiaries that, individually or in the aggregate, would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect on Valero.
Legal Proceedings
 
(i)            . Valero and each of its Subsidiaries hold all licenses, franchises, permits and authorizations necessary for the lawful conduct of their respective businesses under and pursuant to each, and have complied in all respects with and are not in default under any, applicable law, statute, order, rule or regulation of any Governmental Entity relating to Valero or any of its Subsidiaries, except where the failure to hold such license, franchise, permit or authorization or such noncompliance or default would not, either individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect on Valero.
Compliance with Applicable Law
 
(j)            . There are no legal, administrative, arbitral or other proceedings, claims, actions, causes of action, private environmental investigations or remediation activities or governmental investigations of any nature seeking to impose, or that could reasonably result in the imposition of, on Valero, any liability or obligation arising under common law or under any local, state, federal or foreign environmental statute, regulation or ordinance including CERCLA, pending or threatened in writing against Valero, which liability or obligation, either individually or in the aggregate, would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect on Valero. Valero is not subject to any agreement, order, judgment, decree, letter or memorandum by or with any Governmental Entity or third party imposing any liability or obligation with respect to the foregoing that, either individually or in the aggregate, would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect on Valero.
Environmental Liability
 
(k)           . (i) There does not now exist, and to the knowledge of Valero, there are no existing circumstances that could reasonably be expected to result in, any Controlled Group Liability to Valero or any of its Subsidiaries that, individually or in the aggregate, would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect on Valero.
Employee Benefit Plans; Labor Matters
 
(ii)           Except as would not reasonably be expected, individually or in the aggregate, to have a Material Adverse Effect on Valero, (A) each of the Valero Benefit Plans
has been operated and administered in all material respects in accordance with applicable law and administrative rules and regulations of any Governmental Entity, including, but not limited to, ERISA and the Code, and (B) there are no pending or threatened claims (other than claims for benefits in the ordinary course), lawsuits or arbitrations that have been asserted or instituted, and, to the knowledge of Valero, no set of circumstances exists that may reasonably give rise to a claim or lawsuit, against the Valero Benefit Plans, any fiduciaries thereof with respect to their duties to the Valero Benefit Plans or the assets of any of the trusts under any of the Valero Benefit Plans that could reasonably be expected to result in any material liability of Valero or any of its Subsidiaries to the PBGC, the U.S. Department of the Treasury, the U.S. Department of Labor, any Valero Benefit Plan, any participant in a Valero Benefit Plan, or any other party.
 
(iii)          Except as would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect on Valero, (A) there is no labor dispute, strike, slowdown or work stoppage against Valero or any Subsidiary of Valero pending or, to the knowledge of Valero, threatened against Valero or any Subsidiary of Valero and (B) no unfair labor practice or labor charge or complaint has occurred with respect to Valero or any Subsidiary of Valero.
 
(l)            . (i) The Board of Directors of Valero has approved this Agreement and the transactions contemplated by this Agreement as required under Section 203 of the DGCL and any other applicable state takeover laws so that any such state takeover laws will not apply to this Agreement or any of the transactions contemplated hereby.
State Takeover Laws; Rights Plan
 
(ii)           Valero has taken all action, if any, necessary or appropriate so that the entering into of this Agreement, and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, do not and will not result in the ability of any person to exercise any Valero Rights under the Valero Rights Agreement or enable or require the Valero Rights to separate from the shares of Valero Common Stock to which they are attached or to be triggered or become exercisable. No "Distribution Date" or "Shares Acquisition Date" (as such terms are defined in the Valero Rights Agreement) has occurred.
 
(m)          . Valero has received the opinion of Lehman Brothers Inc., dated the date of this Agreement, to the effect that the Merger Consideration is fair to Valero from a financial point of view.
Opinion of Financial Advisor
 
(n)           . The Board of Directors of Valero, at a meeting duly called and held, has by unanimous vote of those directors present approved and adopted this Agreement.
Board Approval
 
(o)           . Neither Valero nor any of its Subsidiaries nor any of its respective officers or directors has employed any broker or finder or incurred any liability for any broker's fees, commissions or finder's fees in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, excluding fees to be paid to Lehman Brothers Inc.
Broker's Fees
 
. (i) Except as would not reasonably be expected, individually or in the aggregate, to have a Material Adverse Effect on Valero, (A) Valero and each of its Subsidiaries has duly and timely filed all Tax Returns required to be filed by it, and all such Tax Returns are true, complete and accurate in all respects; (B) Valero and each of its Subsidiaries has paid all Taxes required to be paid by it, and has paid all Taxes that it was required to withhold from amounts owing to any employee, creditor, independent contractor, stockholder or third party; (C) there are no pending or, to the knowledge of Valero, threatened audits, examinations, investigations, deficiencies, claims or other proceedings in respect of Taxes relating to Valero or any Subsidiary of Valero; (D) there are no liens for Taxes upon the assets of Valero or any Subsidiary of Valero, other than liens for current Taxes not yet due and liens for Taxes that are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and for which adequate reserves have been established in accordance with GAAP; (E) neither Valero nor any of its Subsidiaries has requested any extension of time within which to file any Tax Returns in respect of any taxable year that have not subsequently been filed when due (pursuant to such extension), nor provided or been requested to provide any waivers of the time to assess any Taxes that are pending or outstanding; (F) the consolidated federal income Tax Returns of Valero have been examined, or the statute of limitations has closed, with respect to all taxable years through and including July 31, 1997; (G) neither Valero nor any of its Subsidiaries has any liability for Taxes of any Person (other than Valero and its Subsidiaries) under Treasury Regulation Section 1.1502-6 (or any comparable provision of state, local or foreign law); and (H) neither Valero nor any Subsidiary of Valero is a party to any agreement (with any Person other than Valero and/or any of its Subsidiaries) relating to the allocation or sharing of Taxes that is currently in force.
(p)
                                
Taxes
 
Valero has not constituted either a "distributing corporation" or a "controlled corporation" within the meaning of Section 355(a)(1)(A) of the Code in a distribution of stock intended to qualify under Section 355(a) of the Code (A) in the two years prior to the date of this Agreement (or will constitute such a corporation in the two years prior to the Closing Date) or (B) in a distribution that otherwise constitutes part of a "plan" or "series of related transactions" within the meaning of Section 355(e) of the Code in conjunction with the Merger.
(ii)
                                 
 
None of Valero nor any of its Subsidiaries has participated in a "reportable transaction" within the meaning of Section 6011 of the Code and the Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder.
(iii)
                              
 
. As of the date of this Agreement, neither Valero nor any of its Subsidiaries has taken any action or knows of any fact that would reasonably be expected to prevent the Merger from qualifying as a "reorganization" within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Code.
(q)
                                
Reorganization under the Code
 
. None of the information to be supplied by Valero or its Subsidiaries in the Form S-4 or the Proxy Statement/Prospectus will, at the time of the mailing of the Proxy Statement/Prospectus and any amendments or supplements thereto, and at the time of the Premcor Stockholders Meeting, contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they are made, not misleading. The Proxy Statement/Prospectus will comply, as of its mailing date, as to form in all
(r)
                                   
Form S-4; Proxy Statement/Prospectus
respects with all applicable laws, including the provisions of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, except that no representation is made by Valero with respect to information supplied by Premcor for inclusion therein.
material
 
. Valero will have available on the Closing Date sufficient funds to enable it to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
(s)
                                 
Financing
 
ARTICLE V
 
COVENANTS RELATING TO CONDUCT OF BUSINESS
 
. During the period from the date of this Agreement and continuing until the Effective Time, Premcor agrees as to itself and its Subsidiaries that (unless Valero shall otherwise agree in writing and except as expressly contemplated or permitted by this Agreement or a correspondingly numbered subsection of the Premcor Disclosure Schedule):
5.1
                                
Covenants of Premcor
 
. (i) Premcor and its Subsidiaries shall carry on their respective businesses in the ordinary course consistent with past practices in all material respects, in substantially the same manner as heretofore conducted, and shall use their reasonable best efforts consistent with the other provisions of this Agreement to keep available the services of their respective present officers and key employees, preserve intact their present lines of business, maintain their rights and franchises and preserve their relationships with customers, suppliers and others having business dealings with them to the end that their ongoing businesses shall not be impaired in any material respect at the Effective Time.
(a)
                                 
Ordinary Course
 
Premcor shall not, and shall not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, (A) enter into any new material line of business or (B) without the prior written consent of Valero, which will not be unreasonably withheld, incur or commit to any capital expenditures or any obligations or liabilities in connection therewith, other than any capital expenditures or obligations or liabilities in connection therewith set forth in the 2005 capital budget approved by the Premcor Board and previously disclosed to Valero to the extent occurring in all material respects at the times, and not exceeding 110% of the amounts, set forth for such capital expenditures in such budgets.
(ii)
                                 
 
. Premcor shall not, and shall not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, and shall not propose to, (i) declare or pay any dividends on or make other distributions in respect of any of its capital stock, except (A) subject to Section 6.14, the declaration and payment of regular quarterly cash dividends on Premcor Common Stock at an amount per share not to exceed $0.02 with usual record and payment dates for such dividends in accordance with Premcor's past dividend practices, or (B) the declaration and payment of regular dividends from a wholly owned Subsidiary of Premcor to Premcor or to another wholly owned Subsidiary of Premcor in accordance with past dividend practice, (ii) split, combine or reclassify any of its capital stock or issue or authorize or propose the issuance of any other securities in respect of, in lieu of or in substitution for, shares of its capital stock, except for any such transaction by a wholly owned Subsidiary of Premcor that remains a wholly owned Subsidiary after consummation of such transaction, or (iii) repurchase, redeem or otherwise
(b)
                                
Dividends; Changes in Share Capital
any shares of its capital stock or any securities convertible into or exercisable for any shares of its capital stock.
acquire
 
. Premcor shall not, and shall not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, issue, deliver, sell, pledge or dispose of, or authorize or propose the issuance, delivery, sale, pledge or disposition of, any shares of its capital stock of any class, any Voting Debt or any securities convertible into or exercisable for, or any rights, warrants, calls or options to acquire, any such shares or Voting Debt, or enter into any commitment, arrangement, undertaking or agreement with respect to any of the foregoing, other than (i) the issuance of Premcor Common Stock upon the exercise of Premcor Stock Options outstanding as of the date of this Agreement in accordance with their present terms, or (ii) issuances, sales or deliveries by a wholly owned Subsidiary of Premcor of capital stock to such Subsidiary's parent or another wholly owned Subsidiary of Premcor.
(c)
                                 
Issuance of Securities
 
. Except to the extent required to comply with its obligations under this Agreement or with applicable law, Premcor shall not and shall cause each of its Subsidiaries not to amend or propose to so amend its certificate of incorporation or by-laws or similar organizational documents.
(d)
                                
Governing Documents
 
. Premcor shall not, and shall not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, acquire or agree to acquire by merger or consolidation, or by purchasing a substantial equity interest in or a substantial portion of the assets of, or by any other manner, any business or any corporation, partnership, association or other business organization or division thereof or otherwise acquire or agree to acquire any assets (excluding the acquisition of assets used in the operations of the business of Premcor and its Subsidiaries in the ordinary course, which assets do not constitute a business unit, division or all or substantially all of the assets of the transferor and which acquisitions are in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice).
(e)
                                 
No Acquisitions
 
. Premcor shall not, and shall not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, sell, lease or otherwise dispose of, or agree to sell, lease or otherwise dispose of, any of its assets (including capital stock of Subsidiaries of Premcor) other than, in the case of assets other than capital stock of its Subsidiaries, in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice.
(f)
                                   
No Dispositions
 
. Premcor shall not, and shall not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, (i) make any loans, advances or capital contributions to, or investments in, any other Person, other than (A) loans or investments by Premcor or a wholly owned Subsidiary of Premcor to or in Premcor or any wholly owned Subsidiary of Premcor, (B) in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice that are not, individually or in the aggregate, material to Premcor and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole, or (C) any future earn-out payments required to be made by Premcor to (1) Motiva Enterprises LLC with respect to Premcor's acquisition of its Delaware City refinery or (2) The Williams Companies and certain of its subsidiaries with respect to Premcor's acquisition of its Memphis refinery, in each case pursuant to the agreements in effect on the date of this Agreement providing for the acquisition of such refineries and previously disclosed to Valero ( that none of such transactions referred to in this clause (i) individually or in the aggregate with all other such transactions presents a
(g)
                                
Investments; Indebtedness
provided
material risk of making it more difficult to obtain any approval or authorization required in connection with the Merger under Regulatory Law) or (ii) except for (A) indebtedness incurred in the ordinary course of business under the Premcor Credit Agreement or (B) letters of credit issued under the Amended and Restated Letter of Credit Reimbursement Agreement, dated as of June 1, 2004 by and between PRG and Fleet National Bank or the $100,000,000 Letter of Credit Agreement, dated as of February 3, 2005, among PRG and the lenders party thereto, incur any indebtedness for borrowed money or guarantee any such indebtedness of another Person, issue or sell any debt securities or warrants or other rights to acquire any debt securities of Premcor or any of its Subsidiaries, guarantee any debt securities of another person, enter into any "keep well" or other agreement to maintain any financial statement condition of another Person (other than any wholly owned Subsidiary) or enter into any arrangement having the economic effect of any of the foregoing (collectively, "").
Premcor Indebtedness
 
. Premcor shall use its reasonable best efforts not to, and shall use its reasonable best efforts not to permit any of its Subsidiaries to, take any action (including any action otherwise permitted by this Section 5.1), or fail to take any action, in each case that would reasonably be expected to prevent the Merger from qualifying as a "reorganization" within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Code.
(h)
                                
Tax-Free Qualification
 
. Except as required by law or by the terms of any collective bargaining agreement or other agreement currently in effect between Premcor or any Subsidiary of Premcor and any director, officer or employee thereof, Premcor shall not and shall not permit its Subsidiaries to (i) increase the amount of compensation of, or pay any severance to, any director or employee of Premcor or any of its Subsidiaries or business units (except for regularly scheduled annual increases in base salary to employees who are not directors, officers or key employees of the foregoing entities), (ii) make any increase in or commitment to increase any employee benefits, (iii) grant any additional Premcor Stock Options or other equity-based awards, (iv) adopt, enter into or amend, make any commitment to adopt, enter into or amend, or take any action to clarify any provision of, any Benefit Plan, (v) fund or make any contribution to any Premcor Benefit Plan or any related trust or other funding vehicles, other than regularly scheduled contributions to trusts funding qualified plans, or (vi) adopt, enter into or amend any collective bargaining agreement or other arrangement relating to union or organized employees.
(i)
                                    
Compensation
 
. Premcor shall not change in any material respect its methods of accounting in effect at December 31, 2004, except as required by a Governmental Entity or changes in GAAP as concurred in by Premcor's independent public accountants. Premcor shall not (i) change its fiscal year or any method of tax accounting, (ii) make any Tax election, or (iii) settle or compromise any liability for Taxes, except in each case for any such actions that, individually or in the aggregate, would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect on Premcor or as required by law.
(j)
                                    
Accounting Methods; Tax Elections
 
. Premcor and its Subsidiaries shall not take any action or omit to take any action that would reasonably be expected to prevent or materially delay or impede the consummation of the Merger or the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement ( that the foregoing shall not be construed to limit Premcor's ability to exercise its rights under this Agreement) or enter into any contract, arrangement, commitment or understanding (whether written or oral) that would be a Premcor Contract or,
(k)
                                 
Certain Actions
provided
,
however
,
in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice, terminate, extend, amend or modify any material provision of, or waive any material rights under, any Premcor Contract.
except
 
. Premcor shall not, and shall not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, agree or commit to do any of the foregoing.
(l)
                                    
No Related Actions
 
. During the period from the date of this Agreement and continuing until the Effective Time, Valero agrees as to itself and its Subsidiaries that (unless Premcor shall otherwise agree in writing and except as expressly contemplated or permitted by this Agreement or a correspondingly numbered subsection of the Valero Disclosure Schedule):
5.2
                                
Covenants of Valero
 
. Valero and its Subsidiaries shall carry on their respective businesses in the ordinary course consistent with past practices in all material respects, in substantially the same manner as heretofore conducted, and shall use their reasonable best efforts consistent with the other provisions of this Agreement to preserve intact their present lines of business, maintain their rights and franchises and preserve their relationships with customers, suppliers and others having business dealings with them to the end that their ongoing businesses shall not be impaired in any material respect at the Effective Time.
(a)
                                 
Ordinary Course
 
. Valero shall not, and shall not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, and shall not propose to, (i) declare or pay any dividends on or make other distributions in respect of any of its capital stock, except (A) the declaration and payment of regular quarterly cash dividends with usual record and payment dates for such dividends in accordance with past dividend practice and (B) the declaration and payment of regular dividends from a Subsidiary of Valero to Valero or to another Subsidiary of Valero in accordance with past dividend practice or (ii) split, combine or reclassify any of its capital stock or issue or authorize or propose the issuance of any other securities in respect of, in lieu of or in substitution for, shares of its capital stock, except for any such transaction by a wholly owned Subsidiary of Valero that remains a wholly owned Subsidiary after consummation of such transaction.
(b)
                                
Dividends; Changes in Share Capital
 
. Except to the extent required to comply with their respective obligations under this Agreement or with applicable law, Valero shall not amend or propose to so amend its certificate of incorporation or by-laws.
(c)
                                 
Governing Documents
 
. Valero shall use its reasonable best efforts not to, and shall use its reasonable best efforts not to permit any of its Subsidiaries to, take any action (including any action otherwise permitted by this Section 5.2), or fail to take any action, in each case that would reasonably be expected to prevent the Merger from qualifying as a "reorganization" within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Code.
(d)
                                
Tax-Free Qualification
 
. Valero and its Subsidiaries shall not take any action (including, without limitation, any acquisition transaction) or omit to take any action that would reasonably be expected to prevent or materially delay or impede the consummation of the Merger or the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement; , , that the
(e)
                                 
Certain Actions
provided
however
shall not be construed to limit Valero's ability to exercise its rights under this Agreement.
foregoing
 
. Valero shall not, and shall not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, agree or commit to do any of the foregoing.
(f)
                                   
No Related Actions
 
. Premcor and Valero shall (A) confer on a reasonable basis with each other and (B) report to each other (to the extent permitted by law or regulation or any applicable confidentiality agreement) on operational matters. Premcor and Valero shall file all reports required to be filed by each of them with the SEC (and all other Governmental Entities) between the date of this Agreement and the Effective Time and shall, if requested by the other, and, to the extent permitted by law or regulation or any applicable confidentiality agreement, deliver to the other party copies of all such reports, announcements and publications promptly upon request.
5.3
                                
Governmental Filings
 
. Nothing contained in this Agreement shall give Premcor, directly or indirectly, the right to control or direct Valero's operations, or give Valero, directly or indirectly, the right to control or direct Premcor's operations prior to the Effective Time. Prior to the Effective Time, each of Premcor and Valero shall exercise, consistent with the terms and conditions of this Agreement, complete control and supervision over its respective operations.
5.4
                                
Control of Other Party's Business
 
ARTICLE VI
 
ADDITIONAL AGREEMENTS
 
. (a) As promptly as reasonably practicable following the date of this Agreement, Valero and Premcor shall cooperate in preparing and each shall cause to be filed with the SEC mutually acceptable proxy materials that shall constitute the Proxy Statement/Prospectus and Valero shall prepare and file with the SEC the Form S-4. The Proxy Statement/Prospectus will be included as a prospectus in and will constitute a part of the Form S-4 as Valero's prospectus. Each of Valero and Premcor shall use reasonable best efforts to have the Proxy Statement/Prospectus cleared by the SEC and the Form S-4 declared effective by the SEC and to keep the Form S-4 effective as long as is necessary to consummate the Merger and the transactions contemplated hereby. Valero and Premcor shall, as promptly as practicable after receipt thereof, provide each other with copies of any written comments, and advise each other of any oral comments, with respect to the Proxy Statement/Prospectus or Form S-4 received from the SEC. The parties shall cooperate and provide the other party with a reasonable opportunity to review and comment on any amendment or supplement to the Proxy Statement/Prospectus and the Form S-4 prior to filing such with the SEC and will provide each other with a copy of all such filings made with the SEC. Notwithstanding any other provision herein to the contrary, no amendment or supplement (including by incorporation by reference) to the Proxy Statement/Prospectus or the Form S-4 shall be made without the approval of both Valero and Premcor, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed; that, with respect to documents filed by a party that are incorporated by reference in the Form S-4 or Proxy Statement/Prospectus, this right of approval shall apply only with respect to information relating to the transactions contemplated
6.1
                                
Preparation of Proxy Statement; Stockholders Meeting
provided
or to the other party or its business, financial condition or results of operations. Premcor will use reasonable best efforts to cause the Proxy Statement/Prospectus to be mailed to Premcor stockholders as promptly as practicable after the Form S-4 is declared effective under the Securities Act. Each party will advise the other party, promptly after it receives notice thereof, of the time when the Form S-4 has become effective, the issuance of any stop order, the suspension of the qualification of the Valero Common Stock issuable in connection with the Merger for offering or sale in any jurisdiction, or any request by the SEC for amendment of the Proxy Statement/Prospectus or the Form S-4. If, at any time prior to the Effective Time, any information relating to Valero or Premcor, or any of their respective Affiliates, officers or directors, is discovered by Valero or Premcor and such information should be set forth in an amendment or supplement to any of the Form S-4 or the Proxy Statement/Prospectus so that any of such documents would not include any misstatement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, the party discovering such information shall promptly notify the other party and, to the extent required by law, rules or regulations, an appropriate amendment or supplement describing such information shall be promptly filed with the SEC and disseminated to the stockholders of Premcor.
hereby
 
Premcor shall duly call and give notice of the Premcor Stockholders Meeting for the purpose of obtaining the Premcor Stockholder Approval and such other matters as the Board of Directors of Premcor may direct, and shall use its reasonable best efforts to cause the Premcor Stockholders Meeting to occur as soon as reasonably practicable. The Board of Directors of Premcor shall use its reasonable best efforts to obtain the Premcor Stockholder Approval.
(b)
                                
 
. Upon reasonable notice, each party shall (and shall cause its Subsidiaries to) afford to the officers, employees, accountants, counsel, financial advisors and other representatives of the other party reasonable access during normal business hours, during the period prior to the Effective Time, to all its properties, books, contracts, commitments, records, officers and employees and, during such period, such party shall (and shall cause its Subsidiaries to) furnish promptly to the other party (a) a copy of each report, schedule, registration statement and other document filed, published, announced or received by it during such period pursuant to the requirements of federal or state securities laws or the HSR Act, as applicable (other than documents that such party is not permitted to disclose under applicable law), and (b) all other information concerning it and its business, properties and personnel as such other party may reasonably request; , , that either party may restrict the foregoing access to the extent that any law, treaty, rule or regulation of any Governmental Entity applicable to such party or any contract requires such party or its Subsidiaries to restrict or prohibit access to any such properties or information. The parties will hold any information obtained pursuant to this Section 6.2 in confidence in accordance with, and shall otherwise be subject to, the provisions of the confidentiality agreement dated March 22, 2005, between Premcor and Valero (the ""), which Confidentiality Agreement shall continue in full force and effect. Any investigation by either Valero or Premcor shall not affect the representations and warranties of the other.
6.2
                                
Access to Information
provided
however
Confidentiality Agreement
 
. (a) Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, each party will use its reasonable best efforts to take, or cause to be taken, all
6.3
                                
Reasonable Best Efforts
actions, and do, or cause to be done, all things necessary, proper or advisable under this Agreement and applicable laws and regulations to consummate the Merger and the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement as soon as practicable after the date of this Agreement, including (i) preparing and filing as promptly as practicable all documentation to effect all necessary applications, notices, petitions, filings, and other documents and to obtain as promptly as practicable all Necessary Consents and all other consents, waivers, licenses, orders, registrations, approvals, permits, rulings, authorizations and clearances necessary or advisable to be obtained from any third party and/or any Governmental Entity in order to consummate the Merger or any of the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement (collectively, the "") and (ii) taking all reasonable steps as may be necessary to obtain all such Necessary Consents and the Required Approvals. In furtherance and not in limitation of the foregoing, each of Valero and Premcor agrees (i) to make (A) as promptly as practicable, but in any event prior to May 9, 2005, an appropriate filing of a Notification and Report Form pursuant to the HSR Act with respect to the transactions contemplated hereby, and (B) as promptly as practicable all other necessary filings with other Governmental Entities relating to the Merger, and to supply as promptly as practicable any additional information or documentation that may be requested pursuant to such laws or by such authorities and to use reasonable best efforts to cause the expiration or termination of the applicable waiting periods under the HSR Act and the receipt of Required Approvals under such other laws or from such authorities as soon as practicable and (ii) not to extend any waiting period under the HSR Act or enter into any agreement with the FTC or the DOJ not to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, except with the prior written consent of the other party (which shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed). Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, neither Valero nor Premcor nor any of their respective Subsidiaries shall be required (1) to hold separate (including by trust or otherwise) or to divest, or agree to hold separate or divest, any of their respective businesses or assets (including, without limitation, any refinery or related assets) or any interest therein, or (2) to take or agree to take any other action or agree to any limitation, restriction or condition that could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect on Valero or Premcor or substantially impair the benefits to Valero expected, as of the date of this Agreement, to be realized from consummation of the Merger, and neither Valero nor Premcor shall be required to agree to take any action that is not conditional on the consummation of the Merger.
Required Approvals
 
Each of Premcor and Valero shall, in connection with the efforts referenced in Section 6.3(a) to obtain all Required Approvals, use its reasonable best efforts, but in any event subject to applicable law, to (i) cooperate in all respects with each other in connection with any filing or submission and in connection with any investigation or other inquiry, including any proceeding initiated by a private party, (ii) subject to applicable law, permit the other party to review in advance any proposed written communication between it and any Governmental Entity, (iii) promptly inform each other of (and, at the other party's reasonable request, supply to such other party) any communication (or other correspondence or memoranda) received by such party from, or given by such party to, the DOJ, the FTC or any other Governmental Entity and of any material communication received or given in connection with any proceeding by a private party, in each case regarding any of the transactions contemplated hereby, and (iv) consult with each other in advance to the extent practicable of any meeting or conference with the DOJ, the FTC or any other Governmental Entity or, in connection with any proceeding by a private party, with any other Person, and to the extent
(b)
                                
by the DOJ, the FTC or such other applicable Governmental Entity or other Person, give the other party the opportunity to attend and participate in such meetings and conferences.
permitted
 
In furtherance and not in limitation of the covenants of the parties contained in Sections 6.3(a) and 6.3(b), if any administrative or judicial action or proceeding, including any proceeding by a private party, is instituted (or threatened to be instituted) challenging any transaction contemplated by this Agreement as violative of any regulatory law, or if any statute, rule, regulation, executive order, decree, injunction or administrative order is enacted, entered, promulgated or enforced by a Governmental Entity that would make the Merger or the other transactions contemplated hereby illegal or would otherwise prohibit or materially impair or delay the consummation of the Merger or the other transactions contemplated hereby, each of Premcor and Valero shall cooperate in all respects with each other and use its respective reasonable best efforts to contest and resist any such action or proceeding and to have vacated, lifted, reversed or overturned any decree, judgment, injunction or other order, whether temporary, preliminary or permanent, that is in effect and that prohibits, prevents or restricts consummation of the Merger or the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement and to have such statute, rule, regulation, executive order, decree, injunction or administrative order repealed, rescinded or made inapplicable so as to permit consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement. Notwithstanding the foregoing or any other provision of this Agreement, nothing in this Section 6.3 shall limit a party's right to terminate this Agreement pursuant to Section 8.1(b) or 8.1(c) so long as such party has up to then complied with its obligations under this Section 6.3.
(c)
                                 
 
Each of Valero and Premcor and their respective Boards of Directors shall, if any state takeover statute or similar statute becomes applicable to this Agreement, the Merger or any other transactions contemplated hereby, take all action reasonably necessary to ensure that the Merger and the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement may be consummated as promptly as practicable on the terms contemplated hereby and otherwise to minimize the effect of such statute or regulation on this Agreement, the Merger and the other transactions contemplated hereby.
(d)
                                
 
. (a) Premcor agrees that neither it nor any of its Subsidiaries nor any of its and its Subsidiaries' directors, officers and Affiliates shall, and that it shall use its reasonable best efforts to cause its and its Subsidiaries' employees, agents and representatives (including any investment banker, attorney or accountant retained by it or any of its Subsidiaries, "Representatives") not to, directly or indirectly, (i) initiate, solicit, encourage or knowingly facilitate inquiries or proposals with respect to, (ii) engage or participate in any negotiations concerning, or (iii) provide any confidential or nonpublic information or data to, or have or participate in any discussions with, any Person relating to, any Acquisition Proposal; that, in the event that, following the date of this Agreement, Premcor receives an unsolicited bona fide written Acquisition Proposal not in breach of this Section 6.4, Premcor may, and may permit its Subsidiaries and its and its Subsidiaries' Representatives to, furnish or cause to be furnished nonpublic information or data and participate in such negotiations or discussions to the extent that the Board of Directors of Premcor concludes in good faith (after receiving the advice of its outside counsel) that failure to take such actions would result in a violation of its fiduciary duties under applicable law; that, prior to providing any nonpublic information permitted to be provided pursuant to the foregoing proviso, Premcor
6.4
                                
Acquisition Proposals
provided
provided
further
have entered into a confidentiality agreement with such third party on terms no less favorable to it than the Confidentiality Agreement. Premcor shall immediately cease and cause to be terminated any activities, discussions or negotiations conducted before the date of this Agreement with any Persons other than Valero, with respect to any Acquisition Proposal. Premcor will promptly (within one day) advise Valero in writing following receipt of any Acquisition Proposal or any inquiry that could reasonably be expected to lead to an Acquisition Proposal, and shall keep Valero fully informed of the substance thereof (including the identity of the Person making such Acquisition Proposal and material terms thereof), and will keep Valero apprised of any related developments, discussions and negotiations on a current basis. Premcor shall use its reasonable best efforts to enforce any confidentiality or standstill agreements to which it or any of its Subsidiaries is a party in accordance with the terms thereof. Premcor agrees to promptly inform its Subsidiaries, Affiliates, directors, officers, employees, agents and Representatives of the obligations undertaken in this Section 6.4. Nothing in this Section 6.4 shall (A) permit Premcor to terminate this Agreement or (B) affect or limit any other obligation of Valero or Premcor under this Agreement.
shall
 
Nothing contained in this Agreement shall prevent Premcor or its Board of Directors from complying with Rule 14d-9 and Rule 14e-2 under the Exchange Act with respect to an Acquisition Proposal; , that such Rules will in no way eliminate or modify the effect that any action pursuant to such Rules would otherwise have under this Agreement.
(b)
                                
provided
 
. Subject to Section 8.2, whether or not the Merger is consummated, all Expenses incurred in connection with this Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereby shall be paid by the party incurring such Expenses, except Expenses incurred in connection with the filing, printing and mailing of the Proxy Statement/Prospectus and Form S-4, which shall be shared equally by Valero and Premcor.
6.5
                                
Fees and Expenses
 
. Following the Effective Time, Valero shall (i) indemnify and hold harmless, and provide advancement of expenses to, all past and present directors, officers and employees of Premcor and its Subsidiaries (in all of their capacities) (A) to the same extent such persons are indemnified or have the right to advancement of expenses as of the date of this Agreement by Premcor pursuant to Premcor's Certificate of Incorporation, By-laws and indemnification agreements, if any, in existence on the date of this Agreement with, or for the benefit of, any directors, officers and employees of Premcor and its Subsidiaries and (B) without limitation to clause (A), to the fullest extent permitted by law, in each case for acts or omissions occurring at or prior to the Effective Time (including for acts or omissions occurring in connection with the approval of this Agreement and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby), (ii) include and cause to be maintained in effect in the Surviving Corporation's (or any successor to the business of the Surviving Corporation) certificate of incorporation and by-laws for a period of six years after the Effective Time, provisions regarding elimination of liability of directors, indemnification of officers, directors and employees and advancement of expenses that are, in the aggregate, no less advantageous to the intended beneficiaries than the corresponding provisions contained in the current Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and the Amended and Restated By-laws of Premcor and (iii) cause to be maintained by the Surviving Corporation (or any successor to the business of the Surviving Corporation) for a period of six years after the Effective Time the current policies of directors' and officers' liability insurance
6.6
                                
Directors' and Officers' Indemnification and Insurance
and fiduciary liability insurance maintained by Premcor ( that Valero (or any such successor) may substitute therefor one or more policies of at least the same coverage and amounts containing terms and conditions that are, in the aggregate, no less advantageous to the insured) with respect to claims arising from facts or events that occurred on or before the Effective Time; , , that in no event shall Valero (or any such successor) be required to expend in any one year an amount in excess of 200% of the annual premiums currently paid by Premcor for such insurance; and, that if the annual premiums of such insurance coverage exceed such amount, Valero (or any such successor) shall obtain a policy with the greatest coverage available for a cost not exceeding such amount. The obligations of Valero (or any such successor) under this Section 6.6 shall not be terminated or modified following the Effective Time in such a manner as to adversely affect any indemnitee to whom this Section 6.6 applies without the consent of such affected indemnitee (it being expressly agreed that the indemnitees to whom this Section 6.6 applies and their respective heirs and other representatives shall be third-party beneficiaries of, and entitled to enforce, this Section 6.6).
provided
provided
however
provided
further,
 
. (a) Following the Effective Time until December 31, 2006 (such period referred to herein as the "), except as otherwise provided in this Section 6.7, Valero shall provide, or shall cause to be provided, to individuals who are employees of Premcor and its Subsidiaries immediately before the Effective Time and who continue to be employed by Valero and its Subsidiaries after the Effective Time (other than those covered by a collective bargaining agreement) (the "") compensation and employee benefits (other than compensation and benefits under any Premcor Stock Plans) that are, in the aggregate, not less favorable than those generally provided to Premcor Employees as of the date of this Agreement, as disclosed by Premcor to Valero immediately prior to the date of this Agreement. After the expiration of the Benefit Protection Period, Valero shall provide, or cause to be provided, to Premcor Employees compensation and employee benefit plans and programs that are, in the aggregate, not less favorable than those generally provided to other similarly situated employees of Valero and its Subsidiaries. After the Effective Time, the equity-based benefits to be provided to an eligible Premcor Employee shall be pursuant to the equity-based benefit plans and programs provided to similarly situated employees of Valero and its Subsidiaries.  Nothing contained herein shall be construed to prevent the termination of employment of any Premcor Employee; , , that in the event of a qualifying termination (which shall not include a termination for cause or voluntary resignation) of any Premcor Employee during the Benefit Protection Period, Valero shall provide, or cause to be provided, to such terminated Premcor Employee severance benefits that are not less than the amount of severance benefits that would have been payable under the terms of the Premcor severance plan or policy attached to Section 6.7(a) of the Premcor Disclosure Schedule as in effect as of the date of this Agreement that is applicable to any such Premcor Employee, subject to such Premcor Employee's execution of a release of claims in the form regularly used by Valero with respect to similarly situated employees and the expiration of any applicable revocation period.
6.7
                                
Employee Benefits
Benefit Protection Period"
Premcor Employees
provided
however
 
For all purposes under the employee benefit plans of Valero and its Subsidiaries providing benefits to any Premcor Employee after the Effective Time (the ""), each Premcor Employee shall be credited with his or her years of service with Premcor and its Subsidiaries and predecessor employers before the Effective Time, to the same extent as such Premcor Employee was entitled, before the Effective Time, to credit for such service under
(b)
                                
New Plans
similar Premcor Benefit Plans, except (i) to the extent such credit would result in a duplication of benefits and (ii) for credit for benefit accrual purposes under any defined benefit pension plan and any retiree medical plan.  In addition, and without limiting the generality of the foregoing: (i) each Premcor Employee shall be immediately eligible to participate, without any waiting time, in any and all New Plans to the extent coverage under such New Plan replaces coverage under a Premcor Benefit Plan in which such Premcor Employee participated immediately before the Effective Time (such plans, collectively, the ""); and (ii) for purposes of each New Plan providing medical, dental, pharmaceutical and/or vision benefits to any Premcor Employee, Valero shall cause all pre-existing condition exclusions and actively-at-work requirements of such New Plan to be waived for such employee and his or her covered dependents, and Valero shall cause any eligible expenses incurred by such employee and his or her covered dependents during the portion of the plan year of the Old Plan ending on the date such employee's participation in the corresponding New Plan begins to be taken into account under such New Plan for purposes of satisfying all deductible, coinsurance and maximum out-of-pocket requirements applicable to such employee and his or her covered dependents for the applicable plan year as if such amounts had been paid in accordance with such New Plan.
any
Old Plans
 
Valero will honor, in accordance with their terms, all vested and accrued benefit obligations to, and contractual rights of, current and former employees of Premcor and its Subsidiaries to the extent that they are disclosed on Premcor's Disclosure Schedules.  Nothing in this Agreement shall be interpreted as preventing Valero from amending, modifying or terminating any Premcor Benefit Plan or other contract, arrangement, commitment or understanding, in accordance with its terms and applicable law.
(c)
                                 
 
Valero hereby acknowledges that a "change of control" within the meaning of (i) each Premcor Stock Plan with respect to Premcor Stock Options outstanding on the date of this Agreement and (ii) the Premcor agreements in effect on the date of this Agreement and listed on Section 6.7(d) of the Premcor Disclosure Schedule will occur on the Effective Time.
(d)
                                
 
Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, Premcor Employees who are covered under a collective bargaining agreement shall be provided the benefits that are required by such collective bargaining agreement from time to time.
(e)
                                 
 
Premcor and Valero will cooperate in good faith to mitigate the effects of Sections 280G and 409A of the Code on Premcor, Premcor employees and directors and Valero.
(f)
                                   
 
. Valero and Premcor shall use reasonable best efforts to develop a joint communications plan and each shall use reasonable best efforts (i) to ensure that all press releases and other public statements with respect to the transactions contemplated hereby shall be consistent with such joint communications plan and (ii) unless otherwise required by applicable law or by obligations pursuant to any listing agreement with or rules of any securities exchange, to consult with each other before issuing any press release or, to the extent practical, otherwise making any public statement or broadly disseminated employee communication with respect to this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby. In addition to the foregoing, except to the extent disclosed in or consistent with the Proxy Statement/Prospectus in accordance with the provisions of Section 6.1, and subject to Section
6.8
                                
Public Announcements
6.4(b), neither Valero nor Premcor shall issue any press release or otherwise make any public statement or disclosure or broadly disseminated employee communication concerning the other party or the other party's business, financial condition or results of operations without the consent of the other party, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed.
 
. Valero shall use its reasonable best efforts to cause the shares of Valero Common Stock to be issued in the Merger and the shares of Valero Common Stock to be reserved for issuance upon exercise of the Premcor Stock Options to be approved for listing on the NYSE, subject to official notice of issuance, prior to the Closing Date.
6.9
                                
Listing of Shares of Valero Common Stock
 
. Not less than 45 days prior to the date of the Premcor Stockholders Meeting, Premcor shall deliver to Valero a letter identifying all persons who, in the judgment of Premcor, may be deemed at the time this Agreement is submitted for adoption by the stockholders of Premcor, "affiliates" of Premcor for purposes of Rule 145 under the Securities Act and applicable SEC rules and regulations, and such list shall be updated as necessary to reflect changes from the date thereof. Premcor shall use reasonable best efforts to cause each person identified on such list to deliver to Valero not later than ten days prior to the Effective Time, a written agreement substantially in the form attached as Exhibit A (an "").
6.10
                          
Affiliates
Affiliate Agreement
 
. In order to most effectively compensate and retain Premcor Insiders (as defined below) in connection with the Merger, both prior to and after the Effective Time, it is desirable that Premcor Insiders not be subject to a risk of liability under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law in connection with the conversion of shares of Premcor Common Stock and Premcor Stock Options into shares of Valero Common Stock and Valero Stock Options in the Merger, and for that compensatory and retentive purpose agree to the provisions of this Section 6.11. Prior to the Effective Time, Valero and Premcor shall take all such steps as may be required to cause any dispositions of Premcor Common Stock (including derivative securities with respect to Premcor Common Stock) or acquisitions of Valero Common Stock (including derivative securities with respect to Valero Common Stock) resulting from the transactions contemplated by Article II or Article III of this Agreement by each individual who is subject to the reporting requirements of Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act with respect to Premcor or will become subject to such reporting requirements with respect to Valero pursuant to the Merger (each such person, a ""), to be exempt, to the extent permitted by law, under Rule 16b-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act.
6.11
                          
Section 16 Matters
Premcor Insider
 
. With respect to Premcor Indebtedness issued under indentures qualified under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, and any other Premcor Indebtedness the terms of which require Valero to assume such debt in order to avoid default thereunder, which Premcor Indebtedness is listed in Section 6.12 of the Premcor Disclosure Schedule (collectively, the ""), Valero shall execute and deliver to the trustees or other representatives in accordance with the terms of the respective Assumed Indentures, supplemental indentures or other instruments, in form satisfactory to the respective trustees or other representatives, expressly assuming the obligations of Premcor with respect to the due and punctual payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, on,
6.12
                          
Indebtedness; Financing
Assumed Indentures
and conversion obligations under, all debt securities issued by Premcor under the Assumed Indentures and the due and punctual performance of all the terms, covenants and conditions of the Assumed Indentures to be kept or performed by Premcor and shall deliver such supplemental indentures or other instruments to the respective trustees or other representatives under the Assumed Indentures. The parties agree that on and after the date of this Agreement Valero may enter into and effect financing transactions, including but not limited to offerings and issuances of debt, equity or other securities, in connection with or in furtherance of this Agreement, the Merger and the other transactions contemplated hereby.
 
. Premcor shall use its reasonable best efforts to cause to be delivered to Valero a letter from its independent public accountants addressed to Valero, dated a date within two Business Days before the date on which the Form S-4 or other registration forms under the Securities Act shall become effective, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to Valero and customary in scope and substance for letters delivered by independent public accountants in connection with registration statements similar to the Form S-4.
6.13
                          
Accountants' Letter
 
.  After the date of this Agreement, each of Valero and Premcor shall coordinate with the other the declaration of any dividends in respect of Valero Common Stock and Premcor Common Stock and the record dates and payment dates relating thereto, it being the intention of the parties that holders of Premcor Common Stock shall not receive two dividends, or fail to receive one dividend, for any quarter with to respect their shares of Premcor Common Stock and any shares of Valero Common Stock any such holder receives in exchange therefor in the Merger.
6.14
                          
Dividends
 
.  Premcor's existing registration rights agreements set forth on Section 6.15 of the Premcor Disclosure Schedule will be assumed by Valero in accordance with their terms and the holders of Premcor common stock party thereto shall have substantially the same rights with respect to the securities of Valero that they may receive as a result of the Merger as they currently possess under such agreements.
6.15
                          
Registration Rights
 
ARTICLE VII
 
CONDITIONS PRECEDENT
 
. The respective obligations of Premcor and Valero to effect the Merger are subject to the satisfaction or waiver on or prior to the Closing Date of the following conditions:
7.1
                                
Conditions to Each Party's Obligation to Effect the Merger
 
. Premcor shall have obtained the Premcor Stockholder Approval.
(a)
                                 
Stockholder Approval
 
. No law shall have been adopted or promulgated, and no temporary restraining order, preliminary or permanent injunction or other order issued by a court or other Governmental Entity of competent jurisdiction shall be in effect, having the effect of making the Merger illegal or otherwise prohibiting consummation of the Merger.
(b)
                                
No Injunctions or Restraints; Illegality
. (i) The waiting period (and any extension thereof) applicable to the Merger under the HSR Act shall have been terminated or shall have expired, and (ii) all Other Approvals shall have been obtained, except those Other Approvals the failure of which to obtain would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect on Valero or Premcor.
(c)
                                 
HSR Act; Other Approvals
 
. The shares of Valero Common Stock to be issued in the Merger and such other shares of Valero Common Stock to be reserved for issuance in connection with the Merger shall have been approved for listing on the NYSE, subject to official notice of issuance.
(d)
                                
NYSE Listing
 
. The Form S-4 shall have been declared effective by the SEC under the Securities Act and no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Form S-4 shall have been issued by the SEC and no proceedings for that purpose shall have been initiated or threatened by the SEC.
(e)
                                 
Effectiveness of the Form S-4
 
. The obligations of Valero to effect the Merger are subject to the satisfaction, or waiver by Valero, on or prior to the Closing Date, of the following conditions:
7.2
                                
Additional Conditions to Obligations of Valero
 
. Each of the representations and warranties of Premcor set forth in this Agreement that is qualified as to materiality or Material Adverse Effect shall be true and correct, and each of the representations and warranties of Premcor set forth in this Agreement that is not so qualified shall be true and correct in all material respects, in each case as of the date of this Agreement and as of the Closing Date as though made on and as of the Closing Date (except to the extent that such representations and warranties speak as of another date, in which case such representations and warranties shall be so true and correct as of such other date); ,, that no such representations or warranties (except for the representations and warranties set forth in Section 4.1(b), which shall be true and correct in all material respects) shall be deemed to have failed to be true and correct for purposes of this Section 7.2(a) unless the failure of such representations and warranties to be true and correct, disregarding for this purpose all qualifications and exceptions contained therein relating to materiality or Material Adverse Effect, would, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect on Premcor.
(a)
                                 
Representations and Warranties
provided
however
 
. Premcor shall have performed or complied in all material respects with all agreements and covenants required to be performed by it under this Agreement at or prior to the Closing Date; and Valero shall have received a certificate of an executive officer of Premcor to such effect.
(b)
                                
Performance of Obligations of Premcor
 
. Valero shall have received from Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz, counsel to Valero, a written opinion dated the Closing Date to the effect that for federal income tax purposes the Merger will constitute a "reorganization" within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Code. In rendering such opinion, counsel to Valero shall be entitled to rely upon customary assumptions and representations reasonably satisfactory to such counsel, including representations set forth in certificates of officers of Valero and Premcor.
(c)
                                 
Tax Opinion
. The obligations of Premcor to effect the Merger are subject to the satisfaction, or waiver by Premcor, on or prior to the Closing Date, of the following additional conditions:
7.3
                                
Additional Conditions to Obligations of Premcor
 
. Each of the representations and warranties of Valero set forth in this Agreement that is qualified as to materiality or Material Adverse Effect shall be true and correct, and each of the representations and warranties of Valero set forth in this Agreement that is not so qualified shall be true and correct in all material respects, in each case as of the date of this Agreement and as of the Closing Date as though made on and as of the Closing Date (except to the extent that such representations and warranties speak as of another date, in which case such representations and warranties shall be so true and correct as of such other date); , , that no such representations or warranties (except for the representations and warranties set forth in Section 4.2(b), which shall be true and correct in all material respects) shall be deemed to have failed to be true and correct for purposes of this Section 7.3(a) unless the failure of such representations and warranties to be true and correct, disregarding for this purpose all qualifications and exceptions contained therein relating to materiality or Material Adverse Effect, would, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect on Valero. Premcor shall have received a certificate of an executive officer of Valero to the effect set forth in the immediately preceding sentence.
(a)
                                 
Representations and Warranties
provided
however
 
. Valero shall have performed or complied in all material respects with all agreements and covenants required to be performed by it under this Agreement at or prior to the Closing Date; and Premcor shall have received a certificate of an executive officer of Valero to such effect.
(b)
                                
Performance of Obligations of Valero
 
. Premcor shall have received from Stroock & Stroock & Lavan LLP, counsel to Premcor, a written opinion dated the Closing Date to the effect that for federal income tax purposes the Merger will constitute a "reorganization" within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Code. In rendering such opinion, counsel to Premcor shall be entitled to rely upon customary assumptions and representations reasonably satisfactory to such counsel, including representations set forth in certificates of officers of Valero and Premcor.
(c)
                                 
Tax Opinion
 
ARTICLE VIII
 
TERMINATION AND AMENDMENT
 
. This Agreement may be terminated at any time prior to the Effective Time, by action taken or authorized by the Board of Directors of the terminating party, and except as specifically provided below, whether before or after the Premcor Stockholders Meeting:
8.1
                                
Termination
 
By mutual written consent of Valero and Premcor;
(a)
                                 
 
By either Valero or Premcor, if the Effective Time shall not have occurred on or before March 31, 2006 (the ""); , , that the right to terminate this Agreement under this Section 8.1(b) shall not be available to any party whose
(b)
                                
Termination Date
provided
however
to fulfill any obligation under this Agreement has been the primary cause of, or resulted in, the failure of the Effective Time to occur on or before the Termination Date;
failure
 
By either Valero or Premcor, if any Governmental Entity (i) shall have issued an order, decree or ruling or taken any other action (which the parties shall have used their reasonable best efforts to resist, resolve or lift, as applicable, in accordance with Section 6.3) permanently restraining, enjoining or otherwise prohibiting the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, and such order, decree, ruling or other action shall have become final and nonappealable or (ii) shall have failed to issue an order, decree or ruling or to take any other action that is necessary to fulfill the conditions set forth in Sections 7.1(c), (d) or (e), as applicable, and such denial of a request to issue such order, decree, ruling or the failure to take such other action shall have become final and nonappealable (which order, decree, ruling or other action the parties shall have used their reasonable best efforts to obtain, in accordance with Section 6.3);
(c)
                                 
 
By Valero, if Premcor shall have breached or failed to perform any of its representations, warranties, covenants or other agreements contained in this Agreement, such that the conditions set forth in Section 7.2(a) or (b) are not capable of being satisfied on or before the Termination Date;
(d)
                                
 
By Premcor, if Valero shall have breached or failed to perform any of its representations, warranties, covenants or other agreements contained in this Agreement, such that the conditions set forth in Section 7.3(a) or (b) are not capable of being satisfied on or before the Termination Date;
(e)
                                 
 
By Valero, if (i) the Board of Directors of Premcor shall have failed to recommend that its stockholders vote in favor of this Agreement or shall have withdrawn, modified or qualified such recommendation in a manner adverse to Valero or (ii) Premcor shall have materially breached its obligations under this Agreement by reason of a failure to call the Premcor Stockholders Meeting in accordance with Section 6.1(b) or a failure to prepare and mail to its stockholders the Proxy Statement/Prospectus in accordance with Section 6.1(a); or
(f)
                                   
 
By either Valero or Premcor, if the Premcor Stockholder Approval shall not have been obtained by reason of the failure to obtain the required vote at the Premcor Stockholders Meeting, duly convened therefor or at any adjournment or postponement thereof.
(g)
                                
 
. (a) In the event of termination of this Agreement by either Premcor or Valero as provided in Section 8.1, this Agreement shall forthwith become void and there shall be no liability or obligation on the part of any party to this Agreement or their respective officers or directors except with respect to the second sentence of Section 6.2, Section 6.5, this Section 8.2 and Article IX, which provisions shall survive such termination; that, notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, neither Valero nor Premcor shall be relieved or released from any liabilities or damages arising out of its willful and material breach of this Agreement.
8.2
                                
Effect of Termination
provided
 
If (A) (1) (x) either Premcor or Valero terminates this Agreement pursuant to Section 8.1(b) without the Premcor Stockholders Meeting having occurred or pursuant to
(b)
                                
Section 8.1(g) or (y) Valero terminates this Agreement pursuant to Section 8.1(d), (2) at any time after the date of this Agreement and before such termination an Acquisition Proposal with respect to Premcor shall have been publicly announced or communicated to the senior management, Board of Directors or stockholders of Premcor, or Premcor shall have breached in any material respect its obligations under Section 6.4, and (3) within twelve months of such termination Premcor or any of its Subsidiaries enters into any definitive agreement with respect to, or consummates, or the Board of Directors of Premcor or any of its Subsidiaries recommends that its respective stockholders approve, adopt or accept, any Acquisition Proposal, or (B) Valero terminates this Agreement pursuant to Section 8.1(f), then Premcor shall promptly, but in no event later than one Business Day after the date of such termination (or, in the case of clause (A), if later, the date Premcor or its Subsidiary enters into such agreement with respect to or consummates an Acquisition Proposal), pay Valero an amount equal to the Termination Fee, by wire transfer of immediately available funds.
 
The parties acknowledge that the agreements contained in this Section 8.2 are an integral part of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, and that, without these agreements, neither party would enter into this Agreement; accordingly, if either party fails promptly to pay any amount due pursuant to this Section 8.2, and, in order to obtain such payment, the other party commences a suit that results in a judgment against such party for the fee set forth in this Section 8.2, such party shall pay to the other party its costs and expenses (including attorneys' fees and expenses) in connection with such suit, together with interest on the amount of the fee at the prime rate as published in the Wall Street Journal in effect on the date such payment was required to be made, notwithstanding the provisions of Section 6.5. The parties agree that any remedy or amount payable pursuant to this Section 8.2 shall not preclude any other remedy or amount payable under this Agreement, and shall not be an exclusive remedy, for any willful and material breach of any representation, warranty, covenant or agreement contained in this Agreement.
(c)
                                 
 
. This Agreement may be amended by the parties, by action taken or authorized by their respective Boards of Directors, at any time before or after the Premcor Stockholder Approval, but, after any such approval, no amendment shall be made that by law or in accordance with the rules of any relevant stock exchange requires further approval by Premcor stockholders without such further approval. This Agreement may not be amended except by an instrument in writing signed on behalf of each of the parties.
8.3
                                
Amendment
 
. At any time prior to the Effective Time, the parties, by action taken or authorized by their respective Boards of Directors, may, to the extent legally allowed, (a) extend the time for the performance of any of the obligations or other acts of the other parties, (b) waive any inaccuracies in the representations and warranties contained herein or in any document delivered pursuant and (c) waive compliance with any of the agreements or conditions contained herein. Any agreement on the part of a party to any such extension or waiver shall be valid only if set forth in a written instrument signed on behalf of such party. The failure of any party to this Agreement to assert any of its rights under this Agreement or otherwise shall not constitute a waiver of those rights.
8.4
                                
Extension; Waiver
ARTICLE IX
 
GENERAL PROVISIONS
 
. None of the representations, warranties, covenants and other agreements in this Agreement or in any instrument delivered pursuant to this Agreement, including any rights arising out of any breach of such representations, warranties, covenants, agreements and other provisions, shall survive the Effective Time, except for those covenants, agreements and other provisions contained herein that by their terms apply or are to be performed in whole or in part after the Effective Time and this Article IX.
9.1
                                
Non-Survival of Representations, Warranties and Agreements
 
. All notices and other communications under this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed duly given (a) on the date of delivery if delivered personally, or by telecopy or facsimile, upon verbal confirmation of receipt, (b) on the first Business Day following the date of dispatch if delivered by a recognized next-day courier service, or (c) on the fifth Business Day following the date of mailing if delivered by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid. All notices under this Agreement shall be delivered as set forth below, or pursuant to such other instructions as may be designated in writing by the party to receive such notice:
9.2
                                
Notices
 
if to Valero to:
(i)
                                    
 
Valero Energy Corporation One Valero WaySan Antonio, Texas 78249
 
Attention: Vice President  Legal Services
 
a copy to:
with
 
Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz 51 West 52nd Street New York, New York 10019
 
Edward D. Herlihy, Esq.
Attention:
      
Lawrence S. Makow, Esq.
 
if to Premcor to:
(ii)
                                 
 
Premcor Inc.
1700 East Putnam Avenue, Suite 400 Old Greenwich, Connecticut 06870
 
Attention: Senior Vice President and General Counsel
 
a copy to:
with
 
Stroock & Stroock & Lavan LLP 180 Maiden Lane New York, New York  10038
 
Attention: Martin H. Neidell, Esq.
 
. When a reference is made in this Agreement to Articles, Sections, Exhibits or Schedules, such reference shall be to an Article or Section of or Exhibit or Schedule to this Agreement unless otherwise indicated. The table of contents and headings contained in this Agreement are for reference purposes only and shall not affect in any way the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement. Whenever the words "include," "includes" or "including" are used in this Agreement, they shall be deemed to be followed by the words "without limitation." The word "or" shall be inclusive and not exclusive. In addition, each Section of this Agreement is qualified by the matters set forth with respect to such Section on the Valero Disclosure Schedule, the Premcor Disclosure Schedule and the other Schedules to this Agreement, and such other Sections of this Agreement to the extent that the matter in such Section of such Schedule is disclosed in such a way as to make its relevance called for by such other Section of this Agreement readily apparent. Words expressed in the singular number shall include the plural and vice versa.
9.3
                                
Interpretation
 
. This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, all of which shall be considered one and the same agreement and shall become effective when one or more counterparts have been signed by each of the parties and delivered to the other party, it being understood that both parties need not sign the same counterpart.
9.4
                                
Counterparts
 
. (a) This Agreement, the Confidentiality Agreement and the exhibits and schedules to this Agreement and the other agreements and instruments of the parties delivered in connection with this Agreement constitute the entire agreement and supersede all prior agreements and understandings, both written and oral, among the parties with respect to the subject matter of this Agreement.
9.5
                                
Entire Agreement; No Third Party Beneficiaries
 
This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure solely to the benefit of each party, and nothing in this Agreement, express or implied, is intended to or shall confer upon any other Person any right, benefit or remedy of any nature whatsoever under or by reason of this Agreement, other than Section 6.6 (which is intended to be for the benefit of the Persons covered thereby).
(b)
                                
 
. This Agreement shall be governed and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware (without giving effect to choice of law principles thereof).
9.6
                                
Governing Law
 
. If any term or other provision of this Agreement is invalid, illegal or incapable of being enforced by any law or public policy, all other terms and provisions of this Agreement shall nevertheless remain in full force and effect so long as the economic or legal substance of the transactions contemplated hereby is not affected in any manner materially adverse to any party. Upon such determination that any term or other provision is invalid, illegal or incapable of being enforced, the parties shall negotiate in good faith to modify this Agreement
9.7
                                
Severability
as to effect the original intent of the parties as closely as possible in an acceptable manner in order that the transactions contemplated hereby are consummated as originally contemplated to the greatest extent possible.
so
 
. Neither this Agreement nor any of the rights, interests or obligations under this Agreement shall be assigned by any party, in whole or in part (whether by operation of law or otherwise), without the prior written consent of the other party, and any attempt to make any such assignment without such consent shall be null and void. Subject to the preceding sentence, this Agreement will be binding upon, inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the parties and their respective successors and assigns.
9.8
                                
Assignment
 
. Each of Valero and Premcor irrevocably agrees that any legal action or proceeding with respect to this Agreement or for recognition and enforcement of any judgment in respect of this Agreement brought by the other party or its successors or assigns may be brought and determined in the Chancery or other Courts of the State of Delaware, and each of Valero and Premcor hereby irrevocably submits with regard to any such action or proceeding for itself and in respect to its property, generally and unconditionally, to the nonexclusive jurisdiction of the aforesaid courts. Each of Valero and Premcor hereby irrevocably waives, and agrees not to assert, by way of motion, as a defense, counterclaim or otherwise, in any action or proceeding with respect to this Agreement, (a) any claim that it is not personally subject to the jurisdiction of the above-named courts for any reason other than the failure to lawfully serve process, (b) that it or its property is exempt or immune from jurisdiction of any such court or from any legal process commenced in such courts (whether through service of notice, attachment prior to judgment, attachment in aid of execution of judgment, execution of judgment or otherwise), (c) to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, that (i) the suit, action or proceeding in any such court is brought in an inconvenient forum, (ii) the venue of such suit, action or proceeding is improper and (iii) this Agreement, or the subject matter of this Agreement, may not be enforced in or by such courts and (d) any right to a trial by jury.
9.9
                                
Submission to Jurisdiction; Waivers
 
. The parties agree that irreparable damage would occur in the event that any of the provisions of this Agreement were not performed in accordance with their specific terms. It is accordingly agreed that the parties shall be entitled to specific performance of the terms of this Agreement, this being in addition to any other remedy to which they are entitled at law or in equity.
9.10
                          
Enforcement
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Valero and Premcor have caused this Agreement to be signed by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized, all as of the date first written above.
 
EXHIBIT A
 
Form of Affiliate Letter
 
Valero Energy Corporation One Valero WaySan Antonio, Texas  78249
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
 
I have been advised that as of the date hereof I may be deemed to be an "affiliate" of Premcor Inc., a Delaware corporation (""), as the term "affiliate" is defined for purposes of paragraphs (c) and (d) of Rule 145 of the Rules and Regulations (the "") of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "") under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""). I have been further advised that pursuant to the terms of the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of April 24, 2005 (the ""), by and between Valero Energy Corporation, a Delaware corporation (""), and Premcor, Premcor will merge with and into Valero (the ""), and that as a result of the Merger, I may receive shares of Valero Common Stock (as defined in the Merger Agreement) in exchange for shares of Premcor Common Stock (as defined in the Merger Agreement) owned by me. Valero will be the surviving corporation in the Merger and is sometimes referred to herein as the "."
Premcor
Rules and Regulations
Commission
Act
Merger Agreement
Valero
Merger
Surviving Corporation
 
I represent, warrant and covenant to Valero that in the event I receive any Valero Common Stock as a result of the Merger:
 
I shall not make any sale, transfer or other disposition of the Valero Common Stock in violation of the Act or the Rules and Regulations.
(a)
                                 
 
I have carefully read this letter and the Merger Agreement and discussed its requirements and other applicable limitations upon my ability to sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of Valero Common Stock to the extent I believed necessary with my counsel or counsel to Premcor.
(b)
                                
 
I have been advised that the issuance of Valero Common Stock to me pursuant to the Merger will be registered with the Commission under the Act on a Registration Statement of Form S-4. However, I have also been advised that, since at the time the Merger will be submitted for a vote of the stockholders of Premcor, I may be deemed to have been an affiliate of Premcor and the distribution by me of Valero Common Stock has not been registered under the Act, I may not sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of the Valero Common Stock issued to me in the Merger unless (i) such sale, transfer or other disposition has been registered under the Act, (ii) such sale, transfer or other disposition is made in conformity with the volume and other limitations of Rule 145 promulgated by the Commission under the Act, or (iii) in the opinion of counsel reasonably acceptable to Valero or under a "no-action" letter obtained by me from the staff of the Commission, such sale, transfer or other disposition is otherwise exempt from registration under the Act.
(c)
                                 
I understand that the Surviving Corporation is under no obligation to register the sale, transfer or other disposition of the Valero Common Stock by me or on my behalf under the Act or to take any other action necessary in order to make compliance with an exemption from such registration available.
(d)
                                
 
I also understand that stop transfer instructions will be given to the Surviving Corporation's transfer agents with respect to the Valero Common Stock and that there will be placed on the certificates for the Valero Common Stock issued to me, or any substitutions therefor, a legend stating in the substance:
(e)
                                 
 
The securities represented by this certificate have been issued in a transaction to which Rule 145 promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933 applies and may only be sold or otherwise transferred in compliance with the requirements of Rule 145 or pursuant to a registration statement under said act or an exemption from such registration.
 
I also understand that unless the transfer by me of my Valero Common Stock issued to me as a result of the Merger has been registered under the Act or is a sale made in conformity with the provisions of Rule 145, the Surviving Corporation reserves the right to put the following legend on the certificates issued to my transferee:
(f)
                                   
 
The shares represented by this certificate have not been registered under the Securities Act of 1933 and were acquired from a person who received such shares in a transaction to which Rule 145 promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933 applies. The shares have been acquired by the holder not with a view to, or for resale in connection with, any distribution thereof within the meaning of Securities Act of 1933 and may not be sold, pledged or otherwise transferred except in accordance with an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933.
 
It is understood and agreed that the legends set forth in paragraphs (e) and (f) above shall be removed by delivery of substitute certificates without such legend if the undersigned shall have delivered to the Surviving Corporation a copy of a letter from the staff of the Commission, or an opinion of counsel in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Surviving Corporation, to the effect that such legend is not required for purposes of the Act. Notwithstanding the foregoing, (i) such legends will be removed by delivery of substitute certificates upon written request of the undersigned if at the time of making such request the undersigned would be permitted to dispose of the Valero Common Shares represented by such certificates pursuant to Rule 145(d)(2); (ii) nothing contained herein shall be construed as an admission that I am an "affiliate," or as a waiver of any rights that I may have to object to any claim that I am such an affiliate on or after the date of this letter, and (iii) this letter agreement shall terminate if and when the Merger Agreement is terminated according to its terms.

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
VALERO TO ACQUIRE PREMCOR IN $8 BILLION TRANSACTION
Acquisition Makes Valero the Largest Refiner in North America with Throughput Capacity of 3.3 Million Barrels Per Day and Revenues of $70 Billion
 
SAN ANTONIO, April 25, 2005  Valero Energy Corp.
(NYSE: VLO) and Premcor Inc. (NYSE: PCO) announced today that the companies have executed a merger agreement for Valero to acquire Premcor in an $8 billion transaction. As a result, Valero will add four refineries and 790,000 barrels per day (BPD) of throughput capacity to its system, making it the largest refiner in North America.
 
With this acquisition, Valero will have total assets of $25 billion and annual revenues of nearly $70 billion, which would rank it No. 15 on the current listing of the Fortune 500.  Adding Premcor's refineries in Port Arthur, Texas; Memphis, Tennessee; Delaware City, Delaware; and Lima, Ohio will give Valero 19 refineries with a total throughput capacity of 3.3 million BPD.
 
"This transaction is one of the largest and most strategic acquisitions in Valero's history," said Bill Greehey, Valero chairman and chief executive officer.  "We are acquiring several very strategic refineries for significantly less than their combined replacement value, and we'll be improving the profitability of these plants by capturing synergies, improving their reliability and yields, and increasing their capacities.
 
"This acquisition gives us the best geographic diversity among U.S. refiners with a presence in all of the major refining regions, which further increases our earnings stability.  What's more, it complements our complex refining system and increases the amount of sour crude oil that we process.
 
"I can't think of a better acquisition for Valero and our shareholders because it's expected to be significantly accretive to our earnings and cash flow per share based on both our internal forecast and First Call consensus estimates.  We estimate that we'll benefit from $350 million in annual synergies in the second year after closing.  These will include reduced administrative costs, lower interest expenses, crude oil cost savings due to our purchasing leverage, and operational profit improvements that require limited capital investment.  And, we think that once we have a chance to evaluate each facility more thoroughly, we will find that there are even more synergy opportunities, just as we did with the Ultramar Diamond Shamrock acquisition.
 
"This acquisition is also good news for consumers because we have a track record of investing in and expanding our refineries.  In fact, from 1996 through the end of this year, we will have increased our refining system's throughput capacity by more than 380,000 BPD  the size of two world-scale refineries  by expanding our existing facilities.  Not only do we have the expertise, we also have a strong balance sheet, an investment-grade credit rating, access to low-cost capital and good cash flow, which enables us to make the costly stay-in-business' environmental investments, as well as the capital investments necessary to continue increasing our refining capacity," Greehey said.
 
Jefferson F. Allen, Premcor's chief executive officer, said, "This transaction provides Premcor's shareholders with a meaningful increase in the value of their investment, as the terms of the agreement represent a 24.6 percent increase over the closing price of our stock on April 22, 2005.  In addition, our shareholders will retain the option to continue participating in the industry through common stock ownership in Valero, which, with this transaction, will become the largest refiner in the United States and, more importantly, has long been a high-quality, financially strong growth company focused on creating shareholder value."
 
2
 
Thomas D. O'Malley, Premcor's chairman and holder of more than one million shares of Premcor's common stock, said, "This transaction creates the number one investment vehicle in the very attractive U.S. refining sector.  The resulting company has the financial strength to take advantage of the many internal opportunities available within Premcor's existing refining system to expand capacity, provide more clean fuels to the American consumer, and continue to strengthen its performance from an environmental and safety perspective.  Valero has proven over the past ten years to be an extremely efficient operator and has demonstrated a unique ability to grow both externally and internally.  I intend to remain a long-term and large shareholder of the new Valero.
 
"Premcor's board of directors, after a very careful review of the transaction, unanimously voted in favor of it.  I sincerely appreciate the confidence our shareholders have shown in our management and, in particular, the level of support we have received from our large shareholders, the Blackstone Group and Occidental Petroleum, and their direct representatives," O'Malley said.
 
Terms of the Transaction
 
The equity portion of the $8 billion transaction will be paid 50 percent in stock and 50 percent in cash. At closing, Premcor shareholders will receive 46.7 million shares of Valero stock, valued at approximately $3.5 billion as of April 22, 2005.  The cash portion, which equates to $3.4 billion, will be financed with a combination of cash on hand and bank debt.  In addition, Valero will assume an estimated $1.8 billion of Premcor's existing long-term debt, offset by $800 million in cash as of Dec. 31, 2004.  By year-end, Valero expects the combined company to have $2 billion of available cash so it anticipates issuing approximately $1.4 billion in new debt.
 
Under the terms of the merger agreement, Premcor shareholders will have the right to receive either 0.99 shares of Valero common stock, or $72.76 in cash for each share of Premcor stock they own, or a combination of the two, subject to pro-ration so that 50 percent of the total Premcor shares are acquired for cash.  The merger consideration represents an approximate 20 percent premium to the r
ecent 30-day trading range of Premcor's stock price.
Taking the effect of the acquisition into account, Valero's debt-to-capitalization ratio is expected to be approximately 33 percent at the end of 2005, which is in line with the company's peer group.  And, Valero expects to retain its investment-grade credit rating upon closing of the merger.
 
Win-Win for Valero & Premcor Shareholders
 
"This is a win-win situation for the shareholders of both companies," said Greehey.  "Valero shareholders will benefit because the transaction is expected to be approximately 14 percent accretive to earnings per share and about 13 percent accretive to cash flow per share in the first year. And, with increased profitability, more liquidity and better visibility, we think that the market should realize the great value of our stock and assign a higher multiple.
 
"And, Premcor shareholders will receive a substantial premium, lock in a solid return with the cash portion of the agreement, and receive shares in Valero so they'll have an opportunity to benefit from the upside potential," he said.
 
A Great Fit for Valero
 
"
Tom O'Malley, Jay Allen and their team have done an outstanding job of building Premcor into a first-rate energy company, and their refineries are a great fit for our
system and they meet our acquisition criteria.  Each of these refineries has a throughput capacity well in excess of 100,000 BPD; has good logistics; enhances our geographic diversity; and has upgrade potential," said Greehey.
 
"Plus, there are significant benefits to bringing Premcor's refineries into Valero's much-larger refining system.  In addition to the operational synergies, the refineries will benefit from our expertise in upgrading and expanding refineries, our experience in sour crude processing and our significant purchasing leverage.
 
"With this acquisition, we will have the most conversion capacity of any U.S. refiner at around 2 million BPD.  Of course, the more conversion capacity that you have, the heavier and more sour feedstocks you can run and the more gasoline and diesel you can make, which allows you to capture better margins.
"On a combined basis, our system would initially be processing around 1.8 million BPD of sour feedstocks.  And, as projects such as the major expansions at Port Arthur and Aruba come online, we will be increasing our sour crude advantage," he said.
 
A New Era in Refining
 
"This acquisition couldn't come at a better time," Greehey said. "2005 is off to a great start and we are right on track to have another record year.  Our first quarter earnings were 111 percent higher than the same period last year, and of course, we had a record first quarter in 2004.  Because of the positive outlook, we believe that our trend of record-setting quarterly results will continue into 2006 and beyond.
 
"Clearly, the refining industry has entered a new era.  As a result, we believe that we will continue to see higher highs and higher lows for both sour crude oil discounts and product margins in the future," he said.
 
Valero's leverage to sour crude discounts is one of the biggest contributors to its record earnings, Greehey noted.  As oil demand continues to grow, the increase is being met by medium and heavier sour crude oil, which makes up approximately 70 percent of Valero's crude slate.  Since there are a limited number of refineries capable of upgrading these crude oils, there is a growing surplus of these feedstocks, which helps keep sour crude discounts at historic levels.
 
According to Greehey, Valero expects sour crude discounts to be at least 46 percent better in 2005 than they were in 2004, which would improve the company's operating income by $1.6 billion this year.
 
"On top of that, there is limited refining capacity to meet the growing demand for refined products, and it's going to be that way for quite some time," Greehey said.  "Even if major expansion projects were put in place today, it would take four to five years to complete the engineering, get the necessary permits and build the units.  What's more, the bulk of most refiners' capital is tied up meeting Tier II sulfur specifications through 2006 so investments in expansion projects will likely be limited.  As a result, refining margins should remain strong for the foreseeable future.
"2005 is shaping up to be another year of record earnings for Valero.  And, with such strong fundamentals and this great acquisition, our future has never looked brighter," he said.
 
Timing & Transition
 
The boards of directors of both companies unanimously approved Valero's acquisition of Premcor, which is subject to the approval of Premcor's shareholders and customary regulatory approvals.  The transaction is expected to close Dec. 31, 2005, and both companies expect a smooth transition.  There will be no changes to Valero's senior management or board of directors.
 
Lehman Brothers acted as a financial advisor to Valero, and Morgan Stanley served as a financial advisor to Premcor.
 
Valero Energy Corporation
 
Valero Energy Corporation is a Fortune 500 company based in San Antonio, with approximately 20,000 employees and annual revenue of approximately $55 billion.  The company owns and operates 15 refineries throughout the United States, Canada and the Caribbean. Valero's refineries have a combined throughput capacity of approximately 2.5 million barrels per day, which represents approximately 12 percent of the total U.S. refining capacity. Valero is also one of the nation's largest retail operators with more than 4,700 retail and wholesale branded outlets in the United States, Canada and the Caribbean under various brand names including Diamond Shamrock, Shamrock, Ultramar, Valero, and Beacon. Please visit www.valero.com for more information.
 
Premcor Inc.
 
Premcor is one of the largest independent petroleum refiners and suppliers of unbranded transportation fuels, heating oil, petrochemical feedstocks, petroleum coke and other petroleum products in the United States. The company owns and operates refineries in Port Arthur, Texas, Lima, Ohio, Memphis, Tennessee and Delaware City, Delaware with a combined crude oil throughput capacity of approximately 790,000 barrels per day.  Please visit www.premcor.com for more information.
 
WEBCAST
:
  An analyst meeting is scheduled for 11:30 a.m. ET today at the Waldorf Astoria Hotel in New York City at 301 Park Avenue. Analysts interested in listening to the presentation may access it by dialing 866/262-0921, reservation passcode 5773783.  International callers may access the presentation by dialing 706/634-0875, passcode 5773783. A live broadcast of the conference call will also be available on Valero's web site at .
www.valero.com
Statements contained in this press release that state the Company's or management's expectations or predictions of the future are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the safe harbor provisions of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. It is important to note that the Company's actual results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements.
 
Investors and security holders are urged to read the proxy statement/prospectus that will be sent to Premcor stockholders regarding the proposed merger, when it becomes available, because it will contain important information. The proxy statement/prospectus will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission by Valero and Premcor. Investors and security holders may obtain a free copy of the proxy statement/prospectus, when it is available, and other documents filed by Valero and Premcor with the Commission at the Commission's web site at www.sec.gov.  The proxy statement/prospectus and these other documents may also be obtained, when available, free of charge from Valero and Premcor.  Stockholders should read the definitive proxy statement/prospectus carefully before making a decision concerning the merger.
 
Premcor, and its directors, executive officers and certain other of its employees, may be soliciting proxies from its stockholders in favor of the approval of the merger. Information regarding the persons who may, under SEC rules, be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of Premcor stockholders in connection with the merger is set forth in Premcor's proxy statement for its
 
2005 annual meeting, filed with the SEC on April 1, 2005, and additional information will be set forth in the definitive proxy statement/prospectus referred to above when it is filed with the SEC.
 
Port Arthur, Texas Refinery
Premcor's flagship refinery in has a throughput capacity of 250,000 BPD and a replacement value of approximately $4.4 billion. The refinery processes heavy, sour crude oil, earning it a Nelson Complexity rating of 11.6.  In 2001, Premcor invested $830 million in a delayed coker to enable the plant to run heavy, sour crude, and negotiated a contract through 2011 for 210,000 BPD of Maya crude oil, which has sold at an average discount of nearly $17 per barrel year-to-date compared to West Texas Intermediate, a benchmark crude.  Valero will benefit from several investments in the plant, including the recent expansion of the coker to 105,000 BPD from 85,000 BPD, and the current expansion of the crude and vacuum units, which will increase the refinery's ability to process lower cost, heavy sour crude oil and increase crude capacity to 325,000 BPD from 250,000 BPD.
Port Arthur
 
Port Arthur's production includes conventional, premium and reformulated gasoline, as well as diesel, jet fuel, petrochemicals, petroleum coke and sulfur.  Located on a 4,000-acre site on the Texas Gulf Coast, the refinery has an extensive logistics system, including waterborne, pipeline and truck rack access.
 
Delaware City, Delaware Refinery
The has the capacity to process 180,000 BPD of low-cost, heavy sour and high acid crude oil.  As a result, this high-conversion, heavy crude oil refinery has a Nelson Complexity rating of 11.8.  Premcor purchased the refinery from Motiva in 2004 for $800 million, which is approximately 22 percent of its $3.7 billion replacement value.  Contributing to the plant's efficient operations are its 1,800-tons-per-day petroleum-coke gasification unit and the 160-megawatt cogeneration power plant.
Delaware City refinery
 
The refinery primarily produces light products, including conventional and reformulated gasoline, diesel, low sulfur diesel and home heating oil, and it has the ability to produce ultra low sulfur diesel.  Located along the Delaware River, this refinery has access to pipeline, barge and truck rack facilities.
 
Memphis, Tennessee Refinery
The primarily processes sweet crude oil and has a throughput capacity of 190,000 BPD.  After approximately $570 million in investments over the past seven years, the refinery has been upgraded into a modern and highly efficient facility with an estimated replacement value of $1.8 billion. Nearly 100 percent of its production is light products, including conventional, premium and reformulated gasoline, diesel, jet fuel and petrochemicals.
Memphis refinery
 
Its location on a 223-acre site along the Mississippi River's Lake McKellar enables it to serve many upriver markets at a significant cost advantage.  It also has an extensive logistics system, including access to a crude oil pipeline, a jet fuel pipeline, a large truck rack and a dock adjacent to the plant.
 
Lima, Ohio Refinery
With a throughput capacity of 170,000 BPD, the has a Nelson Complexity rating of 8.5 and an approximate $1.8 billion replacement value.  While the refinery currently processes sweet and light sour crude oil, it has 23,000 BPD of coking capacity.  Additionally, Valero will study plans for a project with EnCana to "sour up" its crude slate so that the refinery can process heavy sour crude oil shipped from Canada.
Lima refinery
 
Located on a 650-acre site midway between Toledo and Dayton, the refinery enables Valero to enter the attractive, upper Midwest market.  The Lima refinery produces conventional, premium and reformulated gasoline, diesel, jet fuel and petrochemicals.  It receives foreign waterborne and domestic crude oil via pipeline, and distributes products by pipeline, rail and truck.
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
Statements contained in this presentation that state either company's or their
management's expectations or predictions of future events are forward-looking
statements intended to be covered by the safe harbor provisions of the
Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The words
"believe," "expect," "should," "estimates," and other similar expressions
identify forward-looking statements. It is important to note that either
company's actual results could differ materially from those projected in their
forward-looking statements. For more information concerning factors that
could cause actual results to differ from those expressed or forecast, see both
companies' annual reports on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-
Q, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and available on the
companies' respective web sites at http://www.valero.com and
http://www.premcor.com.
Pro
spectus Disclaimer
 
 
Investors and security holders are urged to read the proxy statement/prospectus that will
be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and will be sent to Premcor
stockholders regarding the proposed merger, when it becomes available, because it will
contain important information. Investors and security holders may obtain a free copy of
the proxy statement/prospectus, when it is available, and other documents filed by Valero
and Premcor with the SEC at the SEC's web site at www.sec.gov. The proxy
statement/prospectus and these other documents may also be obtained, when available,
free of charge from Valero and Premcor.
 
Premcor and its directors, executive officers and certain other employees, may be deemed
to be soliciting proxies from stockholders in favor of the approval of the merger and
related matters. Information regarding the persons who may, under SEC rules, be deemed
to be participants in the solicitation of Premcor stockholders in connection with the
merger is set forth in Premcor's proxy statement for their 2005 annual meetings, filed with
the SEC April 1, 2005. Additional information will be set forth in the proxy
statement/prospectus referred to above when it is filed with the SEC.
Tab
le of Contents
 
Tra
nsaction
Overview
 
 - 
                 
Consideration for Premcor of approximately $8 billion
 
 - 
                 
Fixed exchange ratio of 0.99 Valero shares for each share of Premcor
 
 - 
                 
20% premium to recent Premcor price
 
 - 
                 
50% of consideration in cash  $3.43 billion ($72.76 per share)
 
 - 
                 
50% of consideration in stock  46.7 million shares
 
 - 
                 
Assuming $1.8 billion of Premcor long-term debt
 
 - 
                 
$0.8 billion of cash on Premcor's balance sheet at 12/31/04
 
 - 
                 
Cash consideration will be financed with a combination of cash on hand, bank debt, and/or proceeds from a public debt offering
 
 - 
                 
Combined company expected to have $2.0 billion of available cash at close
 
 - 
                 
Expect to issue $1.4 billion of new debt
 - 
                 
Cas
h election merger (prorated if either cash or stock is oversubscribed)
 
 - 
                 
Tax-free with respect to stock portion
 
 - 
                 
No collar or walkaway rights
 
 - 
                 
Customary one-way non-solicitation provisions, subject to fiduciary exception for Premcor to change shareholder recommendation in light of a superior proposal
 
 - 
                 
Termination fee of $150 million
 
 - 
                 
Valero's senior management and Board will remain unchanged
 
 - 
                 
Management of the combined company will be selected by Valero
 
 - 
                 
Conditions to closing
 
 - 
                 
Shareholder approval, as required
 
 - 
                 
HSR clearance (Federal Trade Commission)
Str
ategic Rationale
 
 - 
                 
Premcor assets a great fit with Valero
 
 - 
                 
Combined company would be largest refiner in North America
 
 - 
                 
Enhanced geographic diversity, which further increases earnings stability
 
 - 
                 
Aligned strategies that further increase exposure to light-heavy spread
 
 - 
                 
Premcor's assets provide profit improvement opportunities
 
 - 
                 
Ample optimization opportunities and strategic opportunities to upgrade units
 
 - 
                 
Valero has proven track record of increasing refining reliability, capacity and yields
 
 - 
                 
Market value of refining assets approaching replacement costs
 
 - 
                 
Scarcity of quality U.S. refining assets
 
 - 
                 
Acquiring 790 mbpd of capacity today at 70% of replacement cost
Fin
ancial Benefits
 
 - 
                 
Significantly accretive to earnings per share
 
 - 
                 
14% accretive to estimated 2006 Case earnings per share
 
 - 
                 
Significantly accretive to cash flow per share
 
 - 
                 
13% accretive to estimated 2006 Case cash flow per share
 
 - 
                 
At least $350 million of annually recurring synergies
 
 - 
                 
Expect to retain investment grade credit ratings
Geo
graphically Diverse System
 
 
NOTE: Complexity based on Nelson Complexity calculation from O&G Journal 2004 Refining Survey
Pre
mier Refiner in North America
 
Note 1:  Includes U.S., Canada & Caribbean
Source: Oil & Gas Journal, Company Websites
Note 2: VLO/PCO total refining capacity including other feedstocks and blendstocks would be 3,290 mbpd
 
Note:  Includes U.S., Canada & Caribbean
Source: Oil & Gas Journal, Company Websites
Enh
anced Sour Crude Leverage
 
*
Excludes light sweet crudes
 - 
                 
Transaction immediately increases exposure to sour crude discounts
 
 - 
                 
By 2007, expect to process over 1,000 mbpd of Maya and Maya-like crudes
 
 - 
                 
Committed to increasing heavy/sour processing
 
 - 
                 
Strategic opportunities in both Valero and Premcor systems to increase sour crude processing
 
 - 
                 
Canadian crude opportunities at Lima and potentially Port Arthur
Sig
nificant Synergy Opportunities
 
 - 
                 
Expect at least $350 million of annual recurring synergies
 
 - 
                 
Expect full realization in year 2
 
 - 
                 
Administrative synergies
 
 - 
                 
Reduced sales, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses of $130 million
 
 - 
                 
Corporate overhead ($55 million)
 
 - 
                 
Bonus and stock options ($60 million)
 
 - 
                 
Letter of credit, fees and interest expense of ($15 million)
 
 - 
                 
Reduced
refinery insurance expense of $15 million
 
* See appendix for further details
Ope
rational Synergies
 
 - 
                 
Annual operational profit improvements of $205 million
 
 - 
                 
Yield improvements
 
 - 
                 
Delaware City coker and gasifier optimization projects ($100 million)
 
 - 
                 
Expand Memphis FCC and crude unit ($50 million)
 
 - 
                 
Operating expense reductions
 
 - 
                 
Energy conservation opportunities at all 4 refineries ($10 million)
 
 - 
                 
Refinery and logistics integration
 
 - 
                 
Crude supply savings at Delaware City and Port Arthur ($15 million)
 
 - 
                 
Better utilize idle capacity
 
 - 
                 
Propylene recovery and butane processing at Delaware
City
($10 million)
 
 - 
                 
Limited capital required to achieve operational synergies
 
* See appendix for further details
Str
ong
Fundamentals to Continue
NOTE: Forward Curve as of April 15, 2005
Tig
ht Supply/
Demand Fundamentals
 
 
 - 
                 
2000 to 2004, demand growth absorbed global excess capacity
 
 - 
                 
Future demand expected to continue to outpace capacity growth
 
 - 
                 
Strong worldwide economic growth spurring crude oil demand
 
 - 
                 
2004 record crude oil demand growth of 2.6 mmbpd  highest ever
 
 - 
                 
2005 shaping up to be another outstanding year with growth estimates of 2+ mmbpd
Reg
ulatory Changes Impacting Supply
 
 - 
                 
Capital diverted to regulatory compliance rather than capacity increases
 
 - 
                 
Major changes in sulfur specs still to come
 
 - 
                 
2005 in Europe and 2006 in U.S.
 
 - 
                 
Further tightens supply
 
 - 
                 
Further restricts pool of potential imports
Fav
orable Sour Crude Fundamentals
 
Source: Oil & Gas Journal, Company Information
 - 
                 
Fundamental issue  disconnect between global crude reserves and crude demand
 
 - 
                 
Incremental barrel coming to market is more heavy and more sour
 
 - 
                 
Demand for sweet crudes continuing to grow
Hig
her Highs, Higher Lows
 
* Based on historical and Valero's projection
Gre
at Deal for Premcor Shareholders
 
 - 
                 
Combined company to become largest refiner in North America
 
 - 
                 
Well positioned to benefit from positive trends in future
 
 - 
                 
Valero has investment grade credit rating
 
 - 
                 
Valero's financial position increases growth opportunities
 
 - 
                 
Valero has a proven ability to improve performance
 
 - 
                 
Deep resource base presents greater opportunities
 
 - 
                 
Premcor stock has performed very well
 
 - 
                 
Up 75% in last 12 months
 
 - 
                 
20% premium to recent Premcor price
 
 - 
                 
Valero stock most liquid in the sector
 
 - 
                 
Stock portion of consideration enables Premcor investors to maintain exposure to refining sector through Valero
 
 - 
                 
Combined entity becomes the "Must-Own Pure Play Refiner"
Ove
rview of
Premcor Assets
Pre
mcor Assets
 
 - 
                 
Port Arthur, Texas  250 mbpd capacity
 
 - 
                 
Highly complex, heavy sour refinery on Gulf Coast
 
 - 
                 
Refinery is supported by extensive logistics system
 
 - 
                 
Expansion of crude and vacuum units underway
 
 - 
                 
Increases ability to process lower cost, heavy sour crude oil
 
 - 
                 
Crude unit from 250 to 325 mbpd
 
 - 
                 
Expected to be completed in June 2006
 
 - 
                 
Expansion of coker completed
 
 - 
                 
Coker unit from 80 to 105 mbpd
 
 - 
                 
Hydrocracker unit from 35 to 45 mbpd
 
 - 
                 
$220 to $230 million
combined capital
expenditure
for
the vacuum, hydrocracker and coker project
 
 - 
                 
Tier II gasoline investment complete
 
Valero to capture the benefits of these investments
 - 
                 
Del
aware City, Delaware  180 mbpd capacity
 
 - 
                 
Acquired from Motiva on May 1, 2004
 
 - 
                 
High conversion, heavy sour crude refinery
 
 - 
                 
1,800 TPD petroleum-coke gasification unit capacity
 
 - 
                 
Currently processing 1,200 TPD
 
 - 
                 
Plans to increase processing rate in the future
 
 - 
                 
160 MW cogeneration facility
 
 - 
                 
Tier II gasoline investment complete
 - 
                 
Mem
phis
, Tennessee  190 mbpd capacity
 
 - 
                 
Current economic throughput rate of approx. 155 mbpd
 
 - 
                 
High conversion sweet crude refinery
 
 - 
                 
Logistics assets support refinery
 
 - 
                 
Access to Capline crude oil pipeline and Mississippi River
 
 - 
                 
Jet fuel pipeline to Memphis Airport (FedEx and Northwest hubs)
 
 - 
                 
Large Memphis product loading rack
 
 - 
                 
Tier
II gasoline investment complete
 - 
                 
Lim
a, Ohio - 170 mbpd capacity
 
 - 
                 
Current economic throughput rate of approx. 140 mbpd
 
 - 
                 
Sweet crude refinery
 
 - 
                 
Includes 23 mbpd of coking capacity
 
 - 
                 
Allows Valero entry into attractive upper Mid-West market
 
 - 
                 
Tier II gasoline to be completed in 2005
 
 - 
                 
Plans being developed to process Canadian heavy sour crude
 
 - 
                 
Continue feasibility study with EnCana
Key
Assumptions
 
 - 
                 
Key Price Drivers
 
 
 - 
                 
Key Assumptions:
 
 - 
                 
Close December 31, 2005
 
 - 
                 
2005 price forecast based on first quarter actuals and the forward curve as of April 12, 2005
 
 - 
                 
2006 price forecast based on Valero's projections
 
 - 
                 
Projected goodwill of $2 billion
 
 - 
                 
For 2006, approximately $190 million of synergies in the 2006 Case and $145 million in synergies in the Mid-Cycle case
 
 - 
                 
Fully diluted shares outstanding of 327 million in 2006 Case & Mid-Cycle Case
2006 e Capital Forecast
Cas
 
 
 
 - 
                 
Expect to fund all capex with available cash flow
 
 - 
                 
Would reduce capital in lower margin environment
 
 - 
                 
Significant improvements in free cash flow expected post-2006
 
 - 
                 
Nearing the completion of Tier II investment
Fin
ancial Impact
 
 
Com
mitment to Reducing Leverage
 
Tra
nsaction
Timeline
 
Syn
ergy Detail
 


