FILE:VLO/VLO-8K-20050726092739.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
Item 2.02
                                            
.
 
On July 26, 2005, Valero Energy Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release announcing financial results for the Company's second quarter 2005 earnings.  A copy of the press release is furnished with this report as Exhibit 99.1, and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
The information in this report is being furnished, not filed, pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K.  Accordingly, the information in this report, including the press release, will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed by the Company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated therein by reference.
 
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Item 9.01
                                            
 
Exhibits.
(c)
                                 
 
Press Release dated July 26, 2005.
99.1
                          
SIGNATURE
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Valero Energy Corporation Reports
 
SAN ANTONIO, July 26, 2005  Valero Energy Corporation (NYSE: VLO) today reported record net income for the second quarter of 2005 of $847 million, or $3.06 per share, compared to $633 million, or $2.28 per share, for the same period last year.  The company's second quarter 2005 results represent the highest quarterly net income in the company's history.  For the six months ended June 30, 2005, Valero's net income was $1.4 billion, or $4.97 per share, which represents a nearly 60 percent increase over the company's net income of $881 million, or $3.21 per share, for the six months ended June 30, 2004.  The company's debt-to-capitalization ratio, net of cash, was 24.8 percent as of June 30, 2005, compared to 30.7 percent as of December 31, 2004.
 
Second quarter operating income for the company's refining segment was $1.4 billion, compared to $1.1 billion for the same period last year.  The significant increase in operating income was primarily due to wider sour crude oil discounts and record distillate margins.
 
"This was an outstanding quarter, in every way," said Bill Greehey, Valero's Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer.  "Not only did we see distillate margins significantly exceed all previous records, we also had wide sour crude discounts and good gasoline margins throughout the quarter.  Our refineries turned in a solid operating performance with no significant unplanned downtime.  On top of that, we announced the pending acquisition of Premcor, which will make Valero the largest refiner in North America, and the nationwide rebranding of our retail and wholesale sites to the Valero brand.
 
"The record-breaking distillate margins coupled with good gasoline margins reflect the strong global demand for refined products that we have seen all year.  For the second quarter, U.S. Gulf Coast distillate margins averaged $9.61 per barrel versus just $1.61 per barrel in the second quarter of last year.  Gulf Coast gasoline margins averaged $9.64 per barrel for the quarter, which is only surpassed by last year's record second quarter average of $12.95 per barrel.  The fact that both distillate and gasoline margins are strong in the middle of the summer driving season demonstrates how tight the global refining system has become.
 
"So far in the third quarter, distillate margins have been above gasoline margins in most regions.  For example, July gasoline margins on the Gulf Coast have averaged around $8.50 per barrel while heating oil margins have averaged nearly $10.00 per barrel, with premiums for on-road diesel and jet fuel adding $1 to $3 per barrel to those heating oil margins.  As a result, for the first time in our history we have been running our refineries to maximize distillate production during July," he said.
"The incentive for refiners to maximize distillate production over gasoline has led to lower gasoline yields in the U.S.  At the same time, U.S. gasoline demand is up about one percent over last year's record levels, despite higher pump prices.  As a result, gasoline days-of-supply are now near five-year lows compared to being at five-year highs at the end of the first quarter.  With the days-of-supply of both distillate and gasoline near five-year lows, any major disruptions in refinery operations could have a significant impact on margins.
 
"Sour crude discounts were also strong during the second quarter, despite declines in April and May.  As we expected, supplies of residual fuel oil on the world market tightened in April and May due to normal seasonal turnaround activity in Asia and Europe where much of the world's incremental residual fuel oil is produced.  Since the price of residual fuel oil is a key determinant of heavy sour crude discounts, the increase in residual fuel oil prices led to higher prices for heavy sour crudes and narrower discounts.  For example, the Maya crude oil discount dropped from around $17 per barrel at the end of March to $11 per barrel in May.  What's important to keep in mind is that even with the decline in the sour crude discounts, our earnings in April were the highest ever for the company and May's earnings were the second highest ever.  This shows that we don't have to have record refined product margins and record sour crude discounts at the same time to have record earnings. As the turnaround season ended and residual fuel oil prices fell, the Maya crude oil discounts have again widened and are currently about $14 per barrel.
 
"If you look at the three key drivers of our business, gasoline margins, distillate margins and sour crude discounts, we believe that we have entered a new era in which we'll have higher refined product margins and wider sour crude discounts.  Because of our high leverage to these key drivers, our broad geographic diversity and our proven track record of solid operations, our stock continues to represent a great value for investors.  And, as good as 2005 is proving to be, next year should be even better for Valero with the addition of Premcor and the dramatic changes in fuel specifications the industry is facing in 2006," said Greehey.
 
Concerning the Premcor acquisition, the company reiterated that it continues to expect to close the transaction by the end of the third quarter.
 
Valero's senior management will hold a conference call at 11:00 a.m. ET (10:00 a.m. CT) today, to discuss this earnings release and provide an update on company operations.  A live broadcast of the conference call will be available on the company's website at www.valero.com.
 
Valero Energy Corporation is a Fortune 500 company based in San Antonio, with approximately 20,000 employees and annual revenue of approximately $55 billion. The company owns and operates 14 refineries throughout the United States, Canada and the Caribbean. Valero's refineries have a combined throughput capacity of approximately 2.5 million barrels per day, which represents approximately 12 percent of the total U.S. refining capacity. Valero is also one of the nation's largest retail operators with more than 4,700 retail and branded wholesale outlets in the United States, Canada and the Caribbean under various brand names including Diamond Shamrock, Shamrock, Ultramar, Valero, and Beacon. Please visit www.valero.com for more information.
Statements contained in this press release that state the company's or management's expectations or predictions of the future are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the safe harbor provisions of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.  The words "believe," "expect," "should," "estimates," and other similar expressions identify forward-looking statements.  It is important to note that actual results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements.  For more information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ from those expressed or forecast, see the proxy statement/prospectus dated July 13, 2005 regarding the proposed merger of Valero and Premcor, and the amended Form S-4 Registration Statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (as the same may be supplemented or amended).  Also see both companies' reports, including annual reports on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and available on the companies' respective web sites at www.valero.com and www.premcor.com.
 
Investors and security holders are urged to read the above-referenced proxy statement/prospectus regarding the proposed merger.  The proxy statement/prospectus contains important information.  The proxy statement/prospectus was first mailed to Premcor stockholders on or about July 15, 2005.  Investors and security holders may obtain a free copy of the proxy statement/prospectus and other documents filed by Valero and Premcor with the SEC at the SEC's web site at www.sec.gov.  The proxy statement/prospectus and these other documents may also be obtained free of charge from Valero and Premcor.  Premcor stockholders should read the definitive proxy statement/prospectus carefully before making a decision concerning the merger.
 
Premcor, and its directors, executive officers and certain other of its employees, may be deemed to be soliciting proxies from its stockholders in favor of the approval of the merger and related matters.  Information regarding the persons who may, under SEC rules, be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of Premcor stockholders in connection with the merger is set forth in the proxy statement/prospectus referred to above.
 
(1)  Valero Energy Corporation's buy/sell arrangements involve linked purchases and sales related to crude oil contracts entered into to address location, quality or grade requirements. Included in cost of sales are amounts which approximate the revenues resulting from these transactions.
 
(2)  Includes excise taxes on sales by Valero's U.S. retail system of $208 and $211 for the three months ended June 30, 2005 and 2004, respectively, and $401 and $416 for the six months ended June 30, 2005 and 2004, respectively.
 
(3)  Weighted average common and common equivalent shares outstanding and earnings per common share amounts for the three and six months ended June 30, 2004, have been restated to reflect the effect of a two-for-one split of Valero's common stock which was effected in the form of a common stock dividend distributed on October 7, 2004.
 
(4)  The following is a reconciliation of the debt-to-capitalization ratio.  This information is presented because Valero is required to maintain a certain debt-to-capitalization ratio under its bank credit facilities.
 
 
(5)  Primarily includes gas oils, No. 6 fuel oil, petroleum coke and asphalt.
 
(6)  The regions depicted herein contain the following refineries: - Corpus Christi East and West Refineries, Texas City Refinery, Houston Refinery, Three Rivers Refinery, Krotz Springs Refinery, St. Charles Refinery and Aruba Refinery; - McKee Refinery, Ardmore Refinery and Denver Refinery; Quebec Refinery and Paulsboro Refinery; and - Benicia Refinery and Wilmington Refinery.
Gulf Coast
Mid-Continent
Northeast-
West Coast
 
(7)  The information presented for the six months ended June 30, 2004, includes the operations of the Aruba Refinery and certain related businesses commencing on March 5, 2004, the date of Valero's acquisition of these facilities from El Paso Corporation.  Throughput volumes for the Gulf Coast region for the six months ended June 30, 2004 are based on a 182-day period, which results in 145 Mbbls per day being included for Aruba.  Throughput volumes for Aruba for the 118 days of its operations during the six-month period averaged 224 Mbbls per day.
 
(8)  The information presented for the Mid-Continent region includes the operations of the Denver Refinery through May 31, 2005, the date of Valero's sale of this facility to Suncor Energy Inc.  Throughput volumes for the Mid-Continent region include 23, 38, 31 and 36 Mbbls per day, respectively, related to the Denver Refinery for the three months ended June 30, 2005 and 2004 and the six months ended June 30, 2005 and 2004.
 
(9)  The market reference differential for sour crude oil is based on 50% Arab Medium and 50% Arab Light posted prices.


