FILE:VLO/VLO-8K-20051221143722.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
Table of Contents
.
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
On December 16, 2005, the election period closed for participation during calendar year 2006 in the Valero Energy Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan (the "Plan"). Each of the "named executive officers" (as defined in Item 402(a)(3) of Regulation S-K) of Valero Energy Corporation (the "Company") is eligible to participate in the Plan. The agreement and forms filed as exhibits to this Current Report on Form 8-K  together with the Plan  contain the material terms and conditions for participation in the Plan. In reliance on Instruction 1 to Item 601(b)(10) of Regulation S-K, the Company is not filing each individual participant's personal arrangement under the Plan.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 10.02
     by Valero Energy Corporation (the "Sponsor"),
THIS AGREEMENT
     the Sponsor has executed and maintains a non-qualified deferred compensation plan entitled "Valero Energy Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan," (the "Plan"); and
WHEREAS,
     the Sponsor desires to amend the Plan to allow for the cancellation of an outstanding election to defer compensation on a special one-time basis under specific transition rules for the Plan established by the Internal Revenue Service; and
WHEREAS,
     Section 8.1 of the Plan provides that it may amend the plan at any time;
WHEREAS,
     the Bylaws of the Sponsor authorize the Board of Directors of the Sponsor ("Board") to delegate to the person acting as chief executive officer of the company (the "Chief Executive Officer") such duties as the Board may deem advisable; and
WHEREAS,
     by resolution dated May 9, 2002, the Board delegated to the Chief Executive Officer the full power and authority of the Board to approve, and cause to be placed into effect, amendments to the Plan.
WHEREAS,
     in accordance with the provisions of Section 8.1 of the Plan and the delegation of authority described above, the Plan is hereby amended in the following respects:
NOW, THEREFORE,
1. Section 3.1 of the Plan is hereby amended by adding the following new sentence at the end thereof:
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions and any other provisions of the Plan to the contrary, effective as of February 1, 2005, a Participant may, at any time during 2005, elect to cancel an outstanding Elective Deferral Agreement with respect to amounts deferred after December 31, 2004, on
 
a special one-time basis under transition relief granted by the Internal Revenue Service relating to relevant provisions of the Code. The amount of compensation subject to any such cancelled Elective Deferral Agreement shall be paid to the Participant and includable in the Participant's income, in the calendar year 2005, or, if later, the taxable year in which the compensation is earned and vested. No such cancellation may be made later than December 31, 2005.
2. Capitalized terms used but not otherwise defined in herein shall have the defined meanings as provided in the Plan.
3. As amended hereby, the Plan shall continue in full force and effect.
[Remainder of Page Intentionally Left Blank  Signature Appears on Next Page]
 
     , the Sponsor has caused this instrument to be signed on its behalf and attested by its duly authorized representative this 21st day of December, 2005, to be effective in accordance with the provisions hereof.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF

 
Exhibit 10.03
The Company has taken measures to design the Plan in a manner that conforms to current tax law. However, it is possible that new legislation could affect your deferral elections. Your 2006 Plan Year deferral elections are , and such deferral elections are governed by the terms and conditions of the Plan; however, in order to comply with federal legislation, the Company may modify the Plan or implement a new plan. Your selections will be subject to modifications made to the Plan to conform with federal legislation or to the terms of another plan if the Company chooses to implement a new plan to conform to federal legislation. The Committee may reduce the amount you have elected to defer above, or such deferral elections may be rendered null and void if necessary to comply with federal income tax law (including applicable regulations) regarding nonqualified deferred compensation plans.
NOTE:
irrevocable
ACKNOWLEDGED AND AGREED: I hereby authorize the above amounts to be deducted and deferred through payroll deduction/reduction by the Company.

 
Exhibit 10.04
Direction of Investments
The undersigned Participant hereby directs that the measurement of the Participant's account be determined as if it were invested in the fund options as indicated below.
I understand that the elections I have chosen on this form shall remain in effect until I make a directive to change.

 
Exhibit 10.05
First_Name Last_Name
 
After the initial election relating to this deferral, you may elect to change the form of your distribution, as long as (i) the election to change the form of your distribution (either upon retirement, termination or a specified date) is not effective until at least one year after the date the election is made, and (ii) your payment is delayed by at least five years following the date on which such payment would have otherwise been made or commenced. In addition, if you elect to postpone the distribution previously designated to occur on a specified date, the change in election must be made at least one year prior to your previously designated specified date.
Certain "key" employees (generally, the fifty most highly compensated executives) will have distribution of their benefits delayed for a period of six months following their separation of service. As a result, distributions scheduled for January 1 could possibly not be paid until July 1.
The Company has taken measures to design the Plan in a manner that conforms to current tax law. However, it is possible that new legislation could affect your distribution elections. Generally, it is intended that distribution elections submitted pursuant to the Plan will be governed by the terms and conditions of the Plan, and your elections will be subject to modifications made to the Plan to conform with federal legislation or to the terms of another plan if the Company chooses to implement a new plan to conform to federal legislation.
NOTE:


