FILE:VLO/VLO-8K-20061031095204.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
On October 31, 2006, Valero Energy Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release announcing financial results for the Company's third quarter 2006 earnings. A copy of the press release is furnished with this report as Exhibit 99.1, and is incorporated herein by reference.
The information in this report is being furnished, not filed, pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K. Accordingly, the information in this report, including the press release, will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed by the Company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated therein by reference.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
SAN ANTONIO, October 31, 2006  Valero Energy Corporation (NYSE: VLO) today reported record third quarter net income of $1.6 billion, or $2.55 per share, which compares to $862 million, or $1.47 per share, in the third quarter of 2005. The third quarter 2006 results include a $132 million pre-tax gain, or $0.13 per share, on the sale of 41 percent of the company's ownership interest in Valero GP Holdings, LLC on July 19, 2006. The third quarter 2005 results include a $621 million pre-tax LIFO charge to cost of goods sold related to the difference between the fair market value recorded for the inventories acquired from Premcor Inc. on September 1, 2005 under purchase accounting and the amounts required to be recorded under the company's LIFO accounting policy. Excluding these special items, the company's third quarter 2006 net income was $1.5 billion, or $2.42 per share, compared to $1.3 billion, or $2.19 per share, in the third quarter of 2005.
For the nine months ended September 30, 2006, the company's reported net income was $4.3 billion, or $6.83 per share, which compares to $2.2 billion, or $3.96 per share, for the nine months ended September 30, 2005. Excluding the special items noted above, the company's net income for the nine months ended September 30, 2006 was $4.3 billion, or $6.70 per share, compared to $2.7 billion, or $4.71 per share, for the same period in 2005.
Third quarter 2006 operating income was $2.3 billion, compared to $1.9 billion achieved in the same period last year excluding the LIFO charge. The increase in operating income was primarily due to higher throughput volumes from the acquisition of Premcor Inc. in September 2005 and significantly higher wholesale and retail marketing margins.
"We had the highest third quarter earnings in the company's history despite the drop in gasoline margins that began in early August," said Bill Klesse, Valero's Chief Executive Officer. "Throughout the third quarter, though, distillate margins and sour crude oil discounts were very favorable. The strong sour crude oil discounts, coupled with more reliable plant operations and outstanding U.S. marketing margins, allowed us to capture more of the margin as compared to last quarter.
"Gasoline margins in the third quarter were volatile, while distillate margins and feedstock discounts were much more stable. Gulf Coast conventional gasoline margins averaged $12 per barrel for the quarter and Gulf Coast off-road diesel margins averaged around $9 per barrel throughout the quarter. More importantly, Gulf Coast on-road diesel margins averaged almost $17 per barrel. Keep in mind that almost 75 percent of our distillate production is sold at premiums to off-road diesel or heating oil. We also benefited from favorable discounts for medium and heavy sour crude oil. Heavy sours, such as Maya, averaged nearly $15 per barrel throughout the third quarter," said Klesse.
 
Regarding the company's cash flow, capital spending for the first three quarters of 2006 was approximately $2.8 billion, of which $464 million was for turnaround expenditures. For the year, the company anticipates capital spending of approximately $3.7 billion. The company also purchased approximately 10 million shares of its common stock during the third quarter of 2006 and another 2 million shares in October. Through October, the company has returned $1.9 billion to shareholders by purchasing 33 million shares, or five percent of its outstanding shares, as was announced earlier in the year.
"So far in the fourth quarter, gasoline margins have recovered appreciably from September, while distillate margins and sour crude oil discounts have remained very good. In October, Gulf Coast gasoline margins have averaged $4.55 per barrel and on-road diesel margins have averaged $13.25 per barrel. These are great margins for this time of year and are the result of two key factors. On the supply side, we believe that refinery maintenance in both the U.S. and Europe has substantially reduced utilization rates and led to lower domestic production and lower imports. Even more notable is that demand has continued to be very strong for gasoline and distillates, as consumers have benefited from falling retail pump prices and a growing economy," said Klesse.
"With Valero's outlook for continued strong profits and cash flows, we are pleased that the board of directors approved a $2 billion stock purchase program so that we can continue to execute our balanced approach of investing our cash flow to improve returns and enhance shareholder value.
"We continue to believe that the combination of slower than anticipated growth in global refining capacity, cleaner fuel specifications, and continued demand growth should keep the supply and demand balance for refined products tight. Our large, complex, and geographically diverse refining system positions us ideally to benefit from this environment, and we expect Valero to continue generating strong earnings and significant free cash flow," said Klesse.
Valero's senior management will hold a conference call at 11 a.m. ET (10 a.m. CT) today to discuss this earnings release and provide an update on company operations. A live broadcast of the conference call will be available on the company's website at www.valero.com.
Valero Energy Corporation is a Fortune 500 company based in San Antonio, with approximately 22,000 employees and annual revenues of more than $90 billion. The company owns and operates 18 refineries throughout the United States, Canada and the Caribbean with a combined throughput capacity of approximately 3.3 million barrels per day, making it the largest refiner in North America. Valero is also one of the nation's largest retail operators with more than 5,500 retail and branded wholesale outlets in the United States, Canada and the Caribbean under various brand names including Valero, Diamond Shamrock, Shamrock, Ultramar, and Beacon. Please visit for more information.
www.valero.com
Statements contained in this release that state the company's or management's expectations or predictions of the future are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the safe harbor provisions of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The words "believe," "expect," "should," "estimates," and other similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. It is important to note that actual results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements. For more information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ from those expressed or forecasted, see Valero's annual reports on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and on Valero's website at www.valero.com.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


