FILE:VLO/VLO-8K-20071031123450.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
     On October 25, 2007, the Board of Directors of Valero Energy Corporation (the "Company") promoted Richard J. Marcogliese to Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company. As a result of this promotion and in addition to refining operations, Mr. Marcogliese will be responsible for the Company's commercial operations, including marketing, supply and transportation. His annual base salary will be increased, as discussed below.
     Mr. Marcogliese, 54, currently serves as Executive Vice President  Operations and was elected to that position in December 2005. He previously served as Senior Vice President overseeing refining operations since July 2001. Mr. Marcogliese joined the Company from Exxon Mobil Corporation in May 2000 as the Vice President and General Manager of the Company's Benicia Refinery. He then transferred to the Company's corporate office in June 2001 as head of Strategic Planning.
   On October 29, 2007, the Company issued a press release announcing the promotion of Mr. Marcogliese. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.01.
     On October 25, 2007, the Company approved increases to the annual base salaries for, and made certain long-term incentive awards to, certain of its executive officers (including named executive officers, as defined in Item 402(a)(3) of Regulation S-K).
     . The Company approved increases to the annual base salaries of certain executive officers of the Company effective January 1, 2008. The new base salaries for these executive officers are set forth below.
Base Salaries
     . Options (the "Options") to purchase shares of common stock, $0.01 par value, of the Company ("Common Stock") were issued to the following executive officers of the Company in the quantities listed below. The Options were granted pursuant to the Company's 2005 Omnibus Stock Incentive Plan (the "2005 OSIP"). The Options have a term of seven years and vest in annual one-fifth increments beginning on the first anniversary of the grant date. The Options have an exercise price of $71.45, representing the average of the high and low reported
Stock Options
 
sales prices per share of the Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange on the date of grant (as required per the terms of the 2005 OSIP).
     Shares of restricted Common Stock ("Restricted Shares") were issued to the following executive officers of the Company in the quantities listed below. The Restricted Shares were granted pursuant to the 2005 OSIP. The Restricted Shares vest in annual one-fifth increments beginning on the first anniversary of the grant date.
Restricted Stock.
     . Awards of performance shares were granted to the following executive officers of the Company in the quantities stated below. The performance shares were granted pursuant to the 2005 OSIP. The performance shares are payable in shares of Common Stock. The performance shares will vest annually in one-third increments beginning in January 2009 upon verification of the Company's attainment of certain performance standards as determined by the Compensation Committee of the Company. Upon vesting, the performance shares are converted into a number of shares of Common Stock based upon the Company's total stockholder return during rolling three-year periods that end on December 31 of each year prior to the scheduled vesting date. At the end of each performance period, the Company's total stockholder return is compared to its peer group and is ranked by quartile. Holders of the performance shares then earn 0 percent, 50 percent, 100 percent or 150 percent of that portion of the initial grant that is vesting, depending upon whether the Company's total stockholder return is in the last, 3, 2 or 1 quartile, respectively, and they earn 200 percent if the Company ranks highest in the group.
Performance Share Awards
rd
nd
st
 
     
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
EXHIBIT 99.01
SAN ANTONIO, October 29, 2007  Valero Energy Corporation (NYSE: VLO) announced today that Rich Marcogliese, Executive Vice President-Operations, has been promoted to Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer by the company's Board of Directors. In addition to refining operations, Mr. Marcogliese will be responsible for the company's commercial operations, including marketing, supply and transportation. Accordingly, Joe Gorder, Executive Vice President-Marketing and Supply, will report to Mr. Marcogliese. Also, as part of the company's realignment of duties, Valero's retail store operations and Ultramar, Ltd., the company's Canadian subsidiary, will report to Valero President Greg King. Mike Ciskowski, the company's Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, will continue to report to Mr. King.
Valero Energy Corporation is a Fortune 500 company based in San Antonio, with approximately 21,000 employees and 2006 annual revenues of more than $90 billion. The company owns and operates 17 refineries throughout the United States, Canada and the Caribbean with a combined throughput capacity of approximately 3.1 million barrels per day, making it the largest refiner in North America. Valero is also one of the nation's largest retail operators with approximately 5,800 retail and branded wholesale outlets in the United States, Canada and the Caribbean under various brand names including Valero, Diamond Shamrock, Shamrock, Ultramar, and Beacon. Please visit for more information.
About Valero
www.valero.com


