FILE:VLO/VLO-8K-20070201091614.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On February 1, 2007, Valero Energy Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release announcing financial results for the Company's fourth quarter and year ended December 31, 2006 earnings. A copy of the press release is furnished with this report as Exhibit 99.1, and is incorporated herein by reference.
The information in this report is being furnished, not filed, pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K. Accordingly, the information in this report, including the press release, will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed by the Company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated therein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
SAN ANTONIO, February 1, 2007  Valero Energy Corporation (NYSE: VLO) today reported fourth quarter net income of $1.1 billion, or $1.80 per share, which compares to $1.3 billion, or $2.06 per share, in the fourth quarter of 2005. Fourth quarter 2006 results include a $196 million pre-tax gain, or $0.21 per share, on the sale of the company's remaining 59 percent ownership interest in Valero GP Holdings, LLC in December. The fourth quarter 2005 results include a $55 million pre-tax gain on the sale of the company's 20 percent interest in the Javelina off-gas processing joint venture in Corpus Christi. Excluding these special items, the company's fourth quarter 2006 net income was $987 million, or $1.59 per share, compared to $1.3 billion, or $2.00 per share, in the fourth quarter of 2005.
For the year ended December 31, 2006, the company's reported net income was $5.5 billion, or $8.64 per share, versus $3.6 billion, or $6.10 per share, in 2005. Excluding all special items for each year, net income for 2006 was $5.3 billion, or $8.30 per share, and for 2005 was $4.0 billion, or $6.76 per share.
Fourth quarter 2006 operating income was $1.5 billion, compared to $2.0 billion achieved in the same period last year, which was impacted by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita.
"This was the best fourth quarter we've ever seen for refining margins other than in last year's fourth quarter when margins were affected by the hurricanes," said Bill Klesse, Valero's Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer. "In the fourth quarter, gasoline margins averaged more than $5.25 per barrel, while on-road diesel margins averaged over $13.50 per barrel on the Gulf Coast. In addition, sour crude oil discounts remained wide. The sour crude oil discounts benefited from ample sour crude oil supplies and very deep discounts on residual fuel oil, which can compete with crude oil as a feedstock in many of our complex refineries."
Regarding the company's cash flow, capital spending in 2006 was $3.7 billion, of which $550 million was for turnaround expenditures. In 2006, the company purchased approximately 35 million shares, or five percent, of its outstanding common stock, returning more than $2 billion to shareholders.
"Looking at this year's first quarter, despite the lack of early cold weather in the Northeast heating oil market, distillate margins remain good, particularly for on-road diesel, which is currently trading near $15 per barrel on the Gulf Coast. For gasoline, supplies are expected to tighten as spring maintenance activity gets underway. In addition, we will soon be dealing with the transition from winter-grade gasoline to summer-grade specifications, which generally leads to declines in inventories and higher margins as we head toward the summer driving season. Gasoline demand has been strong given lower pump prices and, until recently, mild weather. In fact, preliminary gasoline demand in January was up 3.4% compared to the same time last year," said Klesse.
"In January, we started up the newly expanded crude unit at the Port Arthur refinery, which allows us to process up to 325,000 barrels per day of sour crude oil. We will also be conducting
turnarounds on some of our key units at Port Arthur, Benicia, Three Rivers and Lima. However, we do not expect this activity to materially impact our first quarter results.
"As part of the strategic planning process we completed in the fourth quarter, we have committed to improving returns and maximizing value from our assets in the years ahead. Accordingly, we have decided to explore strategic alternatives for our Lima, Ohio refinery. Deutsche Bank has been retained to assist us. Throughout our system, we are also focused on improving our operations and financial performance.
"With regard to our use of cash flow going forward, we will continue to demonstrate the balanced approach to investing those funds that we showed in 2006. The 50 percent increase in our dividend that was recently announced and the fact that we will continue purchasing our shares in the open market this year are examples of that commitment," said Klesse.
Valero's senior management will hold a conference call at 10 a.m. ET (9 a.m. CT) today to discuss this earnings release and provide an update on company operations. A live broadcast of the conference call will be available on the company's website at .
www.valero.com
Valero Energy Corporation is a Fortune 500 company based in San Antonio, with approximately 22,000 employees and annual revenues of more than $90 billion. The company owns and operates 18 refineries throughout the United States, Canada and the Caribbean with a combined throughput capacity of approximately 3.3 million barrels per day, making it the largest refiner in North America. Valero is also one of the nation's largest retail operators with more than 5,500 retail and branded wholesale outlets in the United States, Canada and the Caribbean under various brand names including Valero, Diamond Shamrock, Shamrock, Ultramar, and Beacon. Please visit for more information.
www.valero.com
Statements contained in this release that state the company's or management's expectations or predictions of the future are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the safe harbor provisions of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The words "believe," "expect," "should," "estimates," and other similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. It is important to note that actual results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements. For more information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ from those expressed or forecasted, see Valero's annual reports on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and on Valero's website at www.valero.com.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


