FILE:VLO/VLO-8K-20070426105717.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
Table of Contents
.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
On April 26, 2007, senior management of Valero Energy Corporation (the "Company") will make a presentation to stockholders at the Company's 2007 Annual Meeting of Stockholders ("Annual Meeting") held at the Company's offices located at One Valero Way, San Antonio, Texas 78249. The slides attached to this report were prepared in connection with management's presentation at the Annual Meeting. The slides are included in Exhibit 99.1 to this report and are incorporated herein by reference. The slides will be available on the Company's website at www.valero.com (within the "Investor Relations" section). The information in this report is being furnished, not filed, pursuant to Regulation FD. Accordingly, the information in Items 7.01 and 9.01 of this report will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed by the Company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated therein by reference. The furnishing of the information in this report is not intended to and does not constitute a determination or admission by the Company that the information in this report is material or complete, or that investors should consider this information before making an investment decision with respect to any security of the Company or any of its affiliates.
Safe Harbor Statement
Statements contained in the exhibit to this report that state the Company's or its management's expectations or predictions of the future are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the safe harbor provisions of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. It is important to note that the Company's actual results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements. Factors that could affect those results include those mentioned in the documents that the Company has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


