FILE:VLO/VLO-8K-20081028085305.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On October 28, 2008, Valero Energy Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release announcing financial results for the Company's third quarter 2008 earnings. A copy of the press release is furnished with this report as Exhibit 99.01 and is incorporated herein by reference.
The information in this report is being furnished, not filed, pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K. Accordingly, the information in this report, including the press release, will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed by the Company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated therein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (d) Exhibits.
     99.01 Press release dated October 28, 2008.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

SAN ANTONIO, October 28, 2008  Valero Energy Corporation (NYSE: VLO) today reported third quarter 2008 income from continuing operations of $1.2 billion, or $2.18 per share, which compares to $848 million, or $1.34 per share, in the third quarter of 2007. The third quarter 2008 results include the company's pre-tax gain of $305 million on the sale of its Krotz Springs, Louisiana refinery to a subsidiary of Alon USA Energy, Inc., which was effective July 1, 2008. Excluding this gain, third quarter 2008 income from continuing operations was $982 million, or $1.86 per share. Due to long-term product supply agreements between Valero and Alon, the results of operations related to the Krotz Springs refinery have not been presented as discontinued operations.
Income from continuing operations for the nine months ended September 30, 2008, was $2.1 billion, or $4.02 per share, compared to $4.0 billion, or $6.66 per share, for the nine months ended September 30, 2007. Excluding the gain on the sale of the Krotz Springs refinery, income from continuing operations for the nine months ended September 30, 2008 was $2.0 billion, or $3.70 per share.
Third quarter 2008 operating income was $1.8 billion compared to $1.2 billion for the third quarter of 2007. Excluding the gain on the sale of the Krotz Springs refinery, the increase in operating income was mainly due to higher margins for distillate products, such as diesel and jet fuels. Partially offsetting the higher margins for distillate products was a decrease in margins for gasoline.
"As a result of our good earnings, our financial position has continued to improve," said Bill Klesse, Valero's Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer. "At the end of the third quarter, our net debt-to-capitalization ratio was 15.8%, one of the lowest in company history. In early October, Moody's recognized our financial strength by raising our investment-grade credit rating from Baa3 to Baa2 with a stable outlook.
"Given the very uncertain economic environment, we have significantly reduced our capital spending. We estimate total capital spending for 2008 will be approximately $3.0 billion, down $800 million from our last update, and down $1.5 billion from our original budget of $4.5 billion. For 2009, we estimate capital spending will be $3.5 billion, also down $500 million from our previous guidance. We will continue to review our capital spending considering our opportunities and the economic outlook."
 
Regarding uses of cash in the third quarter of 2008, the company's capital spending was $749 million, of which $76 million was for turnaround expenditures. The company also used $78 million for dividend payments and spent $74 million to purchase 2 million shares of its common stock. In October, the company purchased an additional 8.3 million shares, taking the year-to-date total purchases to nearly 23 million shares, or more than 4% of shares outstanding at the beginning of this year.
"Looking at market fundamentals, a key item in the third quarter was the sharp drop in the price of crude oil, and this decline has obviously continued so far in the fourth quarter," said Klesse. "The price of WTI light sweet crude oil began the third quarter at approximately $140 per barrel, but recently closed below $65 per barrel. Although the fall in crude oil prices has not translated into higher margins for all of Valero's products, the lower crude oil prices have led to substantially lower retail pump prices, which is positive for consumers and demand for our products. The lower prices will also provide consumers a clearer view of the magnitude of the subsidies necessary to make alternative fuels competitive.
"Regarding third quarter product margins, conditions were very volatile. Low gasoline margins in July were followed by higher margins in August as production adjusted to demand. When the hurricanes hit the Gulf Coast and reduced refinery production, gasoline inventories fell to historically low levels, and margins responded, which increased average margins for the third quarter. In contrast to the volatile movement of gasoline margins, distillate margins remained very good throughout the third quarter as global supply and demand balances were tight. With winter approaching, we continue to expect excellent distillate margins even though worldwide economic activity is slowing."
Margins for many of the company's secondary products, such as asphalt, heavy fuel oil, petroleum coke, and petrochemical feedstocks, increased in the third quarter compared to the prior quarter as the cost of crude oil fell faster than the prices of those products. This favorable margin relationship continues as crude prices continue to fall.
"In our refining operations, the hurricanes certainly complicated matters," said Klesse. "We had four refineries shutdown, but we were fortunate to avoid major damage from the hurricanes. We thank all of our employees for a dedicated and committed effort to return our refineries and most of our retail stores to normal operations as quickly as possible.
"Uncertainty in the financial markets and a pessimistic economic outlook have noticeably added to the inherent volatility in the refining industry. Valero's stock price, like those of nearly all companies in the energy sector, has been hit hard. Obviously, we feel that our stock price has been beaten down unfairly when you consider our balance sheet strength, cash position, operations, and continuing profitability. You can expect us to maintain our balanced approach by investing in growth projects, paying off debt, buying back stock, and increasing dividends, but clearly we intend to hold much more cash than in the past."
 
Valero's senior management will hold a conference call at 11 a.m. ET (10 a.m. CT) today to discuss this earnings release and provide an update on company operations. A live broadcast of the conference call will be available on the company's web site at .
www.valero.com
Valero Energy Corporation is a Fortune 500 company based in San Antonio, with approximately 22,000 employees and 2007 revenues of more than $95 billion. The company owns and operates 16 refineries throughout the United States, Canada and the Caribbean with a combined throughput capacity of approximately 3.1 million barrels per day, making it the largest refiner in North America. Valero is also one of the nation's largest retail operators with approximately 5,800 retail and branded wholesale outlets in the United States, Canada and the Caribbean under various brand names including Valero, Diamond Shamrock, Shamrock, Ultramar, and Beacon. Please visit www.valero.com for more information.
Statements contained in this release that state the company's or management's expectations or predictions of the future are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the safe harbor provisions of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The words "believe," "expect," "should," "could," "estimates," and other similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. It is important to note that actual results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements. For more information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ from those expressed or forecasted, see Valero's annual reports on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and on Valero's website at .
www.valero.com
 
 
 
 
 
 


