FILE:VLO/VLO-8K-20080729092951.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
     On July 29, 2008, Valero Energy Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release announcing financial results for the Company's second quarter 2008 earnings. A copy of the press release is furnished with this report as Exhibit 99.01 and is incorporated herein by reference.
     The information in this report is being furnished, not filed, pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K. Accordingly, the information in this report, including the press release, will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed by the Company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated therein by reference.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.01
SAN ANTONIO, July 29, 2008  Valero Energy Corporation (NYSE: VLO) today reported second quarter 2008 income from continuing operations of $734 million, or $1.37 per share. The company's income from continuing operations in the second quarter of 2007 was $2.1 billion, or $3.57 per share. For the six months ended June 30, 2008, income from continuing operations was $995 million, or $1.85 per share, compared to the company's income from continuing operations of $3.2 billion, or $5.28 per share, for the six months ended June 30, 2007. Income from discontinued operations relates to the Lima, Ohio refinery, which the company sold effective July 1, 2007.
Second quarter 2008 operating income was $1.2 billion, versus $3.2 billion reported in the second quarter of 2007. The decline in operating income was primarily attributable to lower margins for many of the company's products in the second quarter of 2008 compared to the same quarter last year. Margins for refined products declined as the cost of crude oil and other feedstocks increased more rapidly than the prices of gasoline and other products, such as asphalt, fuel oils, petroleum coke, and petrochemical feedstocks. For example, benchmark Gulf Coast gasoline margins decreased about $22 per barrel, or 77 percent, from $28.95 per barrel in the second quarter of 2007 to $6.60 per barrel in the second quarter of 2008. Somewhat offsetting these weaker margins were significantly higher margins on distillate products such as diesel and jet fuels, which continued to experience strong global demand, and improved differentials for sour crude oil.
Other factors contributing to the decline in operating income include refinery operating expenses, which increased by $148 million from the second quarter of 2007 to the second quarter of 2008, primarily due to higher energy costs for electricity and natural gas. Also, throughput volumes decreased in the same time frame by an average of 48,000 barrels per day in large part due to maintenance and repairs at the Aruba, Port Arthur, and Delaware City refineries.
"Despite the difficult environment for margins on gasoline and many secondary products, Valero continued to be profitable," said Bill Klesse, Valero's Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer. "Wide differentials for the heavy and sour feedstocks that we can process in our refineries benefited us significantly in the second quarter.
"In our refining operations, we've made great progress in shifting production to take advantage of the strong market for distillates. From 2008's first quarter to the second quarter, we increased our distillate production by 110,000 barrels per day while maintaining steady gasoline production. In the same time frame, we increased our use of discounted feedstocks from 66% to 68%, partially due to improved operations at our heavy sour refineries where we completed a major turnaround at Delaware City, finished
 
our coke drum repair at Port Arthur, and repaired the vacuum tower at our Aruba refinery.
"Looking at market fundamentals, we expect distillate margins should be strong for the rest of the year and next. However, we expect gasoline margins to continue to be weak and industry utilization rates to decline. We expect secondary products to have a margin recovery, particularly if the price of crude oil stabilizes or falls, as the prices of these products lag changes in the price of crude oil.
"Our balance sheet continues to be in excellent shape with $1.6 billion in cash at the end of June. In July, we added further to our cash position with the proceeds from the sale of the Krotz Springs refinery. We continued to return cash to our shareholders in the second quarter by increasing our dividend by 25% and also by purchasing 3.8 million shares of our common stock. In early July, we purchased an additional 2 million shares, and for the year, we have purchased nearly 15 million shares. We continue to review our capital spending very closely and now expect this year's expenditures to be approximately $3.8 billion, down $700 million from our original estimate.
"Concerning asset sales, although we have received preliminary indications of interest from parties regarding our Ardmore and Memphis refineries, we have not yet received a proposal that we believe is in the best interest of our employees and shareholders, so these refineries remain under strategic review. Obviously, gasoline margins have weakened and the availability of financing is clearly lacking as the financial markets continue in turmoil. However, we plan to continue to pursue a potential transaction for Aruba.
"We can manage industry challenges, but unfortunately, reckless rhetoric in Washington, D.C. complicates our forward progress. Too many in Congress fail to appreciate our industry's efficiencies, they won't acknowledge the excellent jobs we provide, they ignore the taxes we pay, and worst of all, many in Congress are more interested in scoring populist political points than reducing energy costs. To not allow companies to look for oil and gas when there are huge potential reserves in the U.S. is irresponsible. Instead, Congress wants to provide subsidies for inefficient technologies. Instead of solutions, they want to reduce CO2 emissions without regard for the economy. The direction we see Congress moving is not good for consumers, our shareholders, or our country. We will continue to advocate sound policies based on facts and market realities.
"As I've said before, the refining industry historically has been seasonal, volatile, and cyclical. Even when the industry faces challenges, our employees are committed to excellence in achieving cost efficiencies while continuing to improve our safety, environmental, and reliability performance. To make Valero a more valuable company for the long term, we expect to continue our balanced approach by investing in selected
 
growth projects, improving our operating performance, buying back more stock, and increasing dividends, while maintaining our investment-grade credit rating."
Valero's senior management will hold a conference call at 11 a.m. ET (10 a.m. CT) today to discuss this earnings release and provide an update on company operations. A live broadcast of the conference call will be available on the company's web site at
www.valero.com.
Valero Energy Corporation is a Fortune 500 company based in San Antonio, with approximately 22,000 employees and 2007 revenues of more than $95 billion. The company owns and operates 16 refineries throughout the United States, Canada and the Caribbean with a combined throughput capacity of approximately 3.1 million barrels per day, making it the largest refiner in North America. Valero is also one of the nation's largest retail operators with approximately 5,800 retail and branded wholesale outlets in the United States, Canada and the Caribbean under various brand names including Valero, Diamond Shamrock, Shamrock, Ultramar, and Beacon. Please visit www.valero.com for more information.
Statements contained in this release that state the company's or management's expectations or predictions of the future are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the safe harbor provisions of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The words "believe," "expect," "should," "estimates," and other similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. It is important to note that actual results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements. For more information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ from those expressed or forecasted, see Valero's annual reports on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and on Valero's website at .
www.valero.com
 
 
 
 
 
 


