FILE:VLO/VLO-8K-20081022160526.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
On October 16, 2008, the Board of Directors of Valero Energy Corporation (the "Company" or "Valero") elected Kimberly S. Bowers as Executive Vice President and General Counsel of the Company. In this role, Ms. Bowers will oversee Valero's commercial and environmental law departments as well as litigation, labor, and ad valorem tax. She also oversees Valero's governmental affairs and health, safety, and environmental departments.
Ms. Bowers, 44, had previously served as Senior Vice President and General Counsel of the Company since April 2006. Before that, she was Valero's Vice President-Legal Services from 2003 to 2006. Ms. Bowers joined Valero's legal department in 1997. Before joining Valero, she was employed as an attorney at the law firm of Kelly, Hart and Hallman in Fort Worth, Texas.
In connection with the election, her annual base salary was increased to $494,000 (effective January 1, 2009). She was also awarded options (the "Options") to purchase 60,375 shares of common stock, $0.01 par value, of the Company ("Common Stock"), and was granted 16,280 restricted shares of Common Stock ("Restricted Shares"). These awards were made pursuant to Valero's 2005 Omnibus Stock Incentive Plan (the "2005 OSIP"). The Options are scheduled to vest in annual one-third increments beginning in October 2009, and will expire in October 2015. The Options have an exercise price of $17.11, representing the average of the high and low reported sales prices per share of the Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange on the date of grant (as required per the terms of the 2005 OSIP). The Restricted Shares are scheduled to vest in annual one-fifth increments beginning in October 2009.
On October 16, 2008, the Board of Directors of the Company authorized grants of Options and Restricted Shares to Valero's named executive officers (as defined in Item 402(a)(3) of Regulation S-K), and increases to the annual base salaries of certain of its named executive officers. These compensation arrangements were materially consistent with the previously disclosed compensation arrangements for such officers.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

     This Restricted Stock Agreement (this "Agreement") is between Valero Energy Corporation, a Delaware corporation ("Valero"), and , an employee of Valero or one of its Affiliates ("Employee"), who agree as follows:
First_Name Middle_Name Last_Name
     1. . Pursuant to the (as may be amended, the "Plan"), on Employee was awarded shares of Common Stock of Valero under the Plan as Restricted Stock (as defined in the Plan) ("Restricted Stock"). The parties hereby enter into this Agreement to evidence the terms, conditions and restrictions applicable to the Restricted Stock.
Introduction
Valero Energy Corporation 2005 Omnibus Stock Incentive Plan
Option_Date,
Shares_Granted
     2. . The Plan is incorporated herein by reference for all purposes, and Employee hereby agrees to the terms and conditions stated therein applicable to the Restricted Stock and the rights and powers of Valero and the Committee as provided therein. In addition, Employee agrees as follows:
The Plan, Restrictions, Vesting
     2.01 . Except to the extent otherwise provided in the Plan or this Agreement, shares of Restricted Stock issued to Employee under the Plan may not be sold, exchanged, pledged, hypothecated, transferred, garnished or otherwise disposed of or alienated prior to vesting.
Nontransferable
     2.02 Regular . Except to the extent otherwise provided in the Plan, Employee's rights to and interest in the shares of Restricted Stock described herein shall vest and accrue to Employee in the following increments: shares on ; shares on ; shares on ; shares on ; and shares on
Vesting
Shares_Period_1
Vest_Date_Period_1
Shares_Period_2
Vest_Date_Period_2
Shares_Period_3
Vest_Date_Period_3
Shares_Period_4
Vest_Date_Period_4
Shares_Period_5
Vest_Date_Period_5.
     2.03 . Fifty percent (50%) of the shares of Restricted Stock stated in Section 1 above shall be eligible for performance accelerated vesting ("Eligible Shares"). Notwithstanding the vesting schedule stated in Section 2.02, to the extent any Eligible Shares have not yet vested per the schedule stated in Section 2.02, and to the extent the Eligible Shares have not been forfeited or otherwise canceled pursuant to the terms of the Plan, all unvested Eligible Shares shall automatically vest at the close of business on the last date of the Acceleration Period. The "Acceleration Period" means the first period following the Effective Date when the closing price per share of Valero Common Stock is $60.00 or above for five consecutive trading days as reported on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE).
Performance Accelerated Vesting for Eligible Shares
     2.04 . Employee agrees that in lieu of certificates representing Employee's shares of Restricted Stock, the Restricted Stock and any Shares issuable in connection with their vesting may be issued in uncertificated form pursuant to the Direct Registration Service of Valero's stock transfer agent.
Book Entry Shares
     2.05 . If, as the result of a stock split, stock dividend, combination of shares or any other change, including an exchange of securities for any reason, the Employee shall be entitled to new or additional or different shares of stock or securities, such stock or securities shall be subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan and this Agreement.
Restructuring or Reorganization
     3. . The Employee shall have no rights with respect to any shares of Restricted Stock not expressly conferred by the Plan or this Agreement.
Limitation
     4. . All capitalized terms contained in this Agreement shall have the definitions set forth in the Plan unless otherwise defined herein. This Agreement shall be binding upon the parties hereto and their respective beneficiaries, heirs, administrators, executors, legal representatives and successors.
Miscellaneous
 
     5. . The issuance of shares under this Award shall be made on or as soon as reasonably practical following the applicable date of vesting, but in any event no later than the 15th day of the third month following the end of the year in which the applicable date of vesting occurs. With respect to the receipt of dividends, the payment of dividends shall be made by the last day of the fiscal quarter during which dividends on Valero Common Stock are paid, but in any event by no later than the 15th day of the month following the end of the year in which the applicable dividends on Valero Common Stock are paid. This Agreement and the award evidenced hereby are intended to comply, and shall be administered consistently, in all respects with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder. If necessary in order to ensure such compliance, this Agreement may be reformed consistent with guidance issued by the Internal Revenue Service.
Code Section 409A
     EFFECTIVE as of the day of , 20 (the "Effective Date").
                    
                    
                    

Effective , you have been granted a to buy shares of the common stock of Valero Energy Corporation (the "Company") at per share.
Option_Date
Long_Type
Shares_Granted
Option_Price
The total Option price of the shares granted is .
Total_Option_Price
Your Options will vest on the dates shown below.
By your signature and the Company's signature below, you and the Company agree that the Option referenced above is granted under and governed by the terms and conditions of the (as may be amended) and the Option Agreement attached hereto, all of which are made a part of this agreement.
Company's 2005 Omnibus Stock Incentive Plan
VALERO ENERGY CORPORATION
 
     This Option Agreement (this "Agreement") is entered into between Valero Energy Corporation, a Delaware corporation ("Valero"), and Employee pursuant to the terms of the (as may be amended, the "Plan"). As used herein, Employee means . Capitalized terms used in this Agreement and the attached but not otherwise defined in this Agreement have the meanings set forth in the Plan.
Valero Energy Corporation 2005 Omnibus Stock Incentive Plan
First_Name Middle_Name Last_Name
Form A
     Valero grants to Employee the option (the "Option") to purchase up to shares of common stock of Valero, $.01 par value per share ("Shares"), in accordance with the terms of this Agreement and the Plan. The Shares, when issued to Employee upon the exercise of the Option, will be fully paid and non-assessable.
1. Grant of Option.
Shares_Granted
     The purchase price of the Shares will be per Share.
2. Purchase Price.
Option_Price
     The period during which the Option is in effect (the "Option Period") will commence on . The Option Period will terminate on . No portion of the Option may be exercised prior to . Subject to the provisions of the Plan relating to suspension or termination from the Plan, the Option will be available for exercise in the following increments: shares on ; shares on ; and shares on .
3. Exercise of Option.
Option_Date
Expiration_Date_Period_1
Vest_Date_Period_1
Shares_Period_1
Vest_Date_Period_1
Shares_Period_2
Vest_Date_Period_2
Shares_Period_3
Vest_Date_Period_3
     The Option must be exercised in accordance with procedures established by Valero and pursuant to one of the methods for exercise set forth in the Exercise Notice. Payment for the Shares will be made at Valero's San Antonio offices.
     If any law or regulation requires Valero to take any action with respect to the Shares specified in the Exercise Notice, then the date of delivery of the Shares against payment will be extended for the period necessary to take such action. In the event of any failure by Employee to pay for the number of Shares specified in the Exercise Notice on the Exercise Date, the exercise of the Option with respect to such number of Shares will be treated as if it had never been made.
     The Plan is incorporated herein, and by this reference, is made a part hereof for all purposes.
4. Plan Incorporated by Reference.
     Employee will have no rights with respect to any Shares not expressly conferred by the Plan or this Agreement.
5. Limitation of Rights of Employee.
     This Agreement and the Option granted hereunder are of a personal nature and Employee's rights with respect hereto and thereto may not be sold, mortgaged, pledged, assigned, transferred, conveyed or disposed of in any manner by Employee and may not be exercised by any person, other than Employee, except as expressly permitted under the Plan. Any such attempted sale, mortgage, pledge, assignment, transfer, conveyance, disposition or exercise will be void, and Valero will not be bound thereby.
6. No Assignment.
     This Agreement is binding upon any successors of Valero and the heirs, successors and legal representatives of Employee.
7. Successors.
     Employee agrees that in lieu of stock certificates, any Shares issuable in connection with the exercise of the Option may be issued in uncertificated form pursuant to the Direct Registration Service of Valero's stock transfer agent.
8. Direct Registration.


