FILE:VLO/VLO-8K-20090804162616.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
o
o
o
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On July 29, 2009, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of Valero Energy Corporation approved certain amendments to Valeros annual incentive bonus program (the Program) and approved certain amendments to the Companys Annual Bonus Plan. Our named executive officers are eligible to participate in the Program. The Programs performance measures now include Operational and Strategic Measures and Financial Performance Measures. The Operational and Strategic Measures are new performance measures for the Program. The Financial Performance Measures are the same measures as used by the Company in 2008 and prior years.
The Programs 2009 performance measures are as follows:
 segment weighted as 50% of total bonus opportunity
Segment I. Operational and Strategic Measures
:
Performance Measures
Each of the three performance metrics will be measured against actual Company performance with the range of outcome being between 0% to 200%.
Range of Performance Scores and Weighting
 segment weighted as 50% of bonus opportunity
Segment II. Financial Performance Measures
:
Performance Measures
Each of the three performance metrics will be measured against actual Company performance with the range of outcome being between 0% to 200%, with each measure being weighted one-third.
Range of Performance Scores and Weighting
The new measurement system eliminates the former discretionary adjustment factor of 25% to the final results of the Companys performance measures.
 
Except as noted above, the Companys annual bonus incentive program will function in 2009 in the manner disclosed in Valeros proxy statement for the 2009 annual meeting of stockholders.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
VALERO ENERGY CORPORATION
Date: August 4, 2009
By: Jay D. Browning Senior Vice President and Secretary
s/ Jay D. Browning
/
                               
 

Table of Contents
 
INTRODUCTION
The Valero Energy Corporation Annual Bonus Plan (hereinafter referred to as the "Plan") has been established for the purpose of providing bonus compensation to eligible employees of Valero Energy Corporation and its Affiliates (hereinafter collectively referred to as the "Company"). The Company intends and desires to create individual performance incentive by providing bonus compensation awards based upon individual contributions to Company profitability. Such bonus compensation is intended to encourage levels of individual performance that will assure focus by employees on continued Company profitability. It is further intended that when added to other forms of compensation the bonus compensation awards will result in total compensation to employees in amounts that are competitive when Company performance is compared to peer organizations.
Article 1 
Definitions
For purposes of the Plan, unless the context requires otherwise, the following terms should have the meanings set forth below.
(i) to determine whether to award or not to award a bonus to individuals; and
(ii) to adjust or award the bonus amounts payable to subgroups of Participants (., retail Participants, refining Participants) in greater or lesser percentages than amounts to be paid to other Participants;
e.g
with all such discretion to be based upon such factors as the Committee deems appropriate.
 
Article 2 
Administration
 
Article 3 
Participation
Article 4 
Determination of Bonus Awards
 
Article 5 
Bonus Targets
Article 6 
Form of Payment
 
Article 7 
Miscellaneous Terms and Provisions
 


