FILE:VLO/VLO-8K-20101026093700.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
On October 26, 2010, Valero Energy Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release announcing financial results for the Company's third quarter 2010 earnings. A copy of the press release is furnished with this report as Exhibit 99.01 and is incorporated herein by reference.
The information in this report is being furnished, not filed, pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K. Accordingly, the information in this report, including the press release, will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed by the Company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated therein by reference.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.01
SAN ANTONIO, October 26, 2010  Valero Energy Corporation (NYSE: VLO) today reported income from continuing operations of $292 million, or $0.51 per share, for the third quarter of 2010, compared to a loss from continuing operations of $343 million, or $0.61 per share, for the third quarter of 2009. For the nine months ended September 30, 2010, income from continuing operations was $721 million, or $1.27 per share, compared to a loss from continuing operations of $170 million, or $0.32 per share for the nine months ended September 30, 2009. For all periods shown in the accompanying tables, discontinued operations relate to the Delaware City, Delaware refinery which was shut down in 2009 and sold in the second quarter of 2010.
Operating income in the third quarter of 2010 was $571 million, versus an operating loss of $238 million in the third quarter of 2009. The $809 million improvement in operating income was primarily in the refining segment, where refining throughput margins improved to $7.87 per barrel, an increase of $2.79 per barrel. The increase was mainly due to higher margins for diesel and better discounts for low-quality feedstocks combined with higher throughput volumes compared to the third quarter 2009.
"It's great to report back-to-back profitable quarters, which is a reflection of the improvement we have seen in our business over last year," said Valero Chairman and CEO Bill Klesse. "For the most part, our plants ran well in the third quarter, allowing us to take advantage of solid product margins and better feedstock discounts. The fourth quarter is off to a good start as margins have been strong for this time of year, and discounts remain favorable. As winter approaches, distillate inventories both here and in Europe have been falling, which should also support margins. We're well-positioned to capture these attractive margins as we have very little maintenance-related downtime planned at our refineries during the fourth quarter."
"Cost reductions continue to be a key priority," Klesse continued. "We have achieved $140 million in year-to-date cost savings, and we are on pace to reduce costs by a total of $185 million in 2010. In 2011, we expect to reduce costs throughout our ongoing businesses by another $100 million. When achieved, our 2009 through 2011 cumulative pre-tax costs savings are estimated at $500 million. These reductions allow Valero to offset increases in our non-controllable costs, which are always part of our business."
Valero's retail and ethanol segments continued to report impressive results. The retail segment earned $105 million in operating income during the third quarter of 2010, nearly matching last year's record results. The company's ethanol segment also continued to perform well with $47 million in operating income generated during the third quarter of 2010.
 
Regarding cash flows in the third quarter of 2010, capital spending was $508 million, of which $67 million was for turnaround and catalyst expenditures. Also in the third quarter, the company paid $28 million in common stock dividends. The company ended the third quarter with $2.4 billion in cash and temporary cash investments. Capital spending is expected to be approximately $2.3 billion for the full-year 2010. The company has announced a preliminary capital spending estimate of $2.6 billion for 2011, which includes a decline in regulatory spending and an increase in spending for economic growth projects.
"We're excited about moving forward to unlock the earnings power of our economic growth projects," said Klesse. "These projects capitalize on our outlook for relatively high crude oil and low natural gas prices, plus growing global demand for diesel. Using reasonable price assumptions, we estimate that our projects will yield strong returns on investment and significant contributions to earnings over the next few years.
"We're also making progress on our strategic priorities. We have an agreement to sell the Paulsboro refinery, and we anticipate closing on that sale in the fourth quarter. We also expect to close on the sale of our investment in the Cameron Highway Oil Pipeline System in the fourth quarter. In addition, we are continuing maintenance at our Aruba refinery, which should be ready to restart in mid-December."
Klesse concluded, "We will continue to look at additional refinery opportunities to change our geographic footprint. Valero is a manufacturer of fuels and petrochemical feedstocks, and we believe there are opportunities to improve the competitiveness of our portfolio and add shareholder value. Regardless of what actions we pursue, we remain committed to a strong balance sheet and maintaining our investment grade credit rating."
Valero Energy Corporation is an international manufacturer and marketer of transportation fuels, other petrochemical products and power. Its assets include 15 petroleum refineries with a combined throughput capacity of approximately 2.8 million barrels per day, 10 ethanol plants with a combined production capacity of 1.1 billion gallons per year, and a 50-megawatt wind farm. Valero is also one of the largest retail operators with approximately 5,800 retail and branded wholesale outlets in the United States, Canada and the Caribbean under the Valero, Diamond Shamrock, Shamrock, Ultramar and Beacon brands. Based in San Antonio, Valero is a Fortune 500 company with approximately 21,000 employees. Please visit for more information.
www.valero.com
 
Statements contained in this release that state the company's or management's expectations or predictions of the future are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the safe harbor provisions of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The words "believe," "expect," "should," "could," "estimates," and other similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. It is important to note that actual results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements. For more information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ from those expressed or forecasted, see Valero's annual reports on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
 
 
 


