FILE:VLO/VLO-8K-20100427091034.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On April 27, 2010, Valero Energy Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release announcing financial results for the Company's first quarter 2010 earnings. A copy of the press release is furnished with this report as Exhibit 99.01 and is incorporated herein by reference.
The information in this report is being furnished, not filed, pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K. Accordingly, the information in this report, including the press release, will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed by the Company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated therein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
99.01 Press release dated April 27, 2010.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

SAN ANTONIO, April 27, 2010  Valero Energy Corporation (NYSE: VLO) today reported for the first quarter of 2010 a loss from continuing operations of $101 million, or $0.18 per share, compared to first quarter 2009 income from continuing operations of $364 million, or $0.70 per share. For all periods shown in the accompanying tables, discontinued operations relate to the refinery in Delaware City, Delaware, which the company shut down during the fourth quarter of 2009.
The first quarter 2010 operating loss was $32 million, versus first quarter 2009 operating income of $593 million. The decline in operating income was mainly due to lower margins for most of the company's refined products. Additionally, throughput volumes decreased from the first quarter of 2009 to the first quarter of 2010 by 254,000 barrels per day in large part due to the extended shutdown of the Aruba refinery.
"Industry refining margins and sour crude discounts expanded in the first quarter from the low levels experienced in the fourth quarter," said Valero Chairman and CEO Bill Klesse. "Valero captured some of the margin expansion, but our performance was limited due to heavy maintenance at key refineries, including Port Arthur, Corpus Christi, St. Charles, Quebec, and Memphis. As a result of downtime, lost income in the first quarter is estimated at just over $200 million, or approximately $0.24 per share.
"The second quarter looks much better considering those refineries are back online, Memphis is completing a major turnaround, and our refining system is running well. So far in April, we've seen favorable sour crude discounts and very good margins in several of our markets for gasoline, diesel, and other products such as petrochemical feedstocks and asphalt. Also, West Coast margins are beginning to show improvement. At this rate, we expect to be profitable in April as well as the entire second quarter.
"Looking at the rest of the year, we are cautiously optimistic about our business. U.S. and global economic indicators continue to trend higher, which should lead to improved demand for our products. However, refining margins are likely to be constrained due to the ongoing abundance of spare refining capacity in the U.S., Western Europe, and Japan.
"Our other business units reported strong results in the first quarter. Retail had its best first quarter in Valero's history with $71 million of operating income. Both the U.S. and Canadian retail operations continued to perform well. Ethanol earned $57 million of operating income in the first quarter, which was our second-highest quarter for ethanol since we entered the business last year. Also in the first quarter, we acquired three ethanol plants at values below replacement cost, and we were able to quickly restart the two plants that had not been operating. All ten of our ethanol plants are now operating," said Klesse.
 
Regarding cash flows in the first quarter of 2010, capital spending was $611 million, of which $229 million was for turnaround and catalyst expenditures. The company invested $260 million to acquire three ethanol plants, which includes acquired working capital and is in addition to a $21 million deposit paid in the fourth quarter of 2009. Also in the first quarter, the company received a federal income tax refund of $923 million. The company completed a $1.25 billion debt offering in February, and then paid $294 million to redeem debt. The company paid $28 million in dividends on its common stock in the first quarter of 2010 and ended the quarter with $1.9 billion in cash and temporary cash investments.
"We made progress on our portfolio upgrading effort with the recent agreement to sell the terminal and shutdown refinery assets in Delaware City to PBF Energy Partners for $220 million. This transaction represents incremental cash flow and an appropriate value for those assets," Klesse said. "We continue to look for options for our Aruba and Paulsboro refineries."
"For 2010, we remain committed to our goal to achieve $100 million in pre-tax cost savings in addition to the savings generated last year, and we are on pace to beat that goal," Klesse said. "All our employees are engaged to improve our performance and our efficiency to capture margins. Our capital spending target for 2010 remains at $2 billion, which is down $700 million versus last year. We continue to believe that the strategic actions we have taken should make Valero profitable in 2010, even if we experience a low-margin environment similar to 2009."
Valero's senior management will hold a conference call at 11:00 a.m. ET (10 a.m. CT) today to discuss this earnings release and provide an update on company operations. A live broadcast of the conference call will be available on the company's web site at .
www.valero.com
Valero Energy Corporation is a Fortune 500 company based in San Antonio with approximately 21,000 employees. The company owns or operates 15 refineries with a combined throughput capacity of approximately 2.8 million barrels per day. Valero is also a leading ethanol producer with ten ethanol plants in the Midwest with a combined capacity of 1.1 billion gallons per year, and is one of the nation's largest retail operators with approximately 5,800 retail and branded wholesale outlets in the United States, Canada and the Caribbean under the Valero, Diamond Shamrock, Shamrock, Ultramar, and Beacon brands. Please visit for more information.
www.valero.com
Statements contained in this release that state the company's or management's expectations or predictions of the future are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the safe harbor provisions of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The words "believe," "expect," "should," "could," "estimates," and other similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. It is important to note that actual results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements. For more information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ from those expressed or forecasted, see Valero's annual reports on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
 
 
 


