FILE:VLO/VLO-8K-20100727095552.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
On July 27, 2010, Valero Energy Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release announcing financial results for the Company's second quarter 2010 earnings. A copy of the press release is furnished with this report as Exhibit 99.01 and is incorporated herein by reference.
The information in this report is being furnished, not filed, pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K. Accordingly, the information in this report, including the press release, will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed by the Company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated therein by reference.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.01
SAN ANTONIO, July 27, 2010  Valero Energy Corporation (NYSE: VLO) today reported income from continuing operations of $530 million, or $0.93 per share, for the second quarter of 2010, compared to a loss from continuing operations of $191 million, or $0.36 per share, for the second quarter of 2009. For the six months ended June 30, 2010, income from continuing operations was $429 million, or $0.76 per share, compared to income from continuing operations of $173 million, or $0.33 per share for the six months ended June 30, 2009. For all periods shown in the accompanying tables, discontinued operations relate to the refinery in Delaware City, Delaware, which the company shut down in 2009 and sold in the second quarter of 2010.
Operating income in the second quarter of 2010 was $921 million, versus an operating loss of $192 million in the second quarter of 2009. The $1.1 billion increase in operating income was mainly due to higher margins for diesel and many of the company's secondary products, such as petrochemicals, asphalt, and lube oils, as well as better discounts for low-quality feedstocks.
"It's great to be profitable again," said Valero Chairman and CEO Bill Klesse. "Our second quarter results really showed the earnings power of our assets. Our system of high-conversion refineries was able to take advantage of higher margins on products and wider discounts on sour crude oils. Another highlight is that our refining operating expenses for the second quarter fell to $3.55 per barrel, which was our lowest cost per barrel since the second quarter of 2009."
Commenting on the outlook for refining, Klesse said, "So far in the third quarter, product margins and feedstock discounts have continued at relatively good levels, although down from the second quarter in most of our regions. We remain cautiously optimistic that global economic expansion will drive growth in refined-products demand. Valero makes and sells fuels, so we need consumers to get back to work and the economy to grow faster."
The company's retail segment continued its record-setting performance with $109 million in operating income, which was the best second quarter in Valero's history. The Canadian retail operations continued to perform well with $33 million of operating income, while the U.S. operations had impressive results of $76 million in operating income on strong fuel margins.
 
"Our ethanol business also continues to do well with $35 million of operating income in the second quarter despite difficult industry conditions," said Klesse. "We have established a strong position as one of the largest, most competitive producers in the ethanol industry by building a portfolio of world-scale, cost-advantaged plants. Acquiring these plants at large discounts to new-build prices and leveraging our overhead structure has helped us to earn good returns on investment, even when margins were low."
Regarding cash flows in the second quarter of 2010, capital spending was $517 million, of which $114 million was for turnaround and catalyst expenditures. Also in the second quarter, the company spent $223 million to pay down debt, paid $28 million in dividends on its common stock, and received $220 million in proceeds from the sale of the Delaware City assets. The company ended the second quarter with $2 billion in cash and temporary cash investments. For the full-year 2010, the company expects capital spending of approximately $2.3 billion.
"We continue to make progress on strengthening our portfolio of assets," Klesse said. "In June, we closed on the sale of the Delaware City assets, and we started turnaround maintenance at our Aruba refinery. When complete in September, this work will provide us the option to resume operations at the Aruba refinery if conditions are profitable and will enhance strategic alternatives for the refinery. Despite the fact that the Paulsboro refinery was profitable in the second quarter, we are continuing to evaluate its strategic alternatives."
Klesse concluded, "While we are pleased with the second quarter results, our priorities are to reduce costs and maintain our strong financial position. Early in 2010, we announced a goal to achieve $100 million in pre-tax cost savings this year. At the end of June, we were ahead of schedule and had already captured $90 million of cost savings through numerous initiatives and hard work by our employees. We remain focused on improving the long-term quality of our assets and our competitiveness in the global marketplace."
Valero's senior management will hold a conference call at 11:00 a.m. ET (10 a.m. CT) today to discuss this earnings release and provide an update on company operations. A live broadcast of the conference call will be available on the company's web site at .
www.valero.com
Valero Energy Corporation is a Fortune 500 company based in San Antonio with approximately 21,000 employees. The company owns or operates 15 refineries with a combined throughput capacity of approximately 2.8 million barrels per day. Valero is also a leading ethanol producer with ten ethanol plants in the Midwest with a combined capacity of 1.1 billion gallons per year, and is one of the nation's largest retail operators with approximately 5,800 retail and branded wholesale outlets in the United States, Canada and the Caribbean under the Valero, Diamond Shamrock, Shamrock, Ultramar, and Beacon brands. Please visit for more information.
www.valero.com
 
Statements contained in this release that state the company's or management's expectations or predictions of the future are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the safe harbor provisions of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The words "believe," "expect," "should," "could," "estimates," and other similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. It is important to note that actual results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements. For more information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ from those expressed or forecasted, see Valero's annual reports on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
 
 
 


