FILE:VLO/VLO-8K-20110311071615.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
o
o
o
 
 
 
.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
In connection with the March 11, 2011, announcement by Valero Energy Corporation ("Valero") regarding its proposed acquisition of the Pembroke refinery in Wales, U.K. (as described below in Item 8.01 of this current report), Valero will conduct a conference call to discuss the proposed transaction. The slides attached to this report were prepared for management's use in the conference call. The slides are included in Exhibit 99.01 to this current report and are incorporated herein by reference. The slides will be available on Valero's website at www.valero.com.
The information in Item 7.01 and Exhibit 99.01 of this report is being furnished, not filed, pursuant to Regulation FD. Accordingly, the information in Item 7.01 and Exhibit 99.01 of this report will not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement filed by Valero under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, unless specifically identified therein as being incorporated therein by reference. The furnishing of the information in this report is not intended to, and does not, constitute a determination or admission by Valero that the information in this report is material or complete, or that investors should consider this information before making an investment decision with respect to any security of Valero or any of its affiliates.
Safe Harbor Statement
Statements contained in the exhibit to this report that state Valero's or its management's expectations or predictions of the future are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the safe harbor provisions of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. It is important to note that Valero's actual results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements. Factors that could affect those results include those mentioned in the documents that Valero has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
On March 11, 2011, Valero Energy Corporation ("Valero") issued a press release announcing Valero's entry into an agreement to acquire the Pembroke refinery in Wales, U.K. from a subsidiary of Chevron Corporation. A copy of the press release is filed with this report as Exhibit 99.02 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Valero has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
VALERO ENERGY CORPORATION
Date: March 11, 2011
By: Jay D. Browning Senior Vice President and Secretary
/s/ Jay D. Browning

Exhibit 99.01
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

SAN ANTONIO, March 11, 2011  Valero Energy Corporation (NYSE: VLO) announced today that it has agreed to acquire Chevron's Pembroke refinery in Wales, U.K., as well as extensive marketing and logistics assets throughout the United Kingdom and Ireland, for $730 million, excluding working capital. Based on current market prices, working capital has an estimated value of $1 billion, although the final value for working capital will be determined at closing. The company expects to fund the transaction from available cash, and the transaction is expected to close in the third quarter of 2011, subject to regulatory approvals.
The Pembroke refinery has a total throughput capacity of 270,000 barrels per day, of which 220,000 barrels per day is crude capacity, and is one of Western Europe's largest and most complex refineries, with a Nelson complexity rating of 11.8. The refinery has been well maintained and managed, and has an estimated cash operating cost 25 percent below Valero's average, making it a competitive addition to Valero's portfolio.
Similar to Valero's other refineries, Pembroke can process a large and flexible slate of feedstocks, having used more than 60 different types of crude oil in the past decade. It has access to discounted crudes, and has a product slate of 44 percent gasoline, 40 percent distillates, 11 percent fuel oil and 5 percent other products. It receives feedstock cargoes by ship at its eight-berth deepwater dock, which can accommodate very large crude carriers.
In addition, the purchase price includes ownership interests in four major product pipelines and 11 fuel terminals, a 14,000 bpd aviation fuels business, and a network of more than 1,000 Texaco-branded wholesale sites, which is the largest branded dealer network in the U.K. and the second largest in Ireland. In total, more than half of the refinery's production is distributed through this integrated marketing and logistics system.
Valero expects to retain the employees in the U.K. and Ireland currently engaged in the businesses being acquired.
 
"We have been looking for some time to expand and improve our portfolio of assets, but only if we could get an attractive price for assets that would add significant long-term value for our shareholders," said Valero Chairman and CEO Bill Klesse. "This acquisition of quality assets enhances our portfolio and gives us opportunities for profitable growth. After exiting refining in the U.S. East Coast last year, this acquisition provides an opportunity for our company to supply that market more competitively, when it's economic to do so.
"The Pembroke refinery remained profitable and cash-flow positive even during the depths of the economic downturn in 2009," Klesse said. "We expect that it will be immediately accretive to earnings per share."
Once the transaction closes, Valero expects that the addition of the Pembroke refinery and the associated marketing and logistics assets will enhance its Atlantic Basin margin optimization strategy.
Valero's senior management will conduct a conference call at 10 a.m. Eastern Time (9 a.m. Central Time) today to discuss this announcement. A live webcast of the conference call and accompanying slides will be available on the company's web site at www.valero.com.
About Valero:
Valero Energy Corporation is an international manufacturer and marketer of transportation fuels, other petrochemical products and power. Its assets include 14 petroleum refineries with a combined throughput capacity of approximately 2.6 million barrels per day, 10 ethanol plants with a combined production capacity of 1.1 billion gallons per year, and a 50-megawatt wind farm. Valero is also one of the largest retail operators with approximately 5,800 retail and branded wholesale outlets in the United States, Canada and the Caribbean under the Valero, Diamond Shamrock, Shamrock, Ultramar and Beacon brands. Based in San Antonio, Valero is a Fortune 500 company with approximately 20,000 employees. Please visit
www.valero.com
for more information.
Safe Harbor Statement:
Statements contained in this release that state the Company's or management's expectations or predictions of the future are forward-looking statements intended to be covered by the safe harbor provisions of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The words "believe," "expect," "should," "estimates," and other similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. It is important to note that actual results could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements. For more information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ from those expressed or forecasted, see Valero's annual reports on
Form 10-K
and quarterly reports on
Form 10-Q
, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and available on Valero's website at
www.valero.com
.


