FILE:VLO/VLO-8K-20120227171954.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Upon his election to the Board, Mr. Pfeiffer was awarded 4,000 restricted shares of Valero common stock in accordance with the terms of Valero's Restricted Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors. The shares will vest annually in one-third increments on the dates of the next three annual meetings of Valero's stockholders.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.01
 
SAN ANTONIO, Feb. 24, 2012  Valero Energy Corporation (NYSE: VLO) announced today that Philip J. Pfeiffer has been elected to the company's board of directors, bringing the number of directors to 12.
Pfeiffer, 64, is Of Counsel in Fulbright & Jaworski's San Antonio office, where he was Partner-in-Charge for 25 years and led the office's labor and employment practice. Through his 40-year career with the firm, Pfeiffer assisted employers in traditional management-union matters, complex civil rights, employment discrimination cases, affirmative action compliance, employment torts, alternative dispute resolution, employment contracts and ERISA litigation. Pfeiffer is also a state qualified mediator in Texas, serving as a mediator in employment and civil rights cases, including class actions. He holds a bachelor's degree from Sam Houston State University as well as a juris doctor degree from Southern Methodist University Dedman School of Law.
He has a long and distinguished record of community involvement, serving on the board of directors of many non-profit organizations, including the United Way of San Antonio and Bexar County, St. Mary's University, Southwest Research Institute, San Antonio Medical Foundation and the Greater San Antonio Chamber of Commerce.
"With his experience and background, Phil will be a great addition to the Valero board of directors," said Valero Chairman and CEO Bill Klesse. "We're proud to have him."
About Valero:
Valero Energy Corporation, through its subsidiaries, is an international manufacturer and marketer of transportation fuels, other petrochemical products and power. Valero subsidiaries employ approximately 22,000 people, and assets include 16 petroleum refineries with a combined throughput capacity of approximately 3 million barrels per
day, 10 ethanol plants with a combined production capacity of 1.2 billion gallons per year, and a 50-megawatt wind farm. Approximately 6,800 retail and branded wholesale outlets carry the Valero, Diamond Shamrock, Shamrock and Beacon brands in the United States and the Caribbean; Ultramar in Canada; and Texaco in the United Kingdom and Ireland. Valero is a Fortune 500 company based in San Antonio. Please visit for more information.
www.valero.com


