FILE:VLO/VLO-8K-20120730134300.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Upon her election to the Board, Ms. Majoras was awarded 9,261 restricted shares of Valero common stock in accordance with the terms of Valero's compensation program for non-employee directors. The shares will vest annually in one-third increments on the dates of the next three annual meetings of Valero's stockholders.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.01
SAN ANTONIO, July 26, 2012  Valero Energy Corporation (NYSE: VLO) announced today that Deborah Platt Majoras has been elected to the company's board of directors. Majoras, 48, is Chief Legal Officer and Secretary of The Procter & Gamble Company. Previously she served as Chairman of the Federal Trade Commission, Deputy Assistant Attorney General in the U.S. Department of Justice's Antitrust Division, and a partner at the Jones Day law firm. Majoras is a member of the boards of trustees of the Cincinnati USA Regional Chamber, the Cincinnati Legal Aid Society and the Cincinnati Playhouse in the Park. She is also on the boards of Westminster College and the Leadership Council on Legal Diversity, and is co-chair of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce International Competition Policy Working Group. "Deborah is an outstanding addition to the Valero board of directors, and we're pleased to welcome her," said Valero Chairman and CEO Bill Klesse. "She brings a wealth of experience and knowledge."
About Valero: Valero Energy Corporation, through its subsidiaries, is an international manufacturer and marketer of transportation fuels, other petrochemical products and power. Valero subsidiaries employ approximately 22,000 people, and assets include 16 petroleum refineries with a combined throughput capacity of approximately 3 million barrels per day, 10 ethanol plants with a combined production capacity of 1.2 billion gallons per year, and a 50-megawatt wind farm. Approximately 6,800 retail and branded wholesale outlets carry the Valero, Diamond Shamrock, Shamrock and Beacon brands in the United States and the Caribbean; Ultramar in Canada; and Texaco in the United Kingdom and Ireland. Valero is a Fortune 500 company based in San Antonio. Please visit www.valero.com for more information.
Bill Day
Executive Director of Media Relations
Valero Energy Corporation
(210) 345-2928 office
(210) 621-7191 mobile


