FILE:VLO/VLO-8K-20120504134603.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
TEXT:
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The 2012 annual meeting of the stockholders of Valero Energy Corporation ("Valero") was held May 3, 2012. Matters voted on at the annual meeting and the results thereof were as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
:
Stockholder Proposals
 
 
 
 
 
. For Proposal 1, as required by Valero's bylaws, each director is to be elected by a majority of votes cast with respect to that director's election. Proposals 2 through 5 required approval by the affirmative vote of a majority of the voting power of the shares present in person or by proxy at the Annual Meeting and entitled to vote.
Required votes
Shares voted to abstain are treated as "present" for purposes of determining a quorum. In the election of directors, pursuant to Valero's bylaws, shares voted to abstain are not deemed to be "votes cast," and are accordingly disregarded. When, however, approval for a proposal requires (a) the affirmative vote of a majority of the voting power of the issued and outstanding shares of the company, or (b) the affirmative vote of a majority of the voting power of the shares present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote, then shares voted to abstain have the effect of a negative vote.
Effect of abstentions.
Brokers holding shares for the beneficial owners of such shares must vote according to specific instructions received from the beneficial owners. If specific instructions are not received, in some instances, a broker may nevertheless vote the shares in the broker's discretion. But under New York Stock Exchange rules, brokers are precluded from exercising voting discretion on certain proposals without specific instructions from the beneficial owner. This results in a "broker non-vote" on the proposal. A broker non-vote is treated as "present" for purposes of determining a quorum, has the effect of a negative vote when approval for a particular proposal requires the affirmative vote of a majority of the voting power of the issued and outstanding shares of the company, and has no effect when approval for a proposal requires the affirmative vote of a majority of the voting power of the shares present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote. Per the NYSE's rules, brokers had discretion to vote at the Annual Meeting on Proposal 2 only.
Effect of broker non-votes.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


