FILE:NVDA/NVDA-8K-20050520163627.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
SECTION 5 - Corporate Governance and Management
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
(d) On May 16, 2005, effective as of May 17, 2005, the Board of Directors (the Board) of NVIDIA Corporation (the Company), elected Mark Perry as a new member of the Board. A copy of the press release announcing Mr. Perrys election is attached as an exhibit to this filing.
Mr. Perry fills a vacancy created by an increase in the size of the Board from eight to nine. The Companys Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws provide for the Board to be divided into three classes, with each class having a three year term. Mr. Perry will be a member of the second class of the Board, with a term expiring at the Companys 2006 Annual Meeting. Mr. Perry has not yet been named to any of the committees of the Board. NVIDIA expects that the Board will consider Mr. Perrys committee membership at its next regularly scheduled meeting expected to be held on May 26, 2005.
SECTION 9 - Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 9.01 Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
SANTA CLARA
, CAMAY 1
9
, 2005
NVIDIA Corporation (Nasdaq: NVDA), a worldwide leader in graphics and digital media processors, today announced the appointment of Mark L. Perry to its Board of Directors.
Mr. Perry has held several senior positions at Gilead Sciences, Inc. since joining the company in 1994, including Executive Vice President, Operations, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and General Counsel. Mr. Perry currently is the Senior Business Advisor to the CEO and Board of Directors of Gilead. Prior to Gilead, Mr. Perry was a partner with the San Francisco law firm of Cooley Godward LLP.
 
"We are honored to welcome Mark to our Board of Directors," stated Jen-Hsun Huang, president and CEO of NVIDIA. "The NVIDIA Board is gaining an accomplished business leader who has helped build Gilead into one of the great biotech companies. Mark will be a tremendous asset to our Company and our Board as we move forward."
Mr. Perry also serves as a member of the Board of Directors of Aerovance, Inc, IntraBiotics Pharmaceuticals, Inc., where he is also chair of the Audit Committee and member of the Compensation Committee, and Nuvelo, Inc., where he is chair of the Compensation Committee and member of the Audit Committee.
About NVIDIA
NVIDIA Corporation is a worldwide leader in graphics and digital media processors. The Companys products enhance the end-user experience on consumer and professional computing devices. NVIDIA graphics processing units (GPUs), media and communications processors (MCPs), and wireless media processors (WMPs) have broad market reach and are incorporated into a variety of platforms, including consumer and enterprise PCs, notebooks, workstations, PDAs, mobile phones, and video game consoles. NVIDIA is headquartered in Santa Clara, California and employs more than 2,100 people worldwide. For more information, visit the Companys Web site at www.nvidia.com.
Copyright  2005 NVIDIA Corporation. All rights reserved. All company and/or product names may be trade names, trademarks and/or registered trademarks of the respective owners with which they are associated. Features, pricing, availability, and specifications are subject to change without notice.


