FILE:NVDA/NVDA-8K-20050513200049.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
SECTION 1 - Registrants Business and Operations
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On May 10, 2005, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of NVIDIA Corporation (the "Company") approved the Fiscal Year 2006 Variable Compensation Plan (the "2006 Plan") which is designed to increase the cash compensation of the Companys chief executive officer and senior officers if certain pre-set corporate and individual targets are achieved during the year.
Under the 2006 Plan, variable cash compensation will be paid to the Companys senior officers if the Company achieves pre-set Company targets and individuals achieve their individual goals which were determined by the Compensation Committee for the chief executive officer and by the executive officers for senior management during the Companys first quarter.  Fifty percent (50%) of a participant's potential variable cash compensation will be allocated to the achievement of corporate objectives and fifty percent (50%) will be allocated to the achievement of individual objectives. The Company performance criteria for each participant will be based on the Company's net income or gross margin objectives as set by the Compensation Committee based on recommendations by the chief executive officer and executive officers, or on other Company performance goals to be determined by the Compensation Committee. The individual performance criteria for each participant will be based on the evaluation of performance objectives or on other criteria to be determined by the Compensation Committee in the case of the chief executive officer and by executive officers for senior management. The achievement of individual targets is determined by the Compensation Committee in the case of the chief executive officer and by the executive officers in the case of senior management. Variable compensation resulting from achievement of the corporate targets is determined by the Compensation Committee.
 
The Company's Board of Directors and the Compensation Committee reserve the right to modify these goals and criteria at any time or to grant additional variable cash compensation to the executive officers and other senior managers even if the performance goals are not met.
 
The 2006 Plan is filed with this report as
Exhibit 10.1
. The foregoing descriptions are subject to, and qualified in their entirety by, the 2006 Plan.
SECTION 9 - Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 9.01 Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 10.1
 
Overview
The compensation philosophy of NVIDIA Corporation (the 
Company
) is to attract, motivate, retain and reward its management through a combination of base salary and performance based compensation. Senior Officers and Senior Management (collectively, the Participants), who are employed at the Company during fiscal year 2006 and are employees of the Company on and as of January 29, 2006, shall be eligible to participate in the Fiscal Year 2006 Variable Compensation Plan (the 
Plan
). The Plan is designed to award a cash payment (each a 
Variable Cash Payment
) for performance in fiscal year 2006 to a Participant if the Company achieves certain corporate performance targets (
Corporate Targets
) and/or if the Participant achieves his or her individual key performance objectives (
Individual Targets
). For purposes of the Plan, the Companys chief executive officer, other executive officers and certain other senior officers shall qualify as 
Senior Officers
 and other employees at the level of director or senior management shall qualify as 
Senior Management
.
Determination of Fiscal Year 2006 Variable Cash Payments
A Participant is eligible to receive a Variable Cash Payment if the Participants Corporate Targets and/or the Individual Targets are achieved. The amount of the Variable Cash Payment a Participant may receive upon achievement of the Corporate Target and his or her Individual Target will be set by the Compensation Committee for the Senior Officers and by the Participants manager for the Senior Management (the 
Variable Cash Payment Amount
). A Participants Variable Cash Payment Amount is based on the difficulty and responsibility of each position. For fiscal year 2006, each Participants Variable Cash Payment Amount will be split such that fifty percent (50%) is allocated to the achievement of the Corporate Targets (the 
Corporate Variable Cash Payment
) and fifty percent (50%) is allocated to the achievement of the Individual Targets (the 
Individual Cash Payment
). A Participant may be eligible to receive more than or less than his or her Variable Cash Payment Amount as described more fully below.
Individual Variable Cash Payment
An Individual Variable Cash Payment may be awarded to a Participant based on the achievement of his or her Individual Targets or other criteria determined by the Compensation Committee. For fiscal year 2006, each Participant must propose his or her key performance objectives for fiscal year 2006 and present the key performance objectives to his or her manager who shall then determine if the key performance objectives are acceptable. The Compensation Committee shall approve the chief executive officers key performance objectives for fiscal year 2006.
The Compensation Committee shall determine if Individual Targets have been achieved by each Senior Officer and shall determine the Individual Cash Payments for Senior Officers. Senior Officers shall determine if Individual Targets have been achieved by each member of Senior Management and shall determine Individual Variable Cash Payments for Senior Management. An Individual Variable Cash Payment that is in excess of fifty percent (50%) of the Variable Cash Payment Amount may be awarded to a Participant for extraordinary individual performance. If a Participant achieves only a portion of his or her Individual Targets, the Participant may still be eligible to receive an Individual Variable Cash Payment. If a Participant does not receive an Individual Variable Cash Payment, he or she may still be eligible to receive a Corporate Variable Cash Payment as outlined below. Further, even if a Participant does not receive a Corporate Variable Cash Payment, he or she may still be eligible to receive all or a portion of his or her Individual Variable Cash Payment.
Corporate Variable Cash Payment
The Compensation Committee has set the Corporate Targets for the Senior Officers and the Senior Management, based on fiscal year 2006 net income and gross margin targets, respectively. The Compensation Committee has also set threshold gross margin and net income targets for fiscal year 2006 for Senior Officers and Senior Management, respectively, for the award of all of or a portion of the Corporate Variable Cash Payment (collectively, the 
Thresholds
). The actual Corporate Variable Cash Payments to be made (the ) shall be made pursuant to the following guidelines:
Actual Corporate Variable Cash Payments
Actual Corporate Variable Cash Payment =
(Actual Result - Threshold
) x Corporate Variable Cash Payment
                                50
In no event shall any Participant receive an Actual Corporate Variable Cash Payment in excess of two times the amount of his or her Corporate Variable Cash Payment.
Miscellaneous Provisions
The Board of Directors or the Compensation Committee may amend or terminate this Plan at any time in their sole discretion. Further, the Board of Directors or the Compensation Committee may modify the Corporate Targets, Individual Targets and/or Variable Cash Payment Amounts at any time in their sole discretion.
This Plan shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of California.


