FILE:NVDA/NVDA-8K-20060912091147.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Notice of Delisting or Failure to Satisfy a Continued Listing Rule or Standard; Transfer of Listing	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Notice of Delisting or Failure to Satisfy a Continued Listing Rule or Standard; Transfer of Listing
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 2 - Financial Information
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On September 11, 2006, NVIDIA Corporation ("NVIDIA" or the "Company") filed a Form 12b-25 with the Securities and Exchange Commission to report that it will not timely file its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended July 30, 2006. The Form 12b-25 included the following narrative:
For the second quarter of fiscal 2007, revenue increased to a record $687.5 million, compared to $574.8 million for the second quarter of fiscal 2006, an increase of 20 percent. Revenue for the six months ended July 30, 2006 was a record $1.37 billion, compared to revenue of $1.16 billion for the six months ended July 31, 2005, an increase of 18 percent.
As previously announced on August 10, 2006, the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors of NVIDIA is conducting a voluntary review of the Company's stock option practices covering the time from the Company's initial public offering in 1999 through the current fiscal year.
Although the review is ongoing, the Audit Committee has reached a preliminary conclusion that incorrect measurement dates were used for financial accounting purposes for stock option grants in certain prior periods. As a result, NVIDIA may record additional non-cash stock-based compensation expense related to stock option grants. Any additional non-cash stock-based compensation expense recorded will not affect the Company's cash position or reported revenue for the recently completed quarter or any previous periods. As the review related to stock option grants is currently ongoing, NVIDIA cannot at this time reasonably estimate the amount of any such charges, the resulting tax and accounting impact, or which periods may require restatement.
SECTION 3  Securities and Trading Markets
Item 3.01 Notice of Delisting or Failure to Satisfy a Continued Listing Rule or Standard; Transfer of Listing.
On September 12, 2006 NVIDIA announced that it will request a hearing before the NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Panel, (the "Panel"), in response to the receipt of a NASDAQ Staff Determination letter on September 11, 2006 indicating that NVIDIA is not in compliance with the filing requirements for continued listing as set forth in Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(14). As anticipated, the letter was issued in accordance with NASDAQ procedures due to the delayed filing of NVIDIA's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended July 30, 2006. Pending a decision by the Panel, NVIDIA shares will remain listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Stock Market. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
SECTION 8  Other Events
Item 8.01 Other Events.
Please see Item 3.01 above. NVIDIA also announced that that the Securities and Exchange Commission staff has requested that the Company provide them with certain information relating to the Company's historical stock option practices. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
SECTION 9 - Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
For further information, contact:
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE:
NVIDIA Corporation (Nasdaq: NVDA) announced today that the Company will request a hearing before the NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Panel in response to the receipt of a NASDAQ Staff Determination letter indicating that the Company is not in compliance with the filing requirements for continued listing as set forth in Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(14). As anticipated, the letter was issued in accordance with NASDAQ procedures due to the delayed filing of the Company's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended July 30, 2006. Pending a decision by the Panel, the Company's shares will remain listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Stock Market.
SANTA CLARA, CASEPTEMBER 12, 2006
As previously announced on August 10, 2006, the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors of NVIDIA is conducting a voluntary review of the Company's stock option practices covering the time from the Company's initial public offering in 1999 through the current fiscal year. The Audit Committee is conducting this review with the assistance of outside legal counsel. The Company voluntarily contacted the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") staff to inform them about the ongoing review and the SEC has recently requested that the Company provide them with certain information relating to the Company's historical stock option practices.
About NVIDIA
NVIDIA Corporation is the worldwide leader in programmable graphics processor technologies. The Company creates innovative, industry-changing products for computing, consumer electronics, and mobile devices. NVIDIA is headquartered in Santa Clara, CA and has offices throughout Asia, Europe, and the Americas. For more information, visit .
www.nvidia.com
Certain statements in this press release including, but not limited to, the review of our historical option practices, the Company's plans to request a hearing before a Nasdaq Listing Qualifications Panel, and the filing of the Form 10-Q for the second quarter are forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause results to be materially different than expectations. Important factors
that could cause actual results to differ materially include: the final conclusions of the Audit Committee concerning matters relating to the Company's stock option grants including, but not limited to, the accuracy of the stated measurement dates of option grants for financial accounting purposes; the impact of any additional expenses that may be recorded by NVIDIA; actions that may be taken or required as a result of the Audit Committee's review; actions by the Securities and Exchange Commission or other regulatory agencies, including Nasdaq, with respect to NVIDIA or its personnel arising out of the option practices or related matters; as well as other factors detailed from time to time in the reports NVIDIA files with the Securities and Exchange Commission including its Form 10-Q for the quarter ended April 30, 2006. Copies of reports filed with the SEC are posted on the Company's website and are available from NVIDIA without charge. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and speak only as of the date hereof, and, except as required by law, NVIDIA disclaims any obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances.
Copyright  2006 NVIDIA Corporation. All rights reserved. All company and/or product names may be trade names, trademarks and/or registered trademarks of the respective owners with which they are associated. Features, pricing, availability, and specifications are subject to change without notice.


