FILE:NVDA/NVDA-8K-20061204171759.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
SECTION 8 - Other Events
 
Item 8.01 Other Events.
 
On December 1, 2006, the Company issued a press release announcing it has received a subpoena from the San Francisco Office of the Antitrust Division of the U.S. Department of Justice (the DOJ) in connection with the DOJs investigation into potential antitrust violations related to graphics processing units and cards. A copy of the press release is filed as Exhibit 99.1 hereto, the terms of which are incorporated herein by reference.
 
On December 4, 2006, NVIDIA Corporation (the Company) issued a press release that it received a letter from the NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Panel of The NASDAQ Stock Market that it had regained compliance with the continued listing standards of The NASDAQ Stock Market. A copy of the press release is filed as Exhibit 99.2 hereto, the terms of which are incorporated herein by reference.
 
SECTION 9 - Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
NVIDIA Corporation (Nasdaq: NVDA) has received a subpoena from the San Francisco Office of the Antitrust Division of the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) in connection with the DOJ's investigation into potential antitrust violations related to graphics processing units and cards.  No specific allegations have been made against NVIDIA. NVIDIA plans to cooperate with the DOJ in its investigation.      
SANTA CLARA, CADECEMBER 1, 2006
 
About NVIDIA
NVIDIA Corporation is the worldwide leader in programmable graphics processor technologies. The Company creates innovative, industry-changing products for computing, consumer electronics, and mobile devices. NVIDIA is headquartered in Santa Clara, CA and has offices throughout Asia, Europe, and the Americas. For more information, visit www.nvidia.com.
 
Certain statements in this press release including, but not limited to, statements as to the allegations made in the DOJ investigation and actions by the Company, are forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause results to be materially different than expectations.  Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include actions and determinations by the DOJ or other governmental entities and statements or other information provided by third parties or otherwise discovered.  These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date hereof, and, except as required by law, NVIDIA disclaims any obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances.
 
Copyright  2006 NVIDIA Corporation.  All rights reserved.  All company and/or product names may be trade names, trademarks and/or registered trademarks of the respective owners with which they are associated.  Features, pricing, availability, and specifications are subject to change without notice.
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
NVIDIA Corporation (Nasdaq: NVDA) today announced that the NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Panel has formally notified the Company that it is in compliance with all NASDAQ Stock Market listing requirements.
SANTA CLARA, CADECEMBER 4, 2006
 
As previously announced, NVIDIA was not in compliance with NASDAQ listing requirements because of its failure to timely file its Form 10-Q for the second quarter of fiscal 2007 ended July 30, 2006.  The delay in such filing was related to the review of the Company's historical option grant practices by the Audit Committee of the NVIDIA Board of Directors.
 
On November 29, 2006, NVIDIA announced the completion of the review and the filing of the delayed Form 10-Q, as well as the filing of a Form 10-K/A for fiscal 2006 and a Form 10-Q/A for the first quarter of fiscal 2007 ended April 30, 2006.
 
About NVIDIA
NVIDIA Corporation is the worldwide leader in programmable graphics processor technologies. The Company creates innovative, industry-changing products for computing, consumer electronics, and mobile devices. NVIDIA is headquartered in Santa Clara, CA and has offices throughout Asia, Europe, and the Americas. For more information, visit www.nvidia.com.
 
Copyright  2006 NVIDIA Corporation.  All rights reserved.  All company and/or product names may be trade names, trademarks and/or registered trademarks of the respective owners with which they are associated. Features, pricing, availability, and specifications are subject to change without notice.
 


