FILE:NVDA/NVDA-8K-20070111132806.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
SECTION 2 - Financial Information.
Item 2.01 Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets.
Pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger dated November 6, 2006 (the Merger Agreement) by and among NVIDIA Corporation (NVIDIA), PortalPlayer, Inc. (PortalPlayer), Partridge Acquisition, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of NVIDIA (Partridge), Partridge merged with and into PortalPlayer (the Merger) and PortalPlayer became a wholly-owned subsidiary of NVIDIA. The Merger closed and became effective on January 5, 2007.
In connection with the Merger, each outstanding share of PortalPlayer common stock was converted into the right to receive $13.50 per share in cash without interest. NVIDIA will account for the Merger using the purchase method of accounting.
 
In connection with the Merger, approximately 26 million shares of PortalPlayer common stock were converted into the right to receive approximately $355 million in cash without interest. In addition, NVIDIA assumed outstanding options to acquire approximately 1.8 million shares of PortalPlayer common stock, and converted each option into an option to purchase 0.3601 shares of NVIDIA common stock.
 
The foregoing description of the Merger Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Merger Agreement which is attached hereto as Exhibit 2.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. On January 5, 2007, NVIDIA issued a press release announcing that it has completed the acquisition of PortalPlayer. The press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
SECTION 9 - Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 9.01 Exhibits.
 
(d)
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
SANTA CLARA, CAJANUARY 5, 2007
NVIDIA Corporation (Nasdaq: NVDA), the worldwide leader in programmable graphics processor technologies, today announced that it has completed the acquisition of PortalPlayer, Inc., a leading supplier of semiconductors, firmware, and software for personal media players and secondary display-enabled computers.
The acquisition of PortalPlayer is expected to accelerate NVIDIA's ongoing investment in its handheld product strategy. NVIDIA's handheld technology, which combines high-quality graphics, TV, and video with low power and a small footprint, is at the foundation of many industry-leading portable media devices, including phones from Motorola, Samsung, Kyocera, HTC, and Sony Ericsson.
About NVIDIA
NVIDIA Corporation is the worldwide leader in programmable graphics processor technologies. The Company creates innovative, industry-changing products for computing, consumer electronics, and mobile devices. NVIDIA is headquartered in Santa Clara, California and has offices throughout Asia, Europe, and the Americas. For more information, visit www.nvidia.com.
 
Certain statements in this press release including, but not limited to, statements as to NVIDIA's ongoing investments in its handheld product strategy and its handheld technology are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Reform Act of 1995 that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause results to be materially different than expectations. Such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the risk that we will not realize the anticipated benefits of this acquisition; risks associated with acquisitions including the ability to successfully integrate technologies, employees and operations; diversion of management's attention; retaining key employees; risks associated with international operations; trends in the semiconductor and handheld device industries; failure of handheld device initiatives; slower than anticipated growth of the market for handheld devices; the impact of competitive products and technological advances; reliance on third party manufacturers; market acceptance of new products and technologies and other risks detailed from time to time in the reports NVIDIA files with the Securities and Exchange Commission including its Form 10-Q for the quarter ended October 29, 2006. Copies of reports NVIDIA filed with the SEC are posted on its Web site and are available from NVIDIA without charge. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and speak only as of the date hereof, and, except as required by law, NVIDIA disclaims any obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances.
 
Copyright 2007 NVIDIA Corporation. All rights reserved. All company and/or product names may be trade names, trademarks and/or registered trademarks of the respective owners with which they are associated.


