FILE:NVDA/NVDA-8K-20070510163758.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
SECTION 2 - Financial Information
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On May 10, 2007, NVIDIA Corporation issued a press release announcing its results for the three months ended April 29, 2007. The press release is furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act"), or subject to the liabilities of that Section. The press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. The information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
SECTION 9 - Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
For further information, contact:
Michael Hara
 
 
 
 
 
 
           
   
   
   
   
   
   
  & #160;
   
   
   
 
Calisa Cole
Investor Relations
 
 
 
 
 
           
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   ; 
   
   
   
  
Corporate Communications
NVIDIA Corporation 
 
 
 
 
           
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
    
 
NVIDIA Corporation
(408) 486-2511 
 
 
 
 
            
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
(408) 486-6263
mhara@nvidia.com 
 
 
 
       
   
   
   
   
   
   
        
   
   
   
   
  
  
ccole@nvidia.com
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
SANTA CLARA, CAMAY 10, 2007
NVIDIA Corporation (Nasdaq: NVDA) today reported financial results for the first quarter of fiscal 2008 ended April 29, 2007.
For the first quarter of fiscal 2008 revenues were $844.3 million, compared to $681.8 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2007, an increase of 24 percent.
Net income computed in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) for the first quarter of fiscal 2008 was $132.3 million, or $0.33 per diluted share, an increase of 44 percent compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2007.
Non-GAAP net income for the first quarter of fiscal 2008, which excludes stock-based compensation charges and the associated tax impact, was $164.4 million, or $0.42 per diluted share,
 
an increase of 48 percent compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2007.
Compared to last year, first quarter revenue grew 24 percent and non-GAAP net income increased 48 percent. With our continued focused on operational excellence, gross margins achieved a company record. We maintained leadership positions in each of our core product lines, which positions us for continued growth throughout the year, stated Jen-Hsun Huang, president and CEO of NVIDIA.
Our growth reflects the ever growing importance of the GPU across a broad range of computing and digital devices. The GPU is one of the most important enablers for the digital consumer era. Over the next 10 years, we estimate that over 10 billion GPUs will be needed to power PCs, mobile devices, cars, TVs, and game consoles. Our strategy is clear and focused - to be the world leader in GPUs and capitalize on this exciting opportunity, added Mr. Huang.
First Quarter Fiscal 2008 Highlights:
NVIDIA will conduct a conference call with analysts and investors to discuss its first quarter fiscal 2008 financial results and current financial prospects today at 2:00 P.M. Pacific Time (5:00 P.M. Eastern Time). To listen to the call, please dial (706) 679-0543. A live Web cast (listen-only mode) of the conference call will be held at the NVIDIA investor relations Web site
www.nvidia.com/ir
and at
http://www.streetevents.com
. The Web cast will be recorded and available for replay until the Companys conference call to discuss its financial results for its second quarter fiscal 2008.
Non-GAAP Measures
To supplement the Companys Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income presented in accordance with GAAP, we use non-GAAP measures of certain components of financial performance. These non-GAAP measures include non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP basic and diluted net income per share, and other non-GAAP line items from the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income, including cost of revenue information, gross profit, gross margin, operating expenses (including research and development, and sales, general and administrative expenses) and income tax expense. In order for our investors to be better able to compare our current results with those of previous periods, we have shown a non-GAAP presentation of our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income as reconciled against the GAAP presentation. Our non-GAAP results adjust our GAAP results to exclude stock-based compensation, a non-recurring credit associated with the net cumulative impact of estimating forfeitures as a result of the adoption of SFAS 123R, and the associated tax impact. We believe the presentation of our non-GAAP results enhances the user's overall understanding of our historical financial performance. The presentation of our non-GAAP financial results is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for our financial results prepared in accordance with GAAP, and our non-GAAP measures may be different from non-GAAP measures used by other companies.
About NVIDIA
NVIDIA Corporation is the worldwide leader in programmable graphics processor technologies. The Company creates innovative, industry-changing products for computing, consumer electronics, and mobile devices. NVIDIA is headquartered in Santa Clara, CA and has offices throughout Asia, Europe, and the Americas. For more information, visit
www.nvidia.com
.
Certain statements in this press release including, but not limited to, statements as to: the role and uses of GPUs; our growth; our strategy; target markets; and the use of non-GAAP financial measures are forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause results to be materially different than expectations. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include: slower than expected growth of a target market; loss of an opportunity; delays in the launch of new products or technologies; manufacturing or software defects; our reliance on third-party manufacturers; development of faster or more efficient GPUs; the impact of technological development and competition; general industry trends; changes in industry standards and interfaces as well as other factors detailed from time to time in the reports NVIDIA files with the Securities and Exchange Commission including its Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2007. Copies of reports filed with the SEC are posted on our website and are available from NVIDIA without charge. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and speak only as of the date hereof, and, except as required by law, NVIDIA disclaims any obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances.
# # #
Copyright  2007 NVIDIA Corporation. All rights reserved. NVIDIA, GEFORCE, NVIDIA NFORCE, NVIDIA QUADRO, and CUDA are registered trademarks and/or trademarks of NVIDIA Corporation in the United States and other countries. All other company and/or product names may be trade names, trademarks and/or registered trademarks of the respective owners with which they are associated. Features, pricing, availability, and specifications are subject to change without notice.
 
 
 
 
(A) Stock-based compensation expense.
(B) Income tax expense impact of non-GAAP entries.
(C) Reflects the net cumulative impact of estimating forfeitures as a result of the adoption of SFAS 123R. 
(D) Reflects an adjustment for (11,469) shares and (5,723) shares for the three months ended April 29, 2007 and April 30, 2006, respectively, to the diluted outstanding shares calculated under SFAS 123R to conform to diluted outstanding shares calculated under prior accounting standards (APB 25).
 


