FILE:NVDA/NVDA-8K-20080327104311.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 5  Corporate Governance and Management.
 
Retirement of Principal Financial Officer
Marvin D. Burkett, Chief Financial Officer of NVIDIA Corporation, informed us on March 21, 2008 of his intention to retire. Mr. Burkett is expected to remain with us as Chief Financial Officer while a search is conducted to find his replacement, and he may continue in some capacity with us thereafter. We have commenced the process to recruit a new Chief Financial Officer.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
NVIDIA Corporation (Nasdaq: NVDA), the world leader in visual computing technologies, today announced that Marvin D. Burkett, Chief Financial Officer, informed the Company on March 21, 2008 of his intention to retire. Mr. Burkett is expected to remain as Chief Financial Officer while a search is conducted to find his replacement, and he may continue in some capacity with the Company thereafter. NVIDIA has commenced the process to recruit a new Chief Financial Officer.
SANTA CLARA, CAMARCH 27, 2008
About NVIDIA
NVIDIA is the world leader in visual computing technologies and the inventor of the GPU, a high-performance processor which generates breathtaking, interactive graphics on workstations, personal computers, game consoles, and mobile devices. NVIDIA serves the entertainment and consumer market with its GeForce products, the professional design and visualization market with its Quadro products, and the high-performance computing market with its Tesla products. NVIDIA is headquartered in Santa Clara, Calif. and has offices throughout Asia, Europe, and the Americas. For more information, visit .
www.nvidia.com
Copyright 2008 NVIDIA Corporation. All rights reserved. NVIDIA, the NVIDIA logo, NVISION and GeForce, Quadro, and Tesla are trademarks or registered trademarks of NVIDIA Corporation in the U.S. and/or other countries. All other company and/or product names may be trade names, trademarks, and/or registered trademarks of the respective owners with which they are associated.


