FILE:NVDA/NVDA-8K-20081106162444.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
SECTION 2 - Financial Information
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On November 6, 2008, NVIDIA Corporation issued a press release announcing its results for the three months and nine months ended October 26, 2008. The press release is furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or subject to the liabilities of that Section or Sections 11 and 12(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. The information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference in any filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission made by NVIDIA Corporation, whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
 
SECTION 9 - Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
 
 

 
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE:
NVIDIA Corporation (Nasdaq: NVDA) today reported financial results for the third quarter of fiscal 2009 ended October 26, 2008.
SANTA CLARA, CANOVEMBER 6, 2008
 
For the third quarter of fiscal 2009, revenue was $897.7 million compared to $1.12 billion for the third quarter of fiscal 2008, a decrease of 20 percent. For the nine months ended October 26, 2008, revenue increased to $2.94 billion compared to $2.90 billion for the nine months ended October 28, 2007, an increase of 2 percent.
 
During the third quarter of fiscal 2009, NVIDIA recorded an $8.3 million charge against operating expenses related to restructuring costs in connection with its workforce reduction.  These pre-tax charges are comprised of severance and related expenses.
 
NVIDIAs results for the third quarter of fiscal 2009, computed in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), included net income of $61.7 million, or $0.11 per diluted share.  Non-GAAP net income for the third quarter of fiscal 2009, which excludes stock-based compensation charges, a non-recurring charge against cost of revenue related to a royalty dispute, a restructuring charge against operating expenses, and the associated tax impact, was $111.4 million, or $0.20 per diluted share.
 
GAAP net income for the nine months ended October 26, 2008 was $117.6 million, or $0.20 per diluted share, compared to $540.7 million, or $0.89 per diluted share, for the nine months ended October 28, 2007.  Non-GAAP net income for the nine months ended October 26, 2008, which excludes stock-based compensation charges, a non-recurring charge against cost of revenue related to a royalty dispute,a non-recurring warranty charge against cost of revenue, a restructuring charge against operating expenses, and the associated tax impact was $397.7 million, or $0.68 per diluted share, compared to $626.7 million, or $1.06 per diluted share, for the nine months ended October 28, 2007.
 
 
 
We made good progress on multiple fronts during the quarter, said Jen-Hsun Huang, president and CEO of NVIDIA.  Improving gross margin while managing operating expenses enabled us to significantly improve our operating fundamentals.  We transitioned our performance segment GPUs to 55 nanometers and are now poised to recapture lost share.  We entered the fastest growing segment of the PC market with our first notebook chipset for Intel processors, and delivered on several exciting new growth initiatives  3-way SLI for the Intel Core i7 processor platform, Quadro CX for Adobe CS4 creative professionals and the Tesla supercomputing processor.
 
Third Quarter Fiscal 2009 and Recent Highlights:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Conference Call and Web Cast Information
NVIDIA will conduct a conference call with analysts and investors to discuss its third quarter fiscal 2009 financial results and current financial prospects today at 2:00 P.M. Pacific Time (5:00 P.M. Eastern Time). To listen to the call, please dial (212) 231-2901. A live Web cast (listen-only mode) of the conference call will be held at the NVIDIA investor relations Web site and at . The Web cast will be recorded and available for replay until the Companys conference call to discuss its financial results for its fourth quarter fiscal 2009.
www.nvidia.com/ir
www.streetevents.com
 
Non-GAAP Measures
To supplement the Companys Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income presented in accordance with GAAP, we use non-GAAP measures of certain components of financial performance. These non-GAAP measures include non-GAAP gross profit, non-GAAP net income, and non-GAAP diluted net income per share. In order for our investors to be better able to compare our current results with those of previous periods, we have shown a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures. These reconciliations adjust the related GAAP financial measures to exclude stock-based compensation, a non-recurring charge against cost of revenue related to a royalty dispute, a non-recurring warranty charge against cost of revenue, a restructuring charge against operating expenses, and the associated tax impact, where applicable. We believe the presentation of our non-GAAP financial measures enhances the user's overall understanding of our historical financial performance. The presentation of our non-GAAP financial measures is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for our financial results prepared in accordance with GAAP, and our non-GAAP measures may be different from non-GAAP measures used by other companies.
 
About NVIDIA
NVIDIA is the world leader in visual computing technologies and the inventor of the GPU, a high-performance processor which generates breathtaking, interactive graphics on workstations, personal computers, game consoles, and mobile devices. NVIDIA serves the entertainment and consumer market with its GeForce products, the professional design and visualization market with its Quadro products, and the high-performance computing market with its Tesla products. NVIDIA is headquartered in Santa Clara, California and has offices throughout Asia, Europe, and the Americas. For more information, visit www.nvidia.com.
 
Certain statements in this press release including, but not limited to, statements as to: our growth opportunities; our positioning to recapture lost share; the performance of the NVIDIA GeForce 9300, 9400 and 9400M motherboard GPUs; and the impact of Quadro CX on Adobes Creative Suite 4 software are forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause results to be materially different than expectations. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include: development of faster or more efficient technology; the impact of technological development and competition; design, manufacturing or software defects; changes in consumer preferences or demands; changes in industry standards and interfaces; unexpected loss of performance of our products or technologies when integrated into systems; as well as other factors detailed from time to time in the reports NVIDIA files with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, including our Form 10-Q for the fiscal period ended July 27, 2008. Copies of reports filed with the SEC are posted on our website and are available from NVIDIA without charge. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and speak only as of the date hereof, and, except as required by law, NVIDIA disclaims any obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances.
# # #
 
Copyright  2008 NVIDIA Corporation. All rights reserved. NVIDIA, GeForce, Quadro, and Tesla are registered trademarks and/or trademarks of NVIDIA Corporation in the United States and other countries. All other company and/or product names may be trade names, trademarks, and/or registered trademarks of the respective owners with which they are associated. Features, pricing, availability, and specifications are subject to change without notice.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


