FILE:NVDA/NVDA-8K-20090806164837.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
SECTION 2 - Financial Information
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
 On August 6, 2009, NVIDIA Corporation issued a press release announcing its results for the three months and six months ended July 26, 2009. The press release is furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or subject to the liabilities of that Section or Sections 11 and 12(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. The information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference in any filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission made by NVIDIA Corporation, whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
 
SECTION 9 - Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE:
 
 
 
 
NVIDIAs business is recovering.  Product demand is improving, and our strategic investments are leading to new growth, said Jen-Hsun Huang, president and chief executive officer, NVIDIA. Our two newest businesses began to ship meaningful amounts of product this past quarter and show significant promise.  Tesla, the industry's first GPU for general-purpose high performance computing, achieved its highest-ever quarterly revenue.  And Tegra, our ultra low-power computer-on-a-chip, is making exciting progress in the market for mobile and embedded devices.  Our new businesses are positioned to benefit from the rise of mobile and cloud computing.
 
NVIDIAs second quarter results were impacted by an additional net charge of approximately $119.1 million to cover costs related to a weak die/packaging material set that was used in certain versions of its previous-generation chips.  Although the number of units impacted by this issue remains consistent with the companys initial estimates a year ago, the cost of remediation and repair of impacted systems has been higher than originally anticipated.  In July 2008, a $196.0 million reserve was accrued for the purpose of supporting our affected customers around the world.  The weak die/package material combination is not used in any products currently in production.
 
GAAP net loss for the six months ended July 26, 2009 was $306.6 million, or $0.56 per share, compared to a net income of $55.9 million, or $0.09 per diluted share for the six months ended July 27, 2008.  Non-GAAP net loss for the six months ended July 26, 2009, which excludes the net charge related to the weak die/packaging material set that was used in certain versions of our previous generation chips, a non-recurring charge of $140.2 million in connection with a previously announced cash tender offer to purchase employee stock options, stock-based compensation charges, and their associated tax impact, was $8.9 million, or $0.02 per share, compared to a net income of $286.2 million, or $0.49 per diluted share for the six months ended July 27, 2008.
 
Outlook
 
NVIDIA expects revenue in the third quarter ending October 25, 2009, to be up 5 to 7 percent over the second quarter.
 
Second Quarter Fiscal 2010 and Recent Highlights:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Conference Call and Web Cast Information
 
NVIDIA will conduct a conference call with analysts and investors to discuss its second quarter fiscal 2010 financial results and current financial prospects today at 2:00 p.m. Pacific Time (5:00 p.m. Eastern Time). To listen to the call, please dial (212) 231-2900. A live Web cast (listen-only mode) of the conference call will be held at the NVIDIA investor relations Web site and at . The Web cast will be recorded and available for replay until the company's conference call to discuss its financial results for its third quarter fiscal 2010.
www.nvidia.com/ir
www.streetevents.com
 
Non-GAAP Measures
 
To supplement NVIDIAs Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations and Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets presented in accordance with GAAP, the company uses non-GAAP measures of certain components of financial performance. These non-GAAP measures include non-GAAP gross profit, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP net income (loss), non-GAAP net income (loss) per share, free cash flow and days sales in inventory. In order for NVIDIAs investors to be better able to compare its current results with those of previous periods, the company has shown a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures. These reconciliations adjust the related GAAP financial measures to exclude a charge related to the weak die/packaging material set that was used in certain versions of NVIDIAs previous generation chips, net of insurance reimbursements, a non-recurring charge related to a tender offer purchase, recurring stock-based compensation charges, and the associated tax impact of these items, where applicable. Free cash flow is calculated as GAAP net cash provided by operating activities less purchases of property and equipment and intangible assets. Days sales in inventory is computed by the number of days in the period divided by the non-GAAP inventory turnover ratio.  NVIDIA believes the presentation of its non-GAAP financial measures enhances the user's overall understanding of the companys historical financial performance. The presentation of the companys non-GAAP financial measures is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the companys financial results prepared in accordance with GAAP, and our non-GAAP measures may be different from non-GAAP measures used by other companies.
 
About NVIDIA
 
NVIDIA (Nasdaq: NVDA) is the world leader in visual computing technologies and the inventor of the GPU, a high-performance processor which generates breathtaking, interactive graphics on workstations, personal computers, game consoles, and mobile devices. NVIDIA serves the entertainment and consumer market with its GeForce products, the professional design and visualization market with its Quadro products, and the high-performance computing market with its Tesla products. NVIDIA is headquartered in Santa Clara, California and has offices throughout Asia, Europe, and the Americas. For more information, visit .
www.nvidia.com
 
Certain statements in this press release including, but not limited to, statements as to: the recovery of NVIDIAs business; NVIDIAs growth opportunities; mobile and cloud computing; the expectation that NVIDIA will receive reimbursement of most of the new charge during the coming quarters; the number of NVIDIA ION platforms to be shipped in the third quarter of fiscal 2010; NVIDIAs revenue outlook for the third quarter of fiscal 2010; and the impact, benefits, progress and promise of, and the demand for, NVIDIAs products and technologies, are forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause results to be materially different than expectations. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include: global economic conditions; development of faster or more efficient technology; the impact of technological development and competition; design, manufacturing or software defects; changes in consumer preferences or demands; changes in industry standards and interfaces; unexpected loss of performance of our products or technologies when integrated into systems; as well as other factors detailed from time to time in the reports NVIDIA files with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, including its Form 10-Q for the fiscal period ended April 26, 2009. Copies of reports filed with the SEC are posted on NVIDIAs website and are available from NVIDIA without charge. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and speak only as of the date hereof, and, except as required by law, NVIDIA disclaims any obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances.
 
Copyright  2009 NVIDIA Corporation. All rights reserved. NVIDIA, the NVIDIA logo, GeForce, Quadro, Tesla, CUDA, ION and Tegra are registered trademarks and/or trademarks of NVIDIA Corporation in the United States and other countries. All other company and/or product names may be trade names, trademarks, and/or registered trademarks of the respective owners with which they are associated. Features, pricing, availability, and specifications are subject to change without notice.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


