FILE:NVDA/NVDA-8K-20090408163225.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On April 4, 2009, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of NVIDIA Corporation approved the Fiscal Year 2010 Variable Compensation Plan, or the 2010 Plan, which is designed to provide variable cash compensation to certain officers, directors, managers and qualifying senior contributors, or the Participants, as determined by our Compensation Committee, if certain pre-set individual targets are achieved during fiscal 2010. We operate on a 52 or 53-week year, ending on the last Sunday in January. We designate our fiscal year by the year in which that fiscal year ends; e.g., fiscal 2010 refers to our fiscal year ending January 31, 2010.
Historically variable cash compensation has been paid to the Participants if NVIDIA achieved its corporate targets as set by our Compensation Committee and if individuals achieved their individual targets which are set by our Compensation Committee for the chief executive officer and by the chief executive officer in the case of the senior officers. The achievement of individual targets by our chief executive officer and senior officers is determined by our Compensation Committee.
The Compensation Committee determined not to establish any corporate targets for compensatory purposes for fiscal 2010 because payout for corporate performance in fiscal year 2010 would not be appropriate in light of the current economic environment and our cost reduction efforts. In addition, in light of the current economic environment and our cost reduction efforts, prior to the consideration of the fiscal 2010 performance targets, our chief executive officer proposed on behalf of the executive officers and the Compensation Committee determined that, except for David White, our new chief financial officer, the executive officers, including our chief executive officer, would not be eligible for any individual performance payouts for fiscal 2010.
Our Board of Directors and Compensation Committee reserve the right to:
 
 
The 2010 Plan is filed with this report as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. The foregoing description is subject to, and qualified in their entirety by, the 2010 Plan.
 
As previously disclosed in a Current Report on Form 8-K, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, on September 22, 2008, NVIDIA Corporation entered into Memoranda of Understanding on September 19, 2008 regarding the settlement of the stockholder derivative lawsuits relating to our historical stock option practices. As previously disclosed in a Current Report on Form 8-K, filed with the SEC on November 10, 2008, the definitive settlement agreements were concurrently filed in the Chancery Court of Delaware and the United States District Court Northern District of California on November 10, 2008 and were subject to approval by both such courts. As previously disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended January 25, 2009, filed with the SEC on March 13, 2009, a Notice of Pendency and Settlement of Shareholder Derivative Actions was mailed to shareholders of record and posted on on January 24, 2009 and, on March 11, 2009, a final settlement hearing was held in the Delaware Chancery Court and, on the same date, the court entered a Final Order and Judgment, which approved the requested attorneys' fees and dismissed the Delaware action with prejudice.
www.nvidia.com
On March 17, 2009, a final approval hearing was held in the Northern District of California. The court entered an Order and Final Judgment, which approved the requested attorneys' fees and dismissed the federal action with prejudice. On April 2, 2009, pursuant to the settlement approved by the Northern District of California, the parties filed a stipulation to have the California Superior Court, Santa Clara County dismiss with prejudice the related California state action. On April 6, 2009, the California Superior Court granted the stipulation and dismissed the California state action with prejudice.
The settlement agreements do not contain any admission of wrongdoing or fault on the part of NVIDIA, our board of directors or executive officers. The terms of the settlement agreements include, among other things, the agreement by the board of directors to continue and to implement certain corporate governance changes, including adopting a supplement to our Corporate Governance Policies, a copy of which may be found in the Investor Relations section of our website at . The Chancery Court of Delaware awarded plaintiffs in the Delaware action attorney fees and costs of $2.755 million and the United States District Court Northern District of California awarded plaintiffs in the federal action attorney fees and costs of $2.465 million and plaintiffs in the California state action attorney fees and costs of $2.03 million. The other terms of the settlement agreements are as set forth in our Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on November 10, 2008.
www.nvidia.com
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
Overview
The compensation philosophy of NVIDIA Corporation (the "Company") is to attract, motivate, retain and reward its management through a combination of base salary and performance based compensation. Certain Senior Officers, Directors and Managers, each as defined below (collectively, the "Participants"), who are employed at the Company during fiscal year 2010 and, unless otherwise determined by the Compensation Committee (the "Committee"), are employees of the Company on and as of the date the cash payments are awarded (each a "Variable Cash Payment"), shall be eligible to participate in the Fiscal Year 2010 Variable Compensation Plan (the "Plan"). The Plan is designed to award a Variable Cash Payment for performance in fiscal year 2010 to a Participant if the Participant achieves certain Individual Targets (as defined below) and/or certain Individual Rankings (as defined below). The Plan will not have Corporate Targets for any Participant.
For purposes of the Plan, only the Company's chief executive officer, chief financial officer, other executive officers and certain other senior officers shall be considered "Senior Officers," other employees at the level of vice president or director shall be considered "Directors" and managers or qualifying senior contributors shall be considered "Managers." The Committee shall determine (i) the persons to be specified as Senior Officers for purposes of this Plan and the Senior Officers who may be a Participant hereunder, (ii) the class of employees who may be designated by Senior Officers as Directors for purposes of this Plan and (iii) the class of employees who many be designated by Senior Officers or Directors as Managers for purposes of this Plan.
For fiscal year 2010, for purposes of the Plan, "Individual Targets" shall be set for certain Senior Officers and Directors as follows:
 
 
For fiscal year 2010, for purposes of the Plan, "Individual Rankings" for Managers shall be the ranking of such Manager in January or February 2010 by the Senior Officer or Director to whom the Manager reports.
Determination of Fiscal Year 2010 Variable Cash Payments
Certain Senior Officers and Directors are eligible to receive a Variable Cash Payment if the Senior Officer or Director achieves their Individual Targets at specified levels. Managers are eligible to receive a Variable Cash Payment based on the level of their Individual Ranking. The aggregate potential amount of the Variable Cash Payment a Participant may receive upon achievement of his or her Individual Targets and/or Individual Ranking, as applicable, and the pool available to all Participants under the Plan will be set by the Committee for all Participants based on a recommendation made by the chief executive officer (the "Variable Cash Payment Target Amount"). A Participant's Variable Cash Payment Target Amount is based on the difficulty and responsibility of each position. For fiscal year 2010, each Participant's Variable Cash Payment Target Amount is one hundred percent (100%) allocated to the achievement of the Individual Targets or Individual Ranking, as applicable, (the "Individual Variable Cash Payment"). A Participant may be eligible to receive more or less than his or her Variable Cash Payment Target Amount as described more fully below.
Individual Variable Cash Payment
An Individual Variable Cash Payment may be awarded to a Participant based on the achievement of his or her Individual Targets or Individual Ranking, as applicable, or other criteria determined by the Committee.
The actual Individual Variable Cash Payments to be made for fiscal 2010 (the "Actual Individual Variable Cash Payments") shall be made pursuant to the following guidelines and taking into account whether Individual Targets have been achieved or the level of the Individual Ranking, as applicable, and the amount of the Actual Individual Variable Cash Payment shall be determined as follows:
 
 
 
An Actual Individual Variable Cash Payment that is in excess of one hundred percent (100%) of the Variable Cash Payment Target Amount may be awarded to a Participant for extraordinary individual performance. If a Participant achieves only a portion of his or her Individual Targets, or in the case of a Manager who does not reach his or her Individual Ranking, the Participant may still be eligible to receive an Actual Individual Variable Cash Payment to the extent determined by the Committee (for certain Senior Officers), Senior Officers (for other Directors) or Senior Officers or Directors (for Managers who report to such Senior Officer or Director, as applicable), each in their sole discretion. If a Participant does not receive an Individual Variable Cash Payment, he or she is not eligible to receive any amounts under this Plan.
Miscellaneous Provisions
Payments under this Plan shall be made following the end of the fiscal year, on such schedule as may be approved by the Committee in its discretion.
Participation in the Plan shall not alter in any way the at will nature of the Company's employment of a Participant, and such employment may be terminated at any time for any reason, with or without cause and with or without prior notice.
Notwithstanding whether this Plan is referenced in another agreement, policy, arrangement or other document, only the Board of Directors or the Committee may amend or terminate this Plan at any time. Further, the Board of Directors or the Committee may modify the Individual Targets and/or Individual Ranking and/or Individual Variable Cash Payment amounts at any time.
Any Variable Cash Payments or other benefits under this Plan shall be subject to the Company's Clawback Policy and shall bind all Participants subject to the Clawback Policy who receive any amounts under this Plan.
This Plan shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of California, without regard to its principles of conflicts of laws.


