FILE:NVDA/NVDA-8K-20090210162954.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
SECTION 2 - Financial Information
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On February 10, 2009, NVIDIA Corporation issued a press release announcing its results for the three months and twelve months ended January 25, 2009. The press release is furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or subject to the liabilities of that Section or Sections 11 and 12(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. The information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference in any filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission made by NVIDIA Corporation, whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
 
SECTION 9 - Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
 
 

 
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE:
SANTA CLARA, CAFEBRUARY 10, 2009
NVIDIA Corporation (Nasdaq: NVDA) today 
reported financial results for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009 and the fiscal year ended January 25, 2009.
 
For the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, revenue was $481.1 million compared to $1.2 billion for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, a decrease of 60 percent. For the twelve months ended January 25, 2009, revenue was $3.4 billion compared to $4.1 billion for the twelve months ended January 27, 2008, a decrease of 16 percent.
 
NVIDIAs results for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, computed in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), included a net loss of $147.7 million, or $0.27 per share.  Non-GAAP net loss for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009, which excludes stock-based compensation charges, a benefit from insurance proceeds received, a non-recurring charge against operating expenses related to termination of a development agreement, a restructuring credit against operating expenses, and the associated tax impact of these items, was $94.4 million, or $0.18 per share.
 
GAAP net loss for the twelve months ended January 25, 2009 was $30.0 million, or $0.05 per share, compared to net income of $797.6 million, or $1.31 per diluted share, for the twelve months ended January 27, 2008.  Non-GAAP net income for the twelve months ended January 25, 2009, which excludes stock-based compensation charges, a non-recurring charge against cost of revenue related to a royalty dispute,a non-recurring warranty charge against cost of revenue, a benefit from insurance proceeds received, a non-recurring charge against operating expenses related to termination of a development agreement, a restructuring charge against operating expenses, and the associated tax impact of these items, was $303.3 million, or $0.53 per diluted share, compared to $919.3 million, or $1.56 per diluted share, for the twelve months ended January 27, 2008.
 
 
 
 
 
 
The environment is clearly difficult and uncertain.  Our first priority is to set an operating expense level that balances cash conservation while allowing us to continue to invest in initiatives that are of great importance to the market and in which we believe we have industry leadership.  We have initiatives in all areas to reduce operating expenses, said Jen-Hsun Huang, president and CEO of NVIDIA.  Although fiscal 2009 was extremely difficult, it was one of our best years of innovation.  We made many important advances in graphics processing with PhysX and 3D Vision, GPU computing with CUDA and Tesla, and mobile computing with ION and Tegra.  I am pleased with the excellent achievements we made in each of these important areas.
 
Fourth Quarter Fiscal 2009 Highlights:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Conference Call and Web Cast Information
NVIDIA will conduct a conference call with analysts and investors to discuss its fourth quarter and fiscal year 2009 financial results and current financial prospects today at 2:00 P.M. Pacific Time (5:00 P.M. Eastern Time). To listen to the call, please dial (212) 231-2901. A live Web cast (listen-only mode) of the conference call will be held at the NVIDIA investor relations Web site  and at . The Web cast will be recorded and available for replay until the Companys conference call to discuss its financial results for its first quarter fiscal 2010.
www.nvidia.com/ir
www.streetevents.com
 
Non-GAAP Measures
To supplement the Companys Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations presented in accordance with GAAP, we use non-GAAP measures of certain components of financial performance. These non-GAAP measures include non-GAAP gross profit, non-GAAP net income (loss), and non-GAAP net income (loss) per share. In order for our investors to be better able to compare our current results with those of previous periods, we have shown a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures. These reconciliations adjust the related GAAP financial measures to exclude stock-based compensation, a non-recurring charge against cost of revenue related to a royalty dispute, a non-recurring warranty charge against cost of revenue, a restructuring charge (credit) against operating expenses, a non-recurring charge against operating expenses related to termination of a development agreement, a benefit from insurance proceeds received, in-process research & development charges related to acquisitions, and the associated tax impact of these items, where applicable. We believe the presentation of our non-GAAP financial measures enhances the user's overall understanding of our historical financial performance. The presentation of our non-GAAP financial measures is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for our financial results prepared in accordance with GAAP, and our non-GAAP measures may be different from non-GAAP measures used by other companies.
 
 
 
 
 
About NVIDIA
.
NVIDIA (Nasdaq: NVDA) is the world leader in visual computing technologies and the inventor of the GPU, a high-performance processor which generates breathtaking, interactive graphics on workstations, personal computers, game consoles, and mobile devices. NVIDIA serves the entertainment and consumer market with its GeForceproducts, the professional design and visualization market with its Quadroproducts, and the high-performance computing market with its Tesla products. NVIDIA is headquartered in Santa Clara, California and has offices throughout Asia, Europe, and the Americas. For more information, visit www.nvidia.com
Certain statements in this press release including, but not limited to, statements as to: our cash conservative efforts; our priorities, initiatives, innovations, advancements and achievements; and the benefits of the NVIDIA Ion Platform, NVIDIA 3D Vision and the Tesla Personal Supercomputer, are forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause results to be materially different than expectations. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include: development of faster or more efficient technology; the impact of technological development and competition; design, manufacturing or software defects; changes in consumer preferences or demands; changes in industry standards and interfaces; unexpected loss of performance of our products or technologies when integrated into systems; as well as other factors detailed from time to time in the reports NVIDIA files with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, including our Form 10-Q for the fiscal period ended October 26, 2008. Copies of reports filed with the SEC are posted on our website and are available from NVIDIA without charge. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and speak only as of the date hereof, and, except as required by law, NVIDIA disclaims any obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances.
 
# # #
Copyright  2009 NVIDIA Corporation. All rights reserved. NVIDIA, the NVIDIA logo, GeForce, Quadro, Tesla, PhysX, GeForce 3D Vision, CUDA, ION and Tegra  are registered trademarks and/or trademarks of NVIDIA Corporation in the United States and other countries. All other company and/or product names may be trade names, trademarks, and/or registered trademarks of the respective owners with which they are associated. Features, pricing, availability, and specifications are subject to change without notice.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


