FILE:NVDA/NVDA-8K-20090507162440.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
 
FORM 8-K
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Registrants telephone number, including area code:
(408) 486-2000
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
SECTION 2 - Financial Information
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On May 7, 2009, NVIDIA Corporation issued a press release announcing its results for the three months ended April 26, 2009. The press release is furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or subject to the liabilities of that Section or Sections 11 and 12(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. The information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference in any filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission made by NVIDIA Corporation, whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
 
 
SECTION 9 - Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

For further information, contact:
                                                                                   
   
   
   
   
   
                     
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
                                                                                             
   
   
   
   
   
   
  & #160;
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
NVIDIA REPORTS FINANCIAL RESULTS FOR FIRST QUARTER FISCAL YEAR 2010
 
SANTA CLARA, CAMAY 7, 2009
NVIDIA Corporation today reported financial results for the first quarter of fiscal 2010 ended April 26, 2009.
For the first quarter of fiscal 2010, revenue was $664.2 million compared with $1.2 billion for the first quarter of fiscal 2009, a decrease of 42 percent.
During the first quarter of fiscal 2010, NVIDIA recorded a non-recurring charge of $140.2 million in connection with a previously announced cash tender offer to purchase employee stock options. This charge represents stock-based compensation expense associated with the stock options that were tendered, plus associated payroll taxes and professional fees.
NVIDIAs results for the first quarter of fiscal 2010, computed in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), included a net loss of $201.3 million, or $0.37 per share.  Non-GAAP net loss for the first quarter of fiscal 2010, which excludes recurring stock-based compensation charges, the non-recurring charge related to the tender offer, and the associated tax impact of these items, was $46.7 million, or $0.09 per share.
 
We made good progress managing expenses and significantly reducing inventory, while continuing to invest in our growth strategies, said Jen-Hsun Huang, president and CEO of NVIDIA.  The GPU is ever-more central to our computing experience.  Theres a rapidly growing number of applications that rely on the GPU, and the industry is gearing up to launch the next generation operating systems that adopt GPU computing.
 
First Quarter Fiscal 2010 and Recent Highlights:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Conference Call and Web Cast Information
NVIDIA will conduct a conference call with analysts and investors to discuss its first quarter fiscal 2010 financial results and current financial prospects today at 2:00 p.m. Pacific Time (5:00 p.m. Eastern Time). To listen to the call, please dial (212) 231-2900. A live Web cast (listen-only mode) of the conference call will be held at the NVIDIA investor relations Web site and at . The Web cast will be recorded and available for replay until the Companys conference call to discuss its financial results for its second quarter fiscal 2010.
www.nvidia.com/ir
www.streetevents.com
Non-GAAP Measures
To supplement the Companys Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations and Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets presented in accordance with GAAP, we use non-GAAP measures of certain components of financial performance. These non-GAAP measures include non-GAAP gross profit, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP net income (loss), non-GAAP net income (loss) per share, and free cash flow. In order for our investors to be better able to compare our current results with those of previous periods, we have shown a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures. These reconciliations adjust the related GAAP financial measures to exclude a non-recurring charge related to previously-announced tender offer, recurring stock-based compensation charges, and the associated tax impact of these items, where applicable. Free cash flow is calculated as GAAP net cash provided by operating activities less purchases of property and equipment and intangible assets. We believe the presentation of our non-GAAP financial measures enhances the user's overall understanding of our historical financial performance. The presentation of our non-GAAP financial measures is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for our financial results prepared in accordance with GAAP, and our non-GAAP measures may be different from non-GAAP measures used by other companies.
About NVIDIA
NVIDIA (Nasdaq: NVDA) is the world leader in visual computing technologies and the inventor of the GPU, a high-performance processor which generates breathtaking, interactive graphics on workstations, personal computers, game consoles, and mobile devices. NVIDIA serves the entertainment and consumer market with its GeForce products, the professional design and visualization market with its Quadro products, and the high-performance computing market with its Tesla products. NVIDIA is headquartered in Santa Clara, California and has offices throughout Asia, Europe, and the Americas. For more information, visit www.nvidia.com.
Certain statements in this press release including, but not limited to, statements as to: the impact of the GPU on the computing experience; and the impact and benefits of our products and technologies, are forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause results to be materially different than expectations. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include: development of faster or more efficient technology; the impact of technological development and competition; design, manufacturing or software defects; changes in consumer preferences or demands; changes in industry standards and interfaces; unexpected loss of performance of our products or technologies when integrated into systems; as well as other factors detailed from time to time in the reports NVIDIA files with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, including our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 25, 2009. Copies of reports filed with the SEC are posted on our website and are available from NVIDIA without charge. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and speak only as of the date hereof, and, except as required by law, NVIDIA disclaims any obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances.
# # #
Copyright  2009 NVIDIA Corporation. All rights reserved. NVIDIA, the NVIDIA logo, GeForce, Quadro, Tesla, PhysX, GeForce 3D Vision, CUDA, ION and Tegra  are registered trademarks and/or trademarks of NVIDIA Corporation in the United States and other countries. All other company and/or product names may be trade names, trademarks, and/or registered trademarks of the respective owners with which they are associated. Features, pricing, availability, and specifications are subject to change without notice.
 
 
 
 
NVIDIA CORPORATION
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
(In thousands, except per share data)
(Unaudited)
 
(A) The $140,241 stock option purchase charge for the three months ended April 26, 2009 relates to personnel associated with cost of revenue (for manufacturing personnel), research and development, and sales, general and administrative of $11,412, $90,456, and $38,373, respectively, pursuant to a tender offer to purchase certain outstanding employee stock options.
 
 
(B) The income tax expense (benefit) rate for the three months ended April 26, 2009 and April 27, 2008 was (10.4) % and 17.0%, respectively.
 
 
 
 
NVIDIA CORPORATION
RECONCILIATION OF GAAP TO NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
(In thousands, except per share data)
(Unaudited)
 
 
(A) Results include stock-based compensation expense as follows (in thousands):
 
(B) During the three-months ended April 26, 2009, the Company completed a tender offer to purchase an aggregate of 28.5 million outstanding stock options for a total cash payment of $78.1 million.  As a result of the tender offer the Company incurred a charge of $140.2 million, consisting of the remaining unamortized stock-based compensation expenses associated with the unvested portion of the options tendered in the offer, stock-based compensation expense resulting from amounts paid in excess of the fair value of the underlying options, plus associated payroll taxes and professional fees.  The $140.2 million stock option purchase charge for the three months ended April 26, 2009 relates to personnel associated with cost of revenue (for manufacturing personnel), research and development, and sales, general and administrative of $11.4 million, $90.5 million, and $38.3 million, respectively.
 
 
(C) Reflects an adjustment to the diluted outstanding shares calculated under SFAS 123R to conform to diluted outstanding shares calculated under prior accounting standards (APB 25).
 
 
 
NVIDIA CORPORATION
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(In thousands)
(Unaudited)
 


