FILE:NVDA/NVDA-8K-20101112061124.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 2 - Financial Information
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On November 11, NVIDIA Corporation issued a press release announcing its results for the three months and nine months ended October 31, 2010. The press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
, 2010
Attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and incorporated by reference herein is financial information and commentary by David L. White, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of NVIDIA, regarding results of the quarter ended October 31, 2010, or the CFO Commentary.  The CFO Commentary will be posted to www.nvidia.com/ir immediately after the filing of this Current Report.
 
The press release and CFO Commentary are furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or subject to the liabilities of that Section or Sections 11 and 12(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference in any filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission made by NVIDIA Corporation, whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
 
SECTION 9 - Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 

 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NVIDIA (Nasdaq: NVDA) today reported revenue of $843.9 million for the third quarter of fiscal 2011 ended Oct. 31, 2010, up 4.0 percent from the prior quarter and down 6.6 percent from $903.2 million from the same period a year earlier.
SANTA CLARA, Calif.Nov. 11, 2010
 
On a GAAP basis, the company recorded net income of $84.9 million, or $0.15 per diluted share, compared with a GAAP net loss of $141.0 million, or $0.25 per share, in the previous quarter and GAAP net income of $107.6 million, or $0.19 per diluted share, in the same period a year earlier.  GAAP gross margin was 46.5 percent compared with 16.6 percent in the previous quarter and 43.4 percent in the same period a year earlier.
 
 
 We have turned the corner, said Jen-Hsun Huang, NVIDIAs president and chief executive officer. We have restored our speed of execution and are regaining share in desktops.  Only seven months after shipping our first processor based on the Fermi architecture, we have begun production on seven more GPUs, including the GeForce GTX 580, which sets a new standard for performance.  The Fermi architecture is now in every segment of our desktop, notebook and workstation product lines.
 
Weve also made big strides this quarter in positioning ourselves at the center of cloud and mobile computing, which are transforming the computer landscape.  Tesla now powers some of the worlds fastest and greenest supercomputers.  And Tegra will soon be featured in a range of smartphones and tablets were building with our partners, he said.
 
 
 
 
 
Outlook
 
The outlook for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011 is as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Third Quarter Fiscal 2011 Highlights:
 
 
 
 
 
CFO Commentary
Commentary on the quarter by David White, NVIDIA chief financial officer and executive vice president, is available at www.nvidia.com/investor.
Conference Call and Web Cast Information
NVIDIA will conduct a conference call with analysts and investors to discuss its third quarter fiscal 2011 financial results and current financial prospects today at 2:00 p.m. Pacific Time (5:00 p.m. Eastern Time).  To listen to the call, please dial (212) 231-2900.  A live Web cast (listen-only mode) of the conference call will be accessible at the NVIDIA investor relations Web site and at .  The Web cast will be recorded and available for replay until the company's conference call to discuss its financial results for its fourth quarter fiscal 2011.
www.nvidia.com/ir
www.streetevents.com
 
 
Non-GAAP Measures
To supplement NVIDIAs Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations and Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets presented in accordance with GAAP, the company uses non-GAAP measures of certain components of financial performance.  These non-GAAP measures include non-GAAP gross profit, non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP net income per share and free cash flow.  In order for NVIDIAs investors to be better able to compare its current results with those of previous periods, the company has shown a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures. These reconciliations adjust the related GAAP financial measures to exclude a charge related to the weak die/packaging material set that was used in certain versions of NVIDIAs previous gene ration MCP and GPU products, net of
insurance reimbursements, a non-recurring charge related to a tender offer purchase, and the associated tax impact of these items, where applicable.  Free cash flow is calculated as GAAP net cash provided by operating activities less purchases of property and equipment and intangible assets.  NVIDIA believes the presentation of its non-GAAP financial measures enhances the user's overall understanding of the companys historical financial performance. The presentation of the companys non-GAAP financial measures is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the companys financial results prepared in accordance with GAAP, and our non-GAAP measures may be different from non-GAAP measures used by other companies.
 
 
 
 
 
About NVIDIA
 
NVIDIA (NASDAQ:NVDA) awakened the world to the power of computer graphics when it invented the GPU in 1999. Since then, it has consistently set new standards in visual computing with breathtaking, interactive graphics available on devices ranging from tablets and portable media players to notebooks and workstations. NVIDIA's expertise in programmable GPUs has led to breakthroughs in parallel processing which make supercomputing inexpensive and widely accessible. The Company holds more than 1,600 patents worldwide, including ones covering designs and insights that are essential to modern computing. For more information, see www.nvidia.com.
 
Certain statements in this press release including, but not limited to, statements as to: the companys financial outlook for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011; the companys market share in desktops; the benefits of GeForce GTX 580; the impact of cloud and mobile computing; Tegra design wins; and the impact of the companys patents on modern computing; are forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause results to be materially different than expectations.  Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include: our reliance on third parties to manufacture, assemble, package and test our products; global economic conditions; development of faster or more efficient technology; the impact of technological development and competition; design, manufacturing or software defects; c hanges in consumer preferences or demands; changes in industry standards and interfaces; unexpected loss of performance of our products or technologies when integrated into systems; as well as other factors detailed from time to time in the reports  NVIDIA files with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, including its Form 10-Q for the fiscal period ended August 1, 2010.  Copies of reports filed with the SEC are posted on the companys website and are available from NVIDIA without charge.  These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and speak only as of the date hereof, and, except as required by law, NVIDIA disclaims any obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances.
Copyright  2010.  All rights reserved.  NVIDIA, the NVIDIA logo, GeForce, Tegra, and Tesla are trademarks and/or registered trademarks of NVIDIA Corporation in the United States and other countries around the world.  Other company and product names may be trademarks of the respective companies with which they are associated. Features, pricing, availability, and specifications are subject to change without notice.
 
 
###
 
 
For further information, contact:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

The following information has been prepared on a GAAP basis except where noted.
Summary Results
 
Revenue for the third quarter of fiscal 2011 was $843.9 million, up 4.0 percent from $811.2 million in the prior quarter.
GAAP gross margin for the quarter was 46.5 percent, up 29.9 percentage points from the prior quarters GAAP gross margin of 16.6 percent.  Excluding the effect of a charge for a weak die/packaging material set, non-GAAP gross margin in the second quarter was 38.9 percent.
GAAP net income for the quarter was $84.9 million, or $0.15 per diluted share, compared with a GAAP net loss of $141.0 million, or $0.25 per share, in the prior quarter. Excluding the weak/die packaging material set charge, and the associated tax impact, non-GAAP net income for the second quarter was $20.1 million, or $0.03 per diluted share.
Revenue
The business conditions that impacted our GPU business in the second quarter, namely rising memory costs and the weakness of the Euro, abated somewhat in the third quarter.  The third quarter GPU business also benefitted from the launch and ramp of our GeForce GTS 450 and GT 430 Fermi based GPUs aimed at the lower-priced segments of the add-in card market.  As a result, our GPU revenue was up 5.7 percent quarter-over-quarter and we gained some share in the desktop segment.  While we lost share in a significantly reduced notebook segment, we believe the market is stabilizing and we expect to regain share with the new notebook product cycle late in the fourth quarter or early in the first quarter of our fiscal 2012.
Revenue for our Professional Solutions business, which includes workstation graphics and computing, represented 24.9 percent of total company revenue and was down 2.3 percent from the prior quarter.   Quadro professional graphics was up but our computing business was down, the latter reflecting the influence a small number of large orders currently has on the computing business.  These quarterly variations will decrease as the computing business grows across more vertical segments.  Momentum is strong: this years GPU Technology Conference was the biggest ever, and the worlds fastest supercomputer, Chinas Tianhe-1A, is based on our Tesla products.
 
 
 
 
Our Consumer Products business, which includes Tegra smartphone and tablet products, as well as embedded entertainment, represented 6.2 percent of total revenue and was up 13.6 percent over the prior quarter.  Significant Tegra shipments will continue to be gated by the production release of Android based smartphone and tablet products, which are expected to start ramping and shipping in volume in the fourth quarter.
 
Gross Margin
GAAP gross margin of 46.5 percent for the third quarter was within guidance.  Mix was slightly less favorable than we had expected at the beginning of the quarter.
Expenses and Other
GAAP operating expenses for the third quarter were $288.3 million, compared to GAAP operating expenses of $309.5 million for the second quarter, which included a $12.7 million charge related to the weak die/packaging material set.
Our tax provision for the quarter was $18.7 million, a tax rate of 18.1%.
Balance Sheet
Accounts receivable at the end of the quarter were $399.5 million, up $3.6 million sequentially.  Our DSO at quarter-end was 43 days, down 1 day from the prior quarter.
Inventories at the end of the quarter were $377.8 million, down 13.0 percent over the prior quarter.  The decrease was largely driven by higher third quarter revenues and actions taken to lower inventory levels.
On a related note, channel inventory was again slightly down quarter-over-quarter.
Depreciation and amortization expense for the third quarter amounted to $46.9 million.  Stock-based compensation was $25.2 million.  Capital expenditures were $21.8 million.
Cash flow provided by operating activities was $212.2 million during the third quarter.  Free cash flow in the third quarter was $190.4 million with the principle contributors being cash earnings, earnings after adding back depreciation and stock-based compensation, and inventory reductions.
Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities at the end of the quarter were a record $1.99 billion, up $214.7 million over the prior quarter.
Fourth Quarter Outlook
Our outlook for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011 is as follows:
We estimate depreciation and amortization to be modestly up when compared to the third quarter.  Capital expenditures are expected to be under $50 million.
 
Diluted shares for the fourth quarter are expected to be approximately 586million.
 
 
 
 
 
For further information, contact:
 
Non-GAAP Measures
To supplement NVIDIAs Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations presented in accordance with GAAP, the company uses non-GAAP measures of certain components of financial performance. These non-GAAP measures include non-GAAP gross profit, non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP net income per share and free cash flow. In order for NVIDIAs investors to be better able to compare its current results with those of previous periods, the company has shown a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures. These reconciliations adjust the related GAAP financial measures to exclude a charge related to the weak die/packaging material set that was used in certain versions of NVIDIAs previous generation MCP and GPU products, net of insurance reimbursements, a non-recurr ing charge related to a tender offer purchase, and the associated tax impact of these items, where applicable.  Free cash flow is calculated as GAAP net cash provided by or used in operating activities, less purchases of property and equipment and intangible assets. NVIDIA believes the presentation of its non-GAAP financial measures enhances the user's overall understanding of the companys historical financial performance. The presentation of the companys non-GAAP financial measures is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the companys financial results prepared in accordance with GAAP, and our non-GAAP measures may be different from non-GAAP measures used by other companies.
Certain statements in this CFO Commentary including, but not limited to, statements as to: the companys financial outlook for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011; the market stabilization; regaining market share in the new notebook product cycle; our momentum; and factors affecting our Tegra shipments; are forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause results to be materially different than expectations.  Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include: global economic conditions; development of faster or more efficient technology; the impact of technological development and competition; design, manufacturing or software defects; changes in consumer preferences or demands; changes in industry standards and interfaces; unexpected loss of performance of our products or technologies when integrated into systems; as well as other factors detailed from time to time in the reports  NVIDIA files with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, including its Form 10-Q for the fiscal period ended August 1, 2010.  Copies of reports filed with the SEC are posted on the companys website and are available from NVIDIA without charge.  These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and speak only as of the date hereof, and, except as required by law, NVIDIA disclaims any obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances.
our reliance on third parties to manufacture, assemble, package and test our products;
 
 
# # #
 2010 NVIDIA Corporation. All rights reserved. NVIDIA, the NVIDIA logo, GeForce, Fermi, Quadro and Tegra
 
are trademarks and/or registered trademarks of NVIDIA Corporation in the U.S.
 
and other countries.  Other company and product names may be trademarks of the
 
respective companies with which they are associated. Features, pricing, availability, and specifications are subject t o change without notice.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


