FILE:NVDA/NVDA-8K-20100513162900.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 2 - Financial Information
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On M, NVIDIA Corporation issued a press release announcing its results for the three months ended May 2,  2010. The press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
ay 13, 2010
Attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and incorporated by reference herein is financial information and commentary by David L. White, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of NVIDIA, regarding results of the quarter ended May 2, 2010, or the CFO Commentary.  The CFO Commentary will be posted to www.nvidia.com/ir immediately after the filing of this Current Report.
 
The press release and CFO Commentary are furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or subject to the liabilities of that Section or Sections 11 and 12(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference in any filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission made by NVIDIA Corporation, whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
 
SECTION 9 - Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 

 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE:
 
 
 
 
 
NVIDIA (Nasdaq: NVDA) today reported revenue of $1.0 billion for the first quarter of fiscal 2011 ended May 2, 2010, up 2 percent from the prior quarter and up 51 percent from $664.2 million in the same period a year earlier.
SANTA CLARA, Calif.May 13, 2010
 
On a GAAP basis, the company recorded net income of $137.6 million, or $0.23 per diluted share, for the first quarter of fiscal 2011.  That compares with $131.1 million, or $0.23 per diluted share, in the previous quarter and a net loss of $201.3 million, or $0.37 per share, in the same period a year earlier.
 
Gross margin increased to 45.6 percent for the first quarter fiscal 2011 from 44.7 percent in the previous quarter and 28.6 percent in the same period a year earlier.
 
 
With our new Fermi-class GPUs in full production, NVIDIAs key profit drivers are fully engaged, said Jen-Hsun Huang, NVIDIA CEO and president and chief executive officer.  We shipped a few hundred thousand Fermi processors into strong consumer demand.  Our Quadro business for workstations grew strongly, fueled by pent up demand from enterprise customers and new growth markets like video editing.  And we had record revenue from Tesla processors for high-end servers.  We anticipate continued strength in these businesses over the coming quarters.
 
 
 
 
Outlook
 
The outlook for the second quarter of fiscal 2011 is as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
First Quarter Fiscal 2011 Highlights:
 
 
 
 
 
 
CFO Commentary
 
Commentary on the quarter by David White, NVIDIA chief financial officer and executive vice president, is available at www.nvidia.com/investor.
 
Conference Call and Web Cast Information
 
NVIDIA will conduct a conference call with analysts and investors to discuss its first quarter fiscal 2011 financial results and current financial prospects today at 2:00 p.m. Pacific Time (5:00 p.m. Eastern Time).  To listen to the call, please dial (212) 231-2900.  A live Web cast (listen-only mode) of the conference call will be accessible at the NVIDIA investor relations Web site and at .  The Web cast will be recorded and available for replay until the company's conference call to discuss its financial results for its second quarter fiscal 2011.
www.nvidia.com/ir
www.streetevents.com
 
 
 
 
About NVIDIA
 
NVIDIA (Nasdaq: NVDA) awakened the world to the power of computer graphics when it invented the GPU in 1999. Since then, it has consistently set new standards in visual computing with breathtaking, interactive graphics available on devices ranging from tablets and portable media players to notebooks and workstations. NVIDIAs expertise in programmable GPUs has led to breakthroughs in parallel processing which make supercomputing inexpensive and widely accessible. The company holds more than 1,100 U.S. patents, including ones covering designs and insights which are fundamental to modern computing. For more information, see www.nvidia.com.
 
Certain statements in this press release including, but not limited to, statements as to: the strength of our businesses; and the Companys financial outlook for the second quarter of fiscal 2011; are forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause results to be materially different than expectations.  Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include: our reliance on third parties to manufacture, assemble, package and test our products; global economic conditions; development of faster or more efficient technology; the impact of technological development and competition; design, manufacturing or software defects; changes in consumer preferences or demands; changes in industry standards and interfaces; unexpected loss of performance of our product s or technologies when integrated into systems; as well as other factors detailed from time to time in the reports  NVIDIA files with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, including its Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2010.  Copies of reports filed with the SEC are posted on the Companys website and are available from NVIDIA without charge.  These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and speak only as of the date hereof, and, except as required by law, NVIDIA disclaims any obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances.
Copyright  2010.  All rights reserved.  NVIDIA, the NVIDIA logo, GeForce, Tesla, CUDA, Quadro, NVIDIA 3D VISION, NVIDIA 3D TV Play, Tegra, and Fermi are trademarks or registered trademarks of NVIDIA Corporation in the United States and other countries around the world.  Other company and product names may be trademarks of the respective companies with which they are associated. Features, pricing, availability, and specifications are subject to change without notice.
 
 
For further information, contact:
 
 
                                                                     
 
   
   
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
                                                                                  
   
   
    
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
                                                                                
                                                0;                                 
                                                                                     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
The following information has been prepared on a GAAP basis except where noted.
 
Summary Results
Revenue for the first quarter of fiscal 2011 was just over $1.0 billion, up 2 percent from $982.5 million in the prior quarter.  Revenue was up 51 percent from that of a year ago.
GAAP gross margin for the quarter was 45.6 percent, which was up 90 basis points from the prior quarters gross margin of 44.7 percent.
GAAP net income for the quarter was $137.6 million, or $0.23 per diluted share, compared with GAAP net income of $131.1 million, or $0.23 per share, in the prior quarter.
 
Revenue
As previously announced, our MCP (chipset) results are now reported as part of the GPU business.
*
 
Our GPU business, which includes discrete GPUs and chipsets for the desktop and notebook markets, was flat sequentially.  The mainstream segment of our desktop GPU business was down seasonally.  However, this effect was largely offset by the introduction and launch of our Fermi-based GeForce GTX470/480 GPUs, the launch of our GeForce GT320M chipset and strong notebook demand.  We successfully ramped GTX470/480, selling a few hundred thousand units by quarter end.  The launch of these GPUs puts NVIDIA back in the high end of the enthusiast segment of the market, which will be important to our earnings growth this year.
Revenue for our Professional Solutions business, which includes workstation graphics and computing, represented 19 percent of total revenue.   Demand for our workstation products continued to recover strongly.  Our computing business was also up significantly, achieving record levels following the launch of Tesla products based on our new Fermi architecture.  With Tesla, we now have business in the server segment of computing in addition to desktop, notebook and workstations.
Our Consumer Products business, which includes smartphone and tablet products, as well as embedded entertainment, represented 3 percent of total revenue.  The sequential decrease was due to seasonality in our game console business and other items.
 
 
 
 
 
Gross Margin
GAAP gross margin for the first quarter was 45.6 percent.  Margins improved quarter over quarter primarily as a result of the launch of our Fermi-based high-end GPUs as well as strength in our Professional Solutions business, in which both our workstation and computing businesses have higher margins than our overall corporate average.
Expenses and Other
GAAP operating expenses for the first quarter were $309 million, up $4.5 million over the prior quarter.  Most of this increase was due to payroll taxes associated with employee stock option exercises and RSU vesting, plus legal expenses incurred as we respond to inquiries associated with the Federal Trade Commission proceeding against Intel as well as our own litigation against Intel.  Legal expenses are expected to continue at this elevated level.
Our tax rate for the quarter was 9 percent, which was lower than anticipated as a result of various one-time discrete items.
Balance Sheet
Accounts receivable at the end of the quarter were $529.7 million, up $154.7 million sequentially.  Much of this increase was attributable to revenue from GeForce GTX 470/480 and GeForce GT320M which ramped very successfully late in the quarter.  Consequently our DSO at quarter-end was 48 days, up 11 days over the prior quarter.
Inventories at the end of the quarter were $388.1 million, up 17 percent over the prior quarter.  Inventory days on hand at quarter-end was 65, versus 60 at the end of the fourth quarter.  The increase was largely due to higher-than-expected yields of 40nm products.  In particular, good yields of GTX470 and GTX 480 meant we had insufficient back end capacity to assemble, test and ship these products before the end of the quarter.
Depreciation and amortization expense for the first quarter amounted to approximately $47.1 million.  Capital expenditures were $17.1 million.
Cash flow used in operating activities was $5.4 million during the first quarter.  Free cash flow used in the first quarter was $22.5 million, with the principle contributors being additional working capital in accounts receivable and inventory offset by cash earnings (net income after adding back non-cash depreciation and stock based compensation).
Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities at the end of the quarter were $1.76 billion, up approximately $36.7 million from the fourth quarter.
 
Second Quarter Outlook
Our outlook for the second quarter of fiscal 2011 is as follows:
We estimate depreciation and amortization and capital expenditures to be relatively flat when compared to the first quarter.
Diluted shares for the second quarter are expected to be approximately 595million.
 
______________
For further information, contact:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Measures
To supplement NVIDIAs Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations presented in accordance with GAAP, the company uses non-GAAP measures of certain components of financial performance. These non-GAAP measures include non-GAAP gross profit, non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP net income per share and free cash flow. In order for NVIDIAs investors to be better able to compare its current results with those of previous periods, the company has shown a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures. These reconciliations adjust the related GAAP financial measures to exclude a charge related to the weak die/packaging material set that was used in certain versions of NVIDIAs previous generation chips, net of insurance reimbursements, a non-recurring charge rela ted to a tender offer purchase, and the associated tax impact of these items, where applicable.  Free cash flow is calculated as GAAP net cash provided by or used in operating activities, less purchases of property and equipment and intangible assets. NVIDIA believes the presentation of its non-GAAP financial measures enhances the user's overall understanding of the companys historical financial performance. The presentation of the companys non-GAAP financial measures is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the companys financial results prepared in accordance with GAAP, and our non-GAAP measures may be different from non-GAAP measures used by other companies.
Certain statements in this CFO Commentary including, but not limited to, statements as to: our market leadership; and the Companys financial outlook for the second quarter of fiscal 2011; are forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause results to be materially different than expectations.  Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include: our reliance on third parties to manufacture, assemble, package and test our products; global economic conditions; development of faster or more efficient technology; the impact of technological development and competition; design, manufacturing or software defects; changes in consumer preferences or demands; changes in industry standards and interfaces; unexpected loss of performance of our products or tec hnologies when integrated into systems; as well as other factors detailed from time to time in the reports  NVIDIA files with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, including its Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2010.  Copies of reports filed with the SEC are posted on the Companys website and are available from NVIDIA without charge.  These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and speak only as of the date hereof, and, except as required by law, NVIDIA disclaims any obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances.
 2010 NVIDIA Corporation. All rights reserved. NVIDIA, the NVIDIA logo, Tesla, CUDA, GeForce and Tegra
 
are trademarks and/or registered trademarks of NVIDIA Corporation in the U.S.
 
and other countries. Other company and product names may be trademarks of the
 
respective companies with which they are associated. Features, pricing, availability, and specifications are subject to change without noti ce.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


