FILE:NVDA/NVDA-8K-20110811162604.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
SECTION 2 - Financial Information
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On  August 11, 2011, NVIDIA Corporation issued a press release announcing its results for the three and six months ended July 31, 2011. The press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
Attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and incorporated by reference herein is financial information and commentary by Karen Burns, Vice President and Interim Chief Financial Officer of NVIDIA Corporation, regarding results of the quarter ended  July 31, 2011, or the CFO Commentary. The CFO Commentary will be posted to www.nvidia.com/ir immediately after the filing of this Current Report.
 
 
The press release and CFO Commentary are furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or subject to the liabilities of that Section or Sections 11 and 12(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference in any filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission made by NVIDIA Corporation, whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
 
SECTION 9 - Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
(d) Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NVIDIA (NASDAQ: NVDA) today reported revenue of $1.02 billion for the second quarter of fiscal 2012 ended July 31, 2011, up 5.7 percent from the prior quarter, and up  25.3 percent from $811.2 million in the same period a year earlier.
SANTA CLARA, Calif.Aug. 11, 2011
 
 
On a GAAP basis, the company recorded net income of $151.6 million, or $0.25 per diluted share, for the second quarter of fiscal 2012.  This includes a two-cent dilutive impact from the Icera acquisition.  It compares with net income of $135.2 million, or $0.22 per diluted share, in the prior quarter. In the same period a year earlier, the company had a net loss of $141.0 million, or $0.25 per diluted share.
 
On a non-GAAP basis  which excludes stock-based compensation, amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets, other acquisition related costs, and the tax impact associated with these items  net income was $193.5 million, or $0.32 per diluted share. That compares with net income of $165.7 million, or $0.27 per diluted share, in the prior quarter, and net income of $47.6 million, $0.08 per share, in the same period a year earlier.
 
GAAP gross margin was 51.7 percent, a fourth consecutive record, compared with 50.4 percent in the previous quarter and 16.6 percent in the same period a year earlier.  Non-GAAP gross margin, at 51.9 percent, was also a record, and compares with 50.6 percent in the prior quarter and 39.2 percent in the same period a year earlier.
 
 
 
 
 
We grew solidly this quarter, said Jen-Hsun Huang, NVIDIA president and chief executive officer. Consumer demand for notebooks powered by our GeForce GPU, with its unique Optimus technology, resulted in record revenue for these products.
 
The future of computing is mobile and visual. With Tegras momentum and our growing GPU businesses, we are ideally positioned to lead the industry forward, he said.
 
Outlook
 
Our outlook for the third quarter of fiscal 2012 is as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
We estimate depreciation and amortization for the second quarter to be approximately $53 million to $57 million.  Capital expenditures are expected to be in the range of $25 to $35 million.
Diluted shares for the third quarter are expected to be approximately 615 million.
 
Note: this outlook now includes Icera.
 
Second Quarter Fiscal 2012 and Recent Highlights:
 
 
CFO Commentary
Commentary on the quarter by Karen Burns, NVIDIA interim chief financial officer, is available at www.nvidia.com/ir.
 
 
 
 
 
Conference Call and Webcast Information
NVIDIA will conduct a conference call with analysts and investors to discuss its second quarter fiscal 2012 financial results and current financial prospects today at 2:00 p.m. Pacific Time (5:00 p.m. Eastern Time).  To listen to the call, please dial (706) 679 2572.  A live webcast (listen-only mode) of the conference call will be accessible at the NVIDIA investor relations web site and at .  The webcast will be recorded and available for replay until the company's conference call to discuss its financial results for its third quarter fiscal 2012.
www.nvidia.com/ir
www.streetevents.com
 
 
Non-GAAP Measures
To supplement NVIDIAs Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations and Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets presented in accordance with GAAP, the company uses non-GAAP measures of certain components of financial performance. These non-GAAP measures include non-GAAP gross profit, non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP net income, and non-GAAP net income per share.  In order for NVIDIAs investors to be better able to compare its current results with those of previous periods, the company has shown a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures. These reconciliations adjust the related GAAP financial measures to exclude a charge related to the weak die/packaging material set that was used in certain versions of NVIDIAs previous generation MCP and GPU products, net of insurance reimbursement, stock-based compensation, amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets, other acquisition-related costs, and the associated tax impact of these items, where applicable.  NVIDIA believes the presentation of its non-GAAP financial measures enhances the user's overall understanding of the companys historical financial performance. The presentation of the companys non-GAAP financial measures is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the companys financial results prepared in accordance with GAAP, and our non-GAAP measures may be different from non-GAAP measures used by other companies.
 
 
About NVIDIA
 
NVIDIA (NASDAQ:) awakened the world to the power of computer graphics when it invented the GPU in 1999. Since then, it has consistently set new standards in visual computing with breathtaking, interactive graphics available on devices ranging from tablets and portable media players to notebooks and workstations. NVIDIA's expertise in programmable GPUs has led to breakthroughs in parallel processing which make supercomputing inexpensive and widely accessible. The Company holds more than 1,900 issued patents worldwide, including ones covering designs and insights that are essential to modern computing. For more information, see .
NVDA
www.nvidia.com
Certain statements in this press release including, but not limited to statements as to:  the future of computing; Tegras momentum; the strength of the companys GPU business; the companys positioning to shape the future of computing; the companys financial outlook for the third quarter of fiscal 2012; efforts to increase gross margin and control operating expenses; the companys strategic investments in the mobile space; and the effects of the companys patents on modern computing are forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause results to be materially different than expectations. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include: global economic conditions; our reliance on third parties to manufacture, assemble, package and test our products; the impact of technological development and competition; development of new products and technologies or enhancements to our existing product and technologies; market acceptance of our products or our partners products;  design, manufacturing or software defects; changes in consumer preferences or demands; changes in industry standards and interfaces; unexpected loss of performance of our products or technologies when integrated into systems; as well as other factors detailed from time to time in the reports  NVIDIA files with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, including its Form 10-Q for the fiscal period ended May 1, 2011.  Copies of reports filed with the SEC are posted on the companys website and are available from NVIDIA without charge.  These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and speak only as of the date hereof, and, except as required by law, NVIDIA disclaims any obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances.
 2011 NVIDIA Corporation. All rights reserved. NVIDIA, the NVIDIA logo, GeForce, Tegra and Tesla are trademarks and/or registered trademarks of NVIDIA Corporation in the U.S. and/or other countries. Other company and product names may be trademarks of the respective companies with which they are associated. Features, pricing, availability, and specifications are subject to change without notice.
 
 
For further information, contact:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

 
 
The following information has been prepared on a GAAP basis except where noted.
Summary Results
 
GAAP earnings for the second quarter of fiscal 2012 were $0.25 per diluted share.  The effect of the Icera acquisition, including its results of operations and all acquisition-related costs was ($0.02) per diluted share.  Consequently, net of the Icera acquisition, which was excluded from our outlook, we achieved the high end of our outlook range for the quarter.
Non-GAAP earnings for the second quarter of fiscal 2012 were $0.32 per diluted share.  This excludes stock-based compensation, amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets, other acquisition-related costs, and the tax impact associated with these items.
Revenue for the second quarter was $1.02 billion, up 5.7 percent from $962.0 million in the prior quarter.
GAAP gross margin for the quarter was a record 51.7 percent, up 1.3 percentage points from the prior quarters GAAP gross margin of 50.4 percent.  This is the fourth consecutive record quarter.  Non-GAAP gross margin, which excludes stock-based compensation, was 51.9 percent, compared to 50.6 percent in the prior quarter.
GAAP operating expenses were $351.3 million.  Of this, the acquisition and operating expenses relating to Icera totaled $17.3 million.  Net of Icera, operating expenses were in line with the outlook given when we reported our first quarter results, which excluded these costs.   Non-GAAP operating expenses were $306.0 million.
GAAP net income for the second quarter was $151.6 million, or $0.25 per diluted share, compared with $135.2 million, or $0.22 per diluted share, in the prior quarter.  Non-GAAP net income was $193.5 million, or $0.32 per diluted share, compared to $165.7 million, or $0.27 per diluted share, for the prior quarter.
 
 
 
 
Revenue
Our Consumer Products Business now includes Icera.
(1)
Our GPU business, which includes desktop, notebook, memory, MCP products and licensing revenue from our patent cross license agreement with Intel, was relatively flat compared with the previous quarter.  Desktop GPU revenue declined in the quarter in line with typical seasonality, while notebook GPU revenue increased as we continued to gain significant market share on the Intel Sandy Bridge platform.  Channel inventory declined slightly in the quarter and remained comfortably within our target levels.
Our MCP revenue continued to decline as predicted, as we end-of-life these products, and is expected to decline significantly in the third quarter.
This was the first full quarter for our patent cross license agreement with Intel, with $65.9 million of revenue recognized in the second quarter.
Revenue for our Professional Solutions business, which includes workstation graphics and computing, was up 4.2 percent from the prior quarter.  Our Quadro professional graphics business increased sequentially as we saw a pick-up in enterprise IT spending and as we continued our transition to Fermi-generation products.  Revenue from our Tesla business was flat relative to the prior quarter.
Our Consumer Products business, which includes Tegra smart phone and tablet products, and now Icera baseband processors and RF transceivers, as well as our embedded products, was up 36.8 percent over the prior quarter, at $167.7 million.  Much of the increase was driven by seasonally up game console royalties and refreshes in embedded entertainment products.   Tegra was steady as the product ramps in the first quarter hit shelves.  Iceras contribution was not significant.
Gross Margin
GAAP gross margin of 51.7 percent for the second quarter was above our estimates largely through a more favorable product mix in our GPU and PSB businesses than we had anticipated. Non-GAAP gross margin, which excludes stock-based compensation, was 51.9 percent.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Expenses and Other
 
GAAP operating expenses for the second quarter were $351.3 million, compared to GAAP operating expenses of $329.6 million in the prior quarter.  As explained, GAAP operating expenses for the second quarter include a total of $17.3 million of Icera costs, for its on-going operations, amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets and other acquisition-related costs.  Consequently, our operating expenses were in line with the outlook given when we reported the first quarter results, which explicitly excluded these costs.
Non-GAAP operating expenses were $306.0 million in the second quarter, compared to non-GAAP operating expenses of $296.8 million in the prior quarter.  The increase was almost entirely due to including Icera operating costs, with also a small planned contribution from hiring into our strategic businesses.  Non-GAAP operating expenses excluded:
GAAP income tax expense for the quarter was $26.0 million, an effective tax rate of 14.6 percent. Non-GAAP income tax expense, excluding stock-based compensation, amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets, and other acquisition-related costs, was $32.0 million or an effective tax rate of 14.2 percent.
Balance Sheet
 
Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities at the end of the quarter were $2.47 billion, down $252.0 million over the prior quarter due primarily to the purchase of Icera for approximately $352.2 million, partially offset by cash flow from operating activities of $82.0 million.
Accounts receivable at the end of the quarter were $419.9 million, up $76.7 million sequentially.  Our DSO at quarter-end was 38 days, up 5 days from 33 days in the prior quarter, but still below our company average, and within a healthy level.
Inventories at the end of the quarter were $361.9 million, down 5.0 percent from $381.0 million in the prior quarter, as we actively managed production builds throughout the quarter.
Depreciation and amortization expense for the second quarter amounted to $52.2 million.  Capital expenditures were $23.3 million.
Cash flow from operating activities was $82.0 million in the second quarter, compared to $172.2 million in the prior quarter.  The decrease quarter over quarter is primarily attributable to an increase in our net income offset by a combination of an increase in accounts receivable and a decrease in accounts payable that related to an additional pay cycle in the second quarter versus the prior quarter.
 
 
Third Quarter Outlook
 
Our outlook for the third quarter of fiscal 2012, which now includes Icera, is as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
We estimate depreciation and amortization for the third quarter to be approximately $53 million to $57 million.  Capital expenditures are expected to be in the range of $25 to $35 million.
Diluted shares for the third quarter are expected to be approximately 615million.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Measures
To supplement NVIDIAs Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations and Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets presented in accordance with GAAP, the company uses non-GAAP measures of certain components of financial performance. These non-GAAP measures include non-GAAP gross profit, non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP net income, and non-GAAP net income per share.  In order for NVIDIAs investors to be better able to compare its current results with those of previous periods, the company has shown a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures. These reconciliations adjust the related GAAP financial measures to exclude a charge related to the weak die/packaging material set that was used in certain versions of the NVIDIAs previous generation MCP and GPU products, net of insurance reimbursement, stock-based compensation, amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets, other acquisition-related costs, and the associated tax impact of these items, where applicable.  NVIDIA believes the presentation of its non-GAAP financial measures enhances the user's overall understanding of the companys historical financial performance. The presentation of the companys non-GAAP financial measures is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the companys financial results prepared in accordance with GAAP, and our non-GAAP measures may be different from non-GAAP measures used by other companies.
Certain statements in this CFO Commentary including, but not limited to, statements as to: the companys financial outlook for the third quarter of fiscal 2012; improvements in GPU business; expectations with respect to future gains in notebook discrete share; anticipated decline in the companys MCP business; expectations with respect to the GPU desktop and Quadro professional graphics businesses in the third quarter of fiscal 2012; the companys strategic investments in the mobile space; and expected ramp in the companys consumer products business as Tegra customers enter production are forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause results to be materially different than expectations.  Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include: global economic conditions; our reliance on third parties to manufacture, assemble, package and test our products; the impact of technological development and competition; development of new products and technologies or enhancements to our existing product and technologies; market acceptance of our products or our partners products;  design, manufacturing or software defects; changes in consumer preferences or demands; changes in industry standards and interfaces; unexpected loss of performance of our products or technologies when integrated into systems; as well as other factors detailed from time to time in the reports  NVIDIA files with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, including its Form 10-Q for the fiscal period ended May 1, 2011.   Copies of reports filed with the SEC are posted on the companys website and are available from NVIDIA without charge.  These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and speak only as of the date hereof, and, except as required by law, NVIDIA disclaims any obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances.
# # #
 2011 NVIDIA Corporation. All rights reserved. NVIDIA, the NVIDIA logo,  Quadro, Tesla and Tegra
 
are trademarks and/or registered trademarks of NVIDIA Corporation in the U.S.
 
and other countries.  Other company and product names may be trademarks of the
 
respective companies with which they are associated. Features, pricing, availability, and specifications are subject to change without notice.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


