FILE:NVDA/NVDA-8K-20110216162217.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 2 - Financial Information
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On  February 16, 2011, NVIDIA Corporation issued a press release announcing its results for the three months and fiscal year ended January 30, 2011. The press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and incorporated by reference herein is financial information and commentary by David L. White, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of NVIDIA, regarding results of the quarter ended January 30, 2011, or the CFO Commentary.  The CFO Commentary will be posted to www.nvidia.com/ir immediately after the filing of this Current Report.
 
The press release and CFO Commentary are furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or subject to the liabilities of that Section or Sections 11 and 12(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference in any filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission made by NVIDIA Corporation, whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
 
SECTION 9 - Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NVIDIA (NASDAQ: NVDA) today reported revenue of $886.4 million for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011 ended Jan. 30, 2011, up 5.0 percent from the prior quarter and down 9.8 percent from $982.5 million from the same period a year earlier.
SANTA CLARA, Calif.Feb. 16, 2011
 
 
On a GAAP basis, the company recorded net income of $171.7 million, or $0.29 per diluted share, compared with $84.9 million, or $0.15 per diluted share, in the previous quarter and GAAP net income of $131.1 million, or $0.23 per diluted share, in the same period a year earlier.   GAAP gross margin was a record 48.1 percent compared with 46.5 percent in the previous quarter and 44.7 percent in the same period a year earlier.
 
 
The companys fourth quarter results include a $57.0 million credit to operating expenses, $37.1 million after tax, as a result of a legal settlement in connection with a new licensing agreement entered into with Intel.
 
These strong results underscore the larger story of NVIDIAs transformation, said Jen-Hsun Huang, NVIDIA president and chief executive officer. Even as we are extending our leadership in visual computing, our investment in mobile computing and parallel computing is now driving our growth".
 
Tegra is positioned center stage in the revolution in super phones and tablets, while Tesla is becoming an essential processor for supercomputing.  I have never been more excited about NVIDIAs prospects.
 
 
 
 
Outlook
 
The outlook for the first quarter of fiscal 2012 is as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
Fourth Quarter Fiscal 2011 and Recent Highlights:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CFO Commentary
 
Commentary on the quarter by David White, NVIDIA chief financial officer and executive vice president, is available at www.nvidia.com/investor.
Conference Call and webcast Information
 
NVIDIA will conduct a conference call with analysts and investors to discuss its fourth quarter fiscal 2011 financial results and current financial prospects today at 2:00 p.m. Pacific Time (5:00 p.m. Eastern Time).  To listen to the call, please dial (706) 679 2572.  A live webcast (listen-only mode) of the conference call will be accessible at the NVIDIA investor relations Web site and at .  The Web cast will be recorded and available for replay until the company's conference call to discuss its financial results for its first quarter fiscal 2012.
www.nvidia.com/ir
www.streetevents.com
 
Non-GAAP Measures
 
To supplement NVIDIAs Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations and Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets presented in accordance with GAAP, the company uses non-GAAP measures of certain components of financial performance.  These non-GAAP measures include non-GAAP gross profit, non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP net income per share and free cash flow.  In order for NVIDIAs investors to be better able to compare its current results with those of previous periods, the company has shown a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures. These reconciliations adjust the related GAAP financial measures to exclude a charge related to the weak die/packaging material set that was used in certain versions of NVIDIAs previous gene ration MCP and GPU products, net of insurance reimbursements, a non-recurring charge related to a tender offer purchase, a non-recurring benefit from a legal settlement, and the associated tax impact of these items, where applicable.  Free cash flow is calculated as GAAP net cash provided by or used in operating activities less purchases of property and equipment and intangible assets.  NVIDIA believes the presentation of its non-GAAP financial measures enhances the user's overall understanding of the companys historical financial performance. The presentation of the companys non-GAAP financial measures is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the companys financial results prepared in accordance with GAAP, and our non-GAAP measures may be different from non-GAAP measures used by other companies.
 
 
About NVIDIA
 
NVIDIA (NASDAQ: NVDA) awakened the world to the power of computer graphics when it invented the GPU in 1999. Since then, it has consistently set new standards in visual computing with breathtaking, interactive graphics available on devices ranging from tablets and portable media players to notebooks and workstations. NVIDIA's expertise in programmable GPUs has led to breakthroughs in parallel processing which make supercomputing inexpensive and widely accessible. The Company holds more than 1,700 patents worldwide, including ones covering designs and insights that are essential to modern computing. For more information, see www.nvidia.com.
 
Certain statements in this press release including, but not limited to statements as to: the companys financial outlook for the first quarter of fiscal 2012; the companys expectations with respect to the number of new products to be introduced by PC manufacturers that use the companys graphics; the companys expectations with respect to the use of its products by customers, including Audi, Samsung, BMW and Tesla Motors; the companys development plans for a custom CPU that will use the ARM instruction set; the companys transformation; the companys extension of leadership in visual computing; the companys investment in mobile and parallel computing driving growth; Tegras position in revolutionizing super phones and tablets; the companys prospects; the company ;s quad-core mobile processor being ahead of the competition; timing of release of tablets and phones; and the effects of the company's patents on modern computing are forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause results to be materially different than expectations. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include: global economic conditions; our reliance on third parties to manufacture, assemble, package and test our products; the impact of technological development and competition; development of faster or more efficient technology; design, manufacturing or software defects; changes in consumer preferences or demands; changes in industry standards and interfaces; unexpected loss of performance of our products or technologies when integrated into systems; as well as other factors detailed from time to time in the reports NVIDIA files with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, including its Form 10-Q for the fiscal period ende d October 31, 2010. Copies of reports filed with the SEC are posted on the company's website and are available from NVIDIA without charge. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and speak only as of the date hereof, and, except as required by law, NVIDIA disclaims any obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances.
 2011 NVIDIA Corporation. All rights reserved. NVIDIA, the NVIDIA logo, GeForce, Tegra and Tesla are trademarks and/or registered trademarks of NVIDIA Corporation in the U.S. and/or other countries. Other company and product names may be trademarks of the respective companies with which they are associated. Features, pricing, availability, and specifications are subject to change without notice.
ARM, AMBA and ARM Powered are registered trademarks of ARM Limited. Cortex, MPCore and Mali are trademarks of ARM Limited. All other brands or product names are the property of their respective holders. "ARM" is used to represent ARM Holdings plc; its operating company ARM Limited; and the regional subsidiaries ARM Inc.; ARM KK; ARM Korea Limited.; ARM Taiwan Limited; ARM France SAS; ARM Consulting (Shanghai) Co. Ltd.; ARM Germany GmbH; ARM Embedded Technologies Pvt. Ltd.; ARM Norway, AS and ARM Sweden AB.
 
 
For further information, contact:
 
 
 
 
NVIDIA CORPORATION
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS
(In thousands, except per share data)
(Unaudited)
 
 
 
 
NVIDIA CORPORATION
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(In thousands)
(Unaudited)
 
 
 
 

The following information has been prepared on a GAAP basis except where noted.
Summary Results
Revenue for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011 was $886.4 million, up 5.0 percent from $843.9 million in the prior quarter.  Revenue was at the very top end of our expectations. We believe some analyst estimates may have recorded the Intel settlement as revenue, rather than as a credit to operating expenses, artificially raising revenue consensus.
GAAP gross margin for the quarter was a record 48.1 percent, up 1.6 percentage points from the prior quarters GAAP gross margin of 46.5 percent.
GAAP net income for the quarter was $171.7 million, or $0.29 per diluted share, compared with $84.9 million, or $0.15 per diluted share, in the prior quarter. Fourth quarter results include a benefit to operating expenses of $57.0 million, $37.1 million after tax, as a result of a legal settlement entered into in connection with a new licensing agreement with Intel.
Revenue
 
Our GeForce GPU business continues to improve.  Revenue from discrete GPUs was particularly strong throughout the quarter with both desktop and notebook demand up from the prior period as GeForce gained share.  Desktop demand was particularly strong in our high end products following the launches of the GeForce GTX 580, GTX 570 and GTX 560.   Channel inventory decreased slightly, and remains comfortably within our target levels.  Notebook demand was also strong with GeForce GT 540M and the launch of GeForce GT 520M.  The latter is designed to enable OEMs to up sell premium models that use Intels Sandy Bridge integrated graphics.  We still expect to gain notebook discrete share when Intel resumes shipments of its Sandy Bridge chipset.   Integrated graphics (MCP) shipments fell sharply this quarter as expected.  We expect our integrated graphics business to continue to decline through the year.
Revenue for our Professional Solutions business, which includes workstation graphics and computing, was down 3.1 percent from the prior quarter. Tesla was strong, and significantly up from the third quarter.  Revenue in our Quadro professional graphics business was down modestly from the third quarter due to delays at certain customers as they transitioned to our new series of professional products based on Fermi.  We expect Quadro to pick back up in the first quarter.
Our Consumer Products business, which includes Tegra smartphone and tablet products, as well as embedded entertainment, was also up over the prior quarter as several Tegra customers have started their production ramps.  We expect shipments to ramp aggressively in the coming quarters as our Tegra customers enter production with their smartphones and tablets.
 
 
 
 
Gross Margin
GAAP gross margin of 48.1 percent for the fourth quarter was above our estimates and grew largely through a richer overall revenue mix, particularly in desktop GPU.
 
 
Expenses and Other
GAAP operating expenses for the fourth quarter, which includes a $57.0 million benefit from the legal settlement with Intel, were $246.6 million, compared to GAAP operating expenses of $288.3 million for the third quarter.  Excluding this item, expenses were in line with our expectations.
Our tax provision for the quarter was $14.3 million, a tax rate of 7.7%. This includes the full-year benefits of the retroactive reenactment of the U.S. federal R&D tax credit, $13.7 million of which applies to prior quarters.
Balance Sheet
Accounts receivable at the end of the quarter were $348.8 million, down $50.7 million sequentially.  Our DSO at quarter-end was 36 days, down 7 days from the prior quarter.  Strong collections and improved shipment linearity each contributed to this improvement.
Inventories at the end of the quarter were $345.5 million, down 8.5 percent from the prior quarter.  The decrease was largely driven by conscientious actions taken to lower inventory levels from those we previously reported in the second and third quarters.
Depreciation and amortization expense for the fourth quarter amounted to $46.4 million.  Stock-based compensation was $25.4 million.  Capital expenditures were $21.3 million.
Cash flow provided by operating activities was $434.7 million during the fourth quarter.  Free cash flow in the fourth quarter was $413.3 million with the principle contributors being the receipt of Intels first licensing payment of $300.0 million, cash earnings and lowered working capital.
Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities at the end of the quarter were $2.49 billion, up $503.3 million over the prior quarter.
Accounting for the Intel License Agreement
Payments to NVIDIA under the licensing agreement we entered into with Intel amounts to $1.5 billion over five years.  These payments under the agreement will be accounted for in three separate pieces:
Note that recognition of items 2 and 3 above will commence in April 2011 when the terms of the license take effect.  Consequently, our first quarter results and outlook will only include one month of licensing revenue and costs, approximately $22.0 million and $1.7 million, respectively.
First Quarter Outlook
Our outlook for the first quarter of fiscal 2012 is as follows:
We estimate depreciation and amortization for the first quarter to be approximately $46 million.  Capital expenditures are expected to be in the range of $30 to $35 million.
Diluted shares for the first quarter are expected to be approximately 621million.
 
 
 
 
 
For further information, contact:
Non-GAAP Measures
To supplement NVIDIAs Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations and Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets presented in accordance with GAAP, the company uses non-GAAP measures of certain components of financial performance. These non-GAAP measures include non-GAAP gross profit, non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP net income per share and free cash flow.  In order for NVIDIAs investors to be better able to compare its current results with those of previous periods, the company has shown a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures. These reconciliations adjust the related GAAP financial measures to exclude a charge related to the weak die/packaging material set that was used in certain versions of NVIDIAs previous generation MCP and GPU pr oducts, net of insurance reimbursements, a non-recurring charge related to a tender offer purchase, a non-recurring benefit from a legal settlement, and the associated tax impact of these items, where applicable.  Free cash flow is calculated as GAAP net cash provided by or used in operating activities, less purchases of property and equipment and intangible assets. NVIDIA believes the presentation of its non-GAAP financial measures enhances the user's overall understanding of the companys historical financial performance. The presentation of the companys non-GAAP financial measures is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the companys financial results prepared in accordance with GAAP, and our non-GAAP measures may be different from non-GAAP measures used by other companies.
Certain statements in this CFO Commentary including, but not limited to, statements as to: the companys financial outlook for the first quarter of fiscal 2012; improvements in GPU business; expectations with respect to future gains in notebook discrete share; anticipated decline in the companys integrated graphics business; expectations with respect to the Quadro professional graphics business in the first quarter of fiscal 2012; and expected ramp in the companys consumer products business as Tegra customers enter production are forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause results to be materially different than expectations.  Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include: global economic conditions; development of faster or more efficient technology; the impact of technological development and competition; design, manufacturing or software defects; changes in consumer preferences or demands; changes in industry standards and interfaces; unexpected loss of performance of our products or technologies when integrated into systems; as well as other factors detailed from time to time in the reports  NVIDIA files with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, including its Form 10-Q for the fiscal period ended October 31, 2010.  Copies of reports filed with the SEC are posted on the companys website and are available from NVIDIA without charge.  These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and speak only as of the date hereof, and, except as required by law, NVIDIA disclaims any obligation to update these forwar d-looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances.
our reliance on third parties to manufacture, assemble, package and test our products;
# # #
 
 
 2011 NVIDIA Corporation. All rights reserved. NVIDIA, the NVIDIA logo, GeForce, Quadro, Tesla and Tegra
 
are trademarks and/or registered trademarks of NVIDIA Corporation in the U.S.
 
and other countries.  Other company and product names may be trademarks of the
 
respective companies with which they are associated. Features, pricing, availability, and specifications are subject t o change without notice.
 
 
 
 


