FILE:NVDA/NVDA-8K-20110512162537.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
SECTION 2 - Financial Information
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
 
On  May 12, 2011, NVIDIA Corporation issued a press release announcing its results for the three months ended May 1, 2011. The press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
Attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and incorporated by reference herein is financial information and commentary by Karen Burns,  Vice President and Interim Chief Financial Officer of NVIDIA, regarding results of the quarter ended May 1, 2011, or the CFO Commentary. The CFO Commentary will be posted to www.nvidia.com/ir immediately after the filing of this Current Report.
 
 
The press release and CFO Commentary are furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or subject to the liabilities of that Section or Sections 11 and 12(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference in any filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission made by NVIDIA Corporation, whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
 
 
SECTION 9 - Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
(d) Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NVIDIA (NASDAQ: NVDA) today reported revenue of $962.0 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2012 ended May 1, 2011, up 8.5 percent from the prior quarter, and down 4.0 percent from $1.0 billion from the same period a year earlier.
SANTA CLARA, Calif.May 12, 2011
 
On a GAAP basis, the company recorded net income of $135.2 million, or $0.22 per diluted share, for the first quarter of fiscal 2012.  That compares with net income of $171.7 million, or $0.29 per diluted share, in the previous quarter, which included a $57.0 million credit to operating expenses related to the legal settlement in connection with a new Intel licensing agreement. In the same period a year earlier, the company had net income of $137.6 million, or $0.23 per diluted share.
 
On a non-GAAP basis, net income was $165.7 million, or $0.27 per diluted share, for the first quarter of fiscal 2012. That compares with non-GAAP net income of $142.4 million, or $0.24 per diluted share, in the prior quarter, and $169.0 million, $0.29 per diluted share, in the same period a year earlier.
 
GAAP gross margin was 50.4 percent, a third consecutive record, compared with 48.1 percent in the previous quarter and 45.6 percent in the same period a year earlier.  Non-GAAP gross margin was 50.6 percent, compared with 48.3 percent in the prior quarter and 45.7 percent in the same period a year earlier.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Our core GPU businesses are solid, with expanding revenues and margins.  And this quarter, our Tegra mobile business took off, said Jen-Hsun Huang, NVIDIA president and chief executive officer. With the Tegra super chip and the Icera wireless communication processor, we will offer our customers the two most important processors of the mobile computing revolution.  We look forward to completing the Icera acquisition shortly.
 
 
Outlook
 
Excluding the Icera acquisition, the outlook for the second quarter of fiscal 2012 is as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
First Quarter Fiscal 2012 and Recent Highlights:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CFO Commentary
 
Commentary on the quarter by Karen Burns, NVIDIA interim chief financial officer, is available at www.nvidia.com/investor.
Conference Call and webcast Information
 
NVIDIA will conduct a conference call with analysts and investors to discuss its first quarter fiscal 2012 financial results and current financial prospects today at 2:00 p.m. Pacific Time (5:00 p.m. Eastern Time).  To listen to the call, please dial (706) 679 2572 (ID#:59360508).  A live webcast (listen-only mode) of the conference call will be accessible at the NVIDIA investor relations web site and at .  The webcast will be recorded and available for replay until the company's conference call to discuss its financial results for its second quarter fiscal 2012.
www.nvidia.com/ir
www.streetevents.com
 
 
 
 
 
Non-GAAP Measures
 
To supplement NVIDIAs Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income and Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets presented in accordance with GAAP, the company uses non-GAAP measures of certain components of financial performance.  These non-GAAP measures include non-GAAP gross profit, non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP tax expense, non-GAAP tax rate, non-GAAP net income, and non-GAAP net income per share.  In order for NVIDIAs investors to be better able to compare its current results with those of previous periods, the company has shown a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures. These reconciliations adjust the related GAAP financial measures to exclude stock-based compensation, amortization of acquired intangible assets, other acquisition related costs, a non-recurring benefit from a legal settlement, and the associated tax impact of these items, where applicable.  NVIDIA believes the presentation of its non-GAAP financial measures enhances the user's overall understanding of the companys historical financial performance. The presentation of the companys non-GAAP financial measures is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the companys financial results prepared in accordance with GAAP, and our non-GAAP measures may be different from non-GAAP measures used by other companies.
 
About NVIDIA
 
NVIDIA (NASDAQ: NVDA) awakened the world to the power of computer graphics when it invented the GPU in 1999. Since then, it has consistently set new standards in visual computing with breathtaking, interactive graphics available on devices ranging from tablets and portable media players to notebooks and workstations. NVIDIA's expertise in programmable GPUs has led to breakthroughs in parallel processing which make supercomputing inexpensive and widely accessible. The Company holds more than 1,800 issued patents worldwide, including ones covering designs and insights that are essential to modern computing. For more information, see www.nvidia.com.
 
Certain statements in this press release including, but not limited to statements as to: the strength of the companys core businesses; the acquisition of Icera; the importance of our Tegra super chip and the Icera wireless communication processor;  the companys financial outlook for the second quarter of fiscal 2012; the companys expectations with respect to the use of its Tegra 2 processor; and the effects of the company's patents on modern computing are forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause results to be materially different than expectations. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include: global economic conditions; our reliance on third parties to manufacture, assemble, package and test our products; the impact of technological development and competition; development of faster or more efficient technology; design, manufacturing or software defects; changes in consumer preferences or demands; changes in industry standards and interfaces; unexpected loss of performance of our products or technologies when integrated into systems; the failure of the acquisition of Icera to close; as well as other factors detailed from time to time in the reports NVIDIA files with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, including its Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 30, 2011. Copies of reports filed with the SEC are posted on the company's website and are available from NVIDIA without charge. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and speak only as of the date hereof, and, except as required by law, NVIDIA disclaims any obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances.
 2011 NVIDIA Corporation. All rights reserved. NVIDIA, the NVIDIA logo, GeForce, Tegra and Tesla are trademarks and/or registered trademarks of NVIDIA Corporation in the U.S. and/or other countries. Other company and product names may be trademarks of the respective companies with which they are associated. Features, pricing, availability, and specifications are subject to change without notice.
 
 
For further information, contact:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
Non-GAAP Reporting
Beginning with the first quarter, we are again reporting non-GAAP as well as GAAP financial results.  This is to provide greater visibility into our underlying business performance and into any exceptional items.  Items excluded from our non-GAAP gross margin, operating expenses, net income, and EPS include: stock-based compensation, amortization of acquired intangible assets, other acquisition related costs, any exceptional items such as the legal settlement in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011 in connection with the Intel licensing agreement, and the tax impact associated with these items.
Summary Results
Revenue for the first quarter of fiscal 2012 was $962.0 million, up 8.5 percent from $886.4 million in the prior quarter.
GAAP gross margin for the quarter was a record 50.4 percent, up 2.3 percentage points from the prior quarters GAAP gross margin of 48.1 percent.  This is the third consecutive record quarter.  Non-GAAP gross margin, which excludes stock-based compensation, was 50.6 percent, compared to 48.3 percent in the prior quarter.
GAAP net income for the quarter was $135.2 million, or $0.22 per diluted share, compared with $171.7 million, or $0.29 per diluted share, in the prior quarter.  Non-GAAP net income, which excludes stock-based compensation, amortization of acquired intangible assets, other acquisition related costs, a legal settlement in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011 in connection with a new licensing agreement entered into with Intel, and the tax impact associated with these items, was $165.7 million, or $0.27 per diluted share, compared to $142.4 million, or $0.24 per diluted share, for the prior quarter.
Revenue
Our GPU business remained strong throughout the first quarter of 2012, up 3.8% from the previous quarter.  This was primarily related to the strength of our discrete GPUs for notebook.  Desktop GPUs, although down seasonally, outperformed our expectations top to bottom, with the market responding favorably to the launch of our new GPUs.  Channel inventory remains comfortably within our target levels.  Demand for notebook GPUs increased significantly and, as OEMs ramped production of Sandy Bridge notebooks, the breadth of our wins on that platform started to become apparent.
The increased demand in our notebook business was more than able to offset the expected decline in our integrated graphics (MCP) business as we end of life these products.
Our patent cross license agreement with Intel also contributed to the strength in our GPU business, with one months worth of revenue recognized in the first quarter.
 
 
 
Revenue for our Professional Solutions business, which includes workstation graphics and computing, was relatively flat from the prior quarter.  Our Quadro professional graphics business increased sequentially.  However, revenue from our Tesla business was down relative to the prior quarter, as the fourth quarter benefited from a particular large transaction.  As this business matures, we expect to see more steady growth quarter over quarter.
Our Consumer Products business, which includes Tegra smart phone and tablet products, as well as our embedded products, was up significantly over the prior quarter, reaching record revenue of $122.6 million, up 78.2% from the prior quarter.  This increase was due to several of our Tegra customers bringing their first Android products to the market.
TM
Gross Margin
GAAP gross margin of 50.4 percent for the first quarter was above our estimates largely through a richer overall revenue mix, primarily attributable to the strength of desktop GPU and Tegra and the addition of revenue from the new Intel license agreement.  Non-GAAP gross margin, which excludes stock-based compensation, was 50.6 percent.
 
 
Expenses and Other
GAAP operating expenses for the first quarter were $329.6 million, compared to GAAP operating expenses of $246.6 million in the prior quarter, which included a $57.0 million benefit from the legal settlement with Intel.
Non-GAAP operating expenses were $296.8 million in the first quarter, compared to non-GAAP operating expenses of $277.6 million in the prior quarter.  Non-GAAP operating expenses excluded:
The increase in non-GAAP expenses in the first quarter over the prior quarter largely related to increased employee compensation, primarily due to additional headcount for our strategic initiatives, including Tegra, and the full quarter reinstatement of U.S. payroll taxes.
GAAP income tax expense for the quarter was $21.3 million, a tax rate of 13.6%.  Non-GAAP income tax expense, excluding stock-based compensation, amortization of acquired intangible assets, and other acquisition related costs was $26.1 million or 13.6%.
Balance Sheet
Accounts receivable at the end of the quarter were $343.2 million, down $5.6 million sequentially.  Our DSO at quarter-end was 33 days, down 3 days from 36 days in the prior quarter.  Strong collections and improved shipment linearity each contributed to this improvement.
Inventories at the end of the quarter were $381.0 million, up 10.3 percent from $345.5 million in the prior quarter.  The increase was largely driven by conscientious actions to meet anticipated demand for our products.
 
 
 
Depreciation and amortization expense for the quarter amounted to $47.8 million.  Capital expenditures and intangible asset purchases were $31.2million.
Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities at the end of the quarter were $2.73 billion, up $236 million over the prior quarter.
Icera
We expect the acquisition of Icera to close toward the end of May or the beginning of June. As a result, the second quarter is expected to include approximately two months of Iceras operating results.
Second Quarter Outlook
Excluding the Icera acquisition, our outlook for the second quarter of fiscal 2012 is as follows:
We estimate depreciation and amortization for the second quarter to be approximately $51 million.  Capital expenditures are expected to be in the range of $35 to $40 million.
Diluted shares for the second quarter are expected to be approximately 617million.
 
 
 
 
 
For further information, contact:
 
 
Non-GAAP Measures
To supplement NVIDIAs Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income and Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets presented in accordance with GAAP, the company uses non-GAAP measures of certain components of financial performance. These non-GAAP measures include non-GAAP gross profit, non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP tax expense, non-GAAP tax rate, non-GAAP net income, and non-GAAP net income per share.  In order for NVIDIAs investors to be better able to compare its current results with those of previous periods, the company has shown a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures. These reconciliations adjust the related GAAP financial measures to exclude stock-based compensation, amortization of acquired intangible assets, other acquisition related costs, a non-recurring benefit from a legal settlement, and the associated tax impact of these items, where applicable.  NVIDIA believes the presentation of its non-GAAP financial measures enhances the user's overall understanding of the companys historical financial performance. The presentation of the companys non-GAAP financial measures is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the companys financial results prepared in accordance with GAAP, and our non-GAAP measures may be different from non-GAAP measures used by other companies.
Certain statements in this CFO Commentary including, but not limited to, statements as to: the companys financial outlook for the second quarter of fiscal 2012; revenue growth from our Professional Solutions Business; impact of our acquisition of Icera on our financial operating results are forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause results to be materially different than expectations.  Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include: global economic conditions; development of faster or more efficient technology; the impact of technological development and competition; design, manufacturing or software defects; changes in consumer preferences or demands; changes in industry standards and interfaces; unexpected loss of performance of our products or technologies when integrated into systems; the timing of the closing of our acquisition of Icera; as well as other factors detailed from time to time in the reports  NVIDIA files with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, including its Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 30, 2011.  Copies of reports filed with the SEC are posted on the companys website and are available from NVIDIA without charge.  These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and speak only as of the date hereof, and, except as required by law, NVIDIA disclaims any obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances.
our reliance on third parties to manufacture, assemble, package and test our products;
# # #
 2011 NVIDIA Corporation. All rights reserved. NVIDIA, the NVIDIA logo, GeForce, Quadro, Tesla and Tegra
 
are trademarks and/or registered trademarks of NVIDIA Corporation in the U.S.
 
and other countries.  Other company and product names may be trademarks of the
 
respective companies with which they are associated. Features, pricing, availability, and specifications are subject to change without notice.
 
 
 


