FILE:NVDA/NVDA-8K-20120809162728.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):
August 9, 2012
 
 
 
Registrants telephone number, including area code:
(408) 486-2000
 
Not Applicable
(Former Name or Former Address, if Changed Since Last Report)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
SECTION 2 - Financial Information
  
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On  August 9, 2012, NVIDIA Corporation issued a press release announcing its results for the three and six months ended July 29, 2012. The press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
  
Attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and incorporated by reference herein is financial information and commentary by Karen Burns, Vice President and Interim Chief Financial Officer of NVIDIA Corporation, regarding results of the quarter ended  July 29, 2012, or the CFO Commentary. The CFO Commentary will be posted to www.nvidia.com/ir immediately after the filing of this Current Report.
  
The press release and CFO Commentary are furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or subject to the liabilities of that Section or Sections 11 and 12(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference in any filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission made by NVIDIA Corporation, whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
 
SECTION 9 - Financial Statements and Exhibits
  
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
  
(d) Exhibits
 
SIGNATURE
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE:
NVIDIA Reports Financial Results for Second Quarter Fiscal Year 2013
SANTA CLARA, Calif.-Aug. 9, 2012-
NVIDIA (NASDAQ: NVDA) today reported revenue of $1.04 billion for the second quarter of fiscal 2013 ended July 29, 2012.
Our investments in mobile computing and visual computing are both paying off, said Jen-Hsun Huang, president and chief executive officer of NVIDIA. Tegra has achieved record sales as tablets come into their own. Our GPU business made strong gains in a weak market, boosted by our breakthrough Kepler architecture. Looking ahead, we're optimistic, as our investments position us right at the center of the fastest growing segments of computing.
Outlook
Our outlook for the third quarter of fiscal 2013 is as follows:
 
We estimate depreciation and amortization for the third quarter to be approximately $57 million to $59 million. Capital expenditures are expected to be in the range of $30 million to $40 million.
Diluted shares for the third quarter are expected to be approximately 630 million.
Second Quarter Fiscal 2013 and Recent Highlights:
 
*
Non-GAAP earnings excluded stock-based compensation, amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets, other acquisition-related costs, a contribution expense in the second quarter of fiscal 2013, and the tax impact associated with such items.
CFO Commentary
Commentary on the quarter by Karen Burns, NVIDIA interim chief financial officer, is available at www.nvidia.com/ir.
Conference Call and Webcast Information
NVIDIA will conduct a conference call with analysts and investors to discuss its second quarter fiscal 2013 financial results and current financial prospects today at 2:00 p.m. Pacific Time (5:00 p.m. Eastern Time). To listen to the call, please dial (706) 679-25
72. A live webcast (listen-only mode) of the conference call will be accessible at the NVIDIA investor relations web site www.nvidia.com/ir and at www.streetevents.com. The webcast will be
recorded and available for replay until the company's conference call to discuss its financial results for its third quarter fiscal 2013.
Non-GAAP Measures
To supplement NVIDIA's Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations and Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets presented in accordance with GAAP, the company uses non-GAAP measures of certain components of financial performance. These non-GAAP measures include non-GAAP gross profit, non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP
operating expenses, non-GAAP income tax expense, non-GAAP net income, and non-GAAP net income, or earnings, per share. In order for NVIDIA's investors to be better able to compare its current results with those of previous periods, the company has shown a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures. These reconciliations adjust the related GAAP financial measures to exclude stock-based compensation, amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets, other acquisition-related costs, a non-recurring contribution expense, and the associated tax impact of these items, where applicable. NVIDIA believes the presentation of its non-GAAP financial measures enhances the user's overall understanding of the company's historical financial performance. The presentation of the company's non-GAAP financial measures is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the company's financial results prepared in accordance with GAAP, and our non-GAAP measures may be different from non-GAAP measures used by other companies.
About NVIDIA
NVIDIA (NASDAQ: N
VDA) awakened
the world to computer graphics when it invented the GPU in 1999. Today, its processors power a broad range of products from smart phones to supercomputers. NVIDIA's mobile processors are used in cell phones, tablets and auto infotainment systems. PC gamers rely on GPUs to enjoy spectacularly immersive worlds. Professionals use them to create visual effects in movies and design everything from golf clubs to jumbo jets. And researchers utilize GPUs to advance the frontiers of science with high-performance computing. The company holds more than 5,000 patents issued, allowed or filed. For more information, see www.nvidia.com.
Certain statements in this press release including, but not limited to statements as to: the company's investments in both mobile and visual computing and the impact and benefits of such investments; the benefits and impact of Tegra and the company's Kepler architecture; mobile and visual computing as the fastest growing segments of computing; cloud computing technologies as new business opportunities for the company; the company's financial outlook for the third quarter of fiscal 2013; and the company's tax rate for the third quarter and fiscal year 2013 are forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause results to be materially different than expectations. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include: global economic conditions; our reliance on third parties to manufacture, assemble, package and test our products; the impact of technological development and competition; development of new products and technologies or enhancements to our existing product and technologies; market acceptance of our products or our partners products; design, manufacturing or software defects; changes in consumer preferences or demands; changes in industry standards and interfaces; unexpected loss of performance of our products or technologies when integrated into systems; as well as other factors detailed from time to time in the reports NVIDIA files with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, including its Form 10-Q for the fiscal period ended April 29, 2012. Copies of reports filed with the SEC are posted on the company's website and are available from NVIDIA without charge. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and speak only as of the date hereof, and, except as required by law, NVIDIA disclaims any obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances.
 2012 NVIDIA Corporation. All rights reserved. NVIDIA, the NVIDIA logo, Icera, Kepler and Tegra are trademarks and/or registered trademarks of NVIDIA Corporation in the U.S. and/or other countries. Other company and product names may be trademarks of the respective companies with which they are associated. Features, pricing, availability, and specifications are subject to change without notice.
###
For further information, contact:
NVIDIA CORPORATION
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
(In thousands, except per share data)
(Unaudited)

CFO Commentary on Second Quarter Fiscal Year 2013 Results
The following information has been prepared on a GAAP basis except where noted.
Summary Results
*Non-GAAP earnings excluded stock-based compensation, amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets, other acquisition related costs, a contribution expense in the second quarter of fiscal 2013, and the tax impact associated with such items.
For the second quarter of fiscal year 2013, our GAAP and non-GAAP earnings per diluted share were $0.19 and $0.27, respectively, an increase of 90.0 percent and 68.8 percent compared with the prior quarter of $0.10 and $0.16, respectively.
Revenue
Revenue for second quarter of fiscal 2013 was $1.04 billion, compared with our outlook of between $990 million to $1.05 billion, and up 12.9 percent from $924.9 million in the prior quarter.
Our consumer GPU business - which includes desktop, notebook, memory, and license revenue from our patent cross license agreement with Intel - was up 15.3 percent from the prior quarter, at $668.3 million.
Demand for our desktop GTX (enthusiast and performance) products was very strong in the second quarter. As anticipated, notebook GPU revenue hit a record on the strength of our Ivy Bridge design wins. Inventory in the desktop channel remained at healthy levels, down from the prior quarter.
Revenue for our Professional Solutions Business - which includes workstation graphics and computing - was down 7.7 percent from the prior quarter, at $196.3 million. Our Quadro business remained steady in the U.S. and in APAC, but experienced some softness in demand in Europe on continued weak economic conditions. We also believe the delayed ramp of Romley workstations has stalled some demand.
Revenue for our Consumer Products Business - which includes Tegra-based smartphone and tablet products, Icera baseband processors and RF transceivers, embedded products, and license, royalty, and other revenue associated with game consoles - was up 35.5 percent from the prior quarter, at $179.7 million. The increase was largely attributable to record revenue for Tegra, with the continued ramp of smartphone and tablet devices based on our Tegra 3 processors.
Gross Margin
GAAP gross margin for the quarter was 51.8 percent, compared with our outlook of between 50.2 to 52.2 percent, and up 1.7 percentage points from the prior quarter of 50.1 percent. Non-GAAP gross margin, which excluded stock-based compensation, was 52.0 percent, compared with our outlook of between 50.5 to 52.5 percent, and up 1.6 percentage points from the prior quarter of 50.4 percent.
Our GAAP and non-GAAP gross margins improved as supply on 28nm improved, enabling us to ship more of our Kepler GPU products. The result was a higher mix of high-end GPU product sales and an increase to our gross margins, compared with the prior quarter.
Expenses and Other
GAAP operating expenses for the second quarter were $401.1 million, compared with our outlook of approximately $418.0 million, and up $10.6 million from the prior quarter of $390.5 million. Non-GAAP operating expenses were $342.5 million, compared with our outlook of $354.0 million, and down $5.5 million from the prior quarter of $348.0 million. Non-GAAP operating expenses excluded stock-based compensation, amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets, other acquisition-related costs, and a contribution expense in the second quarter of fiscal 2013.
The increase in GAAP operating expenses over the prior quarter was due to a non-recurring charge of $20.1 million for the net present value of a charitable contribution, plus planned hiring during the quarter to support our strategic businesses. These increases were offset by reductions in stock-based and other compensation costs (including FICA), lower tape-out and other engineering-related costs, and a decrease in discretionary expenses. Non-GAAP operating expenses, which excluded the aforementioned charitable contribution charge and stock-based compensation, decreased over the prior quarter due to the reductions in other compensation costs, tape-out and other engineering-related costs, and discretionary expenses, offset by planned hiring.
Non-GAAP operating expenses excluded:
GAAP income tax expense for the quarter was $26.2 million, an effective tax rate of 18.0 percent, compared with our outlook of between 19 to 21 percent, and down 3.6 percentage points from the prior quarter of 21.6 percent. Non-GAAP income tax expense - excluding stock-based compensation, amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets, other acquisition-related costs, and a contribution expense in the second quarter of fiscal year 2013 - was $36.0 million or an effective tax rate of 17.4 percent, compared with our outlook of between 19 to 21 percent, and down 2.8 percentage points from the prior quarter of 20.2 percent.
Our GAAP and non-GAAP income tax expense decreased from the prior quarter primarily due to an increase in profits earned outside the U.S., where the statutory tax rate is lower than the U.S.
Balance Sheet
Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities at the end of the quarter were $3.28 billion, up $147.3 million or 4.7 percent over the prior quarter, primarily as a result of net income.
Accounts receivable at the end of the quarter were $445.3 million, up 8.3 percent or $34.1 million, from $411.2 million in the prior quarter. DSO at quarter-end was 39 days, down 2 days from 41 days in the prior quarter. Accounts receivable increased in the current quarter with the increase in revenue over the prior quarter. DSO decreased as a result of strong collections.
Inventories at the end of the quarter were $387.2 million, up $44.5 million from $342.7 million in the prior quarter. DSI at quarter-end was 70 days, up 2 days from 68 days in the prior quarter. These increases were a result of ramping production for Kepler and Tegra products in support of expected demand in the third quarter.
Depreciation and amortization expense for the second quarter amounted to $56.2 million. Capital expenditures were $61.9 million.
Cash flow from operating activities was $200.9 million in the second quarter, up $210.1 million compared with $9.2 million cash used in the prior quarter.  The increase over the prior quarter was primarily due to higher net income and a tax refund received in the current quarter.
Third Quarter Outlook
Our outlook for the third quarter of fiscal 2013, is as follows:
  
We estimate depreciation and amortization for the third quarter to be approximately $57 million to $59 million. Capital expenditures are expected to be in the range of $30 million to $40 million.
Diluted shares for the third quarter are expected to be approximately 630 million.
______________
For further information, contact:
Non-GAAP Measures
To supplement NVIDIA's Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations and Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets presented in accordance with GAAP, the company uses non-GAAP measures of certain components of financial performance. These non-GAAP measures include non-GAAP gross profit, non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP income tax expense, non-GAAP net income, and non-GAAP net income, or earnings, per share. In order for NVIDIA's investors to be better able to compare its current results with those of previous periods, the company has shown a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures. These reconciliations adjust the related GAAP financial measures to exclude stock-based compensation, amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets, other acquisition-related costs, a non-recurring contribution expense, and the associated tax impact of these items, where applicable. NVIDIA believes the presentation of its non-GAAP financial measures enhances the user's overall understanding of the company's historical financial performance. The presentation of the company's non-GAAP financial measures is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the company's financial results prepared in accordance with GAAP, and our non-GAAP measures may be different from non-GAAP measures used by other companies.
Certain statements in this CFO Commentary including, but not limited to, statements as to: the company's financial outlook for the third quarter of fiscal 2013; and the company's tax rate for the third quarter and fiscal year 2013 are forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause results to be materially different than expectations. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include: global economic conditions; our reliance on third parties to manufacture, assemble, package and test our products; the impact of technological development and competition; development of new products and technologies or enhancements to our existing product and technologies; market acceptance of our products or our partners products; design, manufacturing or software defects; changes in consumer preferences or demands; changes in industry standards and interfaces; unexpected loss of performance of our products or technologies when integrated into systems; as well as other factors detailed from time to time in the reports NVIDIA files with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, including its Form 10-Q for the fiscal period ended April 29, 2012. Copies of reports filed with the SEC are posted on the company's website and are available from NVIDIA without charge. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and speak only as of the date hereof, and, except as required by law, NVIDIA disclaims any obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances.
# # #
 2012 NVIDIA Corporation. All rights reserved. NVIDIA, the NVIDIA logo, Kepler and Tegra
are trademarks and/or registered trademarks of NVIDIA Corporation in the U.S.
and/or other countries.  Other company and product names may be trademarks of the
respective companies with which they are associated. Features, pricing, availability, and specifications are subject to change without notice.


