FILE:NVDA/NVDA-8K-20121108162434.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):
November 8, 2012
 
 
 
Registrants telephone number, including area code:
(408) 486-2000
 
Not Applicable
(Former Name or Former Address, if Changed Since Last Report)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
SECTION 2 - Financial Information
  
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On November 8, 2012, NVIDIA Corporation issued a press release announcing its results for the three and nine months ended October 28, 2012. The press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
  
Attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and incorporated by reference herein is financial information and commentary by Karen Burns, Vice President and Interim Chief Financial Officer of NVIDIA, regarding results of the quarter ended October 28, 2012, or the CFO Commentary. The CFO Commentary will be posted to www.nvidia.com/ir immediately after the filing of this Current Report.
  
The press release and CFO Commentary are furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or subject to the liabilities of that Section or Sections 11 and 12(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference in any filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission made by NVIDIA, whether made before or after the date hereof, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
 
SECTION 8- Other Events
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On November 8, 2012, NVIDIA announced the initiation of a quarterly cash dividend program. The initial quarterly cash dividend of $0.075 per share of common stock outstanding will be payable on December 14, 2012 to all common stockholders of record at the close of business on November 23, 2012.
On November 8, 2012, NVIDIA also announced the extension of its existing $2.7 billion share repurchase program, initiated in August 2004, through December 2014. To date, NVIDIA has spent $1.46 billion to repurchase 90.9 million shares of its common stock. The share repurchase program does not obligate NVIDIA to acquire any particular amount of common stock and the program may be modified or suspended at any time at the discretion of NVIDIA.
SECTION 9 - Financial Statements and Exhibits
  
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
  
(d) Exhibits
 
SIGNATURE
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE:
NVIDIA Reports Financial Results for Third Quarter Fiscal Year 2013
NVIDIA Initiates Dividend; Extends Share-Repurchase Authorization
SANTA CLARA, Calif.-Nov. 8, 2012-
NVIDIA (NASDAQ: NVDA) today reported record revenue of $1.20 billion for the third quarter of fiscal 2013 ended Oct. 28, 2012, up 15.3 percent from the previous quarter and up 12.9 percent from a year earlier.
The company also announced that it is initiating the payment of a quarterly cash dividend, and extending its existing $2.7 billion share-repurchase program, initiated in August 2004, through December 2014.
Investments in our new growth strategies paid off this quarter in record revenues and margins, said Jen-Hsun Huang, president and chief executive officer of NVIDIA. Kepler GPUs are winning across the special-purpose PC markets we serve, from gaming to design to supercomputing. And Tegra is powering some of the most innovative tablets, phones and cars in the market.
He continued: We are pleased to start paying our shareholders a quarterly cash dividend. We have confidence in our businesses and our continued ability to grow. Given our strong financial position and ongoing ability to generate cash, we are well positioned to continue investing in our future.
 
*Non-GAAP earnings excluded stock-based compensation, amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets, other acquisition-related costs, a contribution expense in the second quarter of fiscal 2013, and the tax impact associated with such items.
Outlook
Our outlook for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013 is as follows:
Depreciation and amortization for the fourth quarter is estimated to be approximately $58 million to $60 million. Capital expenditures are expected to be in the range of $60 million to $70 million.
Diluted shares for the fourth quarter are expected to be approximately 629 million.
Dividend and Share-Repurchase Program
The quarterly dividend of 7.5 cents per share, 30 cents on an annual basis, is equivalent to a yield of about 2.4 percent, based on the Nov. 7 closing price of $12.61. It will be payable on Dec. 14, 2012 to all shareholders of record on Nov. 23, 2012.
Since NVIDIA initiated its repurchase program in August 2004, NVIDIA has spent $1.46 billion to repurchase 90.9 million shares of its common stock. NVIDIA is authorized, subject to certain specifications, to spend up to an additional $1.24 billion repurchasing shares of its common stock.
Any future repurchases would be made in the open market, in privately negotiated transactions or in structured share-repurchase programs, and may be made from time to time or in one or more larger repurchases. The program will be conducted in compliance with the Securities and Exchange Commission's Rule 10b-18 and applicable legal requirements and shall be subject to market conditions and other factors. The repurchases would be funded from available working capital.
Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities at the end of the third quarter of fiscal 2013 were $3.43 billion.
Third Quarter Fiscal 2013 and Recent Highlights:
 
CFO Commentary
Commentary on the quarter by Karen Burns, NVIDIA interim chief financial officer, is available at www.nvidia.com/ir.
Conference Call and Webcast Information
NVIDIA will conduct a conference call with analysts and investors to discuss its third quarter fiscal 2013 financial results and current financial prospects today at 2:00 p.m. Pacific Time (5:00 p.m. Eastern Time). To listen to the call, please dial (706) 679-2572. A live webcast (listen-only mode) of the conference call will be accessible at the NVIDIA investor relations web site
www.nvidia.com/ir
and at
www.streetevents.com
. The webcast will be recorded and available for replay until the company's conference call to discuss its financial results for its fourth quarter fiscal 2013.
Non-GAAP Measures
To supplement NVIDIA's Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations and Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets presented in accordance with GAAP, the company uses non-GAAP measures of certain components of financial performance. These non-GAAP measures include non-GAAP gross profit, non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP income tax expense, non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP net income, or earnings, per share, and free cash flows. In order for NVIDIA's investors to be better able to compare its current results with those of previous periods, the company has shown a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures. These reconciliations adjust the related GAAP financial measures to exclude stock-based compensation, amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets, other acquisition-related costs, a non-recurring contribution expense, and the associated tax impact of these items, where applicable. Free cash flow is calculated as GAAP net cash provided by operating activities less purchases of property and equipment and intangible assets. NVIDIA believes the presentation of its non-GAAP financial measures enhances the user's overall understanding of the company's historical financial performance. The presentation of the company's non-GAAP financial measures is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the company's financial results prepared in accordance with GAAP, and our non-GAAP measures may be different from non-GAAP measures used by other companies.
About NVIDIA
NVIDIA
(NASDAQ: NVDA) awakened the world to computer graphics when it invented the
GPU
in 1999. Today, its
processors
power a broad range of products from
smart phones
to
supercomputers
. NVIDIA's
mobile processors
are used in 
cell phones
,
tablets
and
auto infotainment systems
.
PC gamers
rely on GPUs to enjoy spectacularly immersive worlds. Professionals use them to create visual effects in movies and design everything from golf clubs to jumbo jets. And researchers utilize GPUs to advance the frontiers of science with
high-performance computing
.
The company holds more than 5,000 patents issued, allowed or filed. For more information, see
www.nvidia.com
.
Certain statements in this press release including, but not limited to, statements as to: investments in our new growth strategies; Kepler GPUs winning across the special - purpose PC markets we serve; Tegra powering innovative tables, phones and cars in the market; the initiation and ongoing maintenance of a cash dividend program; the extension of our existing share-repurchase program; our continued growth; the strength of our business and financial position; our ongoing ability to generate cash; the company's financial outlook for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013; and the company's tax rate for the fourth quarter and fiscal year 2013 are forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause results to be materially different than expectations. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include: global economic conditions; our reliance on third parties to manufacture, assemble, package and test our products; the impact of technological development and competition; development of new products and technologies or enhancements to our existing product and technologies; market acceptance of our products or our partners products; design, manufacturing or software defects; changes in consumer preferences or demands; changes in industry standards and interfaces; unexpected loss of performance of our products or technologies when integrated into systems; as well as other factors detailed from time to time in the reports NVIDIA files with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, including its Form 10-Q for the fiscal period ended July 29, 2012. Copies of reports filed with the SEC are posted on the company's website and are available from NVIDIA without charge. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and speak only as of the date hereof, and, except as required by law, NVIDIA disclaims any obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances. The share repurchase program does not obligate NVIDIA to acquire any particular amount of common stock and the program may be modified or suspended at any time at the company's discretion.
 2012 NVIDIA Corporation. All rights reserved. NVIDIA, the NVIDIA logo, Tegra, Kepler, Quadro, GeForce, VGX and Tesla are trademarks and/or registered trademarks of NVIDIA Corporation in the U.S. and/or other countries. Other company and product names may be trademarks of the respective companies with which they are associated. Features, pricing, availability, and specifications are subject to change without notice.
###
For further information, contact:
NVIDIA CORPORATION
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
(In thousands, except per share data)
(Unaudited)
  

CFO Commentary on Third Quarter Fiscal Year 2013 Results
The following information has been prepared on a GAAP basis except where noted.
Summary Results
 
*Non-GAAP earnings excluded stock-based compensation, amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets, other acquisition-related costs, a contribution expense in the second quarter of fiscal 2013, and the tax impact associated with such items.
Revenue
Revenue for the third quarter of fiscal 2013 was a record at $1.20 billion, up 15.3 percent sequentially and up 12.9 percent year-over-year. Our outlook for revenue was $1.15 billion to $1.25 billion.
Our consumer GPU business - which includes desktop, notebook, memory, license revenue from our patent cross license agreement with Intel, and the ramp-down of chipset (MCP) products as we exited the chipset business - had revenue of $739.6 million, up 10.7 percent sequentially and up 14.7 percent year-over-year.
Demand for our desktop GTX (enthusiast and PC gaming) products remained strong in the third quarter as we continued the launch of our Kepler based GPUs. Inventory in the channel remained healthy. As anticipated, notebook GPU revenue was at a record level on the strength of our Ivy Bridge design wins.
License revenue from our patent license agreement with Intel was flat at $66.0 million, unchanged from the previous and year-earlier quarters. MCP revenue declined to $3.3 million from $7.3 million the previous quarter and $22.4 million a year earlier.
Revenue for our Professional Solutions Business - which includes workstation graphics and computing - was $220.6 million, up 12.4 percent sequentially and down 4.2 percent year-over-year.
Our Quadro business continued to be challenged in the current quarter by the macroeconomic environment, with weak economic conditions in Europe and softness in other geographies. Conversely, our Tesla business was up both sequentially and year-over-year. The increase was largely due to the first shipments of our new Kepler-based Tesla products to Oak Ridge National Labs in connection with the build of their new Titan supercomputer.
Revenue for our Consumer Products Business - which includes Tegra-based smartphone and tablet products, Icera baseband processors and RF transceivers, embedded products, and license, royalty, and other revenue associated with game consoles - was $243.9 million, up 35.7 percent sequentially and 27.6 percent year-over-year. The increase was largely attributable to record revenue for Tegra, as our Tegra 3 processors continued to ship in smartphone and tablet devices.
Gross Margin
We achieved record GAAP and non-GAAP gross margins in the current quarter. GAAP gross margin was 52.9 percent, compared with our outlook of 51.8 percent - up 1.1 percentage points sequentially and 0.7 percentage point year-over-year. Non-GAAP gross margin, which excluded stock-based compensation, was 53.1 percent, compared with our outlook of 52.0 percent - up 1.1 percentage points sequentially and 0.6 percentage point year-over-year.
Our gross margins continued to improve as we shipped more of our Kepler GPU products, including a greater mix into our high-end segments.
Expenses and Other
GAAP operating expenses for the third quarter were $384.4 million, below our outlook of approximately $390.0 million, and down from the prior quarter's $401.1 million. Non-GAAP operating expenses were $344.8 million, below our outlook of $350.0 million, and up from the prior quarter's $342.5 million. Non-GAAP operating expenses excluded stock-based compensation, amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets, other acquisition-related costs, and a contribution expense in the second quarter of fiscal 2013.
The decrease in GAAP operating expenses over the prior quarter was due to the absence of a non-recurring charge of $20.1 million for the net present value of a charitable contribution, reductions in other compensation costs (including FICA) and discretionary expenses. These decreases were offset by planned hiring to support our strategic businesses and higher tape-out and other engineering-related costs. Non-GAAP operating expenses, which excluded the aforementioned charitable contribution charge and stock-based compensation, increased over the prior quarter due to planned hiring and tape-out and other engineering-related costs, offset by the reductions in other compensation costs and discretionary expenses.
Non-GAAP operating expenses excluded:
GAAP income tax expense for the quarter was $44.5 million, or an effective tax rate of 17.6 percent, compared with our outlook of between 19 to 21 percent, and down 0.4 percentage point from the prior quarter's 18.0 percent. Non-GAAP income tax expense - excluding stock-based compensation, amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets, other acquisition-related costs, and a contribution expense in the second quarter of fiscal year 2013 - was $50.3 million, or an effective tax rate of 17.0 percent, compared with our outlook of between 19 to 21 percent, and down 0.4 percentage point from the prior quarter's 17.4 percent.
Our GAAP and non-GAAP income tax expense decreased from the prior quarter primarily due to an increase in profits earned outside the U.S., where the statutory tax rate is lower than the U.S.
Balance Sheet
Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities at the end of the quarter were $3.43 billion, up $156.7 million or 4.8 percent over the prior quarter, primarily as a result of net income.
Accounts receivable at the end of the quarter were $444.9 million, down $0.4 million from $445.3 million in the prior quarter. DSO at quarter-end was 34 days, down 5 days from 39 days in the prior quarter. Accounts receivable and DSO decreased in the current quarter despite the increase in revenue over the prior quarter, as a result of shipment linearity and strong collections.
Inventories at the end of the quarter were $429.0 million, up $41.8 million from $387.2 million in the prior quarter. DSI at quarter-end was 69 days, down one day from the prior quarter. The increase in inventory in the current quarter was largely attributable to production builds of our Kepler GPU products in support of expected demand, offset by declines in our Fermi-based GPUs.
Depreciation and amortization expense for the third quarter amounted to $57.1 million. Capital expenditures were $44.7 million.
Cash flow from operating activities was $181.5 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2013, down $19.4 million compared with $200.9 million in the prior quarter.  The decrease over the prior quarter was primarily due to the absence of a tax refund received in the prior quarter, offset by higher net income, improved shipment linearity and strong collections. Free cash flow was $136.8 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2013 and $138.9 million in the prior quarter.
Fourth Quarter Outlook
Our outlook for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013, is as follows:
We estimate depreciation and amortization for the fourth quarter to be approximately $58 million to $60 million. Capital expenditures are expected to be in the range of $60 million to $70 million.
Diluted shares for the fourth quarter are expected to be approximately 629 million.
###
For further information, contact:
Non-GAAP Measures
To supplement NVIDIA's Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations and Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets presented in accordance with GAAP, the company uses non-GAAP measures of certain components of financial performance. These non-GAAP measures include non-GAAP gross profit, non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP income tax expense, non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP net income, or earnings, per share, and free cash flows. In order for NVIDIA's investors to be better able to compare its current results with those of previous periods, the company has shown a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures. These reconciliations adjust the related GAAP financial measures to exclude stock-based compensation, amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets, other acquisition-related costs, a non-recurring contribution expense, and the associated tax impact of these items, where applicable. Free cash flow is calculated as GAAP net cash provided by operating activities less purchases of property and equipment and intangible assets. NVIDIA believes the presentation of its non-GAAP financial measures enhances the user's overall understanding of the company's historical financial performance. The presentation of the company's non-GAAP financial measures is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the company's financial results prepared in accordance with GAAP, and our non-GAAP measures may be different from non-GAAP measures used by other companies.
Certain statements in this CFO Commentary including, but not limited to, statements as to: the company's financial outlook for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013; and the company's tax rate for the fourth quarter and fiscal year 2013 are forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause results to be materially different than expectations. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include: global economic conditions; our reliance on third parties to manufacture, assemble, package and test our products; the impact of technological development and competition; development of new products and technologies or enhancements to our existing product and technologies; market acceptance of our products or our partners products; design, manufacturing or software defects; changes in consumer preferences or demands; changes in industry standards and interfaces; unexpected loss of performance of our products or technologies when integrated into systems; as well as other factors detailed from time to time in the reports NVIDIA files with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, including its Form 10-Q for the fiscal period ended July 29, 2012. Copies of reports filed with the SEC are posted on the company's website and are available from NVIDIA without charge. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and speak only as of the date hereof, and, except as required by law, NVIDIA disclaims any obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances.
# # #
 2012 NVIDIA Corporation. All rights reserved. NVIDIA, the NVIDIA logo, Quadro, Tesla, Fermi, Kepler, Icera and Tegra
are trademarks and/or registered trademarks of NVIDIA Corporation in the U.S.
and/or other countries.  Other company and product names may be trademarks of the
respective companies with which they are associated. Features, pricing, availability, and specifications are subject to change without notice.
  


