FILE:NVDA/NVDA-8K-20120328170826.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, DC 20549
______________
FORM 8-K
______________
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):
March 22, 2012
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:
(408) 486-2000
Not Applicable
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
Adoption of Fiscal Year 2013 Variable Compensation Plan
On March 22, 2012, the Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors adopted the Fiscal Year 2013 Variable Compensation Plan, or the 2013 Plan, which provides eligible executive officers the opportunity to earn a cash bonus award based on the level of achievement by us of certain corporate objectives, or the Corporate Targets, and by each participant of certain individual objectives, or the Individual Targets, during our fiscal year 2013. We operate on a fiscal year ending on the last Sunday in January. We designate our fiscal year by the year in which that fiscal year ends (e.g., fiscal year 2013 refers to our fiscal year ending January 27, 2013).
An eligible participant's aggregate target variable cash compensation under the 2013 Plan will be allocated as follows:
(i) fifty percent (50%) of a participant's aggregate target award is based on the achievement by NVIDIA of the Corporate Targets (up to a maximum of two (2) times such portion of the participant's aggregate target award), such amount referred to as the Corporate Variable Cash Target Amount; and
(ii) fifty percent (50%) of a participant's aggregate target award is based on the achievement of such participant's Individual Targets or other criteria established by the Compensation Committee (up to a maximum of two (2) times such portion of the participant's aggregate target award), such amount referred to as the Individual Variable Cash Target Amount.
The Compensation Committee has set the Corporate Targets for fiscal year 2013 based upon the achievement of non-GAAP operating income and has established a threshhold and a maximum.
The Compensation Committee will determine the level of achievement of the Individual Targets by our chief executive officer based on their evaluation of our chief executive officer's achievements. The Compensation Committee, based upon input from our chief executive officer, will determine the level of achievement of the Individual Targets by the eligible executive officers.
If a participant achieves only a portion of his or her Individual Targets, such participant may still earn his or her Individual Variable Cash Target Amount upon the determination of the Compensation Committee, in its sole discretion. If a participant does not earn an Individual Variable Cash Target Amount, he or she may still be eligible to earn a Corporate Variable Cash Target Amount in accordance with the terms of the 2013 Plan. If a participant does not earn a Corporate Variable Cash Target Amount, he or she may still be eligible to earn his or her Individual Variable Cash Target Amount.
Unless otherwise determined by the Compensation Committee, a participant must remain an employee through the payment date under the 2013 Plan to be eligible to earn an award.
The following table sets forth the aggregate target variable cash compensation for our named executive officers under the 2013 Plan:
Karen T. Burns serves as our Interim Chief Financial Officer. Because of the interim nature of her position, she is not eligible to participate in the 2013 Plan.
The 2013 Plan is filed with this report as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. The foregoing description is subject to, and qualified in its entirety by, the 2013 Plan.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
        
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
        
EXHIBIT INDEX

NVIDIA CORPORATION
FISCAL YEAR 2013 VARIABLE COMPENSATION PLAN
    
Overview
    
The compensation philosophy of NVIDIA Corporation (the Company) is to attract, motivate, retain and reward its management through a combination of base salary and performance based compensation. Certain Senior Officers, as defined below (collectively, the Participants), who are employed at the Company during fiscal year 2013 and, unless otherwise determined by the Compensation Committee (the Committee), are employees of the Company through the date that any amounts earned hereunder are paid (each, a Variable Cash Payment), will be eligible to earn compensation under the Fiscal Year 2013 Variable Compensation Plan (the Plan). The Plan is designed to award a Variable Cash Payment for performance in fiscal year 2013 to a Participant if the Company achieves certain corporate performance targets (the Corporate Targets) and/or if the Participant achieves certain Individual Targets (as defined below). Payments earned based on the achievement of Corporate Targets shall be referred to herein as a Corporate Variable Cash Payment and payments earned based on the achievement of Individual Targets shall be referred to herein as an Individual Variable Cash Payment.
    
For purposes of the Plan, only the Company's chief executive officer, chief financial officer, other executive officers and certain other senior officers shall be considered Senior Officers.  The Committee shall determine the persons to be specified as Senior Officers for purposes of this Plan and the Senior Officers who may be Participants hereunder.
    
For fiscal year 2013, for purposes of the Plan, Individual Targets shall be set for certain Senior Officers as follows:
    
         
Determination of Fiscal Year 2013 Variable Cash Payments
    
Certain Senior Officers are eligible to earn a Variable Cash Payment if the Company achieves its Corporate Targets and/or such Senior Officer achieves his or her Individual Targets at specified levels. The aggregate potential amount of the Variable Cash Payment a Participant may earn under this Plan (the Variable Cash Payment Target Amount) the and the pool available to all Participants under the Plan will be set by the Committee for all Participants based on a recommendation made by the chief executive officer. A Participant's Variable Cash Payment Target Amount is based on the difficulty and responsibility of each position. For fiscal year 2013, each Participant's Variable Cash Payment Target Amount will be split such that fifty percent (50%) is allocated to the achievement of the Corporate Targets (the Corporate Variable Cash Target Amount) and fifty percent (50%) is allocated to the achievement of his or her Individual Targets (the Individual Variable Cash Target Amount). A Participant may be eligible to earn more or less than his or her Corporate Variable Cash Target Amount or Individual Variable Cash Target Amount as described more fully below.
    
Individual Variable Cash Payment
    
An Individual Variable Cash Payment may be awarded to a Participant based on the achievement of his or her Individual Targets or other criteria determined by the Committee.
    
The amount of the actual Individual Variable Cash Payments to be made for fiscal 2013 (the Actual Individual Variable Cash Payments) shall be made pursuant to the following guidelines and taking into account whether Individual Targets have been achieved:
    
 
 
An Actual Individual Variable Cash Payment that is in excess of fifty percent (50%) of the Variable Cash Target Amount may be awarded to a Participant for extraordinary individual performance. In no event shall any Participant earn an Actual Individual Variable Cash Payment in excess of two (2) times the amount of his or her Individual Variable Cash Target Amount.
1
If a Participant achieves only a portion of his or her Individual Targets, the Participant may still earn an Actual Individual Variable Cash Payment to the extent determined by the Committee (for the chief executive officer and other Senior Officers), each in their sole discretion. If a Participant does not earn an Individual Variable Cash Payment, he or she may still be eligible to earn a Corporate Variable Cash Payment as outlined below.
Corporate Variable Cash Payment
    
The Committee has set the Corporate Targets for the Participants based on achievement of specified fiscal year 2013 non-GAAP operating income. Non-GAAP operating income, or Actual Result, is defined as GAAP operating income, as set forth in the Company's financial statements for fiscal 2013, excluding those items that are excluded from the calculation of operating income for purposes of reporting such amounts in the Company's non-GAAP financials results as part of the Company's external reporting of its GAAP financial results, with any adjustment the Committee in its sole discretion deems necessary to be consistent with the purpose and intent of the Plan. Items excluded from the Company's non-GAAP operating income generally include the impact of stock-based compensation, amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets, other acquisition-related costs, legal settlements, and any other non-recurring or extraordinary charges or credits.
The Committee has also set threshold and maximum Actual Result targets for fiscal year 2013 for Participants for the award of a portion or all of the Corporate Variable Cash Payment (the Threshold and Maximum, respectively). The actual Corporate Variable Cash Payments that can be earned for fiscal 2013 (the Actual Corporate Variable Cash Payments) shall be made pursuant to the following formula:
    
    
Actual Corporate Variable Cash Payment  =    [(Actual Result - Threshold) / (Corporate Target - Threshold)] * Corporate Variable Cash Target Amount
    
 
Actual Corporate Variable Cash Payment  =    [((Actual Result - Corporate Target) / (Maximum - Corporate Target)) + 1] * Corporate Variable Cash Target Amount
    
If the Actual Result equals or exceeds the Maximum, each Participant may earn two (2) times his or her Corporate Variable Cash Target Amount.
In no event may any Participant earn an Actual Corporate Variable Cash Payment in excess of two (2) times of his or her Corporate Variable Cash Target Amount.
    
If a Participant does not earn a Corporate Variable Cash Payment, he or she may still be eligible to earn all or a portion of an Individual Variable Cash Payment as outlined above.
    
Miscellaneous Provisions
    
Payments under this Plan shall be made following the end of the fiscal year, on such schedule as may be approved by the Committee in its discretion, but in all cases in compliance with the short-term deferral exemption from Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code.
    
Participation in the Plan shall not alter in any way the at will nature of the Company's employment of a Participant, and such employment may be terminated at any time for any reason, with or without cause and with or without prior notice.
    
Notwithstanding whether this Plan is referenced in another agreement, policy, arrangement or other document, only the Board of Directors or the Committee may amend or terminate this Plan at any time.
    
2
Any Variable Cash Payments or other benefits paid under this Plan shall be subject to the Company's Clawback Policy. By accepting any payment hereunder, the Participant agrees to be subject to the Clawback Policy.
    
This Plan shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of California, without regard to its principles of conflicts of laws.
3


