Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. These forward looking statements and other information relating to the Company are based on the beliefs of management and are necessarily the result of assumptions made using the information currently available to management. Actual results will vary, and even vary materially, from those predicted in the forward looking statements. In accordance with the provisions of the Litigation Reform Act, the Company is making readers aware that forward looking statements, because they relate to future events, are by their very nature subject to many important risk factors which could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward looking statements. For additional information about forward looking statements and for an identification of risk factors and their potential significance, see Safe Harbor for Forward Looking Statements Under Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995; Certain Cautionary Statements immediately preceding Part II, Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in this report. PART I ITEM 1 BUSINESS Expeditors International of Washington, Inc. is engaged in the business of providing global logistics services. The Company offers its customers a seamless international network supporting the movement and strategic positioning of goods. The Companys services include the consolidation or forwarding of air and ocean freight. In each U.S. office, and in many overseas offices, the Company acts as a customs broker. The Company also provides additional services including distribution management, vendor consolidation, cargo insurance, purchase order management and customized logistics information. The Company does not compete for domestic freight, overnight courier or small parcel business and does not own aircraft or steamships. The Company, including its majority owned subsidiaries, operates full service offices ( ) in the cities identified below. Full service offices have also been established in locations where the Company maintains unilateral control over assets and operations and where the existence of the parent subsidiary relationship is maintained by means other than record ownership of voting stock (#). In other cities, the Company contracts with independent agents to provide required services and has established over 120 such relationships world wide. Locations where Company employees perform sales and customer service functions are identified below as international service centers (*). In each case, the opening date for the full service office or international service center is set forth in parenthesis. NORTH AMERICA UNITED STATES Houston (4/92) El Paso (1/97) MEXICO Seattle (5/79) Baltimore (4/92) Laredo (2/97) Mexico City (6/95) Chicago (7/81) Dallas (5/92) Nogales (2/97) Nuevo Laredo (4/97) San Francisco (7/81) Columbus (6/92) San Diego (7/97) Guadalajara (9/97) New York (11/81) Charlotte (7/92) * Rochester (10/97) Nogales (1/99) Los Angeles (5/82) Newark (9/94) McAllen (4/98) Ciudad Juarez (5/00) Atlanta (8/83) Philadelphia (3/95) Pittsburgh (6/99) Boston (11/85) Charleston (6/95) Savannah (3/00) SOUTH AMERICA Miami (3/86) Memphis (8/95) Washington, D.C. (9/00) Minneapolis (7/86) Salt Lake City (11/95) Kansas City (8/00) ARGENTINA Denver (2/88) * Syracuse (4/96) Nashville (10/01) Buenos Aires (1/98) Detroit (7/88) Norfolk (9/96) Portland (7/88) Indianapolis (11/96) PUERTO RICO BRAZIL Cincinnati (8/89) Port Huron Blue Water Bridge (12/96) San Juan (5/95) Sao Paulo (9/95) Cleveland (7/90) Detroit Ambassador Bridge (12/96) Rio de Janeiro (9/95) Phoenix (7/91) Lewiston Queenston (12/96) CANADA Campinas (9/95) Louisville (10/91) Dearborn CPC (1/97) Toronto (5/84) Santos (10/97) St. Louis (4/92) Buffalo Peace Bridge (1/97) Vancouver (9/95) Manaus (7/00) Montreal (4/99) Belo Horizonte (12/00) Curitiba (3/01) 2 SOUTH AMERICA MARIANA ISLANDS ITALY INDIA (continued) Saipan (7/00) Milan (4/93) New Delhi (7/96) CHILE Verona (4/93) Mumbai (Bombay) (1/97) Santiago (2/95) PHILIPPINES Florence (3/98) Bangalore (6/97) Manila (8/98) Chennai (Madras) (6/97) COLOMBIA THE NETHERLANDS Bogota (12/98) SINGAPORE Amsterdam (6/94) KUWAIT Cali (12/98) Singapore (9/81) Rotterdam (3/95) # Kuwait City (7/97) VENEZUELA TAIWAN PORTUGAL LEBANON Caracas (1/01) # Taipei (9/81) Lisbon (10/91) Beirut (8/99) # Kaohsiung (9/81) Oporto (10/91) FAR EAST # Taichung (9/81) PAKISTAN # Hsin Chu (9/89) SPAIN Karachi (9/96) BANGLADESH Barcelona (1/94) Lahore (9/96) Dhaka (6/89) THAILAND Madrid (1/94) Chittagong (8/93) Bangkok (9/94) Alicante (4/96) SAUDI ARABIA # Riyadh (7/92) CAMBODIA VIETNAM SWEDEN # Jeddah (7/92) Phnom Penh (4/00) Ho Chi Minh City (5/00) Stockholm (1/94) Goteborg (1/94) SRI LANKA CHINA EUROPE # Colombo (3/95) Beijing (7/94) SWITZERLAND Guangzhou (4/94) AUSTRIA Chiasso (2/01) TURKEY Dalian (7/94) Vienna (11/95) Ankara (1/99) Shanghai (7/94) UNITED KINGDOM Istanbul (1/99) Shenzhen (7/94) BELGIUM London (4/86) Izmir (1/99) Qingdao (7/94) Brussels (7/90) Manchester (11/88) Mersin (1/99) Tianjin (7/94) Antwerp (4/91) Birmingham (3/90) Xian (7/94) Glasgow (4/92) U.A.E. Xiamen (7/94) THE CZECH REPUBLIC Bedford (6/94) * Abu Dhabi (1/94) Nanjing (8/95) Prague (6/98) Swindon (3/97) Dubai (10/98) East Midlands (1/99) HONG KONG FINLAND Belfast (09/01) CYPRUS Kowloon (9/81) Helsinki (4/94) Bristol (11/01) * Nicosia (6/96) * Larnaca (1/98) INDONESIA FRANCE AUSTRALASIA # Jakarta (12/90) Paris (1/97) AFRICA # Surabaya (2/92) Epinal (1/97) AUSTRALIA Lyon (1/97) Sydney (8/88) SOUTH AFRICA JAPAN Lille (3/97) Melbourne (8/88) Johannesburg (3/94) Tokyo (1/01) Bordeaux (7/00) Brisbane (10/93) Durban (3/94) Osaka (1/01) Perth (12/94) Capetown (1/97) GERMANY Adelaide (10/97) KOREA Frankfurt (4/92) MADAGASCAR Pusan (10/94) Munich (4/92) FIJI Antananarivo (11/01) Seoul (10/94) Dusseldorf (4/92) * Nadi (7/96) Bupyung (6/96) Stuttgart (4/92) * Suva (5/97) MAURITIUS Chonan (6/96) Hamburg (1/93) Port Louis (7/99) Kwangju (6/96) Nuremberg (1/01) NEW ZEALAND Kumi (6/96) Auckland (8/88) Masan (6/96) HUNGARY Taegu (6/96) Budapest (4/00) NEAR/MIDDLE EAST MALAYSIA IRELAND EGYPT Penang (11/87) Dublin (3/97) Cairo (2/95) Kuala Lumpur (6/90) Cork (3/97) Alexandria (2/95) Shannon (3/97) GREECE Athens (2/99) 3 The Company was incorporated in the State of Washington in May 1979. Its executive offices are located at 1015 Third Avenue, 12th Floor, Seattle, Washington, and its telephone number is (206) 674 3400. The Companys Internet address is http://www.expeditors.com. The Company makes available free of charge on or through its Internet website its annual report on Form 10 K, quarterly reports on Form 10 Q, current reports on Form 8 K, and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. For information concerning the amount of revenues, net revenues, operating income, identifiable assets, capital expenditures and depreciation and amortization attributable to the geographic areas in which the Company conducts its business, see Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Beginning in 1981, the Companys primary business focus was on airfreight shipments from the Far East to the United States and related customs brokerage and import services. In the mid 1980s, the Company began to expand its service capabilities in export airfreight, ocean freight and distribution services. Today the Company offers a complete range of global logistics services to a diversified group of customers, both in terms of industry specialization and geographic location. As opportunities for profitable growth arise, the Company plans to create new offices. While the Company has historically expanded through organic growth, the Company has also been open to growth through acquisition of, or establishing joint ventures with, existing agents or others within the industry. Airfreight Services Airfreight services accounted for approximately 42, 42, and 41 percent of the Companys 2002, 2001, and 2000 consolidated revenues net of freight consolidation expenses (net revenues), respectively. When performing airfreight services, the Company typically acts either as a freight consolidator or as an agent for the airline which carries the shipment. When acting as a freight consolidator, the Company purchases cargo space from airlines on a volume basis and resells that space to its customers at lower rates than the customers could obtain directly from airlines. When moving shipments between points where the volume of business does not facilitate consolidation, the Company receives and forwards individual shipments as the agent of the airline which carries the shipment. Whether acting as an agent or consolidator, the Company offers its customers knowledge of optimum routing, familiarity with local business practices, knowledge of export and import documentation and procedures, the ability to arrange for ancillary services, and assistance with space availability in periods of peak demand. In its airfreight forwarding operations, the Company procures shipments from its customers, determines the routing, consolidates shipments bound for a particular airport distribution point, and selects the airline for transportation to the distribution point. At the distribution point, the Company or its agent arranges for the consolidated lot to be broken down into its component shipments and for the transportation of the individual shipments to their final destinations. The Company estimates its average airfreight consolidation weighs approximately 3,500 to 4,500 pounds and includes merchandise from several shippers. Because shipment by air is relatively expensive compared with ocean transportation, air shipments are generally characterized by a high value to weight ratio, the need for rapid delivery, or both. The Company typically delivers shipments from a Company warehouse at the origin to the airline after consolidating the freight into containers or onto pallets. Shipments normally arrive at the destination distribution point within forty eight hours after such delivery. During peak shipment periods, cargo space available from the scheduled air carriers can be limited and backlogs of freight shipments may occur. When these conditions exist, the Company may charter aircraft to meet customer demand. The Company consolidates individual shipments based on weight and volume characteristics in cost effective combinations. Typically, as the weight or volume of a shipment increases, the cost per pound/kilo or cubic inch/centimeter charged by the Company decreases. The rates charged by airlines to forwarders and others also generally decrease as the weight or volume of the shipment increases. As a result, by aggregating shipments and presenting them to an airline as a single shipment, the Company is able to obtain a lower rate per pound/kilo or cubic inch/centimeter than that which it charges to its customers for the individual shipment, while generally offering the customer a lower rate than could be obtained from the airline for an unconsolidated shipment. The Companys net airfreight forwarding revenues from a consolidated shipment includes the differential between the rate charged to the Company by an airline and the rate which the Company charges to its customers, commissions paid to the Company by the airline carrying the freight and fees for ancillary services. Such ancillary services provided by the Company include preparation of shipping and customs documentation, packing, crating and insurance services, negotiation of letters of credit, and preparation of documentation to comply with local export laws. When the Company acts as an agent for an airline handling an unconsolidated 4 shipment, its net revenues are primarily derived from commissions paid by the airline and fees for ancillary services paid by the customer. The Company does not own aircraft and does not plan to do so. Management believes that the ownership of aircraft would subject the Company to undue business risks, including large capital outlays, increased fixed operating expenses, problems of fully utilizing aircraft and competition with airlines. Because the Company relies on commercial airlines to transport its shipments, changes in carrier policies and practices such as pricing, payment terms, scheduling, and frequency of service may affect its business. The Company also performs breakbulk services which involve receiving and breaking down consolidated airfreight lots and arranging for distribution of the individual shipments. Breakbulk service revenues also include commissions from non exclusive agents for airfreight shipments. Customs Brokerage and Import Services Customs brokerage and import services accounted for approximately 34, 35, and 38 percent of the Companys 2002, 2001, and 2000 consolidated net revenues, respectively. As a customs broker, the Company assists importers to clear shipments through customs by preparing required documentation, calculating and providing for payment of duties on behalf of the importer, arranging for any required inspections by governmental agencies, and arranging for delivery. The Company also provides other services at destination including temporary warehousing, inland transportation, inventory management, cargo insurance and product distribution. The Company provides customs clearance services in connection with many of the shipments it handles as a freight forwarder. However, substantial customs brokerage revenues are derived from customers that elect to use a competing forwarder. Conversely, shipments handled by the Company as a forwarder may be processed by another customs broker selected by the customer. The Company also provides custom clearances for goods moving by rail and truck between the United States, Canada and or Mexico. The commodities being cleared and the time sensitive nature of the border brokerage business required the Company to make significant modifications to its systems and traditional office structure in order to provide competitive service. During 1996 the Company established a subsidiary, Expeditors Tradewin, L.L.C., to respond to customer driven requests for high end customs consulting services. The demand for these services was stimulated by the changes made by the U.S. Customs Service in response to the 1993 Customs Modernization Act. Fees for these non transactional services are based upon hourly billing rates and bids for mutually agreed procedures. There is currently a noticeable trend, prompted by customer demand, to quote rates on a door to door basis. Management foresees the potential, in the medium to long term, for fees normally associated with customs clearance to be de emphasized and included as a component of other services offered by the Company. Ocean Freight and Ocean Services Ocean freight services accounted for approximately 24, 23, and 21 percent of the Companys 2002, 2001, and 2000 consolidated net revenues, respectively. The Companys revenues as an ocean freight forwarder are derived from commissions paid by the carrier and revenues from fees charged to customers for ancillary services which the Company may provide, such as preparing documentation, procuring insurance, arranging for packing and crating services, and providing consultation. The Company operates Expeditors International Ocean (EIO), a Non Vessel Operating Common Carrier (NVOCC) specializing in ocean freight consolidation from the Far East to the United States. EIO also provides service, on a smaller scale, to and from any location where the Company has an office or agent. As an NVOCC, EIO contracts with ocean shipping lines to obtain transportation for a fixed number of containers between various points during a specified time period at an agreed rate. EIO solicits less than container load (LCL) freight to fill the containers and charges lower rates than those available directly from shipping lines. EIO also handles full container loads for customers that do not have annual shipping volumes sufficient to negotiate comparable contracts directly with the ocean carriers. The Company does not own vessels and generally does not physically handle the cargo. Expeditors Cargo Management Systems (ECMS) supplies a sophisticated ocean consolidation service. The Company owns and maintains software that allows it to sell ECMS to large volume customers that have signed their own service contracts with the ocean carriers. As an ocean consolidator, ECMS may obtain LCL freight from several vendors and consolidate this cargo into full containers. The Companys revenues as an ocean consolidator are derived from handling LCL cargo at origin and from the fees paid by customers for access to data captured during the consolidation process. 5 Marketing and Customers The Company provides flexible service and seeks to understand the needs of the customers from points of origin to ultimate destinations. Although the domestic importer usually designates the logistics company and the services that will be required, the foreign shipper may also participate in this selection process. Therefore, the Company coordinates its marketing program to reach both domestic importers and their overseas suppliers. The Companys marketing efforts are focused primarily on the traffic, shipping and purchasing departments of existing and potential customers. The district manager of each office is responsible for marketing, sales coordination, and implementation in the area in which he or she is located. All employees are responsible for customer service and relations. The Company staffs its offices largely with managers and other key personnel who are citizens of the nations in which they operate and who have extensive experience in global logistics. Marketing and customer service staffs are responsible for marketing the Companys services directly to local shippers and traffic managers who may select or influence the selection of the logistics vendor and for ensuring that customers receive timely and efficient service. The Company believes that its expertise in supplying solutions customized to the needs of its customers, its emphasis on coordinating its origin and destination customer service and marketing activities, and the incentives it gives to its managers have been important elements of its success. The goods handled by the Company are generally a function of the products which dominate international trade between any particular origin and destination. Shipments of computer components, other electronic equipment, housewares, sporting goods, machine parts, and toys, comprise a significant percentage of the Companys business. Typical import customers include computer retailers and distributors of consumer electronics, department store chains, clothing and shoe wholesalers, manufacturers and catalogue stores. Historically, no single customer has accounted for five percent or more of the Companys revenues. Competition The global logistics services industry is intensely competitive and is expected to remain so for the foreseeable future. There are a large number of companies competing in one or more segments of the industry, but the number of firms with a global network that offer a full complement of logistics services is more limited. Depending on the location of the shipper and the importer, the Company must compete against both the niche players and larger entities. While there is currently a marked trend within the industry toward consolidation into larger firms striving for immediate multinational and multi service networks, the regional and local competitors maintain a strong market presence. Historically, the primary competitive factors in the global logistics services industry have been price and quality of service, including reliability, responsiveness, expertise, convenience, and scope of operations. The Company emphasizes quality service and believes that its prices are competitive with the prices of others in the industry. Recently, larger customers have exhibited a trend toward more sophisticated and efficient procedures for the management of the logistics supply chain by embracing strategies such as just in time inventory management. This trend has made computerized customer service capabilities a significant factor in attracting and retaining customers. These computerized customer service capabilities include customized Electronic Data Interchange, (EDI), and on line freight tracing and tracking applications. The customized EDI applications allow the transfer of key information between the customers systems and the Companys systems. Freight tracing and tracking applications allow customers to know the location, transit time and estimated delivery time of inventory in transit. Management believes that the ability to develop and deliver innovative solutions to meet customers increasingly sophisticated information requirements is a critical factor in the ongoing success of the Company. Accordingly, the Company has devoted a significant amount of resources towards the maintenance and enhancement of systems that will meet these customer demands. Management believes that the Companys existing systems are competitive with the systems currently in use by other logistics services companies with which it competes. Developing these systems has added a considerable indirect cost to the services provided to customers. Small and middle tier competitors, in general, do not have the resources available to develop these customized systems. As a result, there is a significant amount of consolidation currently taking place in the industry. Management expects that this trend toward consolidation will continue for the short to medium term. Historically, growth through aggressive acquisition has proven to be a challenge for many of the Companys competitors and typically involves the purchase of significant goodwill. As a result, the Company has pursued a strategy emphasizing organic growth supplemented by certain strategic acquisitions. 6 The Companys ability to attract, retain, and motivate highly qualified personnel with experience in global logistics services is an essential, if not the most important, element of its ability to compete in the industry. To this end, the Company has adopted incentive compensation programs which make percentages of branch revenues or profits available to managers for distribution among key personnel. The Company believes that these incentive compensation programs, combined with its experienced personnel and its ability to coordinate global marketing efforts, provide it with a distinct competitive advantage and account for historical growth that competitors have matched only through acquisition. Currency and Other Risk Factors The nature of the Companys worldwide operations necessitate the Company dealing with a multitude of currencies other than the U.S. Dollar. This results in the Company being exposed to the inherent risks of the international currency markets and governmental interference. Many of the countries where the Company maintains offices and or agency relationships have strict currency control regulations which influence the Companys ability to hedge foreign currency exposure. The Company tries to compensate for these exposures by accelerating international currency settlements among these offices or agents. In addition, the Companys ability to provide service to its customers is highly dependent on good working relationships with a variety of entities including airlines, steamship lines and governmental agencies. The Company considers its current working relationships with these entities to be good. However, changes in space allotments available from carriers, governmental deregulation efforts, modernization of the regulations governing customs clearance, and or changes in governmental quota restrictions could affect the Companys business in unpredictable ways. Seasonality Historically, the Companys operating results have been subject to seasonal trends when measured on a quarterly basis. The first quarter has traditionally been the weakest and the third and fourth quarters have traditionally been the strongest. This pattern has been the result of, or influenced by, numerous factors including climate, national holidays, consumer demand, economic conditions and a myriad of other similar and subtle forces. In addition, this historical quarterly trend has been influenced by the growth and diversification of the Companys international network and service offerings. The Company cannot accurately forecast many of these factors, nor can the Company estimate accurately the relative influence of any particular factor and, as a result, there can be no assurance that historical patterns will continue in future periods. A significant portion of the Companys revenues are derived from customers in industries whose shipping patterns are tied closely to consumer demand and from customers in industries whose shipping patterns are dependent upon just in time production schedules. Therefore, the timing of the Companys revenues are, to a large degree, impacted by factors out of the Companys control, such as shifting consumer demand for retail goods and manufacturing production delays. Additionally, many customers ship a significant portion of their goods at or near the end of a quarter, and therefore, the Company may not learn of a shortfall in revenues until late in a quarter. To the extent that a shortfall in revenues or earnings was not expected by securities analysts, any such shortfall from levels predicted by securities analysts could have an immediate and adverse effect on the trading price of the Companys stock. Environmental In the United States, the Company is subject to Federal, state and local provisions regulating the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise for the protection of the environment. Similar laws apply in many foreign jurisdictions in which the Company operates. Although current operations have not been significantly affected by compliance with these environmental laws, governments are becoming increasingly sensitive to environmental issues, and the Company cannot predict what impact future environmental regulations may have on its business. The Company does not anticipate making any material capital expenditures for environmental control purposes during the remainder of the current or succeeding fiscal years. Employees At January 31, 2003, the Company employed approximately 8,000 people, 2,800 in the United States and 500 in the balance of North America, 300 in South America, 1,300 in Europe, 2,200 in the Far East & Australasia, 700 in the Near/Middle East and 200 in Africa. Approximately 1,000 of the Companys employees are engaged principally in sales and marketing and customer service, 5,000 in operations and 2,000 in finance and administration. The Company is not a party to any collective bargaining agreement and considers its relations with its employees to be satisfactory. In order to retain the services of highly qualified, experienced, and motivated employees, the Company places considerable emphasis on its incentive compensation programs and stock option plans. 7 Executive Officers of the Registrant The following table sets forth the names, ages, and positions of current executive officers of the Company. Name Age Position Peter J. Rose 60 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and director James L.K. Wang 54 President Asia and director Glenn M. Alger 46 President and Chief Operating Officer Sandy K.Y. Liu 55 Chief Operating Officer Asia R. Jordan Gates 47 Executive Vice President Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer and director Timothy C. Barber 43 Executive Vice President Global Sales Rommel C. Saber 45 Executive Vice President Europe, Africa and Near/Middle East Robert L. Villanueva 50 Executive Vice President The Americas Eugene K. Alger 42 Senior Vice President North America L. Manfred Amberger 54 Senior Vice President Continental Europe Jean Claude Carcaillet 57 Senior Vice President Australasia William J. Coogan 48 Senior Vice President Ocean Cargo Philip M. Coughlin 42 Senior Vice President North America Rosanne Esposito 51 Senior Vice President Global Customs Roger A. Idiart 49 Senior Vice President Air Cargo Jeffrey J. King 48 Senior Vice President General Counsel and Secretary David M. Lincoln 44 Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer Charles J. Lynch 42 Senior Vice President Corporate Controller Peter J. Rose has served as a director and Vice President of the Company since July 1981. Mr. Rose was elected a Senior Vice President of the Company in May 1986, Executive Vice President in May 1987, President and Chief Executive Officer in October 1988, and Chairman and Chief Executive Officer in May 1991. James L.K. Wang has served as a director and the Managing Director of Expeditors International Taiwan Ltd., the Companys former exclusive Taiwan agent, since September 1981. Mr. Wangs employment agreement with the Company has been assigned to the Companys current exclusive Taiwan agent, E.I. Freight (Taiwan), Ltd. In October 1988, Mr. Wang became a director of the Company and its Director Far East, and Executive Vice President in January 1996. In May 2000, Mr. Wang was elected President Asia. Glenn M. Alger joined the Company in July 1981 as a District Manager. Mr. Alger was elected Vice President and Regional Manager in October 1988, Senior Vice President U.S. Operations in January 1992, Senior Vice President and Director North America in January 1993, and Executive Vice President and Director North America in March 1997. In September 1999, Mr. Alger was elected President and Chief Operating Officer. Sandy K.Y. Liu became Chief Operating Officer Asia of the Company in January 2001. From 1969 through 2000, Mr. Liu was employed in various positions by China Airlines. In November 1998, Mr. Liu was appointed President of China Airlines. R. Jordan Gates joined the Company as its Controller Europe in February 1991. Mr. Gates was elected Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer of the Company in August 1994 and Senior Vice President Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer in January 1998. In May 2000, Mr. Gates was elected Executive Vice President Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer. Mr. Gates was also elected as a director in May 2000. Timothy C. Barber joined the Company in May 1986. Mr. Barber was promoted to District Manager of the Seattle office in January 1987 and Regional Vice President in January 1993. Mr. Barber was elected Vice President Sales and Marketing in September 1993 and Senior Vice President Sales and Marketing in January 1998. In September 1999, Mr. Barber was elected Executive Vice President Global Sales. Rommel C. Saber joined the Company as Director Near/Middle East in February 1990 and was elected Senior Vice President Sales and Marketing in January 1993. Mr. Saber was elected Senior Vice President Air Export in September 1993. In July 1997 he was elected Senior Vice President Near/Middle East and Indian Subcontinent. In August 2000, Mr. Saber was elected Executive Vice President Europe, Africa and Near/Middle East. 8 Robert L. Villanueva joined the Company as Regional Vice President Northwest U.S. Region in April 1994. In September 1999, he was elected Executive Vice President The Americas. Eugene K. Alger joined the Company in October 1982. Mr. Alger was promoted to District Manager and Regional Vice President of the Los Angeles office in May 1983. He was elected Regional Vice President Southwestern U.S. and Mexico Region in January 1992, and Senior Vice President of North America in September 1999. L. Manfred Amberger joined the Company as Managing Director of Germany in April 1992. Mr. Amberger was promoted to Regional Director Europe in May 1996 and Vice President in January 1998. Mr. Amberger was elected Senior Vice President Continental Europe in May 2000. Jean Claude Carcaillet joined the Company as Managing Director Australasia in August 1988. He was elected Senior Vice President Australasia in September 1997. William J. Coogan has worked for the Company since May 1985. Mr. Coogan was promoted to District Manager of the Companys New York office in July 1988 and Senior Vice President of EIO in April 1989. Mr. Coogan was elected Senior Vice President Ocean in February 1993 and Senior Vice President Ocean Cargo in May 1996. Philip M. Coughlin joined the Company in October 1985. Mr. Coughlin was promoted to District Manager in August 1986. He was elected Regional Manager for New England and Canada in January 1991, Regional Vice President Northeastern U.S. and Northern Border in January 1992, and Senior Vice President of North America in September 1999. Rosanne Esposito joined the Company as its Director U.S. Import Services in January 1996. Ms. Esposito was promoted to Vice President in May 1997 and Senior Vice President Global Customs in May 2001. Roger A. Idiart joined the Company as its Manager of Gateway Operations in December 1995. Mr. Idiart was elected Vice President Global Air Cargo in January 1998, and Senior Vice President Air Cargo in May 2001. Jeffrey J. King joined the Company in October 1990 as Director Taxation and Legal Services and was elected Vice President General Counsel in May 1992. In August 1994, Mr. King was elected Vice President General Counsel and Secretary and Senior Vice President General Counsel and Secretary in January 1998. David M. Lincoln joined the Company as its Controller U.S. Operations in March 1984. Mr. Lincoln served as Corporate Controller of the Company from May 1986 to January 1991, and was elected Vice President Systems Management in December 1989. Mr. Lincoln was elected Vice President Information Systems in May 1996 and Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer in October 1997. Charles J. Lynch joined the Company in September 1984. Mr. Lynch was promoted to Assistant Controller in July 1985 and Controller Domestic Operations in January 1989. Mr. Lynch was elected Corporate Controller in January 1991 and Vice President Corporate Controller in January 1998. In May 2002, Mr. Lynch was elected Senior Vice President Corporate Controller. Regulation With respect to the Companys activities in the air transportation industry in the United States, it is subject to regulation by the Department of Transportation (DOT) as an indirect air carrier. The Companys overseas offices and agents are licensed as airfreight forwarders in their respective countries of operation. The Company is licensed in each of its offices or in the case of its newer offices, has made application for a license, as an airfreight forwarder by the International Air Transport Association (IATA). IATA is a voluntary association of airlines which prescribes certain operating procedures for airfreight forwarders acting as agents for its members. The majority of the Companys airfreight forwarding business is conducted with airlines which are IATA members. The Company is licensed as a customs broker by the Customs Service of the Department of the Treasury in each U.S. customs district in which it does business. All U.S. customs brokers are required to maintain prescribed records and are subject to periodic audits by the Customs Service. In other jurisdictions in which the Company performs clearance services, the Company is licensed by the appropriate governmental authority. 9 The Company is registered as an Ocean Transportation Intermediary by the Federal Maritime Commission (FMC). The FMC has established certain qualifications for shipping agents, including certain surety bonding requirements. The FMC also is responsible for the economic regulation of NVOCC activity originating or terminating in the United States. To comply with these economic regulations, vessel operators and NVOCCs, such as EIO, are required to file tariffs electronically which establish the rates to be charged for the movement of specified commodities into and out of the U.S. The FMC has the power to enforce these regulations by assessing penalties. The Company does not believe that current U.S. and foreign governmental regulations impose significant economic restraint upon its business operations. In general, the Company conducts its business activities in each country through a majority owned subsidiary corporation that is organized and existing under the laws of that country. However, the regulations of foreign governments can impose barriers to the Companys ability to provide the full range of its business activities in a wholly or majority U.S. owned subsidiary. For example, foreign ownership of a customs brokerage business is prohibited in some jurisdictions and less frequently the ownership of the licenses required for freight forwarding and or freight consolidation is restricted to local entities. When the Company encounters this sort of governmental restriction, it works to establish a legal structure that meets the requirements of the local regulations while also giving the Company the substantive operating and economic advantages that would be available in the absence of such regulation. This can be accomplished by creating a joint venture or exclusive agency relationship with a qualified local entity that holds the required license. In cases where the Company has unilateral control over the assets and operations of the local entity, notwithstanding the lack of technical majority ownership of common stock, the Company consolidates the accounts of the local entity. In such cases, consolidation is necessary to fairly present the financial position and results of operations of the Company because of the existence of the parent subsidiary relationship by means other than record ownership of voting common stock. Cargo Liability When acting as an airfreight consolidator, the Company assumes a carriers liability for lost or damaged shipments. This legal liability is typically limited by contract to the lower of the transaction value or the released value ($9.07 per pound unless the customer declares a higher value and pays a surcharge), except if the loss or damage is caused by willful misconduct or in the absence of an appropriate airway bill. The airline which the Company utilizes to make the actual shipment is generally liable to the Company in the same manner and to the same extent. When acting solely as the agent of the airline or shipper, the Company does not assume any contractual liability for loss or damage to shipments tendered to the airline. When acting as an ocean freight consolidator, the Company assumes a carriers liability for lost or damaged shipments. This liability is typically limited by contract to the lower of the transaction value or the released value ($500 per package or customary freight unit unless the customer declares a higher value and pays a surcharge). The steamship line which the Company utilizes to make the actual shipment is generally liable to the Company in the same manner and to the same extent. In its ocean freight forwarding and customs clearance operations, the Company does not assume cargo liability. When providing warehouse and distribution services, the Company limits its legal liability by contract and tariff to an amount generally equal to the lower of fair value or fifty cents per pound with a maximum of fifty dollars per lot which is defined as the smallest unit that the warehouse is required to track. Upon payment of a surcharge for warehouse and distribution services, the Company will assume additional liability. The Company maintains marine cargo insurance covering claims for losses attributable to missing or damaged shipments for which it is legally liable. The Company also maintains insurance coverage for the property of others which is stored in Company warehouse facilities. ITEM 2 PROPERTIES The Company owns a 214,000 square foot office building in downtown Seattle; a 150,000 square foot warehouse/industrial office facility in Nassau County, New York; a 27,200 square foot office facility near Seattle Tacoma International Airport; an 80,000 square foot office and warehouse facility on a ten acre parcel near OHare International Airport in Chicago; a 5,500 square foot office facility in the Tsim Sha Tsui East district of Kowloon, Hong Kong; and a 10,900 square foot office facility in Taipei, Taiwan. The Company also owns a 23,400 square foot office and warehouse facility on a long term renewable land lease at the Brussels Cargo facility in Brussels, Belgium, and an 85,000 square foot office and warehouse facility in Dublin, Ireland. During 2002, the Company acquired a 224,000 square foot office and warehouse facility on a 10.5 acre parcel in Middlesex County, New Jersey and a 15 acre parcel near Heathrow Airport in London. In January 2003, the Company completed the purchase of a 320,000 square foot office and warehouse facility on 13.22 acres near the San Francisco, California International Airport. 10 The Company leases and maintains 60 additional offices and satellite locations in the United States and 124 offices throughout the world, each located close to an airport, ocean port, or on an important border crossing. The majority of these facilities contain warehouse facilities. Lease terms are either on a month to month basis or terminate at various times through 2013. As an office matures, the Company will investigate the possibility of building or buying suitable facilities. Lease payments currently aggregate to approximately $2,648,000 per month. See Note 7 to the Companys Consolidated Financial Statements. The Company believes that current leases can be extended and that suitable alternative facilities are available in the vicinity of each present facility should extensions be unavailable at the conclusion of current leases. ITEM 3 LEGAL PROCEEDINGS The Company is ordinarily involved in claims and lawsuits which arise in the normal course of business, none of which currently, in managements opinion, will have a significant effect on the Companys financial position. ITEM 4 SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS Inapplicable. 11 PART II ITEM 5 MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS The following table sets forth the high and low sale prices in the over the counter market for the Companys Common Stock as reported by The NASDAQ National Market System under the symbol EXPD. Common Stock Common Stock Quarter High Low Quarter High Low 2002 2001 First 31.17 25.50 First 30.375 21.75 Second 31.78 27.50 Second 32.96 22.30 Third 33.98 24.94 Third 31.13 20.975 Fourth 34.44 26.98 Fourth 29.50 21.735 There were 3,182 shareholders of record as of December 31, 2002. Management estimates that there were approximately 18,000 beneficial shareholders at that date. The Board of Directors declared semi annual dividends during the two most recent fiscal years as follows: June 17, 2002 $ .06 December 16, 2002 $ .06 June 15, 2001 $ .05 December 17, 2001 $ .05 ITEM 6 SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA Financial Highlights In thousands except per share data 2002 2001 2000 1999 1998 Revenues $ 2,296,903 1,883,070 1,906,726 1,616,383 1,189,044 Net earnings 112,529 97,243 83,035 59,175 47,274 Basic earnings per share 1.08 .93 .81 .59 .48 Diluted earnings per share 1.03 .89 .76 .55 .45 Cash dividends paid per share .12 .10 .07 .05 .04 Working capital 249,350 237,443 222,829 149,633 94,601 Total assets 879,948 688,437 661,740 535,461 419,493 Shareholders equity 523,812 414,623 361,784 282,385 217,198 Basic weighted average shares outstanding 103,893 104,160 102,305 100,274 98,468 Diluted weighted average shares outstanding 108,881 109,741 109,358 107,656 106,116 All share and per share information have been adjusted to reflect two 2 for 1 stock splits effected in June, 2002 and May, 1999. 12 SAFE HARBOR FOR FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS UNDER SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995; CERTAIN CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS From time to time, the Company or its representatives have made or may make forward looking statements, orally or in writing. Such forward looking statements may be included in, but not limited to, press releases, oral statements made with the approval of an authorized executive officer or in various filings made by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The words or phrases will likely result, are expected to, will continue, is anticipated, estimate, project or similar expressions are intended to identify forward looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Litigation Reform Act. Such statements are qualified in their entirety by reference to and are accompanied by the following discussion of certain important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from such forward looking statements. The risks included here are not exhaustive. Furthermore, reference is also made to other sections of this report which include additional factors which could adversely impact the Companys business and financial performance. Moreover, the Company operates in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all of such risk factors, nor can it assess the impact of all of such risk factors on the Companys business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward looking statements. Accordingly, forward looking statements cannot be relied upon as a guarantee of actual results. Shareholders should be aware that while the Company does, from time to time, communicate with securities analysts, it is against the Companys policy to disclose to such analysts any material non public information or other confidential commercial information. Accordingly, shareholders should not assume that the Company agrees with any statement or report issued by any analyst irrespective of the content of such statement or report. Furthermore, the Company has a policy against issuing financial forecasts or projections or confirming the accuracy of forecasts or projections issued by others. Accordingly, to the extent that reports issued by securities analysts contain any projections, forecasts or opinions, such reports are not the responsibility of the Company. 13 RISK FACTORS DISCUSSION AND POTENTIAL SIGNIFICANCE International Trade The Company primarily provides services to customers engaged in international commerce. Everything that affects international trade has the potential to expand or contract the Companys primary market. For example, international trade is influenced by: currency exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations; changes in governmental policies; changes in international and domestic customs regulations; wars, acts of terrorism, and other conflicts; natural disasters; changes in consumer attitudes regarding goods made in countries other than their own; and changes in the price and readily available quantities of oil and other petroleum related products. Third Party Vendors The Company is a non asset based supplier of global logistics services. As a result, the Company depends on a variety of asset based third party vendors. The quality and profitability of the Companys services depend upon effective selection, management and discipline of third party vendors. Predictability of Results The Company is not aware of any accurate means of forecasting short term customer requirements. However, long term customer satisfaction depends upon the Companys ability to meet these unpredictable short term customer requirements. Personnel costs, the Companys single largest variable expense, are always less flexible in the very near term as the Company must staff to meet uncertain demand. As a result, short term operating results could be disproportionately affected. Foreign Operations The majority of the Companys revenues and operating income come from operations conducted outside the United States. To maintain a global service network, the Company may be required to operate in hostile locations and in dangerous situations. Key Personnel The Company is a service business. The quality of this service is directly related to the quality of the Companys employees. Identifying, training and retaining key employees is essential to continued growth and future profitability. Continued loyalty to the Company will not be assured by contract. Technology Increasingly, the Company must compete based upon the flexibility and sophistication of the technologies utilized in performing its core businesses. Future results depend upon the Companys success in the cost effective development and integration of communication and information systems technologies. Growth To date, the Company has relied primarily upon organic growth and has tended to avoid growth through acquisition. Future results will depend upon the Companys ability to continue to grow internally or to demonstrate the ability to successfully identify and integrate non dilutive acquisitions. 14 ITEM 7 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS General Expeditors International of Washington, Inc. is engaged in the business of global logistics management, including international freight forwarding and consolidation, for both air and ocean freight. The Company acts as a customs broker in all domestic offices, and in many of its international offices. The Company also provides additional services for its customers including value added distribution, purchase order management, vendor consolidation and other logistics solutions. The Company offers domestic forwarding services only in conjunction with international shipments. The Company does not compete for overnight courier or small parcel business. The Company does not own or operate aircraft or steamships. International trade is influenced by many factors, including economic and political conditions in the United States and abroad, currency exchange rates, and United States and foreign laws and policies relating to tariffs, trade restrictions, foreign investments and taxation. Periodically, governments consider a variety of changes to current tariffs and trade restrictions. The Company cannot predict which, if any, of these proposals may be adopted, nor can the Company predict the effects adoption of any such proposal will have on the Companys business. Doing business in foreign locations also subjects the Company to a variety of risks and considerations not normally encountered by domestic enterprises. In addition to being affected by governmental policies concerning international trade, the Companys business may also be affected by political developments and changes in government personnel or policies in the nations in which it does business. The Companys ability to provide services to its customers is highly dependent on good working relationships with a variety of entities including airlines, ocean steamship lines, and governmental agencies. The Company considers its current working relationships with these entities to be satisfactory. However, changes in space allotments available from carriers, governmental deregulation efforts, modernization of the regulations governing customs brokerage, and or changes in governmental quota restrictions could affect the Companys business in unpredictable ways. Historically, the Companys operating results have been subject to a seasonal trend when measured on a quarterly basis. The first quarter has traditionally been the weakest and the third and fourth quarters have traditionally been the strongest. This pattern is the result of, or is influenced by, numerous factors including climate, national holidays, consumer demand, economic conditions and a myriad of other similar and subtle forces. In addition, this historical quarterly trend has been influenced by the growth and diversification of the Companys international network and service offerings. The Company cannot accurately forecast many of these factors nor can the Company estimate accurately the relative influence of any particular factor and, as a result, there can be no assurance that historical patterns, if any, will continue in future periods. A significant portion of the Companys revenues are derived from customers in retail industries whose shipping patterns are tied closely to consumer demand, and from customers in industries whose shipping patterns are dependent upon just in time production schedules. Therefore, the timing of the Companys revenues are, to a large degree, impacted by factors out of the Companys control, such as a sudden change in consumer demand for retail goods and or manufacturing production delays. Additionally, many customers ship a significant portion of their goods at or near the end of a quarter, and therefore, the Company may not learn of a shortfall in revenues until late in a quarter. To the extent that a shortfall in revenues or earnings was not expected by securities analysts, any such shortfall from levels predicted by securities analysts could have an immediate and adverse effect on the trading price of the Companys stock. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates A summary of the Companys significant accounting policies can be found in Note 1 in the consolidated financial statements in this 10K. Management believes that the nature of the Companys business is such that there are few, if any, complex challenges in accounting for operations. Revenue recognition is considered the critical accounting policy due to the complexity of arranging and managing global logistics and supply chain management transactions. 15 Revenue Recognition The Company derives its revenues from three principal sources: airfreight, ocean freight and customs brokerage and import services and these are the revenue categories presented in the financial statements. As a non asset based carrier, the Company does not own transportation assets. Rather, the Company generates the major portion of its air and ocean freight revenues by purchasing transportation services from direct (asset based) carriers and reselling those services to its customers. The difference between the rate billed to customers (the sell rate), and the rate paid to the carrier (the buy rate) is termed Net Revenue or yield. By consolidating shipments from multiple customers and concentrating its buying power, the Company is able to negotiate favorable buy rates from the direct carriers, while at the same time offering lower sell rates than customers would otherwise be able to negotiate themselves. Airfreight revenues include the charges to the Company for carrying the shipments when the Company acts as a freight consolidator. Ocean freight revenues include the charges to the Company for carrying the shipments when the Company acts as a Non Vessel Operating Common Carrier (NVOCC). In each case the Company is acting as an indirect carrier. When acting as an indirect carrier, the Company will issue a House Airway Bill (HAWB) or a House Ocean Bill of Lading (HOBL) to customers as the contract of carriage. In turn, when the freight is physically tendered to a direct carrier, the Company receives a contract of carriage known as a Master Airway Bill for airfreight shipments and a Master Ocean Bill of Lading for ocean shipments. At this point, the risk of loss passes to the carrier, however, in order to claim for any such loss, the customer is first obligated to pay the freight charges. Based upon the terms in the contract of carriage, revenues related to shipments where the Company issues an HAWB or an HOBL are recognized at the time the freight is tendered to the direct carrier at origin. Costs related to the shipments are also recognized at this same time. Revenues realized in other capacities, for instance, when the Company acts as an agent for the shipper, and does not issue an HAWB or an HOBL, include only the commissions and fees earned for the services performed. These revenues are recognized upon completion of the services. Customs brokerage and import services involves providing services at destination, such as helping customers clear shipments through customs by preparing required documentation, calculating and providing for payment of duties and other taxes on behalf of the customers as well as arranging for any required inspections by governmental agencies, and arranging for delivery. This is a complicated function requiring technical knowledge of customs rules and regulations in the multitude of countries in which the Company has offices. Revenues related to customs brokerage and import services are recognized upon completion of the services. Arranging international shipments is a complex task. Each actual movement can require multiple services. In some instances, the Company is asked to perform only one of these services. However, in most instances, the Company may perform multiple services. These services include destination breakbulk services and value added ancillary services such as local transportation, export customs formalities, distribution services and logistics management. Each of these services has an associated fee, which is recognized as revenue upon completion of the service. Typically, the fees for each of these services are quoted as separate components, however, customers on occasion will request an all inclusive rate for a set of services known in the industry as door to door service. This means that the customer is billed a single rate for all services from pickup at origin to delivery at destination. In these instances, the revenue for origin and destination services, as well as revenue that will be characterized as freight charges, is allocated to branches as set by preexisting Company policy perhaps supplemented by customer specific negotiations between the offices involved. Each of the Companys branches are independent profit centers and the primary compensation for the branch management group comes in the form of incentive based compensation calculated directly from the operating income of that branch. This compensation structure ensures that the allocation of revenue and expense among components of services, when provided under an all inclusive rate, are done in an objective manner on a fair value basis, in accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) 00 21, Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables. While judgments and estimates are a necessary component of any system of accounting, the Companys use of estimates is limited primarily to the following areas that in the aggregate are not a major component of the Companys statement of earnings: accounts receivable valuation, the useful lives of long term assets, the accrual of costs related to ancillary services the Company provides, and establishment of adequate insurance liabilities for the portion of the freight related exposure which the Company has self insured. In addition, certain undistributed earnings of the Companys subsidiaries accumulated through December 31, 1992 would, under most circumstances, be subject to some additional United States income tax if distributed to the Company. The Company has not provided 16 for this additional income tax because the Company intends to reinvest such earnings to fund the expansion of its foreign activities, or to distribute them in a manner in which no significant additional taxes would be incurred. Management believes that the methods utilized in all of these areas are non aggressive in approach and consistent in application. Management believes that there are limited, if any, alternative accounting principles or methods which could be applied to the Companys transactions. While the use of estimates means that actual future results may be different from those contemplated by the estimates, the Company believes that alternative principles and methods used for making such estimates would not produce materially different results than those reported. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In June 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2001. Under the new rules, purchased goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives will no longer be amortized but will be subject to annual impairment tests in accordance with the provisions of the statements. Intangible assets with estimable useful lives are amortized over their respective useful lives, and reviewed for impairment in accordance with SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets. The Company applied the new rules on accounting for goodwill and intangible assets beginning in the first quarter of 2002. Application of the non amortization provisions of SFAS No. 142 did not have a material effect on the Companys financial statements. The Company performed the required initial impairment test of goodwill as of January 1, 2002 and determined there was no impact on the consolidated earnings and financial position of the Company at that time. For the year ended December 31, 2002, the Company performed the required annual impairment test during the fourth quarter and determined that no impairment had occurred. In June 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations which addresses financial accounting and reporting for obligations associated with the retirement of tangible long lived assets and for the associated asset retirement costs. The standard applies to legal obligations associated with the retirement of long lived assets that result from the acquisition, construction or development and or normal use of the asset. The Company is required and plans to adopt the provisions of SFAS No. 143 beginning in the first quarter of 2003. Management does not anticipate that adoption of SFAS No. 143 will result in a significant impact on the Companys consolidated financial condition or results of operations. In August 2001, SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets was issued which addresses financial accounting and reporting for the impairment or disposal of long lived assets. While this standard supersedes SFAS No. 121, Accounting for the Impairment of Long Lived Assets and for Long Lived Assets to Be Disposed Of, it retains many of the fundamental provisions of that standard. SFAS No. 144 also supersedes the accounting and reporting provisions of APB Opinion No. 30, Reporting the Results of Operations Reporting the Effects of Disposal of a Segment of a Business, and Extraordinary, Unusual and Infrequently Occurring Events and Transactions, for the disposal of a segment of a business. The Company adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 144 beginning in the first quarter of 2002. Adoption of SFAS No. 144 had no impact on the consolidated earnings and financial position of the Company. In November 2001, the FASB staff issued Topic D 103 (subsequently recharacterized as EITF 01 14), Income Statement Characterization of Reimbursements Received for Out of Pocket Expenses Incurred. This staff announcement clarified certain provisions of EITF 99 19 Reporting Revenue Gross as a Principal versus Net as an Agent, and among other things established when reimbursements are required to be shown gross as opposed to net. EITF 01 14 also directed that the new rules should be applied in financial reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2001. The clarifying rules now require the Company to henceforth report certain reimbursed incidental activities on a gross rather than net basis. The Company has reclassified amounts in the 2001 and 2000 presentations to conform with the current presentation. 17 The following schedule shows the financial statement impact of the adoption by comparing the net amounts in the report on Form 10K filed on or about March 29, 2002, with the gross amounts reported in this current 10K. There is no impact on net revenue, nor is there any impact on operating income or net earnings as a result of this change. For the years ended December 31, 2001 2000 Net Gross Net Gross Revenues: Airfreight $ 930,998 971,980 1,014,375 1,053,461 Ocean freight and ocean services 508,482 590,684 472,853 542,411 Customs brokerage and import services 213,153 320,406 207,953 310,854 Total Revenues 1,652,633 1,883,070 1,695,181 1,906,726 Costs: Airfreight 676,496 717,478 788,947 828,033 Ocean freight and ocean services 369,601 451,803 357,879 427,437 Customs brokerage and import services 107,253 102,901 Total Costs 1,046,097 1,276,534 1,146,826 1,358,371 Net Revenues $ 606,536 606,536 548,355 548,355 In June 2002, SFAS No. 146, Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities was issued which addresses financial accounting and reporting for costs associated with exit or disposal activities and nullifies EITF 94 3, Liability Recognition for Certain Employee Termination Benefits and Other Costs to Exit an Activity (including Certain Costs Incurred in a Restructuring). The Company is required and plans to adopt the provisions of SFAS No. 146 beginning in the first quarter of 2003. Management does not anticipate that adoption of SFAS No. 146 will result in a significant impact on the Companys consolidated financial condition or results of operations. In November 2002, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 45 (FIN 45), Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others, which clarifies disclosure and recognition/measurement requirements related to certain guarantees. The disclosure requirements are effective for financial statements issued after December 15, 2002 and the recognition/measurement requirements are effective on a prospective basis for guarantees issued or modified after December 31, 2002. The provisions of FIN 45 require the Company to value and record the liability for any indirect or direct guarantees of the indebtedness of others entered into after December 31, 2002. The Company does not expect compliance with FIN 45 to have a material impact on its consolidated financial position or results of operations. In December 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 148, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation Transition and Disclosure which amends SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation, to provide alternative methods of transition for a voluntary change to the fair value based method of accounting for stock based employee compensation. SFAS No. 148 also amends the disclosure requirements of SFAS No. 123 to require prominent disclosure in both annual and interim financial statements about the method of accounting for stock based employee compensation and the effect of the method used on reported results. The transition guidance and annual disclosure provisions of SFAS No. 148 are effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2002. The interim disclosure provisions are effective for financial reports containing financial statements for interim periods beginning after December 15, 2002. As the Company did not make a voluntary change to the fair value based method of accounting for stock based employee compensation in 2002, the adoption of SFAS No. 148 did not have an impact on the Companys consolidated financial position and results of operations. The Company has adopted the annual disclosure provisions of SFAS No. 148 in its financial reports for the year ended December 31, 2002 and will adopt the interim disclosure provisions for its financial reports beginning with the quarter ending March 31, 2003. 18 Results of Operations The following table shows the consolidated net revenues (revenues less transportation expenses) attributable to the Companys principal services and the Companys expenses for 2002, 2001, and 2000, expressed as percentages of net revenues. Management believes that net revenues are a better measure than total revenues of the relative importance of the Companys principal services since total revenues earned by the Company as a freight consolidator include the carriers charges to the Company for carrying the shipment whereas revenues earned by the Company in its other capacities include only the commissions and fees actually earned by the Company. 2002 2001 2000 In thousands Amount Percent of net revenues Amount Percent of net revenues Amount Percent of net revenues Net Revenues: Airfreight $ 284,954 42 % $ 254,502 42 % $ 225,428 41 % Ocean freight and ocean services 164,114 24 138,881 23 114,974 21 Customs brokerage and import services 233,145 34 213,153 35 207,953 38 Net revenues 682,213 100 606,536 100 548,355 100 Operating Expenses: Salaries and related costs 359,769 53 325,545 54 290,581 53 Other 151,435 22 134,974 22 130,250 24 Total operating expenses 511,204 75 460,519 76 420,831 77 Operating income 171,009 25 146,017 24 127,524 23 Other income, net 6,981 1 8,277 1 5,824 1 Earnings before income taxes 177,990 26 154,294 25 133,348 24 Income tax expense 65,461 10 57,051 9 50,313 9 Net earnings $ 112,529 16 % $ 97,243 16 % $ 83,035 15 % 2002 compared with 2001 Airfreight net revenues in 2002 increased 12% compared with 2001 primarily due to increased airfreight tonnages handled in 2002 as compared with 2001. Airfreight margins decreased approximately 2% during 2002 as compared with 2001 as a result of rate increases initiated by air carriers during the third and fourth quarters in response to excess air cargo demands associated with the west coast port disruptions. Efficient consolidations of dense and fluffy (volumetric) freight allowed the Company to optimize purchased transportation costs while still offering competitive rates to customers. The Companys North American export airfreight net revenues decreased 2% in 2002 compared to 2001. Airfreight net revenues from the Far East and from Europe increased 22% and 12%, respectively, for 2002 compared with 2001. Airfreight rates on Far East to North American trade lanes, the Companys most dominant lane, remained strong throughout 2002, and were particularly strong during the fourth quarter. Ocean freight and ocean services net revenues increased 18% in 2002 compared to 2001. Ocean freight demand remained strong throughout 2002. Ocean freight rates from the Far East, the Companys largest trade lane fell throughout the year. Ocean freight volumes increased during the last half of 2002, despite a 10 day disruption in service at the ports located on the west coast of the United States. The aftermath of this disruption continued throughout the fourth quarter. Management believes that the Companys continued strong performance through this work disruption is a significant indication of both the strength of the Companys relationships with its vendors and the expertise of its staff. During 2002, management continued to expand market share, increase ocean tonnage, and increase net ocean freight revenues while offering competitive market rates to customers. Changes in the regulatory environment in the United States continued to create new opportunities for the Companys NVOCC operations to provide services to customers who had previously dealt directly with the ocean carriers. 19 Margins decreased 1% in 2002 as compared with 2001 because the Company reduced rates to increase volumes in response to an environment of falling prices which were a result of the overcapacity situation that existed in the ocean markets. The Company continued its focus of offering competitive rates to customers at the retail level, while leveraging freight volumes to obtain favorable rates from carriers at the wholesale level. Expeditors Cargo Management Systems (ECMS), a PC based ocean freight consolidation management and purchase order tracking service, continued to be instrumental in attracting new business. The Companys North American export ocean freight net revenues increased 18% in 2002 compared to 2001. This increase was a result of the Company handling more ocean shipments moving from North America to the Far East and, to a lesser extent, from North America to Europe. Ocean freight net revenues from the Far East and from Europe increased 21% and 14%, respectively, for 2002 compared with 2001. Customs brokerage and import services net revenues increased 9% in 2002 as compared with 2001 as a result of the Companys growing reputation for providing high quality service and consolidation within the customs brokerage market as customers seek out customs brokers with more sophisticated computerized capabilities critical to an overall logistics management program. Salaries and related costs increased in 2002 compared to 2001 as a result of (1) the Companys increased hiring of sales, operations, and administrative personnel in existing offices to accommodate increases in business activity and (2) increased compensation levels. Salaries and related costs decreased 1% as a percentage of net revenues. The relatively consistent relationship between salaries and net revenues is the result of a compensation philosophy that has been maintained since the inception of the Company: offer a modest base salary and the opportunity to share in a fixed and determinable percentage of the operating profit of the business unit controlled by each key employee. Using this compensation model, changes in individual compensation will occur in proportion to changes in Company profits. Management believes that the growth in revenues, net revenues and net earnings for 2002 are a result of the incentives inherent in the Companys compensation program. Other operating expenses increased in 2002 as compared with 2001 as rent expense, communications expense, quality and training expenses, and other costs expanded to accommodate the Companys growing operations. Other operating expenses as a percentage of net revenues remained constant in 2002 as compared with 2001. Management believes that this was significant as it reflects the successful achievement of cost containment objectives initiated at the branch level. The ability to sustain these savings into future periods is contingent upon branch level managements ability to adhere to these objectives. During the fourth quarter of 2002, the Company evaluated the recoverability of certain other assets and determined that an impairment had occurred. Accordingly, a $3.5 million loss was recorded as an operating expense. Other income, net, decreased in 2002 as compared with 2001. Due to much lower interest rates on higher average cash balances and short term investments during 2002, interest income decreased by $2.9 million. The decrease in interest income during the year ended December 31, 2002, was offset by a $1.5 million gain on the sale of the Companys former Dublin, Ireland facility. The Company pays income taxes in the United States and other jurisdictions, as well as other taxes which are typically included in costs of operations. The Companys consolidated effective income tax rate in 2002 was 36.8%, down marginally from the 37% rate experienced in the prior year. The .2% decrease was caused primarily by a reduction in state tax expense required to be paid by the Company. 2001 compared with 2000 Airfreight net revenues in 2001 increased 13% compared with 2000 primarily due to the Companys ability to expand airfreight margins despite the lower airfreight tonnages, experienced in 2001 compared with 2000. Airfreight margins expanded approximately 5% during 2001 as compared with 2000 despite a 9% drop in worldwide airfreight tonnage in 2001. Efficient consolidations of dense and fluffy (volumetric) freight allowed the Company to optimize purchased transportation costs while still offering competitive rates to customers. The Companys North American export airfreight net revenues increased 4% in 2001 compared to 2000. Airfreight net revenues from the Far East and from Europe increased 24% and 5%, respectively, for 2001 compared with 2000. Airfreight rates on Far East to North American trade lanes, the Companys most dominant lane, remained strong throughout 2001. Ocean freight and ocean services net revenues increased 21% in 2001 compared to 2000. Ocean freight demand remained strong throughout 2001 and ocean freight rates from the Far East, the Companys largest trade lane, increased in the last half of the year. During 2001, management continued to expand market share, increase ocean tonnage, and increase net ocean freight revenues while offering competitive market rates to customers. Changes in the regulatory environment in the United States created new opportunities for the Companys NVOCC operations to provide services to customers who had previously dealt directly with the ocean carriers. Margins increased 3% in 2001 as compared with 2000 reflecting the Companys ability to offer competitive rates to customers at the retail level, while leveraging freight volumes to obtain favorable rates from carriers at the wholesale level. ECMS continued to be instrumental in attracting new business. The Companys North American export ocean freight net revenues increased 10% in 2001 compared to 2000. This increase was a result of the Company handling more ocean shipments moving from North America to the Far East and, to a lesser extent, from North America to Europe. Ocean freight net revenues from the Far East and from Europe increased 20 23% and 30%, respectively, for 2001 compared with 2000. Customs brokerage and import services revenues increased 3% in 2001 as compared with 2000 as a result of (1) the Companys growing reputation for providing high quality service, (2) consolidation within the customs brokerage market as customers seek out customs brokers with more sophisticated computerized capabilities critical to an overall logistics management program, and (3) the growing importance of distribution services as a separate and distinct service offered to existing and potential customers. Distribution services accounted for nearly 36% of the increase in customs brokerage and import services revenues for 2001 compared with 2000. Salaries and related costs increased in 2001 compared to 2000 as a result of (1) the Companys increased hiring of sales, operations, and administrative personnel in existing and new offices to accommodate increases in business activity and (2) increased compensation levels. Salaries and related costs increased 1% as a percentage of net revenues. The relatively consistent relationship between salaries and net revenues is the result of a compensation philosophy that has been maintained since the inception of the Company: offer a modest base salary and the opportunity to share in a fixed and determinable percentage of the operating profit of the business unit controlled by each key employee. Using this compensation model, changes in individual compensation will occur in proportion to changes in Company profits. Management believes that the growth in revenues, net revenues and net earnings for 2001 are a result of the incentives inherent in the Companys compensation program. Other operating expenses increased in 2001 as compared with 2000 as rent expense, communications expense, quality and training expenses, and other costs expanded to accommodate the Companys growing operations. Other operating expenses as a percentage of net revenues decreased 2% in 2001 as compared with 2000. Management believes that this decrease was significant as it reflects the successful achievement of cost containment objectives initiated at the branch level. The ability to sustain these savings into future periods is contingent upon branch level managements ability to adhere to these objectives. Other income, net, increased in 2001 as compared to 2000 primarily due to interest income earned on higher cash balances and short term investments in 2001. Management attributes higher cash balances, in large part, to the success of cash management and billing improvement initiatives. The Company pays income taxes in the United States and other jurisdictions, as well as other taxes which are typically included in costs of operations. The Companys consolidated effective income tax rate in 2001 was 37%, down marginally from the 37.7% rate experienced in the prior year. The .7% decrease was caused primarily by a reduction in state tax expense required to be paid by the Company. Currency and Other Risk Factors International air/ocean freight forwarding and customs brokerage are intensively competitive and are expected to remain so for the foreseeable future. There are a large number of entities competing in the international logistics industry; however, the Companys primary competition is confined to a relatively small number of companies within this group. While there is currently a marked trend within the industry toward consolidation into large firms with multinational offices and agency networks, regional and local broker/forwarders remain a competitive force. Historically, the primary competitive factors in the international logistics industry have been price and quality of service, including reliability, responsiveness, expertise, convenience, and scope of operations. The Company emphasizes quality service and believes that its prices are competitive with those of others in the industry. Customers have exhibited a trend towards more sophisticated and efficient procedures for the management of the logistics supply chain by embracing strategies such as just in time inventory management. Accordingly, sophisticated computerized customer service capabilities and a stable worldwide network have become significant factors in attracting and retaining customers. Developing these systems and a worldwide network has added a considerable indirect cost to the services provided to customers. Smaller and middle tier competitors, in general, do not have the resources available to develop customized systems and a worldwide network. As a result, there is a significant amount of consolidation currently taking place in the industry. Management expects that this trend toward consolidation will continue for the short to medium term. The nature of the Companys worldwide operations necessitates the Company dealing with a multitude of currencies other than the U.S. Dollar. This results in the Company being exposed to the inherent risks of the international currency markets and governmental interference. Some of the countries where the Company maintains offices and or agency relationships have strict currency control regulations which influence the Companys ability to hedge foreign currency exposure. The Company tries to compensate for these exposures by accelerating international currency settlements among its offices or agents. The Company enters into foreign currency hedging transactions only in limited locations where there are regulatory or commercial limitations on the Companys ability to move 21 money freely around the world or the short term financial outlook in any country is such that hedging is the most time sensitive way to avoid short term exchange losses. Any such hedging activity during 2002, 2001 and 2000 was insignificant. Net foreign currency gains realized in 2002 were $70,000. Net foreign currency losses realized during 2001 were $366,000. Net foreign currency gains realized during 2000 were $309,000. The Company has traditionally generated revenues from airfreight, ocean freight and customs brokerage and import services. In light of the customer driven trend to provide customer rates on a door to door basis, management foresees the potential, in the medium to long term, for fees normally associated with customs house brokerage to be de emphasized and included as a component of other services offered by the Company. On January 1, 1999, eleven of fifteen member countries of the European Union, later joined by Greece in January 2001, established fixed conversion rates between their existing currencies (legacy currencies) and a new common currency the Euro. The Euro trades on currency exchanges and may be used in business transactions. The conversion to the Euro eliminates currency exchange rate risk between the member countries. Beginning in January 2002, new Euro denominated bills and coins were issued and legacy currencies began to be withdrawn from circulation. The Company has worked diligently to address the issues raised by the Euro currency conversion including the need to adapt computer systems and business processes to accommodate Euro denominated transactions. The conversion costs were not material. The Company is unable to predict the resulting impact, if any, on the Companys consolidated financial statements of the change to one common currency within the European Union. The Company has not experienced any significant disruption as a result of this phased conversion. Sources of Growth Historically, growth through aggressive acquisition has proven to be a challenge for many of the Companys competitors and typically involves the purchase of significant goodwill, the value of which can be realized in large measure only by retaining the customers and profit margins of the acquired business. As a result, the Company has pursued a strategy emphasizing organic growth supplemented by certain strategic acquisitions, where future economic benefit significantly exceeds the goodwill recorded in the transaction. Office Additions The Company did not open any offices during 2002. Internal Growth Management believes that a comparison of same store growth is critical in the evaluation of the quality and extent of the Companys internally generated growth. This same store analysis isolates the financial contributions from offices that have been included in the Companys operating results for at least one full year. The table below presents same store comparisons on a year over year basis for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000. Same store comparisons for the years ended December 31, 2002 2001 2000 Net revenues 12 % 7 % 23 % Operating income 16 % 13 % 36 % Liquidity and Capital Resources The Companys principal source of liquidity is cash generated from operating activities. Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2002 was approximately $116 million, as compared with $168 million for 2001. This $52 million decrease is principally due increased accounts receivable, offset by increased net earnings and increased accounts payable, accrued expenses and taxes payable. The Companys business is subject to seasonal fluctuations. Cash flow fluctuates as a result of this seasonality. Historically, the first quarter shows an excess of customer collections over customer billings. This results in positive cash flow. The increased activity associated with peak season (typically commencing late second or early third quarter) causes an excess of customer billings over customer collections. This cyclical growth in customer receivables consumes available cash. In the past, the Company has utilized short term borrowings to satisfy normal operating expenditures when temporary cash outflows exceed cash inflows. These short term 22 borrowings have been repaid when the trend reverses and customer collections exceed customer billings. During 2002, short term borrowings were not required in the United States; the market where cash flow pressures are most intense due to funds advanced in association with customs brokerage activity. As a customs broker, the Company makes significant 5 10 business day cash advances for its customers obligations such as the payment of duties to U.S. Customs. These advances are made as an accommodation for a select group of credit worthy customers. Cash advances are a pass through and are not recorded as a component of revenue and expense. The billings of such advances to customers are accounted for as a direct increase in accounts receivable to the customer and a corresponding increase in accounts payable to governmental customs authorities. As a result of these pass through billings, the conventional Days Sales Outstanding or DSO calculation does not directly measure collection efficiency. Cash used in investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2002 was $113 million, as compared with $53 million during the same period of 2001. The largest use of cash in investing activities is cash paid for capital expenditures. For the year ended December 31, 2002, the Company made capital expenditures of $81 million as compared with $37 million for the same period in 2001. Capital expenditures in 2002 included $59 million for acquisitions of real estate and office/warehouse facilities in New Jersey and the United Kingdom. Capital expenditures in 2001 related primarily to investments in technology and office furniture and equipment. Cash of $31.3 million was paid into escrow during 2002 to acquire an office and warehouse facility near the San Francisco, California International Airport; the transaction closed on January 7, 2003. Cash used in financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2002 was $13 million as compared with cash used in financing activities of $58 million for the same period in 2001. In 2002, the Company paid down $0.4 million on short term debt, as compared with $3 million for the same period of 2001. The Company uses the proceeds from stock option exercises to repurchase the Companys stock on the open market. The differences between proceeds from the issuance of common stock and the amounts paid to repurchase common stock for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2000 represent a timing difference in the receipt of proceeds and the subsequent repurchase of outstanding shares. During the third quarter of 2001, the Board of Directors authorized management to repurchase 2,000,000 shares of the Companys common stock. The difference between proceeds from the issuance of common stock and the amounts paid to repurchase common stock for the year ended December 31, 2001 is primarily due to the repurchase of stock under the discretionary plan authorized by the Board of Directors in September 2001. The repurchase of all 2,000,000 shares was completed on October 11, 2001 at an average price of $22.56 per share. In November 2001, the Board of Directors expanded the Companys Discretionary Stock Repurchase Program to allow for the repurchase of such shares as may be necessary to reduce the issued and outstanding stock to 100,000,000 shares of common stock. As of December 31, 2002, no further shares had been repurchased under the amended discretionary plan. At December 31, 2002, working capital was $249 million, including cash and short term investments of $212 million. The Company had no long term debt at December 31, 2002. While the nature of its business does not require an extensive investment in property and equipment, the Company cannot eliminate the possibility that it could acquire an equity interest in property in certain geographic locations. Excluding the acquisition of the office and warehouse facility near the San Francisco, California International Airport, described earlier, the Company currently expects to spend approximately $35 million for normal capital expenditures. In addition to property and equipment, normal capital expenditures include leasehold improvements, warehouse equipment, computer hardware and furniture and fixtures. The Company expects to finance capital expenditures in 2003, with cash. The Company borrows internationally and domestically under unsecured bank lines of credit. During the third quarter of 2002, the Company entered into an unsecured line of credit agreement with a U.S. financial institution. At December 31, 2002, the U.S. facility totaled $50 million and the international bank lines of credit totaled $10.3 million. In addition, the Company maintains a bank facility with its U.K. bank for $8.1 million. At December 31, 2002, the Company was directly liable for $1.3 million drawn on these lines of credit and was contingently liable for an additional $39.1 million from standby letters of credit and guarantees related to these lines of credit and other obligations. 23 At December 31, 2002, the Companys contractual obligations and other commitments are as follows: Payments Due by Period In thousands Total Less than 1 year 1 3 years 4 5 years After 5 years Contractual Obligations: Operating leases $ 83,884 29,769 38,518 8,508 7,089 Unconditional purchase obligations 205,840 185,040 20,800 Total contractual cash obligations $ 289,724 214,809 59,318 8,508 7,089 Amount of Commitment Expiration Per Period In thousands Total amounts committed Less than 1 year 1 3 years 4 5 years After 5 years Other Commitments: Lines of credit $ 60,284 60,113 171 Credit facility 8,052 8,000 52 Standby letters of credit 39,137 35,988 521 2,628 Total commitments $ 107,473 104,101 692 2,680 The Company has a Non Discretionary Stock Repurchase Plan to repurchase shares from the proceeds of stock option exercises. As of December 31, 2002, the Company had repurchased and retired 5,257,703 shares of common stock at an average price of $12.34 per share over the period from 1994 through 2002. The Company also has a Discretionary Stock Repurchase Plan under which it retired 2,000,000 shares of common stock as of October 11, 2001, at an average price of $22.56 per share. In November 2001, this plan was expanded to allow for the repurchase of such shares as may be necessary to reduce the issued and outstanding stock to 100,000,000 shares of common stock. As of December 31, 2002, no further shares had been repurchased under the amended discretionary plan. Management believes that the Companys current cash position, bank financing arrangements, and operating cash flows will be sufficient to meet its capital and liquidity requirements for the foreseeable future. In some cases, the Companys ability to repatriate funds from foreign operations may be subject to foreign exchange controls. At December 31, 2002, cash and cash equivalent balances of $121.4 million were held by the Companys non U.S. subsidiaries, of which $47.1 million was held in banks in the United States. In addition, certain undistributed earnings of the Companys subsidiaries accumulated through December 31, 1992 would, under most circumstances, be subject to some additional United States income tax if distributed to the Company. Such undistributed earnings are approximately $41.9 million and the additional Federal and state taxes payable in a hypothetical distribution of such accumulated earnings would approximate $10.1 million. The Company has not provided for this additional tax because the Company intends to reinvest such earnings to fund the expansion of its foreign activities, or to distribute them in a manner in which no significant additional taxes would be incurred. Impact of Inflation To date, the Companys business has not been adversely affected by inflation, nor has the Company experienced significant difficulty in passing carrier rate increases on to its customers by means of price increases. Direct carrier rate increases could occur over the short to medium term period. Due to the high degree of competition in the market place, these rate increases might lead to an erosion in the Companys margins. However, as the Company is not required to purchase or maintain extensive property and equipment and has not otherwise incurred substantial interest rate sensitive indebtedness, the Company currently has limited direct exposure to increased costs resulting from increases in interest rates. 24 The forward looking statements contained in this document involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these statements include, but are not limited to: risks associated with foreign operations, elimination of intercompany transactions, matching of expenses with the associated revenue, seasonality, shifts in consumer demand, the effect that the implementation of the Euro as the primary currency of 12 member states of the European Union might have on the global economy and the Companys international and domestic customers, other accounting estimates and other risk factors disclosed from time to time in the Companys public reports. ITEM 7A QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The Company is exposed to market risks in the ordinary course of its business. These risks are primarily related to foreign exchange risk and changes in short term interest rates. The potential impact of the Companys exposure to these risks is presented below: Foreign Exchange Risk The Company conducts business in many different countries and currencies. The Companys business often results in revenue billings issued in a country and currency which differs from that where the expenses related to the service are incurred. In the ordinary course of business, the Company creates numerous intercompany transactions. This brings a market risk to the Companys earnings. Foreign exchange rate sensitivity analysis can be quantified by estimating the impact on the Companys earnings as a result of hypothetical changes in the value of the U.S. Dollar, the Companys functional currency, relative to the other currencies in which the Company transacts business. All other things being equal, an average 10% weakening of the U.S. Dollar, throughout the year ended December 31, 2002, would have had the effect of raising operating income approximately $12.7 million. An average 10% strengthening of the U.S. Dollar, for the same period, would have the effect of reducing operating income approximately $10.4 million. The Company has approximately $9 million of intercompany transactions unsettled at any one point in time. The Company currently does not use derivative financial instruments to manage foreign currency risk and only enters into foreign currency hedging transactions in limited locations where regulatory or commercial limitations restrict the Companys ability to move money freely around the world. Any such hedging activity throughout the year ended December 31, 2002, was insignificant. The Company instead follows a policy of accelerating international currency settlements to manage foreign exchange risk relative to intercompany billings. The majority of intercompany billings are resolved within 30 days and intercompany billings arising in the normal course of business are fully settled within 90 days. Interest Rate Risk At December 31, 2002, the Company had cash and cash equivalents and short term investments of $211.9 million and short term borrowings of $1.3 million, all subject to variable short term interest rates. A hypothetical change in the interest rate of 10% would have an insignificant impact on the Companys earnings. In managements opinion, there has been no material change in the Companys market risk exposure between 2001 and 2002. 25 
 
Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in this report. PART I ITEM 1 BUSINESS Expeditors International of Washington, Inc. is engaged in the business of providing global logistics services. The Company offers its customers a seamless international network supporting the movement and strategic positioning of goods. The Companys services include the consolidation or forwarding of air and ocean freight. In each U.S. office, and in many overseas offices, the Company acts as a customs broker. The Company also provides additional services including distribution management, vendor consolidation, cargo insurance, purchase order management and customized logistics information. The Company does not compete for domestic freight, overnight courier or small parcel business and does not own aircraft or steamships. The Company, including its majority owned subsidiaries, operates full service offices ( ) in the cities identified below. Full service offices have also been established in locations where the Company maintains unilateral control over assets and operations and where the existence of the parent subsidiary relationship is maintained by means other than record ownership of voting stock (#). In other cities, the Company contracts with independent agents to provide required services and has established over 120 such relationships world wide. Locations where Company employees perform sales and customer service functions are identified below as international service centers (*). In each case, the opening date for the full service office or international service center is set forth in parenthesis. NORTH AMERICA UNITED STATES Houston (4/92) El Paso (1/97) MEXICO Seattle (5/79) Baltimore (4/92) Laredo (2/97) Mexico City (6/95) Chicago (7/81) Dallas (5/92) Nogales (2/97) Nuevo Laredo (4/97) San Francisco (7/81) Columbus (6/92) San Diego (7/97) Guadalajara (9/97) New York (11/81) Charlotte (7/92) * Rochester (10/97) Nogales (1/99) Los Angeles (5/82) Newark (9/94) McAllen (4/98) Ciudad Juarez (5/00) Atlanta (8/83) Philadelphia (3/95) Pittsburgh (6/99) Boston (11/85) Charleston (6/95) Savannah (3/00) SOUTH AMERICA Miami (3/86) Memphis (8/95) Washington, D.C. (9/00) Minneapolis (7/86) Salt Lake City (11/95) Kansas City (8/00) ARGENTINA Denver (2/88) * Syracuse (4/96) Nashville (10/01) Buenos Aires (1/98) Detroit (7/88) Norfolk (9/96) Portland (7/88) Indianapolis (11/96) PUERTO RICO BRAZIL Cincinnati (8/89) Port Huron Blue Water Bridge (12/96) San Juan (5/95) Sao Paulo (9/95) Cleveland (7/90) Detroit Ambassador Bridge (12/96) Rio de Janeiro (9/95) Phoenix (7/91) Lewiston Queenston (12/96) CANADA Campinas (9/95) Louisville (10/91) Dearborn CPC (1/97) Toronto (5/84) Santos (10/97) St. Louis (4/92) Buffalo Peace Bridge (1/97) Vancouver (9/95) Manaus (7/00) Montreal (4/99) Belo Horizonte (12/00) Curitiba (3/01) 2 SOUTH AMERICA MARIANA ISLANDS ITALY INDIA (continued) Saipan (7/00) Milan (4/93) New Delhi (7/96) CHILE Verona (4/93) Mumbai (Bombay) (1/97) Santiago (2/95) PHILIPPINES Florence (3/98) Bangalore (6/97) Manila (8/98) Chennai (Madras) (6/97) COLOMBIA THE NETHERLANDS Bogota (12/98) SINGAPORE Amsterdam (6/94) KUWAIT Cali (12/98) Singapore (9/81) Rotterdam (3/95) # Kuwait City (7/97) VENEZUELA TAIWAN PORTUGAL LEBANON Caracas (1/01) # Taipei (9/81) Lisbon (10/91) Beirut (8/99) # Kaohsiung (9/81) Oporto (10/91) FAR EAST # Taichung (9/81) PAKISTAN # Hsin Chu (9/89) SPAIN Karachi (9/96) BANGLADESH Barcelona (1/94) Lahore (9/96) Dhaka (6/89) THAILAND Madrid (1/94) Chittagong (8/93) Bangkok (9/94) Alicante (4/96) SAUDI ARABIA # Riyadh (7/92) CAMBODIA VIETNAM SWEDEN # Jeddah (7/92) Phnom Penh (4/00) Ho Chi Minh City (5/00) Stockholm (1/94) Goteborg (1/94) SRI LANKA CHINA EUROPE # Colombo (3/95) Beijing (7/94) SWITZERLAND Guangzhou (4/94) AUSTRIA Chiasso (2/01) TURKEY Dalian (7/94) Vienna (11/95) Ankara (1/99) Shanghai (7/94) UNITED KINGDOM Istanbul (1/99) Shenzhen (7/94) BELGIUM London (4/86) Izmir (1/99) Qingdao (7/94) Brussels (7/90) Manchester (11/88) Mersin (1/99) Tianjin (7/94) Antwerp (4/91) Birmingham (3/90) Xian (7/94) Glasgow (4/92) U.A.E. Xiamen (7/94) THE CZECH REPUBLIC Bedford (6/94) * Abu Dhabi (1/94) Nanjing (8/95) Prague (6/98) Swindon (3/97) Dubai (10/98) East Midlands (1/99) HONG KONG FINLAND Belfast (09/01) CYPRUS Kowloon (9/81) Helsinki (4/94) Bristol (11/01) * Nicosia (6/96) * Larnaca (1/98) INDONESIA FRANCE AUSTRALASIA # Jakarta (12/90) Paris (1/97) AFRICA # Surabaya (2/92) Epinal (1/97) AUSTRALIA Lyon (1/97) Sydney (8/88) SOUTH AFRICA JAPAN Lille (3/97) Melbourne (8/88) Johannesburg (3/94) Tokyo (1/01) Bordeaux (7/00) Brisbane (10/93) Durban (3/94) Osaka (1/01) Perth (12/94) Capetown (1/97) GERMANY Adelaide (10/97) KOREA Frankfurt (4/92) MADAGASCAR Pusan (10/94) Munich (4/92) FIJI Antananarivo (11/01) Seoul (10/94) Dusseldorf (4/92) * Nadi (7/96) Bupyung (6/96) Stuttgart (4/92) * Suva (5/97) MAURITIUS Chonan (6/96) Hamburg (1/93) Port Louis (7/99) Kwangju (6/96) Nuremberg (1/01) NEW ZEALAND Kumi (6/96) Auckland (8/88) Masan (6/96) HUNGARY Taegu (6/96) Budapest (4/00) NEAR/MIDDLE EAST MALAYSIA IRELAND EGYPT Penang (11/87) Dublin (3/97) Cairo (2/95) Kuala Lumpur (6/90) Cork (3/97) Alexandria (2/95) Shannon (3/97) GREECE Athens (2/99) 3 The Company was incorporated in the State of Washington in May 1979. Its executive offices are located at 1015 Third Avenue, 12th Floor, Seattle, Washington, and its telephone number is (206) 674 3400. The Companys Internet address is http://www.expeditors.com. The Company makes available free of charge on or through its Internet website its annual report on Form 10 K, quarterly reports on Form 10 Q, current reports on Form 8 K, and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. For information concerning the amount of revenues, net revenues, operating income, identifiable assets, capital expenditures and depreciation and amortization attributable to the geographic areas in which the Company conducts its business, see Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Beginning in 1981, the Companys primary business focus was on airfreight shipments from the Far East to the United States and related customs brokerage and import services. In the mid 1980s, the Company began to expand its service capabilities in export airfreight, ocean freight and distribution services. Today the Company offers a complete range of global logistics services to a diversified group of customers, both in terms of industry specialization and geographic location. As opportunities for profitable growth arise, the Company plans to create new offices. While the Company has historically expanded through organic growth, the Company has also been open to growth through acquisition of, or establishing joint ventures with, existing agents or others within the industry. Airfreight Services Airfreight services accounted for approximately 42, 42, and 41 percent of the Companys 2002, 2001, and 2000 consolidated revenues net of freight consolidation expenses (net revenues), respectively. When performing airfreight services, the Company typically acts either as a freight consolidator or as an agent for the airline which carries the shipment. When acting as a freight consolidator, the Company purchases cargo space from airlines on a volume basis and resells that space to its customers at lower rates than the customers could obtain directly from airlines. When moving shipments between points where the volume of business does not facilitate consolidation, the Company receives and forwards individual shipments as the agent of the airline which carries the shipment. Whether acting as an agent or consolidator, the Company offers its customers knowledge of optimum routing, familiarity with local business practices, knowledge of export and import documentation and procedures, the ability to arrange for ancillary services, and assistance with space availability in periods of peak demand. In its airfreight forwarding operations, the Company procures shipments from its customers, determines the routing, consolidates shipments bound for a particular airport distribution point, and selects the airline for transportation to the distribution point. At the distribution point, the Company or its agent arranges for the consolidated lot to be broken down into its component shipments and for the transportation of the individual shipments to their final destinations. The Company estimates its average airfreight consolidation weighs approximately 3,500 to 4,500 pounds and includes merchandise from several shippers. Because shipment by air is relatively expensive compared with ocean transportation, air shipments are generally characterized by a high value to weight ratio, the need for rapid delivery, or both. The Company typically delivers shipments from a Company warehouse at the origin to the airline after consolidating the freight into containers or onto pallets. Shipments normally arrive at the destination distribution point within forty eight hours after such delivery. During peak shipment periods, cargo space available from the scheduled air carriers can be limited and backlogs of freight shipments may occur. When these conditions exist, the Company may charter aircraft to meet customer demand. The Company consolidates individual shipments based on weight and volume characteristics in cost effective combinations. Typically, as the weight or volume of a shipment increases, the cost per pound/kilo or cubic inch/centimeter charged by the Company decreases. The rates charged by airlines to forwarders and others also generally decrease as the weight or volume of the shipment increases. As a result, by aggregating shipments and presenting them to an airline as a single shipment, the Company is able to obtain a lower rate per pound/kilo or cubic inch/centimeter than that which it charges to its customers for the individual shipment, while generally offering the customer a lower rate than could be obtained from the airline for an unconsolidated shipment. The Companys net airfreight forwarding revenues from a consolidated shipment includes the differential between the rate charged to the Company by an airline and the rate which the Company charges to its customers, commissions paid to the Company by the airline carrying the freight and fees for ancillary services. Such ancillary services provided by the Company include preparation of shipping and customs documentation, packing, crating and insurance services, negotiation of letters of credit, and preparation of documentation to comply with local export laws. When the Company acts as an agent for an airline handling an unconsolidated 4 shipment, its net revenues are primarily derived from commissions paid by the airline and fees for ancillary services paid by the customer. The Company does not own aircraft and does not plan to do so. Management believes that the ownership of aircraft would subject the Company to undue business risks, including large capital outlays, increased fixed operating expenses, problems of fully utilizing aircraft and competition with airlines. Because the Company relies on commercial airlines to transport its shipments, changes in carrier policies and practices such as pricing, payment terms, scheduling, and frequency of service may affect its business. The Company also performs breakbulk services which involve receiving and breaking down consolidated airfreight lots and arranging for distribution of the individual shipments. Breakbulk service revenues also include commissions from non exclusive agents for airfreight shipments. Customs Brokerage and Import Services Customs brokerage and import services accounted for approximately 34, 35, and 38 percent of the Companys 2002, 2001, and 2000 consolidated net revenues, respectively. As a customs broker, the Company assists importers to clear shipments through customs by preparing required documentation, calculating and providing for payment of duties on behalf of the importer, arranging for any required inspections by governmental agencies, and arranging for delivery. The Company also provides other services at destination including temporary warehousing, inland transportation, inventory management, cargo insurance and product distribution. The Company provides customs clearance services in connection with many of the shipments it handles as a freight forwarder. However, substantial customs brokerage revenues are derived from customers that elect to use a competing forwarder. Conversely, shipments handled by the Company as a forwarder may be processed by another customs broker selected by the customer. The Company also provides custom clearances for goods moving by rail and truck between the United States, Canada and or Mexico. The commodities being cleared and the time sensitive nature of the border brokerage business required the Company to make significant modifications to its systems and traditional office structure in order to provide competitive service. During 1996 the Company established a subsidiary, Expeditors Tradewin, L.L.C., to respond to customer driven requests for high end customs consulting services. The demand for these services was stimulated by the changes made by the U.S. Customs Service in response to the 1993 Customs Modernization Act. Fees for these non transactional services are based upon hourly billing rates and bids for mutually agreed procedures. There is currently a noticeable trend, prompted by customer demand, to quote rates on a door to door basis. Management foresees the potential, in the medium to long term, for fees normally associated with customs clearance to be de emphasized and included as a component of other services offered by the Company. Ocean Freight and Ocean Services Ocean freight services accounted for approximately 24, 23, and 21 percent of the Companys 2002, 2001, and 2000 consolidated net revenues, respectively. The Companys revenues as an ocean freight forwarder are derived from commissions paid by the carrier and revenues from fees charged to customers for ancillary services which the Company may provide, such as preparing documentation, procuring insurance, arranging for packing and crating services, and providing consultation. The Company operates Expeditors International Ocean (EIO), a Non Vessel Operating Common Carrier (NVOCC) specializing in ocean freight consolidation from the Far East to the United States. EIO also provides service, on a smaller scale, to and from any location where the Company has an office or agent. As an NVOCC, EIO contracts with ocean shipping lines to obtain transportation for a fixed number of containers between various points during a specified time period at an agreed rate. EIO solicits less than container load (LCL) freight to fill the containers and charges lower rates than those available directly from shipping lines. EIO also handles full container loads for customers that do not have annual shipping volumes sufficient to negotiate comparable contracts directly with the ocean carriers. The Company does not own vessels and generally does not physically handle the cargo. Expeditors Cargo Management Systems (ECMS) supplies a sophisticated ocean consolidation service. The Company owns and maintains software that allows it to sell ECMS to large volume customers that have signed their own service contracts with the ocean carriers. As an ocean consolidator, ECMS may obtain LCL freight from several vendors and consolidate this cargo into full containers. The Companys revenues as an ocean consolidator are derived from handling LCL cargo at origin and from the fees paid by customers for access to data captured during the consolidation process. 5 Marketing and Customers The Company provides flexible service and seeks to understand the needs of the customers from points of origin to ultimate destinations. Although the domestic importer usually designates the logistics company and the services that will be required, the foreign shipper may also participate in this selection process. Therefore, the Company coordinates its marketing program to reach both domestic importers and their overseas suppliers. The Companys marketing efforts are focused primarily on the traffic, shipping and purchasing departments of existing and potential customers. The district manager of each office is responsible for marketing, sales coordination, and implementation in the area in which he or she is located. All employees are responsible for customer service and relations. The Company staffs its offices largely with managers and other key personnel who are citizens of the nations in which they operate and who have extensive experience in global logistics. Marketing and customer service staffs are responsible for marketing the Companys services directly to local shippers and traffic managers who may select or influence the selection of the logistics vendor and for ensuring that customers receive timely and efficient service. The Company believes that its expertise in supplying solutions customized to the needs of its customers, its emphasis on coordinating its origin and destination customer service and marketing activities, and the incentives it gives to its managers have been important elements of its success. The goods handled by the Company are generally a function of the products which dominate international trade between any particular origin and destination. Shipments of computer components, other electronic equipment, housewares, sporting goods, machine parts, and toys, comprise a significant percentage of the Companys business. Typical import customers include computer retailers and distributors of consumer electronics, department store chains, clothing and shoe wholesalers, manufacturers and catalogue stores. Historically, no single customer has accounted for five percent or more of the Companys revenues. Competition The global logistics services industry is intensely competitive and is expected to remain so for the foreseeable future. There are a large number of companies competing in one or more segments of the industry, but the number of firms with a global network that offer a full complement of logistics services is more limited. Depending on the location of the shipper and the importer, the Company must compete against both the niche players and larger entities. While there is currently a marked trend within the industry toward consolidation into larger firms striving for immediate multinational and multi service networks, the regional and local competitors maintain a strong market presence. Historically, the primary competitive factors in the global logistics services industry have been price and quality of service, including reliability, responsiveness, expertise, convenience, and scope of operations. The Company emphasizes quality service and believes that its prices are competitive with the prices of others in the industry. Recently, larger customers have exhibited a trend toward more sophisticated and efficient procedures for the management of the logistics supply chain by embracing strategies such as just in time inventory management. This trend has made computerized customer service capabilities a significant factor in attracting and retaining customers. These computerized customer service capabilities include customized Electronic Data Interchange, (EDI), and on line freight tracing and tracking applications. The customized EDI applications allow the transfer of key information between the customers systems and the Companys systems. Freight tracing and tracking applications allow customers to know the location, transit time and estimated delivery time of inventory in transit. Management believes that the ability to develop and deliver innovative solutions to meet customers increasingly sophisticated information requirements is a critical factor in the ongoing success of the Company. Accordingly, the Company has devoted a significant amount of resources towards the maintenance and enhancement of systems that will meet these customer demands. Management believes that the Companys existing systems are competitive with the systems currently in use by other logistics services companies with which it competes. Developing these systems has added a considerable indirect cost to the services provided to customers. Small and middle tier competitors, in general, do not have the resources available to develop these customized systems. As a result, there is a significant amount of consolidation currently taking place in the industry. Management expects that this trend toward consolidation will continue for the short to medium term. Historically, growth through aggressive acquisition has proven to be a challenge for many of the Companys competitors and typically involves the purchase of significant goodwill. As a result, the Company has pursued a strategy emphasizing organic growth supplemented by certain strategic acquisitions. 6 The Companys ability to attract, retain, and motivate highly qualified personnel with experience in global logistics services is an essential, if not the most important, element of its ability to compete in the industry. To this end, the Company has adopted incentive compensation programs which make percentages of branch revenues or profits available to managers for distribution among key personnel. The Company believes that these incentive compensation programs, combined with its experienced personnel and its ability to coordinate global marketing efforts, provide it with a distinct competitive advantage and account for historical growth that competitors have matched only through acquisition. Currency and Other Risk Factors The nature of the Companys worldwide operations necessitate the Company dealing with a multitude of currencies other than the U.S. Dollar. This results in the Company being exposed to the inherent risks of the international currency markets and governmental interference. Many of the countries where the Company maintains offices and or agency relationships have strict currency control regulations which influence the Companys ability to hedge foreign currency exposure. The Company tries to compensate for these exposures by accelerating international currency settlements among these offices or agents. In addition, the Companys ability to provide service to its customers is highly dependent on good working relationships with a variety of entities including airlines, steamship lines and governmental agencies. The Company considers its current working relationships with these entities to be good. However, changes in space allotments available from carriers, governmental deregulation efforts, modernization of the regulations governing customs clearance, and or changes in governmental quota restrictions could affect the Companys business in unpredictable ways. Seasonality Historically, the Companys operating results have been subject to seasonal trends when measured on a quarterly basis. The first quarter has traditionally been the weakest and the third and fourth quarters have traditionally been the strongest. This pattern has been the result of, or influenced by, numerous factors including climate, national holidays, consumer demand, economic conditions and a myriad of other similar and subtle forces. In addition, this historical quarterly trend has been influenced by the growth and diversification of the Companys international network and service offerings. The Company cannot accurately forecast many of these factors, nor can the Company estimate accurately the relative influence of any particular factor and, as a result, there can be no assurance that historical patterns will continue in future periods. A significant portion of the Companys revenues are derived from customers in industries whose shipping patterns are tied closely to consumer demand and from customers in industries whose shipping patterns are dependent upon just in time production schedules. Therefore, the timing of the Companys revenues are, to a large degree, impacted by factors out of the Companys control, such as shifting consumer demand for retail goods and manufacturing production delays. Additionally, many customers ship a significant portion of their goods at or near the end of a quarter, and therefore, the Company may not learn of a shortfall in revenues until late in a quarter. To the extent that a shortfall in revenues or earnings was not expected by securities analysts, any such shortfall from levels predicted by securities analysts could have an immediate and adverse effect on the trading price of the Companys stock. Environmental In the United States, the Company is subject to Federal, state and local provisions regulating the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise for the protection of the environment. Similar laws apply in many foreign jurisdictions in which the Company operates. Although current operations have not been significantly affected by compliance with these environmental laws, governments are becoming increasingly sensitive to environmental issues, and the Company cannot predict what impact future environmental regulations may have on its business. The Company does not anticipate making any material capital expenditures for environmental control purposes during the remainder of the current or succeeding fiscal years. Employees At January 31, 2003, the Company employed approximately 8,000 people, 2,800 in the United States and 500 in the balance of North America, 300 in South America, 1,300 in Europe, 2,200 in the Far East & Australasia, 700 in the Near/Middle East and 200 in Africa. Approximately 1,000 of the Companys employees are engaged principally in sales and marketing and customer service, 5,000 in operations and 2,000 in finance and administration. The Company is not a party to any collective bargaining agreement and considers its relations with its employees to be satisfactory. In order to retain the services of highly qualified, experienced, and motivated employees, the Company places considerable emphasis on its incentive compensation programs and stock option plans. 7 Executive Officers of the Registrant The following table sets forth the names, ages, and positions of current executive officers of the Company. Name Age Position Peter J. Rose 60 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and director James L.K. Wang 54 President Asia and director Glenn M. Alger 46 President and Chief Operating Officer Sandy K.Y. Liu 55 Chief Operating Officer Asia R. Jordan Gates 47 Executive Vice President Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer and director Timothy C. Barber 43 Executive Vice President Global Sales Rommel C. Saber 45 Executive Vice President Europe, Africa and Near/Middle East Robert L. Villanueva 50 Executive Vice President The Americas Eugene K. Alger 42 Senior Vice President North America L. Manfred Amberger 54 Senior Vice President Continental Europe Jean Claude Carcaillet 57 Senior Vice President Australasia William J. Coogan 48 Senior Vice President Ocean Cargo Philip M. Coughlin 42 Senior Vice President North America Rosanne Esposito 51 Senior Vice President Global Customs Roger A. Idiart 49 Senior Vice President Air Cargo Jeffrey J. King 48 Senior Vice President General Counsel and Secretary David M. Lincoln 44 Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer Charles J. Lynch 42 Senior Vice President Corporate Controller Peter J. Rose has served as a director and Vice President of the Company since July 1981. Mr. Rose was elected a Senior Vice President of the Company in May 1986, Executive Vice President in May 1987, President and Chief Executive Officer in October 1988, and Chairman and Chief Executive Officer in May 1991. James L.K. Wang has served as a director and the Managing Director of Expeditors International Taiwan Ltd., the Companys former exclusive Taiwan agent, since September 1981. Mr. Wangs employment agreement with the Company has been assigned to the Companys current exclusive Taiwan agent, E.I. Freight (Taiwan), Ltd. In October 1988, Mr. Wang became a director of the Company and its Director Far East, and Executive Vice President in January 1996. In May 2000, Mr. Wang was elected President Asia. Glenn M. Alger joined the Company in July 1981 as a District Manager. Mr. Alger was elected Vice President and Regional Manager in October 1988, Senior Vice President U.S. Operations in January 1992, Senior Vice President and Director North America in January 1993, and Executive Vice President and Director North America in March 1997. In September 1999, Mr. Alger was elected President and Chief Operating Officer. Sandy K.Y. Liu became Chief Operating Officer Asia of the Company in January 2001. From 1969 through 2000, Mr. Liu was employed in various positions by China Airlines. In November 1998, Mr. Liu was appointed President of China Airlines. R. Jordan Gates joined the Company as its Controller Europe in February 1991. Mr. Gates was elected Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer of the Company in August 1994 and Senior Vice President Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer in January 1998. In May 2000, Mr. Gates was elected Executive Vice President Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer. Mr. Gates was also elected as a director in May 2000. Timothy C. Barber joined the Company in May 1986. Mr. Barber was promoted to District Manager of the Seattle office in January 1987 and Regional Vice President in January 1993. Mr. Barber was elected Vice President Sales and Marketing in September 1993 and Senior Vice President Sales and Marketing in January 1998. In September 1999, Mr. Barber was elected Executive Vice President Global Sales. Rommel C. Saber joined the Company as Director Near/Middle East in February 1990 and was elected Senior Vice President Sales and Marketing in January 1993. Mr. Saber was elected Senior Vice President Air Export in September 1993. In July 1997 he was elected Senior Vice President Near/Middle East and Indian Subcontinent. In August 2000, Mr. Saber was elected Executive Vice President Europe, Africa and Near/Middle East. 8 Robert L. Villanueva joined the Company as Regional Vice President Northwest U.S. Region in April 1994. In September 1999, he was elected Executive Vice President The Americas. Eugene K. Alger joined the Company in October 1982. Mr. Alger was promoted to District Manager and Regional Vice President of the Los Angeles office in May 1983. He was elected Regional Vice President Southwestern U.S. and Mexico Region in January 1992, and Senior Vice President of North America in September 1999. L. Manfred Amberger joined the Company as Managing Director of Germany in April 1992. Mr. Amberger was promoted to Regional Director Europe in May 1996 and Vice President in January 1998. Mr. Amberger was elected Senior Vice President Continental Europe in May 2000. Jean Claude Carcaillet joined the Company as Managing Director Australasia in August 1988. He was elected Senior Vice President Australasia in September 1997. William J. Coogan has worked for the Company since May 1985. Mr. Coogan was promoted to District Manager of the Companys New York office in July 1988 and Senior Vice President of EIO in April 1989. Mr. Coogan was elected Senior Vice President Ocean in February 1993 and Senior Vice President Ocean Cargo in May 1996. Philip M. Coughlin joined the Company in October 1985. Mr. Coughlin was promoted to District Manager in August 1986. He was elected Regional Manager for New England and Canada in January 1991, Regional Vice President Northeastern U.S. and Northern Border in January 1992, and Senior Vice President of North America in September 1999. Rosanne Esposito joined the Company as its Director U.S. Import Services in January 1996. Ms. Esposito was promoted to Vice President in May 1997 and Senior Vice President Global Customs in May 2001. Roger A. Idiart joined the Company as its Manager of Gateway Operations in December 1995. Mr. Idiart was elected Vice President Global Air Cargo in January 1998, and Senior Vice President Air Cargo in May 2001. Jeffrey J. King joined the Company in October 1990 as Director Taxation and Legal Services and was elected Vice President General Counsel in May 1992. In August 1994, Mr. King was elected Vice President General Counsel and Secretary and Senior Vice President General Counsel and Secretary in January 1998. David M. Lincoln joined the Company as its Controller U.S. Operations in March 1984. Mr. Lincoln served as Corporate Controller of the Company from May 1986 to January 1991, and was elected Vice President Systems Management in December 1989. Mr. Lincoln was elected Vice President Information Systems in May 1996 and Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer in October 1997. Charles J. Lynch joined the Company in September 1984. Mr. Lynch was promoted to Assistant Controller in July 1985 and Controller Domestic Operations in January 1989. Mr. Lynch was elected Corporate Controller in January 1991 and Vice President Corporate Controller in January 1998. In May 2002, Mr. Lynch was elected Senior Vice President Corporate Controller. Regulation With respect to the Companys activities in the air transportation industry in the United States, it is subject to regulation by the Department of Transportation (DOT) as an indirect air carrier. The Companys overseas offices and agents are licensed as airfreight forwarders in their respective countries of operation. The Company is licensed in each of its offices or in the case of its newer offices, has made application for a license, as an airfreight forwarder by the International Air Transport Association (IATA). IATA is a voluntary association of airlines which prescribes certain operating procedures for airfreight forwarders acting as agents for its members. The majority of the Companys airfreight forwarding business is conducted with airlines which are IATA members. The Company is licensed as a customs broker by the Customs Service of the Department of the Treasury in each U.S. customs district in which it does business. All U.S. customs brokers are required to maintain prescribed records and are subject to periodic audits by the Customs Service. In other jurisdictions in which the Company performs clearance services, the Company is licensed by the appropriate governmental authority. 9 The Company is registered as an Ocean Transportation Intermediary by the Federal Maritime Commission (FMC). The FMC has established certain qualifications for shipping agents, including certain surety bonding requirements. The FMC also is responsible for the economic regulation of NVOCC activity originating or terminating in the United States. To comply with these economic regulations, vessel operators and NVOCCs, such as EIO, are required to file tariffs electronically which establish the rates to be charged for the movement of specified commodities into and out of the U.S. The FMC has the power to enforce these regulations by assessing penalties. The Company does not believe that current U.S. and foreign governmental regulations impose significant economic restraint upon its business operations. In general, the Company conducts its business activities in each country through a majority owned subsidiary corporation that is organized and existing under the laws of that country. However, the regulations of foreign governments can impose barriers to the Companys ability to provide the full range of its business activities in a wholly or majority U.S. owned subsidiary. For example, foreign ownership of a customs brokerage business is prohibited in some jurisdictions and less frequently the ownership of the licenses required for freight forwarding and or freight consolidation is restricted to local entities. When the Company encounters this sort of governmental restriction, it works to establish a legal structure that meets the requirements of the local regulations while also giving the Company the substantive operating and economic advantages that would be available in the absence of such regulation. This can be accomplished by creating a joint venture or exclusive agency relationship with a qualified local entity that holds the required license. In cases where the Company has unilateral control over the assets and operations of the local entity, notwithstanding the lack of technical majority ownership of common stock, the Company consolidates the accounts of the local entity. In such cases, consolidation is necessary to fairly present the financial position and results of operations of the Company because of the existence of the parent subsidiary relationship by means other than record ownership of voting common stock. Cargo Liability When acting as an airfreight consolidator, the Company assumes a carriers liability for lost or damaged shipments. This legal liability is typically limited by contract to the lower of the transaction value or the released value ($9.07 per pound unless the customer declares a higher value and pays a surcharge), except if the loss or damage is caused by willful misconduct or in the absence of an appropriate airway bill. The airline which the Company utilizes to make the actual shipment is generally liable to the Company in the same manner and to the same extent. When acting solely as the agent of the airline or shipper, the Company does not assume any contractual liability for loss or damage to shipments tendered to the airline. When acting as an ocean freight consolidator, the Company assumes a carriers liability for lost or damaged shipments. This liability is typically limited by contract to the lower of the transaction value or the released value ($500 per package or customary freight unit unless the customer declares a higher value and pays a surcharge). The steamship line which the Company utilizes to make the actual shipment is generally liable to the Company in the same manner and to the same extent. In its ocean freight forwarding and customs clearance operations, the Company does not assume cargo liability. When providing warehouse and distribution services, the Company limits its legal liability by contract and tariff to an amount generally equal to the lower of fair value or fifty cents per pound with a maximum of fifty dollars per lot which is defined as the smallest unit that the warehouse is required to track. Upon payment of a surcharge for warehouse and distribution services, the Company will assume additional liability. The Company maintains marine cargo insurance covering claims for losses attributable to missing or damaged shipments for which it is legally liable. The Company also maintains insurance coverage for the property of others which is stored in Company warehouse facilities. ITEM 2 PROPERTIES The Company owns a 214,000 square foot office building in downtown Seattle; a 150,000 square foot warehouse/industrial office facility in Nassau County, New York; a 27,200 square foot office facility near Seattle Tacoma International Airport; an 80,000 square foot office and warehouse facility on a ten acre parcel near OHare International Airport in Chicago; a 5,500 square foot office facility in the Tsim Sha Tsui East district of Kowloon, Hong Kong; and a 10,900 square foot office facility in Taipei, Taiwan. The Company also owns a 23,400 square foot office and warehouse facility on a long term renewable land lease at the Brussels Cargo facility in Brussels, Belgium, and an 85,000 square foot office and warehouse facility in Dublin, Ireland. During 2002, the Company acquired a 224,000 square foot office and warehouse facility on a 10.5 acre parcel in Middlesex County, New Jersey and a 15 acre parcel near Heathrow Airport in London. In January 2003, the Company completed the purchase of a 320,000 square foot office and warehouse facility on 13.22 acres near the San Francisco, California International Airport. 10 The Company leases and maintains 60 additional offices and satellite locations in the United States and 124 offices throughout the world, each located close to an airport, ocean port, or on an important border crossing. The majority of these facilities contain warehouse facilities. Lease terms are either on a month to month basis or terminate at various times through 2013. As an office matures, the Company will investigate the possibility of building or buying suitable facilities. Lease payments currently aggregate to approximately $2,648,000 per month. See Note 7 to the Companys Consolidated Financial Statements. The Company believes that current leases can be extended and that suitable alternative facilities are available in the vicinity of each present facility should extensions be unavailable at the conclusion of current leases. ITEM 3 LEGAL PROCEEDINGS The Company is ordinarily involved in claims and lawsuits which arise in the normal course of business, none of which currently, in managements opinion, will have a significant effect on the Companys financial position. ITEM 4 SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS Inapplicable. 11 PART II ITEM 5 MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS The following table sets forth the high and low sale prices in the over the counter market for the Companys Common Stock as reported by The NASDAQ National Market System under the symbol EXPD. Common Stock Common Stock Quarter High Low Quarter High Low 2002 2001 First 31.17 25.50 First 30.375 21.75 Second 31.78 27.50 Second 32.96 22.30 Third 33.98 24.94 Third 31.13 20.975 Fourth 34.44 26.98 Fourth 29.50 21.735 There were 3,182 shareholders of record as of December 31, 2002. Management estimates that there were approximately 18,000 beneficial shareholders at that date. The Board of Directors declared semi annual dividends during the two most recent fiscal years as follows: June 17, 2002 $ .06 December 16, 2002 $ .06 June 15, 2001 $ .05 December 17, 2001 $ .05 ITEM 6 SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA Financial Highlights In thousands except per share data 2002 2001 2000 1999 1998 Revenues $ 2,296,903 1,883,070 1,906,726 1,616,383 1,189,044 Net earnings 112,529 97,243 83,035 59,175 47,274 Basic earnings per share 1.08 .93 .81 .59 .48 Diluted earnings per share 1.03 .89 .76 .55 .45 Cash dividends paid per share .12 .10 .07 .05 .04 Working capital 249,350 237,443 222,829 149,633 94,601 Total assets 879,948 688,437 661,740 535,461 419,493 Shareholders equity 523,812 414,623 361,784 282,385 217,198 Basic weighted average shares outstanding 103,893 104,160 102,305 100,274 98,468 Diluted weighted average shares outstanding 108,881 109,741 109,358 107,656 106,116 All share and per share information have been adjusted to reflect two 2 for 1 stock splits effected in June, 2002 and May, 1999. 12 SAFE HARBOR FOR FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS UNDER SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995; CERTAIN CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS From time to time, the Company or its representatives have made or may make forward looking statements, orally or in writing. Such forward looking statements may be included in, but not limited to, press releases, oral statements made with the approval of an authorized executive officer or in various filings made by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The words or phrases will likely result, are expected to, will continue, is anticipated, estimate, project or similar expressions are intended to identify forward looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Litigation Reform Act. Such statements are qualified in their entirety by reference to and are accompanied by the following discussion of certain important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from such forward looking statements. The risks included here are not exhaustive. Furthermore, reference is also made to other sections of this report which include additional factors which could adversely impact the Companys business and financial performance. Moreover, the Company operates in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all of such risk factors, nor can it assess the impact of all of such risk factors on the Companys business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward looking statements. Accordingly, forward looking statements cannot be relied upon as a guarantee of actual results. Shareholders should be aware that while the Company does, from time to time, communicate with securities analysts, it is against the Companys policy to disclose to such analysts any material non public information or other confidential commercial information. Accordingly, shareholders should not assume that the Company agrees with any statement or report issued by any analyst irrespective of the content of such statement or report. Furthermore, the Company has a policy against issuing financial forecasts or projections or confirming the accuracy of forecasts or projections issued by others. Accordingly, to the extent that reports issued by securities analysts contain any projections, forecasts or opinions, such reports are not the responsibility of the Company. 13 RISK FACTORS DISCUSSION AND POTENTIAL SIGNIFICANCE International Trade The Company primarily provides services to customers engaged in international commerce. Everything that affects international trade has the potential to expand or contract the Companys primary market. For example, international trade is influenced by: currency exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations; changes in governmental policies; changes in international and domestic customs regulations; wars, acts of terrorism, and other conflicts; natural disasters; changes in consumer attitudes regarding goods made in countries other than their own; and changes in the price and readily available quantities of oil and other petroleum related products. Third Party Vendors The Company is a non asset based supplier of global logistics services. As a result, the Company depends on a variety of asset based third party vendors. The quality and profitability of the Companys services depend upon effective selection, management and discipline of third party vendors. Predictability of Results The Company is not aware of any accurate means of forecasting short term customer requirements. However, long term customer satisfaction depends upon the Companys ability to meet these unpredictable short term customer requirements. Personnel costs, the Companys single largest variable expense, are always less flexible in the very near term as the Company must staff to meet uncertain demand. As a result, short term operating results could be disproportionately affected. Foreign Operations The majority of the Companys revenues and operating income come from operations conducted outside the United States. To maintain a global service network, the Company may be required to operate in hostile locations and in dangerous situations. Key Personnel The Company is a service business. The quality of this service is directly related to the quality of the Companys employees. Identifying, training and retaining key employees is essential to continued growth and future profitability. Continued loyalty to the Company will not be assured by contract. Technology Increasingly, the Company must compete based upon the flexibility and sophistication of the technologies utilized in performing its core businesses. Future results depend upon the Companys success in the cost effective development and integration of communication and information systems technologies. Growth To date, the Company has relied primarily upon organic growth and has tended to avoid growth through acquisition. Future results will depend upon the Companys ability to continue to grow internally or to demonstrate the ability to successfully identify and integrate non dilutive acquisitions. 14 ITEM 7 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS General Expeditors International of Washington, Inc. is engaged in the business of global logistics management, including international freight forwarding and consolidation, for both air and ocean freight. The Company acts as a customs broker in all domestic offices, and in many of its international offices. The Company also provides additional services for its customers including value added distribution, purchase order management, vendor consolidation and other logistics solutions. The Company offers domestic forwarding services only in conjunction with international shipments. The Company does not compete for overnight courier or small parcel business. The Company does not own or operate aircraft or steamships. International trade is influenced by many factors, including economic and political conditions in the United States and abroad, currency exchange rates, and United States and foreign laws and policies relating to tariffs, trade restrictions, foreign investments and taxation. Periodically, governments consider a variety of changes to current tariffs and trade restrictions. The Company cannot predict which, if any, of these proposals may be adopted, nor can the Company predict the effects adoption of any such proposal will have on the Companys business. Doing business in foreign locations also subjects the Company to a variety of risks and considerations not normally encountered by domestic enterprises. In addition to being affected by governmental policies concerning international trade, the Companys business may also be affected by political developments and changes in government personnel or policies in the nations in which it does business. The Companys ability to provide services to its customers is highly dependent on good working relationships with a variety of entities including airlines, ocean steamship lines, and governmental agencies. The Company considers its current working relationships with these entities to be satisfactory. However, changes in space allotments available from carriers, governmental deregulation efforts, modernization of the regulations governing customs brokerage, and or changes in governmental quota restrictions could affect the Companys business in unpredictable ways. Historically, the Companys operating results have been subject to a seasonal trend when measured on a quarterly basis. The first quarter has traditionally been the weakest and the third and fourth quarters have traditionally been the strongest. This pattern is the result of, or is influenced by, numerous factors including climate, national holidays, consumer demand, economic conditions and a myriad of other similar and subtle forces. In addition, this historical quarterly trend has been influenced by the growth and diversification of the Companys international network and service offerings. The Company cannot accurately forecast many of these factors nor can the Company estimate accurately the relative influence of any particular factor and, as a result, there can be no assurance that historical patterns, if any, will continue in future periods. A significant portion of the Companys revenues are derived from customers in retail industries whose shipping patterns are tied closely to consumer demand, and from customers in industries whose shipping patterns are dependent upon just in time production schedules. Therefore, the timing of the Companys revenues are, to a large degree, impacted by factors out of the Companys control, such as a sudden change in consumer demand for retail goods and or manufacturing production delays. Additionally, many customers ship a significant portion of their goods at or near the end of a quarter, and therefore, the Company may not learn of a shortfall in revenues until late in a quarter. To the extent that a shortfall in revenues or earnings was not expected by securities analysts, any such shortfall from levels predicted by securities analysts could have an immediate and adverse effect on the trading price of the Companys stock. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates A summary of the Companys significant accounting policies can be found in Note 1 in the consolidated financial statements in this 10K. Management believes that the nature of the Companys business is such that there are few, if any, complex challenges in accounting for operations. Revenue recognition is considered the critical accounting policy due to the complexity of arranging and managing global logistics and supply chain management transactions. 15 Revenue Recognition The Company derives its revenues from three principal sources: airfreight, ocean freight and customs brokerage and import services and these are the revenue categories presented in the financial statements. As a non asset based carrier, the Company does not own transportation assets. Rather, the Company generates the major portion of its air and ocean freight revenues by purchasing transportation services from direct (asset based) carriers and reselling those services to its customers. The difference between the rate billed to customers (the sell rate), and the rate paid to the carrier (the buy rate) is termed Net Revenue or yield. By consolidating shipments from multiple customers and concentrating its buying power, the Company is able to negotiate favorable buy rates from the direct carriers, while at the same time offering lower sell rates than customers would otherwise be able to negotiate themselves. Airfreight revenues include the charges to the Company for carrying the shipments when the Company acts as a freight consolidator. Ocean freight revenues include the charges to the Company for carrying the shipments when the Company acts as a Non Vessel Operating Common Carrier (NVOCC). In each case the Company is acting as an indirect carrier. When acting as an indirect carrier, the Company will issue a House Airway Bill (HAWB) or a House Ocean Bill of Lading (HOBL) to customers as the contract of carriage. In turn, when the freight is physically tendered to a direct carrier, the Company receives a contract of carriage known as a Master Airway Bill for airfreight shipments and a Master Ocean Bill of Lading for ocean shipments. At this point, the risk of loss passes to the carrier, however, in order to claim for any such loss, the customer is first obligated to pay the freight charges. Based upon the terms in the contract of carriage, revenues related to shipments where the Company issues an HAWB or an HOBL are recognized at the time the freight is tendered to the direct carrier at origin. Costs related to the shipments are also recognized at this same time. Revenues realized in other capacities, for instance, when the Company acts as an agent for the shipper, and does not issue an HAWB or an HOBL, include only the commissions and fees earned for the services performed. These revenues are recognized upon completion of the services. Customs brokerage and import services involves providing services at destination, such as helping customers clear shipments through customs by preparing required documentation, calculating and providing for payment of duties and other taxes on behalf of the customers as well as arranging for any required inspections by governmental agencies, and arranging for delivery. This is a complicated function requiring technical knowledge of customs rules and regulations in the multitude of countries in which the Company has offices. Revenues related to customs brokerage and import services are recognized upon completion of the services. Arranging international shipments is a complex task. Each actual movement can require multiple services. In some instances, the Company is asked to perform only one of these services. However, in most instances, the Company may perform multiple services. These services include destination breakbulk services and value added ancillary services such as local transportation, export customs formalities, distribution services and logistics management. Each of these services has an associated fee, which is recognized as revenue upon completion of the service. Typically, the fees for each of these services are quoted as separate components, however, customers on occasion will request an all inclusive rate for a set of services known in the industry as door to door service. This means that the customer is billed a single rate for all services from pickup at origin to delivery at destination. In these instances, the revenue for origin and destination services, as well as revenue that will be characterized as freight charges, is allocated to branches as set by preexisting Company policy perhaps supplemented by customer specific negotiations between the offices involved. Each of the Companys branches are independent profit centers and the primary compensation for the branch management group comes in the form of incentive based compensation calculated directly from the operating income of that branch. This compensation structure ensures that the allocation of revenue and expense among components of services, when provided under an all inclusive rate, are done in an objective manner on a fair value basis, in accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) 00 21, Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables. While judgments and estimates are a necessary component of any system of accounting, the Companys use of estimates is limited primarily to the following areas that in the aggregate are not a major component of the Companys statement of earnings: accounts receivable valuation, the useful lives of long term assets, the accrual of costs related to ancillary services the Company provides, and establishment of adequate insurance liabilities for the portion of the freight related exposure which the Company has self insured. In addition, certain undistributed earnings of the Companys subsidiaries accumulated through December 31, 1992 would, under most circumstances, be subject to some additional United States income tax if distributed to the Company. The Company has not provided 16 for this additional income tax because the Company intends to reinvest such earnings to fund the expansion of its foreign activities, or to distribute them in a manner in which no significant additional taxes would be incurred. Management believes that the methods utilized in all of these areas are non aggressive in approach and consistent in application. Management believes that there are limited, if any, alternative accounting principles or methods which could be applied to the Companys transactions. While the use of estimates means that actual future results may be different from those contemplated by the estimates, the Company believes that alternative principles and methods used for making such estimates would not produce materially different results than those reported. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In June 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2001. Under the new rules, purchased goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives will no longer be amortized but will be subject to annual impairment tests in accordance with the provisions of the statements. Intangible assets with estimable useful lives are amortized over their respective useful lives, and reviewed for impairment in accordance with SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets. The Company applied the new rules on accounting for goodwill and intangible assets beginning in the first quarter of 2002. Application of the non amortization provisions of SFAS No. 142 did not have a material effect on the Companys financial statements. The Company performed the required initial impairment test of goodwill as of January 1, 2002 and determined there was no impact on the consolidated earnings and financial position of the Company at that time. For the year ended December 31, 2002, the Company performed the required annual impairment test during the fourth quarter and determined that no impairment had occurred. In June 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations which addresses financial accounting and reporting for obligations associated with the retirement of tangible long lived assets and for the associated asset retirement costs. The standard applies to legal obligations associated with the retirement of long lived assets that result from the acquisition, construction or development and or normal use of the asset. The Company is required and plans to adopt the provisions of SFAS No. 143 beginning in the first quarter of 2003. Management does not anticipate that adoption of SFAS No. 143 will result in a significant impact on the Companys consolidated financial condition or results of operations. In August 2001, SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets was issued which addresses financial accounting and reporting for the impairment or disposal of long lived assets. While this standard supersedes SFAS No. 121, Accounting for the Impairment of Long Lived Assets and for Long Lived Assets to Be Disposed Of, it retains many of the fundamental provisions of that standard. SFAS No. 144 also supersedes the accounting and reporting provisions of APB Opinion No. 30, Reporting the Results of Operations Reporting the Effects of Disposal of a Segment of a Business, and Extraordinary, Unusual and Infrequently Occurring Events and Transactions, for the disposal of a segment of a business. The Company adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 144 beginning in the first quarter of 2002. Adoption of SFAS No. 144 had no impact on the consolidated earnings and financial position of the Company. In November 2001, the FASB staff issued Topic D 103 (subsequently recharacterized as EITF 01 14), Income Statement Characterization of Reimbursements Received for Out of Pocket Expenses Incurred. This staff announcement clarified certain provisions of EITF 99 19 Reporting Revenue Gross as a Principal versus Net as an Agent, and among other things established when reimbursements are required to be shown gross as opposed to net. EITF 01 14 also directed that the new rules should be applied in financial reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2001. The clarifying rules now require the Company to henceforth report certain reimbursed incidental activities on a gross rather than net basis. The Company has reclassified amounts in the 2001 and 2000 presentations to conform with the current presentation. 17 The following schedule shows the financial statement impact of the adoption by comparing the net amounts in the report on Form 10K filed on or about March 29, 2002, with the gross amounts reported in this current 10K. There is no impact on net revenue, nor is there any impact on operating income or net earnings as a result of this change. For the years ended December 31, 2001 2000 Net Gross Net Gross Revenues: Airfreight $ 930,998 971,980 1,014,375 1,053,461 Ocean freight and ocean services 508,482 590,684 472,853 542,411 Customs brokerage and import services 213,153 320,406 207,953 310,854 Total Revenues 1,652,633 1,883,070 1,695,181 1,906,726 Costs: Airfreight 676,496 717,478 788,947 828,033 Ocean freight and ocean services 369,601 451,803 357,879 427,437 Customs brokerage and import services 107,253 102,901 Total Costs 1,046,097 1,276,534 1,146,826 1,358,371 Net Revenues $ 606,536 606,536 548,355 548,355 In June 2002, SFAS No. 146, Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities was issued which addresses financial accounting and reporting for costs associated with exit or disposal activities and nullifies EITF 94 3, Liability Recognition for Certain Employee Termination Benefits and Other Costs to Exit an Activity (including Certain Costs Incurred in a Restructuring). The Company is required and plans to adopt the provisions of SFAS No. 146 beginning in the first quarter of 2003. Management does not anticipate that adoption of SFAS No. 146 will result in a significant impact on the Companys consolidated financial condition or results of operations. In November 2002, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 45 (FIN 45), Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others, which clarifies disclosure and recognition/measurement requirements related to certain guarantees. The disclosure requirements are effective for financial statements issued after December 15, 2002 and the recognition/measurement requirements are effective on a prospective basis for guarantees issued or modified after December 31, 2002. The provisions of FIN 45 require the Company to value and record the liability for any indirect or direct guarantees of the indebtedness of others entered into after December 31, 2002. The Company does not expect compliance with FIN 45 to have a material impact on its consolidated financial position or results of operations. In December 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 148, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation Transition and Disclosure which amends SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation, to provide alternative methods of transition for a voluntary change to the fair value based method of accounting for stock based employee compensation. SFAS No. 148 also amends the disclosure requirements of SFAS No. 123 to require prominent disclosure in both annual and interim financial statements about the method of accounting for stock based employee compensation and the effect of the method used on reported results. The transition guidance and annual disclosure provisions of SFAS No. 148 are effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2002. The interim disclosure provisions are effective for financial reports containing financial statements for interim periods beginning after December 15, 2002. As the Company did not make a voluntary change to the fair value based method of accounting for stock based employee compensation in 2002, the adoption of SFAS No. 148 did not have an impact on the Companys consolidated financial position and results of operations. The Company has adopted the annual disclosure provisions of SFAS No. 148 in its financial reports for the year ended December 31, 2002 and will adopt the interim disclosure provisions for its financial reports beginning with the quarter ending March 31, 2003. 18 Results of Operations The following table shows the consolidated net revenues (revenues less transportation expenses) attributable to the Companys principal services and the Companys expenses for 2002, 2001, and 2000, expressed as percentages of net revenues. Management believes that net revenues are a better measure than total revenues of the relative importance of the Companys principal services since total revenues earned by the Company as a freight consolidator include the carriers charges to the Company for carrying the shipment whereas revenues earned by the Company in its other capacities include only the commissions and fees actually earned by the Company. 2002 2001 2000 In thousands Amount Percent of net revenues Amount Percent of net revenues Amount Percent of net revenues Net Revenues: Airfreight $ 284,954 42 % $ 254,502 42 % $ 225,428 41 % Ocean freight and ocean services 164,114 24 138,881 23 114,974 21 Customs brokerage and import services 233,145 34 213,153 35 207,953 38 Net revenues 682,213 100 606,536 100 548,355 100 Operating Expenses: Salaries and related costs 359,769 53 325,545 54 290,581 53 Other 151,435 22 134,974 22 130,250 24 Total operating expenses 511,204 75 460,519 76 420,831 77 Operating income 171,009 25 146,017 24 127,524 23 Other income, net 6,981 1 8,277 1 5,824 1 Earnings before income taxes 177,990 26 154,294 25 133,348 24 Income tax expense 65,461 10 57,051 9 50,313 9 Net earnings $ 112,529 16 % $ 97,243 16 % $ 83,035 15 % 2002 compared with 2001 Airfreight net revenues in 2002 increased 12% compared with 2001 primarily due to increased airfreight tonnages handled in 2002 as compared with 2001. Airfreight margins decreased approximately 2% during 2002 as compared with 2001 as a result of rate increases initiated by air carriers during the third and fourth quarters in response to excess air cargo demands associated with the west coast port disruptions. Efficient consolidations of dense and fluffy (volumetric) freight allowed the Company to optimize purchased transportation costs while still offering competitive rates to customers. The Companys North American export airfreight net revenues decreased 2% in 2002 compared to 2001. Airfreight net revenues from the Far East and from Europe increased 22% and 12%, respectively, for 2002 compared with 2001. Airfreight rates on Far East to North American trade lanes, the Companys most dominant lane, remained strong throughout 2002, and were particularly strong during the fourth quarter. Ocean freight and ocean services net revenues increased 18% in 2002 compared to 2001. Ocean freight demand remained strong throughout 2002. Ocean freight rates from the Far East, the Companys largest trade lane fell throughout the year. Ocean freight volumes increased during the last half of 2002, despite a 10 day disruption in service at the ports located on the west coast of the United States. The aftermath of this disruption continued throughout the fourth quarter. Management believes that the Companys continued strong performance through this work disruption is a significant indication of both the strength of the Companys relationships with its vendors and the expertise of its staff. During 2002, management continued to expand market share, increase ocean tonnage, and increase net ocean freight revenues while offering competitive market rates to customers. Changes in the regulatory environment in the United States continued to create new opportunities for the Companys NVOCC operations to provide services to customers who had previously dealt directly with the ocean carriers. 19 Margins decreased 1% in 2002 as compared with 2001 because the Company reduced rates to increase volumes in response to an environment of falling prices which were a result of the overcapacity situation that existed in the ocean markets. The Company continued its focus of offering competitive rates to customers at the retail level, while leveraging freight volumes to obtain favorable rates from carriers at the wholesale level. Expeditors Cargo Management Systems (ECMS), a PC based ocean freight consolidation management and purchase order tracking service, continued to be instrumental in attracting new business. The Companys North American export ocean freight net revenues increased 18% in 2002 compared to 2001. This increase was a result of the Company handling more ocean shipments moving from North America to the Far East and, to a lesser extent, from North America to Europe. Ocean freight net revenues from the Far East and from Europe increased 21% and 14%, respectively, for 2002 compared with 2001. Customs brokerage and import services net revenues increased 9% in 2002 as compared with 2001 as a result of the Companys growing reputation for providing high quality service and consolidation within the customs brokerage market as customers seek out customs brokers with more sophisticated computerized capabilities critical to an overall logistics management program. Salaries and related costs increased in 2002 compared to 2001 as a result of (1) the Companys increased hiring of sales, operations, and administrative personnel in existing offices to accommodate increases in business activity and (2) increased compensation levels. Salaries and related costs decreased 1% as a percentage of net revenues. The relatively consistent relationship between salaries and net revenues is the result of a compensation philosophy that has been maintained since the inception of the Company: offer a modest base salary and the opportunity to share in a fixed and determinable percentage of the operating profit of the business unit controlled by each key employee. Using this compensation model, changes in individual compensation will occur in proportion to changes in Company profits. Management believes that the growth in revenues, net revenues and net earnings for 2002 are a result of the incentives inherent in the Companys compensation program. Other operating expenses increased in 2002 as compared with 2001 as rent expense, communications expense, quality and training expenses, and other costs expanded to accommodate the Companys growing operations. Other operating expenses as a percentage of net revenues remained constant in 2002 as compared with 2001. Management believes that this was significant as it reflects the successful achievement of cost containment objectives initiated at the branch level. The ability to sustain these savings into future periods is contingent upon branch level managements ability to adhere to these objectives. During the fourth quarter of 2002, the Company evaluated the recoverability of certain other assets and determined that an impairment had occurred. Accordingly, a $3.5 million loss was recorded as an operating expense. Other income, net, decreased in 2002 as compared with 2001. Due to much lower interest rates on higher average cash balances and short term investments during 2002, interest income decreased by $2.9 million. The decrease in interest income during the year ended December 31, 2002, was offset by a $1.5 million gain on the sale of the Companys former Dublin, Ireland facility. The Company pays income taxes in the United States and other jurisdictions, as well as other taxes which are typically included in costs of operations. The Companys consolidated effective income tax rate in 2002 was 36.8%, down marginally from the 37% rate experienced in the prior year. The .2% decrease was caused primarily by a reduction in state tax expense required to be paid by the Company. 2001 compared with 2000 Airfreight net revenues in 2001 increased 13% compared with 2000 primarily due to the Companys ability to expand airfreight margins despite the lower airfreight tonnages, experienced in 2001 compared with 2000. Airfreight margins expanded approximately 5% during 2001 as compared with 2000 despite a 9% drop in worldwide airfreight tonnage in 2001. Efficient consolidations of dense and fluffy (volumetric) freight allowed the Company to optimize purchased transportation costs while still offering competitive rates to customers. The Companys North American export airfreight net revenues increased 4% in 2001 compared to 2000. Airfreight net revenues from the Far East and from Europe increased 24% and 5%, respectively, for 2001 compared with 2000. Airfreight rates on Far East to North American trade lanes, the Companys most dominant lane, remained strong throughout 2001. Ocean freight and ocean services net revenues increased 21% in 2001 compared to 2000. Ocean freight demand remained strong throughout 2001 and ocean freight rates from the Far East, the Companys largest trade lane, increased in the last half of the year. During 2001, management continued to expand market share, increase ocean tonnage, and increase net ocean freight revenues while offering competitive market rates to customers. Changes in the regulatory environment in the United States created new opportunities for the Companys NVOCC operations to provide services to customers who had previously dealt directly with the ocean carriers. Margins increased 3% in 2001 as compared with 2000 reflecting the Companys ability to offer competitive rates to customers at the retail level, while leveraging freight volumes to obtain favorable rates from carriers at the wholesale level. ECMS continued to be instrumental in attracting new business. The Companys North American export ocean freight net revenues increased 10% in 2001 compared to 2000. This increase was a result of the Company handling more ocean shipments moving from North America to the Far East and, to a lesser extent, from North America to Europe. Ocean freight net revenues from the Far East and from Europe increased 20 23% and 30%, respectively, for 2001 compared with 2000. Customs brokerage and import services revenues increased 3% in 2001 as compared with 2000 as a result of (1) the Companys growing reputation for providing high quality service, (2) consolidation within the customs brokerage market as customers seek out customs brokers with more sophisticated computerized capabilities critical to an overall logistics management program, and (3) the growing importance of distribution services as a separate and distinct service offered to existing and potential customers. Distribution services accounted for nearly 36% of the increase in customs brokerage and import services revenues for 2001 compared with 2000. Salaries and related costs increased in 2001 compared to 2000 as a result of (1) the Companys increased hiring of sales, operations, and administrative personnel in existing and new offices to accommodate increases in business activity and (2) increased compensation levels. Salaries and related costs increased 1% as a percentage of net revenues. The relatively consistent relationship between salaries and net revenues is the result of a compensation philosophy that has been maintained since the inception of the Company: offer a modest base salary and the opportunity to share in a fixed and determinable percentage of the operating profit of the business unit controlled by each key employee. Using this compensation model, changes in individual compensation will occur in proportion to changes in Company profits. Management believes that the growth in revenues, net revenues and net earnings for 2001 are a result of the incentives inherent in the Companys compensation program. Other operating expenses increased in 2001 as compared with 2000 as rent expense, communications expense, quality and training expenses, and other costs expanded to accommodate the Companys growing operations. Other operating expenses as a percentage of net revenues decreased 2% in 2001 as compared with 2000. Management believes that this decrease was significant as it reflects the successful achievement of cost containment objectives initiated at the branch level. The ability to sustain these savings into future periods is contingent upon branch level managements ability to adhere to these objectives. Other income, net, increased in 2001 as compared to 2000 primarily due to interest income earned on higher cash balances and short term investments in 2001. Management attributes higher cash balances, in large part, to the success of cash management and billing improvement initiatives. The Company pays income taxes in the United States and other jurisdictions, as well as other taxes which are typically included in costs of operations. The Companys consolidated effective income tax rate in 2001 was 37%, down marginally from the 37.7% rate experienced in the prior year. The .7% decrease was caused primarily by a reduction in state tax expense required to be paid by the Company. Currency and Other Risk Factors International air/ocean freight forwarding and customs brokerage are intensively competitive and are expected to remain so for the foreseeable future. There are a large number of entities competing in the international logistics industry; however, the Companys primary competition is confined to a relatively small number of companies within this group. While there is currently a marked trend within the industry toward consolidation into large firms with multinational offices and agency networks, regional and local broker/forwarders remain a competitive force. Historically, the primary competitive factors in the international logistics industry have been price and quality of service, including reliability, responsiveness, expertise, convenience, and scope of operations. The Company emphasizes quality service and believes that its prices are competitive with those of others in the industry. Customers have exhibited a trend towards more sophisticated and efficient procedures for the management of the logistics supply chain by embracing strategies such as just in time inventory management. Accordingly, sophisticated computerized customer service capabilities and a stable worldwide network have become significant factors in attracting and retaining customers. Developing these systems and a worldwide network has added a considerable indirect cost to the services provided to customers. Smaller and middle tier competitors, in general, do not have the resources available to develop customized systems and a worldwide network. As a result, there is a significant amount of consolidation currently taking place in the industry. Management expects that this trend toward consolidation will continue for the short to medium term. The nature of the Companys worldwide operations necessitates the Company dealing with a multitude of currencies other than the U.S. Dollar. This results in the Company being exposed to the inherent risks of the international currency markets and governmental interference. Some of the countries where the Company maintains offices and or agency relationships have strict currency control regulations which influence the Companys ability to hedge foreign currency exposure. The Company tries to compensate for these exposures by accelerating international currency settlements among its offices or agents. The Company enters into foreign currency hedging transactions only in limited locations where there are regulatory or commercial limitations on the Companys ability to move 21 money freely around the world or the short term financial outlook in any country is such that hedging is the most time sensitive way to avoid short term exchange losses. Any such hedging activity during 2002, 2001 and 2000 was insignificant. Net foreign currency gains realized in 2002 were $70,000. Net foreign currency losses realized during 2001 were $366,000. Net foreign currency gains realized during 2000 were $309,000. The Company has traditionally generated revenues from airfreight, ocean freight and customs brokerage and import services. In light of the customer driven trend to provide customer rates on a door to door basis, management foresees the potential, in the medium to long term, for fees normally associated with customs house brokerage to be de emphasized and included as a component of other services offered by the Company. On January 1, 1999, eleven of fifteen member countries of the European Union, later joined by Greece in January 2001, established fixed conversion rates between their existing currencies (legacy currencies) and a new common currency the Euro. The Euro trades on currency exchanges and may be used in business transactions. The conversion to the Euro eliminates currency exchange rate risk between the member countries. Beginning in January 2002, new Euro denominated bills and coins were issued and legacy currencies began to be withdrawn from circulation. The Company has worked diligently to address the issues raised by the Euro currency conversion including the need to adapt computer systems and business processes to accommodate Euro denominated transactions. The conversion costs were not material. The Company is unable to predict the resulting impact, if any, on the Companys consolidated financial statements of the change to one common currency within the European Union. The Company has not experienced any significant disruption as a result of this phased conversion. Sources of Growth Historically, growth through aggressive acquisition has proven to be a challenge for many of the Companys competitors and typically involves the purchase of significant goodwill, the value of which can be realized in large measure only by retaining the customers and profit margins of the acquired business. As a result, the Company has pursued a strategy emphasizing organic growth supplemented by certain strategic acquisitions, where future economic benefit significantly exceeds the goodwill recorded in the transaction. Office Additions The Company did not open any offices during 2002. Internal Growth Management believes that a comparison of same store growth is critical in the evaluation of the quality and extent of the Companys internally generated growth. This same store analysis isolates the financial contributions from offices that have been included in the Companys operating results for at least one full year. The table below presents same store comparisons on a year over year basis for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000. Same store comparisons for the years ended December 31, 2002 2001 2000 Net revenues 12 % 7 % 23 % Operating income 16 % 13 % 36 % Liquidity and Capital Resources The Companys principal source of liquidity is cash generated from operating activities. Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2002 was approximately $116 million, as compared with $168 million for 2001. This $52 million decrease is principally due increased accounts receivable, offset by increased net earnings and increased accounts payable, accrued expenses and taxes payable. The Companys business is subject to seasonal fluctuations. Cash flow fluctuates as a result of this seasonality. Historically, the first quarter shows an excess of customer collections over customer billings. This results in positive cash flow. The increased activity associated with peak season (typically commencing late second or early third quarter) causes an excess of customer billings over customer collections. This cyclical growth in customer receivables consumes available cash. In the past, the Company has utilized short term borrowings to satisfy normal operating expenditures when temporary cash outflows exceed cash inflows. These short term 22 borrowings have been repaid when the trend reverses and customer collections exceed customer billings. During 2002, short term borrowings were not required in the United States; the market where cash flow pressures are most intense due to funds advanced in association with customs brokerage activity. As a customs broker, the Company makes significant 5 10 business day cash advances for its customers obligations such as the payment of duties to U.S. Customs. These advances are made as an accommodation for a select group of credit worthy customers. Cash advances are a pass through and are not recorded as a component of revenue and expense. The billings of such advances to customers are accounted for as a direct increase in accounts receivable to the customer and a corresponding increase in accounts payable to governmental customs authorities. As a result of these pass through billings, the conventional Days Sales Outstanding or DSO calculation does not directly measure collection efficiency. Cash used in investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2002 was $113 million, as compared with $53 million during the same period of 2001. The largest use of cash in investing activities is cash paid for capital expenditures. For the year ended December 31, 2002, the Company made capital expenditures of $81 million as compared with $37 million for the same period in 2001. Capital expenditures in 2002 included $59 million for acquisitions of real estate and office/warehouse facilities in New Jersey and the United Kingdom. Capital expenditures in 2001 related primarily to investments in technology and office furniture and equipment. Cash of $31.3 million was paid into escrow during 2002 to acquire an office and warehouse facility near the San Francisco, California International Airport; the transaction closed on January 7, 2003. Cash used in financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2002 was $13 million as compared with cash used in financing activities of $58 million for the same period in 2001. In 2002, the Company paid down $0.4 million on short term debt, as compared with $3 million for the same period of 2001. The Company uses the proceeds from stock option exercises to repurchase the Companys stock on the open market. The differences between proceeds from the issuance of common stock and the amounts paid to repurchase common stock for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2000 represent a timing difference in the receipt of proceeds and the subsequent repurchase of outstanding shares. During the third quarter of 2001, the Board of Directors authorized management to repurchase 2,000,000 shares of the Companys common stock. The difference between proceeds from the issuance of common stock and the amounts paid to repurchase common stock for the year ended December 31, 2001 is primarily due to the repurchase of stock under the discretionary plan authorized by the Board of Directors in September 2001. The repurchase of all 2,000,000 shares was completed on October 11, 2001 at an average price of $22.56 per share. In November 2001, the Board of Directors expanded the Companys Discretionary Stock Repurchase Program to allow for the repurchase of such shares as may be necessary to reduce the issued and outstanding stock to 100,000,000 shares of common stock. As of December 31, 2002, no further shares had been repurchased under the amended discretionary plan. At December 31, 2002, working capital was $249 million, including cash and short term investments of $212 million. The Company had no long term debt at December 31, 2002. While the nature of its business does not require an extensive investment in property and equipment, the Company cannot eliminate the possibility that it could acquire an equity interest in property in certain geographic locations. Excluding the acquisition of the office and warehouse facility near the San Francisco, California International Airport, described earlier, the Company currently expects to spend approximately $35 million for normal capital expenditures. In addition to property and equipment, normal capital expenditures include leasehold improvements, warehouse equipment, computer hardware and furniture and fixtures. The Company expects to finance capital expenditures in 2003, with cash. The Company borrows internationally and domestically under unsecured bank lines of credit. During the third quarter of 2002, the Company entered into an unsecured line of credit agreement with a U.S. financial institution. At December 31, 2002, the U.S. facility totaled $50 million and the international bank lines of credit totaled $10.3 million. In addition, the Company maintains a bank facility with its U.K. bank for $8.1 million. At December 31, 2002, the Company was directly liable for $1.3 million drawn on these lines of credit and was contingently liable for an additional $39.1 million from standby letters of credit and guarantees related to these lines of credit and other obligations. 23 At December 31, 2002, the Companys contractual obligations and other commitments are as follows: Payments Due by Period In thousands Total Less than 1 year 1 3 years 4 5 years After 5 years Contractual Obligations: Operating leases $ 83,884 29,769 38,518 8,508 7,089 Unconditional purchase obligations 205,840 185,040 20,800 Total contractual cash obligations $ 289,724 214,809 59,318 8,508 7,089 Amount of Commitment Expiration Per Period In thousands Total amounts committed Less than 1 year 1 3 years 4 5 years After 5 years Other Commitments: Lines of credit $ 60,284 60,113 171 Credit facility 8,052 8,000 52 Standby letters of credit 39,137 35,988 521 2,628 Total commitments $ 107,473 104,101 692 2,680 The Company has a Non Discretionary Stock Repurchase Plan to repurchase shares from the proceeds of stock option exercises. As of December 31, 2002, the Company had repurchased and retired 5,257,703 shares of common stock at an average price of $12.34 per share over the period from 1994 through 2002. The Company also has a Discretionary Stock Repurchase Plan under which it retired 2,000,000 shares of common stock as of October 11, 2001, at an average price of $22.56 per share. In November 2001, this plan was expanded to allow for the repurchase of such shares as may be necessary to reduce the issued and outstanding stock to 100,000,000 shares of common stock. As of December 31, 2002, no further shares had been repurchased under the amended discretionary plan. Management believes that the Companys current cash position, bank financing arrangements, and operating cash flows will be sufficient to meet its capital and liquidity requirements for the foreseeable future. In some cases, the Companys ability to repatriate funds from foreign operations may be subject to foreign exchange controls. At December 31, 2002, cash and cash equivalent balances of $121.4 million were held by the Companys non U.S. subsidiaries, of which $47.1 million was held in banks in the United States. In addition, certain undistributed earnings of the Companys subsidiaries accumulated through December 31, 1992 would, under most circumstances, be subject to some additional United States income tax if distributed to the Company. Such undistributed earnings are approximately $41.9 million and the additional Federal and state taxes payable in a hypothetical distribution of such accumulated earnings would approximate $10.1 million. The Company has not provided for this additional tax because the Company intends to reinvest such earnings to fund the expansion of its foreign activities, or to distribute them in a manner in which no significant additional taxes would be incurred. Impact of Inflation To date, the Companys business has not been adversely affected by inflation, nor has the Company experienced significant difficulty in passing carrier rate increases on to its customers by means of price increases. Direct carrier rate increases could occur over the short to medium term period. Due to the high degree of competition in the market place, these rate increases might lead to an erosion in the Companys margins. However, as the Company is not required to purchase or maintain extensive property and equipment and has not otherwise incurred substantial interest rate sensitive indebtedness, the Company currently has limited direct exposure to increased costs resulting from increases in interest rates. 24 The forward looking statements contained in this document involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these statements include, but are not limited to: risks associated with foreign operations, elimination of intercompany transactions, matching of expenses with the associated revenue, seasonality, shifts in consumer demand, the effect that the implementation of the Euro as the primary currency of 12 member states of the European Union might have on the global economy and the Companys international and domestic customers, other accounting estimates and other risk factors disclosed from time to time in the Companys public reports. ITEM 7A QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The Company is exposed to market risks in the ordinary course of its business. These risks are primarily related to foreign exchange risk and changes in short term interest rates. The potential impact of the Companys exposure to these risks is presented below: Foreign Exchange Risk The Company conducts business in many different countries and currencies. The Companys business often results in revenue billings issued in a country and currency which differs from that where the expenses related to the service are incurred. In the ordinary course of business, the Company creates numerous intercompany transactions. This brings a market risk to the Companys earnings. Foreign exchange rate sensitivity analysis can be quantified by estimating the impact on the Companys earnings as a result of hypothetical changes in the value of the U.S. Dollar, the Companys functional currency, relative to the other currencies in which the Company transacts business. All other things being equal, an average 10% weakening of the U.S. Dollar, throughout the year ended December 31, 2002, would have had the effect of raising operating income approximately $12.7 million. An average 10% strengthening of the U.S. Dollar, for the same period, would have the effect of reducing operating income approximately $10.4 million. The Company has approximately $9 million of intercompany transactions unsettled at any one point in time. The Company currently does not use derivative financial instruments to manage foreign currency risk and only enters into foreign currency hedging transactions in limited locations where regulatory or commercial limitations restrict the Companys ability to move money freely around the world. Any such hedging activity throughout the year ended December 31, 2002, was insignificant. The Company instead follows a policy of accelerating international currency settlements to manage foreign exchange risk relative to intercompany billings. The majority of intercompany billings are resolved within 30 days and intercompany billings arising in the normal course of business are fully settled within 90 days. Interest Rate Risk At December 31, 2002, the Company had cash and cash equivalents and short term investments of $211.9 million and short term borrowings of $1.3 million, all subject to variable short term interest rates. A hypothetical change in the interest rate of 10% would have an insignificant impact on the Companys earnings. In managements opinion, there has been no material change in the Companys market risk exposure between 2001 and 2002. 25 
 
ITEM 7 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS General Expeditors International of Washington, Inc. is engaged in the business of global logistics management, including international freight forwarding and consolidation, for both air and ocean freight. The Company acts as a customs broker in all domestic offices, and in many of its international offices. The Company also provides additional services for its customers including value added distribution, purchase order management, vendor consolidation and other logistics solutions. The Company offers domestic forwarding services only in conjunction with international shipments. The Company does not compete for overnight courier or small parcel business. The Company does not own or operate aircraft or steamships. International trade is influenced by many factors, including economic and political conditions in the United States and abroad, currency exchange rates, and United States and foreign laws and policies relating to tariffs, trade restrictions, foreign investments and taxation. Periodically, governments consider a variety of changes to current tariffs and trade restrictions. The Company cannot predict which, if any, of these proposals may be adopted, nor can the Company predict the effects adoption of any such proposal will have on the Companys business. Doing business in foreign locations also subjects the Company to a variety of risks and considerations not normally encountered by domestic enterprises. In addition to being affected by governmental policies concerning international trade, the Companys business may also be affected by political developments and changes in government personnel or policies in the nations in which it does business. The Companys ability to provide services to its customers is highly dependent on good working relationships with a variety of entities including airlines, ocean steamship lines, and governmental agencies. The Company considers its current working relationships with these entities to be satisfactory. However, changes in space allotments available from carriers, governmental deregulation efforts, modernization of the regulations governing customs brokerage, and or changes in governmental quota restrictions could affect the Companys business in unpredictable ways. Historically, the Companys operating results have been subject to a seasonal trend when measured on a quarterly basis. The first quarter has traditionally been the weakest and the third and fourth quarters have traditionally been the strongest. This pattern is the result of, or is influenced by, numerous factors including climate, national holidays, consumer demand, economic conditions and a myriad of other similar and subtle forces. In addition, this historical quarterly trend has been influenced by the growth and diversification of the Companys international network and service offerings. The Company cannot accurately forecast many of these factors nor can the Company estimate accurately the relative influence of any particular factor and, as a result, there can be no assurance that historical patterns, if any, will continue in future periods. A significant portion of the Companys revenues are derived from customers in retail industries whose shipping patterns are tied closely to consumer demand, and from customers in industries whose shipping patterns are dependent upon just in time production schedules. Therefore, the timing of the Companys revenues are, to a large degree, impacted by factors out of the Companys control, such as a sudden change in consumer demand for retail goods and or manufacturing production delays. Additionally, many customers ship a significant portion of their goods at or near the end of a quarter, and therefore, the Company may not learn of a shortfall in revenues until late in a quarter. To the extent that a shortfall in revenues or earnings was not expected by securities analysts, any such shortfall from levels predicted by securities analysts could have an immediate and adverse effect on the trading price of the Companys stock. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates A summary of the Companys significant accounting policies can be found in Note 1 in the consolidated financial statements in this 10K. Management believes that the nature of the Companys business is such that there are few, if any, complex challenges in accounting for operations. Revenue recognition is considered the critical accounting policy due to the complexity of arranging and managing global logistics and supply chain management transactions. 15 Revenue Recognition The Company derives its revenues from three principal sources: airfreight, ocean freight and customs brokerage and import services and these are the revenue categories presented in the financial statements. As a non asset based carrier, the Company does not own transportation assets. Rather, the Company generates the major portion of its air and ocean freight revenues by purchasing transportation services from direct (asset based) carriers and reselling those services to its customers. The difference between the rate billed to customers (the sell rate), and the rate paid to the carrier (the buy rate) is termed Net Revenue or yield. By consolidating shipments from multiple customers and concentrating its buying power, the Company is able to negotiate favorable buy rates from the direct carriers, while at the same time offering lower sell rates than customers would otherwise be able to negotiate themselves. Airfreight revenues include the charges to the Company for carrying the shipments when the Company acts as a freight consolidator. Ocean freight revenues include the charges to the Company for carrying the shipments when the Company acts as a Non Vessel Operating Common Carrier (NVOCC). In each case the Company is acting as an indirect carrier. When acting as an indirect carrier, the Company will issue a House Airway Bill (HAWB) or a House Ocean Bill of Lading (HOBL) to customers as the contract of carriage. In turn, when the freight is physically tendered to a direct carrier, the Company receives a contract of carriage known as a Master Airway Bill for airfreight shipments and a Master Ocean Bill of Lading for ocean shipments. At this point, the risk of loss passes to the carrier, however, in order to claim for any such loss, the customer is first obligated to pay the freight charges. Based upon the terms in the contract of carriage, revenues related to shipments where the Company issues an HAWB or an HOBL are recognized at the time the freight is tendered to the direct carrier at origin. Costs related to the shipments are also recognized at this same time. Revenues realized in other capacities, for instance, when the Company acts as an agent for the shipper, and does not issue an HAWB or an HOBL, include only the commissions and fees earned for the services performed. These revenues are recognized upon completion of the services. Customs brokerage and import services involves providing services at destination, such as helping customers clear shipments through customs by preparing required documentation, calculating and providing for payment of duties and other taxes on behalf of the customers as well as arranging for any required inspections by governmental agencies, and arranging for delivery. This is a complicated function requiring technical knowledge of customs rules and regulations in the multitude of countries in which the Company has offices. Revenues related to customs brokerage and import services are recognized upon completion of the services. Arranging international shipments is a complex task. Each actual movement can require multiple services. In some instances, the Company is asked to perform only one of these services. However, in most instances, the Company may perform multiple services. These services include destination breakbulk services and value added ancillary services such as local transportation, export customs formalities, distribution services and logistics management. Each of these services has an associated fee, which is recognized as revenue upon completion of the service. Typically, the fees for each of these services are quoted as separate components, however, customers on occasion will request an all inclusive rate for a set of services known in the industry as door to door service. This means that the customer is billed a single rate for all services from pickup at origin to delivery at destination. In these instances, the revenue for origin and destination services, as well as revenue that will be characterized as freight charges, is allocated to branches as set by preexisting Company policy perhaps supplemented by customer specific negotiations between the offices involved. Each of the Companys branches are independent profit centers and the primary compensation for the branch management group comes in the form of incentive based compensation calculated directly from the operating income of that branch. This compensation structure ensures that the allocation of revenue and expense among components of services, when provided under an all inclusive rate, are done in an objective manner on a fair value basis, in accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) 00 21, Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables. While judgments and estimates are a necessary component of any system of accounting, the Companys use of estimates is limited primarily to the following areas that in the aggregate are not a major component of the Companys statement of earnings: accounts receivable valuation, the useful lives of long term assets, the accrual of costs related to ancillary services the Company provides, and establishment of adequate insurance liabilities for the portion of the freight related exposure which the Company has self insured. In addition, certain undistributed earnings of the Companys subsidiaries accumulated through December 31, 1992 would, under most circumstances, be subject to some additional United States income tax if distributed to the Company. The Company has not provided 16 for this additional income tax because the Company intends to reinvest such earnings to fund the expansion of its foreign activities, or to distribute them in a manner in which no significant additional taxes would be incurred. Management believes that the methods utilized in all of these areas are non aggressive in approach and consistent in application. Management believes that there are limited, if any, alternative accounting principles or methods which could be applied to the Companys transactions. While the use of estimates means that actual future results may be different from those contemplated by the estimates, the Company believes that alternative principles and methods used for making such estimates would not produce materially different results than those reported. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In June 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2001. Under the new rules, purchased goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives will no longer be amortized but will be subject to annual impairment tests in accordance with the provisions of the statements. Intangible assets with estimable useful lives are amortized over their respective useful lives, and reviewed for impairment in accordance with SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets. The Company applied the new rules on accounting for goodwill and intangible assets beginning in the first quarter of 2002. Application of the non amortization provisions of SFAS No. 142 did not have a material effect on the Companys financial statements. The Company performed the required initial impairment test of goodwill as of January 1, 2002 and determined there was no impact on the consolidated earnings and financial position of the Company at that time. For the year ended December 31, 2002, the Company performed the required annual impairment test during the fourth quarter and determined that no impairment had occurred. In June 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations which addresses financial accounting and reporting for obligations associated with the retirement of tangible long lived assets and for the associated asset retirement costs. The standard applies to legal obligations associated with the retirement of long lived assets that result from the acquisition, construction or development and or normal use of the asset. The Company is required and plans to adopt the provisions of SFAS No. 143 beginning in the first quarter of 2003. Management does not anticipate that adoption of SFAS No. 143 will result in a significant impact on the Companys consolidated financial condition or results of operations. In August 2001, SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets was issued which addresses financial accounting and reporting for the impairment or disposal of long lived assets. While this standard supersedes SFAS No. 121, Accounting for the Impairment of Long Lived Assets and for Long Lived Assets to Be Disposed Of, it retains many of the fundamental provisions of that standard. SFAS No. 144 also supersedes the accounting and reporting provisions of APB Opinion No. 30, Reporting the Results of Operations Reporting the Effects of Disposal of a Segment of a Business, and Extraordinary, Unusual and Infrequently Occurring Events and Transactions, for the disposal of a segment of a business. The Company adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 144 beginning in the first quarter of 2002. Adoption of SFAS No. 144 had no impact on the consolidated earnings and financial position of the Company. In November 2001, the FASB staff issued Topic D 103 (subsequently recharacterized as EITF 01 14), Income Statement Characterization of Reimbursements Received for Out of Pocket Expenses Incurred. This staff announcement clarified certain provisions of EITF 99 19 Reporting Revenue Gross as a Principal versus Net as an Agent, and among other things established when reimbursements are required to be shown gross as opposed to net. EITF 01 14 also directed that the new rules should be applied in financial reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2001. The clarifying rules now require the Company to henceforth report certain reimbursed incidental activities on a gross rather than net basis. The Company has reclassified amounts in the 2001 and 2000 presentations to conform with the current presentation. 17 The following schedule shows the financial statement impact of the adoption by comparing the net amounts in the report on Form 10K filed on or about March 29, 2002, with the gross amounts reported in this current 10K. There is no impact on net revenue, nor is there any impact on operating income or net earnings as a result of this change. For the years ended December 31, 2001 2000 Net Gross Net Gross Revenues: Airfreight $ 930,998 971,980 1,014,375 1,053,461 Ocean freight and ocean services 508,482 590,684 472,853 542,411 Customs brokerage and import services 213,153 320,406 207,953 310,854 Total Revenues 1,652,633 1,883,070 1,695,181 1,906,726 Costs: Airfreight 676,496 717,478 788,947 828,033 Ocean freight and ocean services 369,601 451,803 357,879 427,437 Customs brokerage and import services 107,253 102,901 Total Costs 1,046,097 1,276,534 1,146,826 1,358,371 Net Revenues $ 606,536 606,536 548,355 548,355 In June 2002, SFAS No. 146, Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities was issued which addresses financial accounting and reporting for costs associated with exit or disposal activities and nullifies EITF 94 3, Liability Recognition for Certain Employee Termination Benefits and Other Costs to Exit an Activity (including Certain Costs Incurred in a Restructuring). The Company is required and plans to adopt the provisions of SFAS No. 146 beginning in the first quarter of 2003. Management does not anticipate that adoption of SFAS No. 146 will result in a significant impact on the Companys consolidated financial condition or results of operations. In November 2002, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 45 (FIN 45), Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others, which clarifies disclosure and recognition/measurement requirements related to certain guarantees. The disclosure requirements are effective for financial statements issued after December 15, 2002 and the recognition/measurement requirements are effective on a prospective basis for guarantees issued or modified after December 31, 2002. The provisions of FIN 45 require the Company to value and record the liability for any indirect or direct guarantees of the indebtedness of others entered into after December 31, 2002. The Company does not expect compliance with FIN 45 to have a material impact on its consolidated financial position or results of operations. In December 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 148, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation Transition and Disclosure which amends SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation, to provide alternative methods of transition for a voluntary change to the fair value based method of accounting for stock based employee compensation. SFAS No. 148 also amends the disclosure requirements of SFAS No. 123 to require prominent disclosure in both annual and interim financial statements about the method of accounting for stock based employee compensation and the effect of the method used on reported results. The transition guidance and annual disclosure provisions of SFAS No. 148 are effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2002. The interim disclosure provisions are effective for financial reports containing financial statements for interim periods beginning after December 15, 2002. As the Company did not make a voluntary change to the fair value based method of accounting for stock based employee compensation in 2002, the adoption of SFAS No. 148 did not have an impact on the Companys consolidated financial position and results of operations. The Company has adopted the annual disclosure provisions of SFAS No. 148 in its financial reports for the year ended December 31, 2002 and will adopt the interim disclosure provisions for its financial reports beginning with the quarter ending March 31, 2003. 18 Results of Operations The following table shows the consolidated net revenues (revenues less transportation expenses) attributable to the Companys principal services and the Companys expenses for 2002, 2001, and 2000, expressed as percentages of net revenues. Management believes that net revenues are a better measure than total revenues of the relative importance of the Companys principal services since total revenues earned by the Company as a freight consolidator include the carriers charges to the Company for carrying the shipment whereas revenues earned by the Company in its other capacities include only the commissions and fees actually earned by the Company. 2002 2001 2000 In thousands Amount Percent of net revenues Amount Percent of net revenues Amount Percent of net revenues Net Revenues: Airfreight $ 284,954 42 % $ 254,502 42 % $ 225,428 41 % Ocean freight and ocean services 164,114 24 138,881 23 114,974 21 Customs brokerage and import services 233,145 34 213,153 35 207,953 38 Net revenues 682,213 100 606,536 100 548,355 100 Operating Expenses: Salaries and related costs 359,769 53 325,545 54 290,581 53 Other 151,435 22 134,974 22 130,250 24 Total operating expenses 511,204 75 460,519 76 420,831 77 Operating income 171,009 25 146,017 24 127,524 23 Other income, net 6,981 1 8,277 1 5,824 1 Earnings before income taxes 177,990 26 154,294 25 133,348 24 Income tax expense 65,461 10 57,051 9 50,313 9 Net earnings $ 112,529 16 % $ 97,243 16 % $ 83,035 15 % 2002 compared with 2001 Airfreight net revenues in 2002 increased 12% compared with 2001 primarily due to increased airfreight tonnages handled in 2002 as compared with 2001. Airfreight margins decreased approximately 2% during 2002 as compared with 2001 as a result of rate increases initiated by air carriers during the third and fourth quarters in response to excess air cargo demands associated with the west coast port disruptions. Efficient consolidations of dense and fluffy (volumetric) freight allowed the Company to optimize purchased transportation costs while still offering competitive rates to customers. The Companys North American export airfreight net revenues decreased 2% in 2002 compared to 2001. Airfreight net revenues from the Far East and from Europe increased 22% and 12%, respectively, for 2002 compared with 2001. Airfreight rates on Far East to North American trade lanes, the Companys most dominant lane, remained strong throughout 2002, and were particularly strong during the fourth quarter. Ocean freight and ocean services net revenues increased 18% in 2002 compared to 2001. Ocean freight demand remained strong throughout 2002. Ocean freight rates from the Far East, the Companys largest trade lane fell throughout the year. Ocean freight volumes increased during the last half of 2002, despite a 10 day disruption in service at the ports located on the west coast of the United States. The aftermath of this disruption continued throughout the fourth quarter. Management believes that the Companys continued strong performance through this work disruption is a significant indication of both the strength of the Companys relationships with its vendors and the expertise of its staff. During 2002, management continued to expand market share, increase ocean tonnage, and increase net ocean freight revenues while offering competitive market rates to customers. Changes in the regulatory environment in the United States continued to create new opportunities for the Companys NVOCC operations to provide services to customers who had previously dealt directly with the ocean carriers. 19 Margins decreased 1% in 2002 as compared with 2001 because the Company reduced rates to increase volumes in response to an environment of falling prices which were a result of the overcapacity situation that existed in the ocean markets. The Company continued its focus of offering competitive rates to customers at the retail level, while leveraging freight volumes to obtain favorable rates from carriers at the wholesale level. Expeditors Cargo Management Systems (ECMS), a PC based ocean freight consolidation management and purchase order tracking service, continued to be instrumental in attracting new business. The Companys North American export ocean freight net revenues increased 18% in 2002 compared to 2001. This increase was a result of the Company handling more ocean shipments moving from North America to the Far East and, to a lesser extent, from North America to Europe. Ocean freight net revenues from the Far East and from Europe increased 21% and 14%, respectively, for 2002 compared with 2001. Customs brokerage and import services net revenues increased 9% in 2002 as compared with 2001 as a result of the Companys growing reputation for providing high quality service and consolidation within the customs brokerage market as customers seek out customs brokers with more sophisticated computerized capabilities critical to an overall logistics management program. Salaries and related costs increased in 2002 compared to 2001 as a result of (1) the Companys increased hiring of sales, operations, and administrative personnel in existing offices to accommodate increases in business activity and (2) increased compensation levels. Salaries and related costs decreased 1% as a percentage of net revenues. The relatively consistent relationship between salaries and net revenues is the result of a compensation philosophy that has been maintained since the inception of the Company: offer a modest base salary and the opportunity to share in a fixed and determinable percentage of the operating profit of the business unit controlled by each key employee. Using this compensation model, changes in individual compensation will occur in proportion to changes in Company profits. Management believes that the growth in revenues, net revenues and net earnings for 2002 are a result of the incentives inherent in the Companys compensation program. Other operating expenses increased in 2002 as compared with 2001 as rent expense, communications expense, quality and training expenses, and other costs expanded to accommodate the Companys growing operations. Other operating expenses as a percentage of net revenues remained constant in 2002 as compared with 2001. Management believes that this was significant as it reflects the successful achievement of cost containment objectives initiated at the branch level. The ability to sustain these savings into future periods is contingent upon branch level managements ability to adhere to these objectives. During the fourth quarter of 2002, the Company evaluated the recoverability of certain other assets and determined that an impairment had occurred. Accordingly, a $3.5 million loss was recorded as an operating expense. Other income, net, decreased in 2002 as compared with 2001. Due to much lower interest rates on higher average cash balances and short term investments during 2002, interest income decreased by $2.9 million. The decrease in interest income during the year ended December 31, 2002, was offset by a $1.5 million gain on the sale of the Companys former Dublin, Ireland facility. The Company pays income taxes in the United States and other jurisdictions, as well as other taxes which are typically included in costs of operations. The Companys consolidated effective income tax rate in 2002 was 36.8%, down marginally from the 37% rate experienced in the prior year. The .2% decrease was caused primarily by a reduction in state tax expense required to be paid by the Company. 2001 compared with 2000 Airfreight net revenues in 2001 increased 13% compared with 2000 primarily due to the Companys ability to expand airfreight margins despite the lower airfreight tonnages, experienced in 2001 compared with 2000. Airfreight margins expanded approximately 5% during 2001 as compared with 2000 despite a 9% drop in worldwide airfreight tonnage in 2001. Efficient consolidations of dense and fluffy (volumetric) freight allowed the Company to optimize purchased transportation costs while still offering competitive rates to customers. The Companys North American export airfreight net revenues increased 4% in 2001 compared to 2000. Airfreight net revenues from the Far East and from Europe increased 24% and 5%, respectively, for 2001 compared with 2000. Airfreight rates on Far East to North American trade lanes, the Companys most dominant lane, remained strong throughout 2001. Ocean freight and ocean services net revenues increased 21% in 2001 compared to 2000. Ocean freight demand remained strong throughout 2001 and ocean freight rates from the Far East, the Companys largest trade lane, increased in the last half of the year. During 2001, management continued to expand market share, increase ocean tonnage, and increase net ocean freight revenues while offering competitive market rates to customers. Changes in the regulatory environment in the United States created new opportunities for the Companys NVOCC operations to provide services to customers who had previously dealt directly with the ocean carriers. Margins increased 3% in 2001 as compared with 2000 reflecting the Companys ability to offer competitive rates to customers at the retail level, while leveraging freight volumes to obtain favorable rates from carriers at the wholesale level. ECMS continued to be instrumental in attracting new business. The Companys North American export ocean freight net revenues increased 10% in 2001 compared to 2000. This increase was a result of the Company handling more ocean shipments moving from North America to the Far East and, to a lesser extent, from North America to Europe. Ocean freight net revenues from the Far East and from Europe increased 20 23% and 30%, respectively, for 2001 compared with 2000. Customs brokerage and import services revenues increased 3% in 2001 as compared with 2000 as a result of (1) the Companys growing reputation for providing high quality service, (2) consolidation within the customs brokerage market as customers seek out customs brokers with more sophisticated computerized capabilities critical to an overall logistics management program, and (3) the growing importance of distribution services as a separate and distinct service offered to existing and potential customers. Distribution services accounted for nearly 36% of the increase in customs brokerage and import services revenues for 2001 compared with 2000. Salaries and related costs increased in 2001 compared to 2000 as a result of (1) the Companys increased hiring of sales, operations, and administrative personnel in existing and new offices to accommodate increases in business activity and (2) increased compensation levels. Salaries and related costs increased 1% as a percentage of net revenues. The relatively consistent relationship between salaries and net revenues is the result of a compensation philosophy that has been maintained since the inception of the Company: offer a modest base salary and the opportunity to share in a fixed and determinable percentage of the operating profit of the business unit controlled by each key employee. Using this compensation model, changes in individual compensation will occur in proportion to changes in Company profits. Management believes that the growth in revenues, net revenues and net earnings for 2001 are a result of the incentives inherent in the Companys compensation program. Other operating expenses increased in 2001 as compared with 2000 as rent expense, communications expense, quality and training expenses, and other costs expanded to accommodate the Companys growing operations. Other operating expenses as a percentage of net revenues decreased 2% in 2001 as compared with 2000. Management believes that this decrease was significant as it reflects the successful achievement of cost containment objectives initiated at the branch level. The ability to sustain these savings into future periods is contingent upon branch level managements ability to adhere to these objectives. Other income, net, increased in 2001 as compared to 2000 primarily due to interest income earned on higher cash balances and short term investments in 2001. Management attributes higher cash balances, in large part, to the success of cash management and billing improvement initiatives. The Company pays income taxes in the United States and other jurisdictions, as well as other taxes which are typically included in costs of operations. The Companys consolidated effective income tax rate in 2001 was 37%, down marginally from the 37.7% rate experienced in the prior year. The .7% decrease was caused primarily by a reduction in state tax expense required to be paid by the Company. Currency and Other Risk Factors International air/ocean freight forwarding and customs brokerage are intensively competitive and are expected to remain so for the foreseeable future. There are a large number of entities competing in the international logistics industry; however, the Companys primary competition is confined to a relatively small number of companies within this group. While there is currently a marked trend within the industry toward consolidation into large firms with multinational offices and agency networks, regional and local broker/forwarders remain a competitive force. Historically, the primary competitive factors in the international logistics industry have been price and quality of service, including reliability, responsiveness, expertise, convenience, and scope of operations. The Company emphasizes quality service and believes that its prices are competitive with those of others in the industry. Customers have exhibited a trend towards more sophisticated and efficient procedures for the management of the logistics supply chain by embracing strategies such as just in time inventory management. Accordingly, sophisticated computerized customer service capabilities and a stable worldwide network have become significant factors in attracting and retaining customers. Developing these systems and a worldwide network has added a considerable indirect cost to the services provided to customers. Smaller and middle tier competitors, in general, do not have the resources available to develop customized systems and a worldwide network. As a result, there is a significant amount of consolidation currently taking place in the industry. Management expects that this trend toward consolidation will continue for the short to medium term. The nature of the Companys worldwide operations necessitates the Company dealing with a multitude of currencies other than the U.S. Dollar. This results in the Company being exposed to the inherent risks of the international currency markets and governmental interference. Some of the countries where the Company maintains offices and or agency relationships have strict currency control regulations which influence the Companys ability to hedge foreign currency exposure. The Company tries to compensate for these exposures by accelerating international currency settlements among its offices or agents. The Company enters into foreign currency hedging transactions only in limited locations where there are regulatory or commercial limitations on the Companys ability to move 21 money freely around the world or the short term financial outlook in any country is such that hedging is the most time sensitive way to avoid short term exchange losses. Any such hedging activity during 2002, 2001 and 2000 was insignificant. Net foreign currency gains realized in 2002 were $70,000. Net foreign currency losses realized during 2001 were $366,000. Net foreign currency gains realized during 2000 were $309,000. The Company has traditionally generated revenues from airfreight, ocean freight and customs brokerage and import services. In light of the customer driven trend to provide customer rates on a door to door basis, management foresees the potential, in the medium to long term, for fees normally associated with customs house brokerage to be de emphasized and included as a component of other services offered by the Company. On January 1, 1999, eleven of fifteen member countries of the European Union, later joined by Greece in January 2001, established fixed conversion rates between their existing currencies (legacy currencies) and a new common currency the Euro. The Euro trades on currency exchanges and may be used in business transactions. The conversion to the Euro eliminates currency exchange rate risk between the member countries. Beginning in January 2002, new Euro denominated bills and coins were issued and legacy currencies began to be withdrawn from circulation. The Company has worked diligently to address the issues raised by the Euro currency conversion including the need to adapt computer systems and business processes to accommodate Euro denominated transactions. The conversion costs were not material. The Company is unable to predict the resulting impact, if any, on the Companys consolidated financial statements of the change to one common currency within the European Union. The Company has not experienced any significant disruption as a result of this phased conversion. Sources of Growth Historically, growth through aggressive acquisition has proven to be a challenge for many of the Companys competitors and typically involves the purchase of significant goodwill, the value of which can be realized in large measure only by retaining the customers and profit margins of the acquired business. As a result, the Company has pursued a strategy emphasizing organic growth supplemented by certain strategic acquisitions, where future economic benefit significantly exceeds the goodwill recorded in the transaction. Office Additions The Company did not open any offices during 2002. Internal Growth Management believes that a comparison of same store growth is critical in the evaluation of the quality and extent of the Companys internally generated growth. This same store analysis isolates the financial contributions from offices that have been included in the Companys operating results for at least one full year. The table below presents same store comparisons on a year over year basis for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000. Same store comparisons for the years ended December 31, 2002 2001 2000 Net revenues 12 % 7 % 23 % Operating income 16 % 13 % 36 % Liquidity and Capital Resources The Companys principal source of liquidity is cash generated from operating activities. Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2002 was approximately $116 million, as compared with $168 million for 2001. This $52 million decrease is principally due increased accounts receivable, offset by increased net earnings and increased accounts payable, accrued expenses and taxes payable. The Companys business is subject to seasonal fluctuations. Cash flow fluctuates as a result of this seasonality. Historically, the first quarter shows an excess of customer collections over customer billings. This results in positive cash flow. The increased activity associated with peak season (typically commencing late second or early third quarter) causes an excess of customer billings over customer collections. This cyclical growth in customer receivables consumes available cash. In the past, the Company has utilized short term borrowings to satisfy normal operating expenditures when temporary cash outflows exceed cash inflows. These short term 22 borrowings have been repaid when the trend reverses and customer collections exceed customer billings. During 2002, short term borrowings were not required in the United States; the market where cash flow pressures are most intense due to funds advanced in association with customs brokerage activity. As a customs broker, the Company makes significant 5 10 business day cash advances for its customers obligations such as the payment of duties to U.S. Customs. These advances are made as an accommodation for a select group of credit worthy customers. Cash advances are a pass through and are not recorded as a component of revenue and expense. The billings of such advances to customers are accounted for as a direct increase in accounts receivable to the customer and a corresponding increase in accounts payable to governmental customs authorities. As a result of these pass through billings, the conventional Days Sales Outstanding or DSO calculation does not directly measure collection efficiency. Cash used in investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2002 was $113 million, as compared with $53 million during the same period of 2001. The largest use of cash in investing activities is cash paid for capital expenditures. For the year ended December 31, 2002, the Company made capital expenditures of $81 million as compared with $37 million for the same period in 2001. Capital expenditures in 2002 included $59 million for acquisitions of real estate and office/warehouse facilities in New Jersey and the United Kingdom. Capital expenditures in 2001 related primarily to investments in technology and office furniture and equipment. Cash of $31.3 million was paid into escrow during 2002 to acquire an office and warehouse facility near the San Francisco, California International Airport; the transaction closed on January 7, 2003. Cash used in financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2002 was $13 million as compared with cash used in financing activities of $58 million for the same period in 2001. In 2002, the Company paid down $0.4 million on short term debt, as compared with $3 million for the same period of 2001. The Company uses the proceeds from stock option exercises to repurchase the Companys stock on the open market. The differences between proceeds from the issuance of common stock and the amounts paid to repurchase common stock for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2000 represent a timing difference in the receipt of proceeds and the subsequent repurchase of outstanding shares. During the third quarter of 2001, the Board of Directors authorized management to repurchase 2,000,000 shares of the Companys common stock. The difference between proceeds from the issuance of common stock and the amounts paid to repurchase common stock for the year ended December 31, 2001 is primarily due to the repurchase of stock under the discretionary plan authorized by the Board of Directors in September 2001. The repurchase of all 2,000,000 shares was completed on October 11, 2001 at an average price of $22.56 per share. In November 2001, the Board of Directors expanded the Companys Discretionary Stock Repurchase Program to allow for the repurchase of such shares as may be necessary to reduce the issued and outstanding stock to 100,000,000 shares of common stock. As of December 31, 2002, no further shares had been repurchased under the amended discretionary plan. At December 31, 2002, working capital was $249 million, including cash and short term investments of $212 million. The Company had no long term debt at December 31, 2002. While the nature of its business does not require an extensive investment in property and equipment, the Company cannot eliminate the possibility that it could acquire an equity interest in property in certain geographic locations. Excluding the acquisition of the office and warehouse facility near the San Francisco, California International Airport, described earlier, the Company currently expects to spend approximately $35 million for normal capital expenditures. In addition to property and equipment, normal capital expenditures include leasehold improvements, warehouse equipment, computer hardware and furniture and fixtures. The Company expects to finance capital expenditures in 2003, with cash. The Company borrows internationally and domestically under unsecured bank lines of credit. During the third quarter of 2002, the Company entered into an unsecured line of credit agreement with a U.S. financial institution. At December 31, 2002, the U.S. facility totaled $50 million and the international bank lines of credit totaled $10.3 million. In addition, the Company maintains a bank facility with its U.K. bank for $8.1 million. At December 31, 2002, the Company was directly liable for $1.3 million drawn on these lines of credit and was contingently liable for an additional $39.1 million from standby letters of credit and guarantees related to these lines of credit and other obligations. 23 At December 31, 2002, the Companys contractual obligations and other commitments are as follows: Payments Due by Period In thousands Total Less than 1 year 1 3 years 4 5 years After 5 years Contractual Obligations: Operating leases $ 83,884 29,769 38,518 8,508 7,089 Unconditional purchase obligations 205,840 185,040 20,800 Total contractual cash obligations $ 289,724 214,809 59,318 8,508 7,089 Amount of Commitment Expiration Per Period In thousands Total amounts committed Less than 1 year 1 3 years 4 5 years After 5 years Other Commitments: Lines of credit $ 60,284 60,113 171 Credit facility 8,052 8,000 52 Standby letters of credit 39,137 35,988 521 2,628 Total commitments $ 107,473 104,101 692 2,680 The Company has a Non Discretionary Stock Repurchase Plan to repurchase shares from the proceeds of stock option exercises. As of December 31, 2002, the Company had repurchased and retired 5,257,703 shares of common stock at an average price of $12.34 per share over the period from 1994 through 2002. The Company also has a Discretionary Stock Repurchase Plan under which it retired 2,000,000 shares of common stock as of October 11, 2001, at an average price of $22.56 per share. In November 2001, this plan was expanded to allow for the repurchase of such shares as may be necessary to reduce the issued and outstanding stock to 100,000,000 shares of common stock. As of December 31, 2002, no further shares had been repurchased under the amended discretionary plan. Management believes that the Companys current cash position, bank financing arrangements, and operating cash flows will be sufficient to meet its capital and liquidity requirements for the foreseeable future. In some cases, the Companys ability to repatriate funds from foreign operations may be subject to foreign exchange controls. At December 31, 2002, cash and cash equivalent balances of $121.4 million were held by the Companys non U.S. subsidiaries, of which $47.1 million was held in banks in the United States. In addition, certain undistributed earnings of the Companys subsidiaries accumulated through December 31, 1992 would, under most circumstances, be subject to some additional United States income tax if distributed to the Company. Such undistributed earnings are approximately $41.9 million and the additional Federal and state taxes payable in a hypothetical distribution of such accumulated earnings would approximate $10.1 million. The Company has not provided for this additional tax because the Company intends to reinvest such earnings to fund the expansion of its foreign activities, or to distribute them in a manner in which no significant additional taxes would be incurred. Impact of Inflation To date, the Companys business has not been adversely affected by inflation, nor has the Company experienced significant difficulty in passing carrier rate increases on to its customers by means of price increases. Direct carrier rate increases could occur over the short to medium term period. Due to the high degree of competition in the market place, these rate increases might lead to an erosion in the Companys margins. However, as the Company is not required to purchase or maintain extensive property and equipment and has not otherwise incurred substantial interest rate sensitive indebtedness, the Company currently has limited direct exposure to increased costs resulting from increases in interest rates. 24 The forward looking statements contained in this document involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from these statements include, but are not limited to: risks associated with foreign operations, elimination of intercompany transactions, matching of expenses with the associated revenue, seasonality, shifts in consumer demand, the effect that the implementation of the Euro as the primary currency of 12 member states of the European Union might have on the global economy and the Companys international and domestic customers, other accounting estimates and other risk factors disclosed from time to time in the Companys public reports. ITEM 7A QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The Company is exposed to market risks in the ordinary course of its business. These risks are primarily related to foreign exchange risk and changes in short term interest rates. The potential impact of the Companys exposure to these risks is presented below: Foreign Exchange Risk The Company conducts business in many different countries and currencies. The Companys business often results in revenue billings issued in a country and currency which differs from that where the expenses related to the service are incurred. In the ordinary course of business, the Company creates numerous intercompany transactions. This brings a market risk to the Companys earnings. Foreign exchange rate sensitivity analysis can be quantified by estimating the impact on the Companys earnings as a result of hypothetical changes in the value of the U.S. Dollar, the Companys functional currency, relative to the other currencies in which the Company transacts business. All other things being equal, an average 10% weakening of the U.S. Dollar, throughout the year ended December 31, 2002, would have had the effect of raising operating income approximately $12.7 million. An average 10% strengthening of the U.S. Dollar, for the same period, would have the effect of reducing operating income approximately $10.4 million. The Company has approximately $9 million of intercompany transactions unsettled at any one point in time. The Company currently does not use derivative financial instruments to manage foreign currency risk and only enters into foreign currency hedging transactions in limited locations where regulatory or commercial limitations restrict the Companys ability to move money freely around the world. Any such hedging activity throughout the year ended December 31, 2002, was insignificant. The Company instead follows a policy of accelerating international currency settlements to manage foreign exchange risk relative to intercompany billings. The majority of intercompany billings are resolved within 30 days and intercompany billings arising in the normal course of business are fully settled within 90 days. Interest Rate Risk At December 31, 2002, the Company had cash and cash equivalents and short term investments of $211.9 million and short term borrowings of $1.3 million, all subject to variable short term interest rates. A hypothetical change in the interest rate of 10% would have an insignificant impact on the Companys earnings. In managements opinion, there has been no material change in the Companys market risk exposure between 2001 and 2002. 25 
 
