Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. These forward looking statements and other information relating to the Company are based on the beliefs of management and are necessarily the result of assumptions made using the information currently available to management. Actual results will vary, and even vary materially, from those predicted in the forward looking statements. In accordance with the provisions of the Litigation Reform Act, the Company is making readers aware that forward looking statements, because they relate to future events, are by their very nature subject to many important risk factors which could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the forward looking statements. For additional information about forward looking statements and for an identification of risk factors and their potential significance, see Safe Harbor for Forward Looking Statements Under Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995; Certain Cautionary Statements immediately preceding Part II, Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in this report. PART I ITEM 1 BUSINESS Expeditors International of Washington, Inc. is engaged in the business of providing global logistics services. The Company offers its customers a seamless international network supporting the movement and strategic positioning of goods. The Companys services include the consolidation or forwarding of air and ocean freight. In each U.S. office, and in many overseas offices, the Company acts as a customs broker. The Company also provides additional services including distribution management, vendor consolidation, cargo insurance, purchase order management and customized logistics information. The Company does not compete for domestic freight, overnight courier or small parcel business and does not own aircraft or steamships. The Company, including its majority owned subsidiaries, operates full service offices ( ) in the cities identified below. Full service offices have also been established in locations where the Company maintains unilateral control over assets and operations and where the existence of the parent subsidiary relationship is maintained by means other than record ownership of voting stock (#). In other cities, the Company contracts with independent agents to provide required services and has established over 120 such relationships world wide. Locations where Company employees perform sales and customer service functions are identified below as international service centers (*). In each case, the opening date for the full service office or international service center is set forth in parenthesis. NORTH AMERICA UNITED STATES Dallas (5/92) * Rochester (10/97) MEXICO Seattle (5/79) Columbus (6/92) McAllen (4/98) Mexico City (6/95) Chicago (7/81) Charlotte (7/92) Pittsburgh (6/99) Nuevo Laredo (4/97) San Francisco (7/81) Newark (9/94) Savannah (3/00) Guadalajara (9/97) New York (11/81) Philadelphia (3/95) Washington, D.C. (9/00) Nogales (1/99) Los Angeles (5/82) Charleston (6/95) Kansas City (8/00) Ciudad Juarez (5/00) Atlanta (8/83) Memphis (8/95) Nashville (10/01) Boston (11/85) Salt Lake City (11/95) Austin (02/03) SOUTH AND CENTRAL AMERICA Miami (3/86) * Syracuse (4/96) Orlando (08/03) Minneapolis (7/86) Norfolk (9/96) Tampa (09/03) ARGENTINA Denver (2/88) Indianapolis (11/96) Buenos Aires (1/98) Detroit (7/88) Port Huron Blue Water Bridge (12/96) Portland (7/88) Detroit Ambassador Bridge (12/96) PUERTO RICO BRAZIL Cincinnati (8/89) Lewiston Queenston (12/96) San Juan (5/95) Sao Paulo (9/95) Cleveland (7/90) Dearborn (1/97) Rio de Janeiro (9/95) Phoenix (7/91) Buffalo Peace Bridge (1/97) CANADA Campinas (9/95) Louisville (10/91) El Paso (1/97) Toronto (5/84) Santos (10/97) St. Louis (4/92) Laredo (2/97) Vancouver (9/95) Manaus (7/00) Houston (4/92) Nogales (2/97) Montreal (4/99) Belo Horizonte (12/00) Baltimore (4/92) San Diego (7/97) Curitiba (3/01) 2 SOUTH AND CENTRAL AMERICA (cont). MARIANA ISLANDS ITALY INDIA CHILE Saipan (7/00) Milan (4/93) New Delhi (7/96) Santiago (2/95) Verona (4/93) Mumbai (Bombay) (1/97) PHILIPPINES Florence (3/98) Bangalore (6/97) COLOMBIA Manila (8/98) Chennai (Madras) (6/97) Bogota (12/98) THE NETHERLANDS Cali (12/98) SINGAPORE Amsterdam (6/94) KUWAIT Singapore (9/81) Rotterdam (3/95) # Kuwait City (7/97) COSTA RICA San Jose (10/03) TAIWAN PORTUGAL LEBANON # Taipei (9/81) Lisbon (10/91) Beirut (8/99) VENEZUELA # Kaohsiung (9/81) Oporto (10/91) Caracas (1/01) # Taichung (9/81) PAKISTAN # Hsin Chu (9/89) SPAIN Karachi (9/96) FAR EAST Barcelona (1/94) Lahore (9/96) THAILAND Madrid (1/94) BANGLADESH Bangkok (9/94) Alicante (4/96) SAUDI ARABIA Dhaka (6/89) # Riyadh (7/92) Chittagong (8/93) VIETNAM SWEDEN # Jeddah (7/92) Ho Chi Minh City (5/00) Stockholm (1/94) CAMBODIA Goteborg (1/94) SRI LANKA Phnom Penh (4/00) EUROPE Colombo (3/95) SWITZERLAND CHINA AUSTRIA Chiasso (2/01) TURKEY Beijing (7/94) Vienna (11/95) Ankara (1/99) Guangzhou (4/94) UNITED KINGDOM Istanbul (1/99) Dalian (7/94) BELGIUM London (4/86) Izmir (1/99) Shanghai (7/94) Brussels (7/90) Manchester (11/88) Mersin (1/99) Shenzhen (7/94) Antwerp (4/91) Birmingham (3/90) Qingdao (7/94) Glasgow (4/92) U.A.E. Tianjin (7/94) THE CZECH REPUBLIC Swindon/Bristol (3/97) * Abu Dhabi (1/94) Xian (7/94) Prague (6/98) East Midlands (1/99) Dubai (10/98) Xiamen (7/94) Belfast (09/01) Nanjing (8/95) FINLAND CYPRUS Helsinki (4/94) AUSTRALASIA * Nicosia (6/96) HONG KONG * Larnaca (1/98) Kowloon (9/81) FRANCE AUSTRALIA Paris (1/97) Sydney (8/88) AFRICA INDONESIA Mulhouse (1/97) Melbourne (8/88) Jakarta (12/90) Lyon (1/97) Brisbane (10/93) SOUTH AFRICA # Surabaya (2/92) Lille (3/97) Perth (12/94) Johannesburg (3/94) Bordeaux (7/00) Adelaide (10/97) Durban (3/94) JAPAN Capetown (1/97) Tokyo (1/01) GERMANY FIJI Osaka (1/01) Frankfurt (4/92) * Nadi (7/96) MADAGASCAR Munich (4/92) * Suva (5/97) Antananarivo (11/01) KOREA Dusseldorf (4/92) Pusan (10/94) Stuttgart (4/92) NEW ZEALAND MAURITIUS Seoul (10/94) Hamburg (1/93) Auckland (8/88) Port Louis (7/99) Bupyung (6/96) Nuremberg (1/01) Chonan (6/96) NEAR/MIDDLE EAST Kwangju (6/96) HUNGARY Kumi (6/96) Budapest (4/00) EGYPT Masan (6/96) Cairo (2/95) Taegu (6/96) IRELAND Alexandria (2/95) Dublin (3/97) MALAYSIA Cork (3/97) GREECE Penang (11/87) Shannon (3/97) Athens (2/99) Kuala Lumpur (6/90) Johor Bahru (11/94) 3 The Company was incorporated in the State of Washington in May 1979. Its executive offices are located at 1015 Third Avenue, 12th Floor, Seattle, Washington, and its telephone number is (206) 674 3400. The Companys Internet address is http://www.expeditors.com. The Company makes available free of charge on or through its Internet website its annual report on Form 10 K, quarterly reports on Form 10 Q, current reports on Form 8 K, and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). For information concerning the amount of revenues, net revenues, operating income, identifiable assets, capital expenditures and depreciation and amortization attributable to the geographic areas in which the Company conducts its business, see Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Beginning in 1981, the Companys primary business focus was on airfreight shipments from the Far East to the United States and related customs brokerage and import services. In the mid 1980s, the Company began to expand its service capabilities in export airfreight, ocean freight and distribution services. Today the Company offers a complete range of global logistics services to a diversified group of customers, both in terms of industry specialization and geographic location. As opportunities for profitable growth arise, the Company plans to create new offices. While the Company has historically expanded through organic growth, the Company has also been open to growth through acquisition of, or establishing joint ventures with, existing agents or others within the industry. Airfreight Services Airfreight services accounted for approximately 37, 42, and 42 percent of the Companys 2003, 2002, and 2001 consolidated revenues net of freight consolidation expenses (net revenues), respectively. When performing airfreight services, the Company typically acts either as a freight consolidator or as an agent for the airline which carries the shipment. When acting as a freight consolidator, the Company purchases cargo space from airlines on a volume basis and resells that space to its customers at lower rates than the customers could obtain directly from airlines. When moving shipments between points where the volume of business does not facilitate consolidation, the Company receives and forwards individual shipments as the agent of the airline which carries the shipment. Whether acting as an agent or consolidator, the Company offers its customers knowledge of optimum routing, familiarity with local business practices, knowledge of export and import documentation and procedures, the ability to arrange for ancillary services, and assistance with space availability in periods of peak demand. In its airfreight forwarding operations, the Company procures shipments from its customers, determines the routing, consolidates shipments bound for a particular airport distribution point, and selects the airline for transportation to the distribution point. At the distribution point, the Company or its agent arranges for the consolidated lot to be broken down into its component shipments and for the transportation of the individual shipments to their final destinations. The Company estimates its average airfreight consolidation weighs approximately 3,500 to 4,500 pounds and includes merchandise from several shippers. Because shipment by air is relatively expensive compared with ocean transportation, air shipments are generally characterized by a high value to weight ratio, the need for rapid delivery, or both. The Company typically delivers shipments from a Company warehouse at the origin to the airline after consolidating the freight into containers or onto pallets. Shipments normally arrive at the destination distribution point within forty eight hours after such delivery. During peak shipment periods, cargo space available from the scheduled air carriers can be limited and backlogs of freight shipments may occur. When these conditions exist, the Company may charter aircraft to meet customer demand. The Company consolidates individual shipments based on weight and volume characteristics in cost effective combinations. Typically, as the weight or volume of a shipment increases, the cost per pound/kilo or cubic inch/centimeter charged by the Company decreases. The rates charged by airlines to forwarders and others also generally decrease as the weight or volume of the shipment increases. As a result, by aggregating shipments and presenting them to an airline as a single shipment, the Company is able to obtain a lower rate per pound/kilo or cubic inch/centimeter than that which it charges to its customers for the individual shipment, while generally offering the customer a lower rate than could be obtained from the airline for an unconsolidated shipment. The Companys net airfreight forwarding revenues from a consolidated shipment include the differential between the rate charged to the Company by an airline and the rate which the Company charges to its customers, commissions paid to the Company by the airline carrying the freight and fees for ancillary services. Such ancillary services provided by the Company include preparation of shipping and customs documentation, packing, crating and insurance services, negotiation of letters of credit, and preparation of documentation to comply with local export laws. When the Company acts as an agent for an airline handling an unconsolidated 4 shipment, its net revenues are primarily derived from commissions paid by the airline and fees for ancillary services paid by the customer. The Company does not own aircraft and does not plan to do so. Management believes that the ownership of aircraft would subject the Company to undue business risks, including large capital outlays, increased fixed operating expenses, problems of fully utilizing aircraft and competition with airlines. Because the Company relies on commercial airlines to transport its shipments, changes in carrier policies and practices such as pricing, payment terms, scheduling, and frequency of service may affect its business. The Company also performs breakbulk services which involve receiving and breaking down consolidated airfreight lots and arranging for distribution of the individual shipments. Breakbulk service revenues also include commissions from agents for airfreight shipments. Customs Brokerage and Import Services Customs brokerage and import services accounted for approximately 37, 34, and 35 percent of the Companys 2003, 2002, and 2001 consolidated net revenues, respectively. As a customs broker, the Company assists importers to clear shipments through customs by preparing required documentation, calculating and providing for payment of duties on behalf of the importer, arranging for any required inspections by governmental agencies, and arranging for delivery. The Company also provides other services at destination including temporary warehousing, inland transportation, inventory management, cargo insurance and product distribution. The Company provides customs clearance services in connection with many of the shipments it handles as a freight forwarder. However, substantial customs brokerage revenues are derived from customers that elect to use a competing forwarder. Conversely, shipments handled by the Company as a forwarder may be processed by another customs broker selected by the customer. The Company also provides custom clearances for goods moving by rail and truck between the United States, Canada and or Mexico. The commodities being cleared and the time sensitive nature of the border brokerage business require the Company to continue to make enhancements to its systems in order to provide competitive service. During 1996 the Company established a subsidiary, Expeditors Tradewin, L.L.C., to respond to customer driven requests for high end customs consulting services. The demand for these services was stimulated by the changes made by the U.S. Customs Service in response to the 1993 Customs Modernization Act. Fees for these non transactional services are based upon hourly billing rates and bids for mutually agreed procedures. There is a noticeable trend, prompted by customer demand, to quote rates on a door to door basis. Management foresees the potential, in the medium to long term, for fees normally associated with customs clearance to be de emphasized and included as a component of other services offered by the Company. Ocean Freight and Ocean Services Ocean freight services accounted for approximately 26, 24, and 23 percent of the Companys 2003, 2002, and 2001 consolidated net revenues, respectively. The Companys revenues as an ocean freight forwarder are derived from commissions paid by the carrier and revenues from fees charged to customers for ancillary services which the Company may provide, such as preparing documentation, procuring insurance, arranging for packing and crating services, and providing consultation. The Company operates Expeditors International Ocean (EIO), a Non Vessel Operating Common Carrier (NVOCC) specializing in ocean freight consolidation from the Far East to the United States. EIO also provides service, on a smaller scale, to and from any location where the Company has an office or agent. As an NVOCC, EIO contracts with ocean shipping lines to obtain transportation for a fixed number of containers between various points during a specified time period at an agreed rate. EIO solicits Less than Container Load (LCL) freight to fill the containers and charges lower rates than those available directly from shipping lines. EIO also handles full container loads for customers that do not have annual shipping volumes sufficient to negotiate comparable contracts directly with the ocean carriers. The Company does not own vessels and generally does not physically handle the cargo. Expeditors Cargo Management Systems (ECMS) supplies a sophisticated ocean consolidation service. The Company owns and maintains software that allows it to sell ECMS to large volume customers that have signed their own service contracts with the ocean carriers. As an ocean consolidator, ECMS may obtain LCL freight from several vendors and consolidate this cargo into full containers. The Companys revenues as an ocean consolidator are derived from handling LCL cargo at origin and from the fees paid by customers for access to data captured during the consolidation process. 5 Marketing and Customers The Company provides flexible service and seeks to understand the needs of the customers from points of origin to ultimate destinations. Although the domestic importer usually designates the logistics company and the services that will be required, the foreign shipper may also participate in this selection process. Therefore, the Company coordinates its marketing program to reach both domestic importers and their overseas suppliers. The Companys marketing efforts are focused primarily on the traffic, shipping and purchasing departments of existing and potential customers. The district manager of each office is responsible for marketing, sales coordination, and implementation in the area in which he or she is located. All employees are responsible for customer service and relations. The Company staffs its offices largely with managers and other key personnel who are citizens of the nations in which they operate and who have extensive experience in global logistics. Marketing and customer service staffs are responsible for marketing the Companys services directly to local shippers and traffic managers who may select or influence the selection of the logistics vendor and for ensuring that customers receive timely and efficient service. The Company believes that its expertise in supplying solutions customized to the needs of its customers, its emphasis on coordinating its origin and destination customer service and marketing activities, and the incentives it gives to its managers have been important elements of its success. The goods handled by the Company are generally a function of the products which dominate international trade between any particular origin and destination. Shipments of computer components, other electronic equipment, housewares, sporting goods, machine parts, and toys, comprise a significant percentage of the Companys business. Typical import customers include computer retailers and distributors of consumer electronics, department store chains, clothing and shoe wholesalers, manufacturers and catalogue stores. Historically, no single customer has accounted for five percent or more of the Companys revenues. Competition The global logistics services industry is intensely competitive and is expected to remain so for the foreseeable future. There are a large number of companies competing in one or more segments of the industry, but the number of firms with a global network that offer a full complement of logistics services is more limited. Depending on the location of the shipper and the importer, the Company must compete against both the niche players and larger entities. While there is currently a marked trend within the industry toward consolidation into larger firms striving for immediate multinational and multi service networks, the regional and local competitors maintain a strong market presence. Historically, the primary competitive factors in the global logistics services industry have been price and quality of service, including reliability, responsiveness, expertise, convenience, and scope of operations. The Company emphasizes quality service and believes that its prices are competitive with the prices of others in the industry. Recently, larger customers have exhibited a trend toward more sophisticated and efficient procedures for the management of the logistics supply chain by embracing strategies such as just in time inventory management. This trend has made computerized customer service capabilities a significant factor in attracting and retaining customers. These computerized customer service capabilities include customized Electronic Data Interchange, (EDI), and on line freight tracing and tracking applications. The customized EDI applications allow the transfer of key information between the customers systems and the Companys systems. Freight tracing and tracking applications allow customers to know the location, transit time and estimated delivery time of inventory in transit. Management believes that the ability to develop and deliver innovative solutions to meet customers increasingly sophisticated information requirements is a critical factor in the ongoing success of the Company. Accordingly, the Company has devoted a significant amount of resources towards the maintenance and enhancement of systems that will meet these customer demands. Management believes that the Companys existing systems are competitive with the systems currently in use by other logistics services companies with which it competes. Developing these systems has added a considerable indirect cost to the services provided to customers. Small and middle tier competitors, in general, do not have the resources available to develop these customized systems. As a result, there is a significant amount of consolidation currently taking place in the industry. Management expects that this trend toward consolidation will continue for the short to medium term. Historically, growth through aggressive acquisition has proven to be a challenge for many of the Companys competitors and typically involves the purchase of significant goodwill. As a result, the Company has pursued a strategy emphasizing organic growth supplemented by certain strategic acquisitions. 6 The Companys ability to attract, retain, and motivate highly qualified personnel with experience in global logistics services is an essential, if not the most important, element of its ability to compete in the industry. To this end, the Company has adopted incentive compensation programs which make percentages of branch revenues or profits available to managers for distribution among key personnel. The Company believes that these incentive compensation programs, combined with its experienced personnel and its ability to coordinate global marketing efforts, provide it with a distinct competitive advantage and account for historical growth that competitors have generally matched only through acquisition. Currency and Other Risk Factors The nature of the Companys worldwide operations necessitate the Company dealing with a multitude of currencies other than the U.S. Dollar. This results in the Company being exposed to the inherent risks of the international currency markets and governmental interference. Many of the countries where the Company maintains offices and or agency relationships have strict currency control regulations which influence the Companys ability to hedge foreign currency exposure. The Company tries to compensate for these exposures by accelerating international currency settlements among these offices or agents. In addition, the Companys ability to provide service to its customers is highly dependent on good working relationships with a variety of entities including airlines, steamship lines and governmental agencies. The Company considers its current working relationships with these entities to be good. However, changes in space allotments available from carriers, governmental deregulation efforts, modernization of the regulations governing customs clearance, and or changes in governmental quota restrictions could affect the Companys business in unpredictable ways. Seasonality Historically, the Companys operating results have been subject to seasonal trends when measured on a quarterly basis. The first quarter has traditionally been the weakest and the third and fourth quarters have traditionally been the strongest. This pattern has been the result of, or influenced by, numerous factors including climate, national holidays, consumer demand, economic conditions and a myriad of other similar and subtle forces. In addition, this historical quarterly trend has been influenced by the growth and diversification of the Companys international network and service offerings. The Company cannot accurately forecast many of these factors, nor can the Company estimate accurately the relative influence of any particular factor and, as a result, there can be no assurance that historical patterns will continue in future periods. A significant portion of the Companys revenues are derived from customers in industries whose shipping patterns are tied closely to consumer demand and from customers in industries whose shipping patterns are dependent upon just in time production schedules. Therefore, the timing of the Companys revenues are, to a large degree, impacted by factors out of the Companys control, such as shifting consumer demand for retail goods and manufacturing production delays. Additionally, many customers ship a significant portion of their goods at or near the end of a quarter, and therefore, the Company may not learn of a shortfall in revenues until late in a quarter. To the extent that a shortfall in revenues or earnings was not expected by securities analysts, any such shortfall from levels predicted by securities analysts could have an immediate and adverse effect on the trading price of the Companys stock. Environmental In the United States, the Company is subject to Federal, state and local provisions regulating the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise for the protection of the environment. Similar laws apply in many foreign jurisdictions in which the Company operates. Although current operations have not been significantly affected by compliance with these environmental laws, governments are becoming increasingly sensitive to environmental issues, and the Company cannot predict what impact future environmental regulations may have on its business. The Company does not anticipate making any material capital expenditures for environmental control purposes during the remainder of the current or succeeding fiscal years. Employees At January 31, 2004, the Company employed approximately 8,600 people, 2,950 in the United States and 525 in the balance of North America, 425 in South America, 1,345 in Europe, 2,450 in the Far East & Australasia, 725 in the Near/Middle East and 180 in Africa. Approximately 1,150 of the Companys employees are engaged principally in sales and marketing and customer service, 4,500 in operations and 2,950 in finance and administration. The Company is not a party to any collective bargaining agreement and considers its relations with its employees to be satisfactory. In order to retain the services of highly qualified, experienced, and motivated employees, the Company places considerable emphasis on its incentive compensation programs and stock option plans. 7 Executive Officers of the Registrant The following table sets forth the names, ages, and positions of current executive officers of the Company. Name Age Position Peter J. Rose 60 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and director James L.K. Wang 55 President Asia and director Glenn M. Alger 47 President and Chief Operating Officer Sandy K.Y. Liu 56 Chief Operating Officer Asia R. Jordan Gates 48 Executive Vice President Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer and director Timothy C. Barber 44 Executive Vice President Global Sales Rommel C. Saber 46 Executive Vice President Europe, Africa and Near/Middle East Robert L. Villanueva 51 Executive Vice President The Americas Eugene K. Alger 43 Senior Vice President North America L. Manfred Amberger 55 Senior Vice President Continental Europe Jean Claude Carcaillet 58 Senior Vice President Australasia William J. Coogan 49 Senior Vice President Ocean Cargo Philip M. Coughlin 43 Senior Vice President North America Rosanne Esposito 52 Senior Vice President Global Customs Roger A. Idiart 50 Senior Vice President Air Cargo Jeffrey J. King 49 Senior Vice President General Counsel and Secretary David M. Lincoln 45 Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer Charles J. Lynch 43 Senior Vice President Corporate Controller Peter J. Rose has served as a director and Vice President of the Company since July 1981. Mr. Rose was elected a Senior Vice President of the Company in May 1986, Executive Vice President in May 1987, President and Chief Executive Officer in October 1988, and Chairman and Chief Executive Officer in May 1991. James L.K. Wang has served as a director and the Managing Director of Expeditors International Taiwan Ltd., the Companys former exclusive Taiwan agent, since September 1981. Mr. Wangs employment agreement with the Company has been assigned to the Companys current exclusive Taiwan agent, E.I. Freight (Taiwan), Ltd. In October 1988, Mr. Wang became a director of the Company and its Director Far East, and Executive Vice President in January 1996. In May 2000, Mr. Wang was elected President Asia. Glenn M. Alger joined the Company in July 1981 as a District Manager. Mr. Alger was elected Vice President and Regional Manager in October 1988, Senior Vice President U.S. Operations in January 1992, Senior Vice President and Director North America in January 1993, and Executive Vice President and Director North America in March 1997. In September 1999, Mr. Alger was elected President and Chief Operating Officer. Sandy K.Y. Liu became Chief Operating Officer Asia of the Company in January 2001. From 1969 through 2000, Mr. Liu was employed in various positions by China Airlines. In November 1998, Mr. Liu was appointed President of China Airlines. R. Jordan Gates joined the Company as its Controller Europe in February 1991. Mr. Gates was elected Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer of the Company in August 1994 and Senior Vice President Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer in January 1998. In May 2000, Mr. Gates was elected Executive Vice President Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer. Mr. Gates was also elected as a director in May 2000. Timothy C. Barber joined the Company in May 1986. Mr. Barber was promoted to District Manager of the Seattle office in January 1987 and Regional Vice President in January 1993. Mr. Barber was elected Vice President Sales and Marketing in September 1993 and Senior Vice President Sales and Marketing in January 1998. In September 1999, Mr. Barber was elected Executive Vice President Global Sales. Rommel C. Saber joined the Company as Director Near/Middle East in February 1990 and was elected Senior Vice President Sales and Marketing in January 1993. Mr. Saber was elected Senior Vice President Air Export in September 1993. In July 1997 he was elected Senior Vice President Near/Middle East and Indian Subcontinent. In August 2000, Mr. Saber was elected Executive Vice President Europe, Africa and Near/Middle East. 8 Robert L. Villanueva joined the Company as Regional Vice President Northwest U.S. Region in April 1994. In September 1999, he was elected Executive Vice President The Americas. Eugene K. Alger joined the Company in October 1982. Mr. Alger was promoted to District Manager and Regional Vice President of the Los Angeles office in May 1983. He was elected Regional Vice President Southwestern U.S. and Mexico Region in January 1992, and Senior Vice President of North America in September 1999. L. Manfred Amberger joined the Company as Managing Director of Germany in April 1992. Mr. Amberger was promoted to Regional Director Europe in May 1996 and Vice President in January 1998. Mr. Amberger was elected Senior Vice President Continental Europe in May 2000. Jean Claude Carcaillet joined the Company as Managing Director Australasia in August 1988. He was elected Senior Vice President Australasia in September 1997. William J. Coogan has worked for the Company since May 1985. Mr. Coogan was promoted to District Manager of the Companys New York office in July 1988 and Senior Vice President of EIO in April 1989. Mr. Coogan was elected Senior Vice President Ocean in February 1993 and Senior Vice President Ocean Cargo in May 1996. Philip M. Coughlin joined the Company in October 1985. Mr. Coughlin was promoted to District Manager in August 1986. He was elected Regional Manager for New England and Canada in January 1991, Regional Vice President Northeastern U.S. and Northern Border in January 1992, and Senior Vice President of North America in September 1999. Rosanne Esposito joined the Company as its Director U.S. Import Services in January 1996. Ms. Esposito was promoted to Vice President in May 1997 and Senior Vice President Global Customs in May 2001. Roger A. Idiart joined the Company as its Manager of Gateway Operations in December 1995. Mr. Idiart was elected Vice President Global Air Cargo in January 1998, and Senior Vice President Air Cargo in May 2001. Jeffrey J. King joined the Company in October 1990 as Director Taxation and Legal Services and was elected Vice President General Counsel in May 1992. In August 1994, Mr. King was elected Vice President General Counsel and Secretary and Senior Vice President General Counsel and Secretary in January 1998. David M. Lincoln joined the Company as its Controller U.S. Operations in March 1984. Mr. Lincoln served as Corporate Controller of the Company from May 1986 to January 1991, and was elected Vice President Systems Management in December 1989. Mr. Lincoln was elected Vice President Information Systems in May 1996 and Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer in October 1997. Charles J. Lynch joined the Company in September 1984. Mr. Lynch was promoted to Assistant Controller in July 1985 and Controller Domestic Operations in January 1989. Mr. Lynch was elected Corporate Controller in January 1991 and Vice President Corporate Controller in January 1998. In May 2002, Mr. Lynch was elected Senior Vice President Corporate Controller. Regulation With respect to the Companys activities in the air transportation industry in the United States, it is subject to regulation by the Department of Transportation (DOT) as an indirect air carrier. The Companys overseas offices and agents are licensed as airfreight forwarders in their respective countries of operation. The Company is licensed in each of its offices or in the case of its newer offices, has made application for a license, as an airfreight forwarder by the International Air Transport Association (IATA). IATA is a voluntary association of airlines which prescribes certain operating procedures for airfreight forwarders acting as agents for its members. The majority of the Companys airfreight forwarding business is conducted with airlines which are IATA members. The Company is licensed as a customs broker by the Customs Service of the Department of the Treasury in each U.S. customs district in which it does business. All U.S. customs brokers are required to maintain prescribed records and are subject to periodic audits by the Customs Service. In other jurisdictions in which the Company performs clearance services, the Company is licensed by the appropriate governmental authority. 9 The Company is registered as an Ocean Transportation Intermediary by the Federal Maritime Commission (FMC). The FMC has established certain qualifications for shipping agents, including certain surety bonding requirements. The FMC also is responsible for the economic regulation of NVOCC activity originating or terminating in the United States. To comply with these economic regulations, vessel operators and NVOCCs, such as EIO, are required to file tariffs electronically which establish the rates to be charged for the movement of specified commodities into and out of the U.S. The FMC has the power to enforce these regulations by assessing penalties. The Company does not believe that current U.S. and foreign governmental regulations impose significant economic restraint upon its business operations. In general, the Company conducts its business activities in each country through a majority owned subsidiary corporation that is organized and existing under the laws of that country. However, the regulations of foreign governments can impose barriers to the Companys ability to provide the full range of its business activities in a wholly or majority U.S. owned subsidiary. For example, foreign ownership of a customs brokerage business is prohibited in some jurisdictions and less frequently the ownership of the licenses required for freight forwarding and or freight consolidation is restricted to local entities. When the Company encounters this sort of governmental restriction, it works to establish a legal structure that meets the requirements of the local regulations while also giving the Company the substantive operating and economic advantages that would be available in the absence of such regulation. This can be accomplished by creating a joint venture or exclusive agency relationship with a qualified local entity that holds the required license. In cases where the Company has unilateral control over the assets and operations of the local entity, notwithstanding the lack of technical majority ownership of common stock, the Company consolidates the accounts of the local entity. In such cases, consolidation is necessary to fairly present the financial position and results of operations of the Company because of the existence of the parent subsidiary relationship by means other than record ownership of voting common stock. Cargo Liability When acting as an airfreight consolidator, the Company assumes a carriers liability for lost or damaged shipments. This legal liability is typically limited by contract to the lower of the transaction value or the released value ($9.07 per pound unless the customer declares a higher value and pays a surcharge), except if the loss or damage is caused by willful misconduct or in the absence of an appropriate airway bill. The airline which the Company utilizes to make the actual shipment is generally liable to the Company in the same manner and to the same extent. When acting solely as the agent of the airline or shipper, the Company does not assume any contractual liability for loss or damage to shipments tendered to the airline. When acting as an ocean freight consolidator, the Company assumes a carriers liability for lost or damaged shipments. This liability is typically limited by contract to the lower of the transaction value or the released value ($500 per package or customary freight unit unless the customer declares a higher value and pays a surcharge). The steamship line which the Company utilizes to make the actual shipment is generally liable to the Company in the same manner and to the same extent. In its ocean freight forwarding and customs clearance operations, the Company does not assume cargo liability. When providing warehouse and distribution services, the Company limits its legal liability by contract and tariff to an amount generally equal to the lower of fair value or fifty cents per pound with a maximum of fifty dollars per lot which is defined as the smallest unit that the warehouse is required to track. Upon payment of a surcharge for warehouse and distribution services, the Company will assume additional liability. The Company maintains marine cargo insurance covering claims for losses attributable to missing or damaged shipments for which it is legally liable. The Company also maintains insurance coverage for the property of others which is stored in Company warehouse facilities. 10 ITEM 2 PROPERTIES Location Office/Warehouse Square Footage Adjoining Acreage of Land United States: Seattle, Washington 214,000 sq. ft. Near Seattle Tacoma International Airport (in Washington) 27,200 sq. ft. Nassau County, New York 150,000 sq. ft. Middlesex County, New Jersey 224,000 sq. ft. 10.5 acre parcel Near San Francisco International Airport (in California) 320,000 sq. ft. 13.22 acre parcel Near OHare International Airport (in Illinois) 80,000 sq. ft. 10 acre parcel Far East: Tsim Sha Tsui East district of Kowloon, Hong Kong 5,500 sq. ft. Taipei, Taiwan 10,900 sq. ft. Europe: Brussels, Belgium 23,400 sq. ft. Dublin, Ireland 85,000 sq. ft. Near Heathrow Airport (in London, England) 15 acre parcel Latin America: Alajuela, Costa Rica 9,300 sq. ft. Middle East: Cairo, Egypt 51,000 sq. ft. The Company leases and maintains 60 additional offices and satellite locations in the United States and 131 offices throughout the world, each located close to an airport, ocean port, or on an important border crossing. The majority of these facilities contain warehouse facilities. Lease terms are either on a month to month basis or terminate at various times through 2013. As an office matures, the Company will investigate the possibility of building or buying suitable facilities. Lease payments currently aggregate to approximately $2,900,000 per month. See Note 7 to the Companys Consolidated Financial Statements. The Company believes that current leases can be extended and that suitable alternative facilities are available in the vicinity of each present facility should extensions be unavailable at the conclusion of current leases. ITEM 3 LEGAL PROCEEDINGS The Company is ordinarily involved in claims and lawsuits which arise in the normal course of business, none of which currently, in managements opinion, will have a material affect on the Companys operations or financial position. ITEM 4 SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS Inapplicable. 11 PART II ITEM 5 MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS The following table sets forth the high and low sale prices in the over the counter market for the Companys Common Stock as reported by The NASDAQ National Market System under the symbol EXPD. Common Stock Common Stock Quarter High Low Quarter High Low 2003 2002 First $ 38.00 29.61 First $ 31.17 25.50 Second 37.81 30.75 Second 31.78 27.50 Third 39.28 32.94 Third 33.98 24.94 Fourth 40.83 34.25 Fourth 34.44 26.98 There were 2,634 shareholders of record as of December 31, 2003. Management estimates that there were approximately 21,500 beneficial shareholders at that date. The Board of Directors declared semi annual dividends during the two most recent fiscal years as follows: June 16, 2003 $ .08 December 15, 2003 $ .08 June 17, 2002 $ .06 December 16, 2002 $ .06 ITEM 6 SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA Financial Highlights In thousands except per share data 2003 2002 2001 2000 1999 Revenues $ 2,624,941 2,296,903 1,883,070 1,906,726 1,616,383 Net earnings 121,952 112,529 97,243 83,035 59,175 Basic earnings per share 1.16 1.08 .93 .81 .59 Diluted earnings per share 1.12 1.03 .89 .76 .55 Cash dividends paid per share .16 .12 .10 .07 .05 Working capital 370,057 250,920 238,287 223,423 150,030 Total assets 1,040,847 879,948 688,437 661,740 535,461 Shareholders equity 645,501 523,812 414,623 361,784 282,385 Basic weighted average shares outstanding 104,733 103,893 104,160 102,305 100,274 Diluted weighted average shares outstanding 109,002 108,881 109,741 109,358 107,656 All share and per share information have been adjusted to reflect two 2 for 1 stock splits effected in June, 2002 and May, 1999. 12 SAFE HARBOR FOR FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS UNDER SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995; CERTAIN CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS From time to time, the Company or its representatives have made or may make forward looking statements, orally or in writing. Such forward looking statements may be included in, but not limited to, press releases, oral statements made with the approval of an authorized executive officer or in various filings made by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The words or phrases will likely result, are expected to, will continue, is anticipated, estimate, project or similar expressions are intended to identify forward looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Litigation Reform Act. Such statements are qualified in their entirety by reference to and are accompanied by the following discussion of certain important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from such forward looking statements. The risks included here are not exhaustive. Furthermore, reference is also made to other sections of this report which include additional factors which could adversely impact the Companys business and financial performance. Moreover, the Company operates in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all of such risk factors, nor can it assess the impact of all of such risk factors on the Companys business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward looking statements. Accordingly, forward looking statements cannot be relied upon as a guarantee of actual results. Shareholders should be aware that while the Company does, from time to time, communicate with securities analysts, it is against the Companys policy to disclose to such analysts any material non public information or other confidential commercial information. Accordingly, shareholders should not assume that the Company agrees with any statement or report issued by any analyst irrespective of the content of such statement or report. Furthermore, the Company has a policy against issuing financial forecasts or projections or confirming the accuracy of forecasts or projections issued by others. Accordingly, to the extent that reports issued by securities analysts contain any projections, forecasts or opinions, such reports are not the responsibility of the Company. 13 RISK FACTORS DISCUSSION AND POTENTIAL SIGNIFICANCE International Trade The Company primarily provides services to customers engaged in international commerce. Everything that affects international trade has the potential to expand or contract the Companys primary market. For example, international trade is influenced by: currency exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations; changes in governmental policies; changes in international and domestic customs regulations; wars, acts of terrorism, and other conflicts; natural disasters; changes in consumer attitudes regarding goods made in countries other than their own; and changes in the price and readily available quantities of oil and other petroleum related products. Third Party Vendors The Company is a non asset based supplier of global logistics services. As a result, the Company depends on a variety of asset based third party vendors. The quality and profitability of the Companys services depend upon effective selection, management and discipline of third party vendors. Predictability of Results The Company is not aware of any accurate means of forecasting short term customer requirements. However, long term customer satisfaction depends upon the Companys ability to meet these unpredictable short term customer requirements. Personnel costs, the Companys single largest variable expense, are always less flexible in the very near term as the Company must staff to meet uncertain demand. As a result, short term operating results could be disproportionately affected. Foreign Operations The majority of the Companys revenues and operating income come from operations conducted outside the United States. To maintain a global service network, the Company may be required to operate in hostile locations and in dangerous situations. Key Personnel The Company is a service business. The quality of this service is directly related to the quality of the Companys employees. Identifying, training and retaining key employees is essential to continued growth and future profitability. Continued loyalty to the Company will not be assured by contract. Technology Increasingly, the Company must compete based upon the flexibility and sophistication of the technologies utilized in performing its core businesses. Future results depend upon the Companys success in the cost effective development and integration of communication and information systems technologies. Growth To date, the Company has relied primarily upon organic growth and has tended to avoid growth through acquisition. Future results will depend upon the Companys ability to continue to grow internally or to demonstrate the ability to successfully identify and integrate non dilutive acquisitions. 14 ITEM 7 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Executive Summary Expeditors International of Washington, Inc. is engaged in the business of global logistics management, including international freight forwarding and consolidation, for both air and ocean freight. The Company acts as a customs broker in all domestic offices, and in many of its international offices. The Company also provides additional services for its customers including value added distribution, purchase order management, vendor consolidation and other logistics solutions. The Company does not compete for overnight courier or small parcel business. The Company does not own or operate aircraft or steamships. International trade is influenced by many factors, including economic and political conditions in the United States and abroad, currency exchange rates, and United States and foreign laws and policies relating to tariffs, trade restrictions, foreign investments and taxation. Periodically, governments consider a variety of changes to current tariffs and trade restrictions. The Company cannot predict which, if any, of these proposals may be adopted, nor can the Company predict the affects adoption of any such proposal will have on the Companys business. Doing business in foreign locations also subjects the Company to a variety of risks and considerations not normally encountered by domestic enterprises. In addition to being influenced by governmental policies concerning international trade, the Companys business may also be affected by political developments and changes in government personnel or policies in the nations in which it does business. The Company derives its revenues from three principal sources: airfreight, ocean freight and customs brokerage and import services and these are the revenue categories presented in the financial statements. As a non asset based carrier, the Company does not own transportation assets. Rather, the Company generates the major portion of its air and ocean freight revenues by purchasing transportation services from direct (asset based) carriers and reselling those services to its customers. The difference between the rate billed to customers (the sell rate), and the rate paid to the carrier (the buy rate) is termed Net Revenue or yield. By consolidating shipments from multiple customers and concentrating its buying power, the Company is able to negotiate favorable buy rates from the direct carriers, while at the same time offering lower sell rates than customers would otherwise be able to negotiate themselves. Customs brokerage and import services involves providing services at destination, such as helping customers clear shipments through customs by preparing required documentation, calculating and providing for payment of duties and other taxes on behalf of the customers as well as arranging for any required inspections by governmental agencies, and arranging for delivery. This is a complicated function requiring technical knowledge of customs rules and regulations in the multitude of countries in which the Company has offices. The Companys ability to provide services to its customers is highly dependent on good working relationships with a variety of entities including airlines, ocean steamship lines, and governmental agencies. The significance of maintaining acceptable working relationships with governmental agencies and asset based providers involved in global trade has gained increased importance as a result of ongoing concern over terrorism. As each carrier labors to comply with governmental regulations implementing security policies and procedures, inherent conflicts emerge which can and do affect global trade to some degree. A good reputation helps to develop, to the degree possible, practical working understandings that will effectively meet security requirements while minimizing potential international trade obstacles. The Company considers its current working relationships with these entities to be satisfactory. However, changes in space allotments available from carriers, governmental deregulation efforts, modernization of the regulations governing customs brokerage, and or changes in governmental quota restrictions could affect the Companys business in unpredictable ways. Historically, the Companys operating results have been subject to a seasonal trend when measured on a quarterly basis. The first quarter has traditionally been the weakest and the third and fourth quarters have traditionally been the strongest. This pattern is the result of, or is influenced by, numerous factors including climate, national holidays, consumer demand, economic conditions and a myriad of other similar and subtle forces. In addition, this historical quarterly trend has been influenced by the growth and diversification of the Companys international network and service offerings. The Company cannot accurately forecast many of these factors nor can the Company estimate accurately the relative influence of any particular factor and, as a result, there can be no assurance that historical patterns, if any, will continue in future periods. A significant portion of the Companys revenues are derived from customers in retail industries whose shipping patterns are tied closely to consumer demand, and from customers in industries whose shipping patterns are dependent upon just in time production schedules. Therefore, the timing of the Companys revenues are, to a large degree, impacted by factors out of the Companys control, such as a sudden change in consumer demand for retail goods and or manufacturing production delays. Additionally, many customers ship a significant portion of their goods at or near the end of a quarter, and therefore, the Company may not learn of a shortfall in 15 revenues until late in a quarter. To the extent that a shortfall in revenues or earnings was not expected by securities analysts, any such shortfall from levels predicted by securities analysts could have an immediate and adverse effect on the trading price of the Companys stock. In terms of the opportunities, challenges and risks that management is focused on in 2004, the Company operates in 56 countries throughout the world in the competitive global logistics industry and Company activities are tied directly to the global economy. From the inception of the Company, management has believed that the elements required for a successful global service organization can only be assured through recruiting, training, and ultimately retaining superior personnel. The Companys greatest challenge is now and always has been perpetuating a consistent global culture which demands: Total dedication, first and foremost, to providing superior customer service; Aggressive marketing of all of the Companys service offerings; Ongoing development of key employees and management personnel via formal and informal means; Creation of unlimited advancement opportunities for employees dedicated to hard work, personal growth and continuous improvement; Individual commitment to the identification and mentoring of successors for every key position so that when inevitable change is required, a qualified and well trained internal candidate is ready to step forward; and Continuous identification, design and implementation of system solutions, both technological and otherwise, to meet and exceed the needs of our customers while simultaneously delivering tools to make our employees more efficient and more effective. The Company has reinforced these values with a compensation system that rewards employees for profitably managing the things they can control. There is no limit to how much a key manager can be compensated for success. The Company believes in a real world environment in every operating unit where individuals are not sheltered from the profit implications of their decisions. At the same time, the Company insists on continued focus on such things as accounts receivable collection, cash flow management and credit soundness in an attempt to insulate managers from the sort of catastrophic errors that might end a career. Any failure to perpetuate this unique culture on a self sustained basis throughout the Company, provides a greater threat to the Companys continued success than any external force, which would be largely beyond our control. Consequently, management spends the majority of its time focused on creating an environment where employees can learn and develop while also building systems and taking preventative action to reduce exposure to negative events. The Company strongly believes that it is nearly impossible to predict events that, in the aggregate, could have a positive or a negative impact on future operations. As a result our focus is on building and maintaining a global culture of well trained employees and managers that are prepared to identify and react to subtle changes as they develop and thereby help the Company adapt and thrive as major trends emerge. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates A summary of the Companys significant accounting policies can be found in Note 1 in the consolidated financial statements in this 10 K. Management believes that the nature of the Companys business is such that there are few, if any, complex challenges in accounting for operations. Revenue recognition is considered the critical accounting policy due to the complexity of arranging and managing global logistics and supply chain management transactions. 16 Revenue Recognition Airfreight revenues include the charges to the Company for carrying the shipments when the Company acts as a freight consolidator. Ocean freight revenues include the charges to the Company for carrying the shipments when the Company acts as a Non Vessel Operating Common Carrier (NVOCC). In each case the Company is acting as an indirect carrier. When acting as an indirect carrier, the Company will issue a House Airway Bill (HAWB) or a House Ocean Bill of Lading (HOBL) to customers as the contract of carriage. In turn, when the freight is physically tendered to a direct carrier, the Company receives a contract of carriage known as a Master Airway Bill for airfreight shipments and a Master Ocean Bill of Lading for ocean shipments. At this point, the risk of loss passes to the carrier, however, in order to claim for any such loss, the customer is first obligated to pay the freight charges. Based upon the terms in the contract of carriage, revenues related to shipments where the Company issues an HAWB or an HOBL are recognized at the time the freight is tendered to the direct carrier at origin. Costs related to the shipments are also recognized at this same time. Revenues realized in other capacities, for instance, when the Company acts as an agent for the shipper, and does not issue an HAWB or an HOBL, include only the commissions and fees earned for the services performed. These revenues are recognized upon completion of the services. Similarly, revenues related to customs brokerage and import services are recognized upon completion of the services. Arranging international shipments is a complex task. Each actual movement can require multiple services. In some instances, the Company is asked to perform only one of these services. However, in most instances, the Company may perform multiple services. These services include destination breakbulk services and value added ancillary services such as local transportation, export customs formalities, distribution services and logistics management. Each of these services has an associated fee, which is recognized as revenue upon completion of the service. Typically, the fees for each of these services are quoted as separate components, however, customers on occasion will request an all inclusive rate for a set of services known in the industry as door to door service. This means that the customer is billed a single rate for all services from pickup at origin to delivery at destination. In these instances, the revenue for origin and destination services, as well as revenue that will be characterized as freight charges, is allocated to branches as set by preexisting Company policy perhaps supplemented by customer specific negotiations between the offices involved. Each of the Companys branches are independent profit centers and the primary compensation for the branch management group comes in the form of incentive based compensation calculated directly from the operating income of that branch. This compensation structure ensures that the allocation of revenue and expense among components of services, when provided under an all inclusive rate, are done in an objective manner on a fair value basis, in accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) 00 21, Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables. Estimates While judgments and estimates are a necessary component of any system of accounting, the Companys use of estimates is limited primarily to the following areas that in the aggregate are not a major component of the Companys statement of earnings: accounts receivable valuation, the useful lives of long term assets, the accrual of costs related to ancillary services the Company provides, establishment of adequate insurance liabilities for the portion of the freight related exposure which the Company has self insured, and accrual of tax expense on an interim basis. During the fourth quarter of 2003, the Company provided full U.S. taxation on approximately $41.9 million of foreign earnings accumulated through December 31, 1992, for which U.S. income taxes had not previously been provided, resulting in additional tax expense of $9.5 million. Income taxes had not previously been provided on these earnings as a result of the Companys previous intent to reinvest such earnings indefinitely or to distribute them in a manner in which no significant additional taxes would be incurred. The Companys decision to provide U.S. taxes on all unremitted foreign earnings was made based upon the desire to be able to deploy capital globally without concern for the impact of associated U.S. tax obligations that might be incurred as a result of the repatriation of these earnings. Management believes that the methods utilized in all of these areas are non aggressive in approach and consistent in application. Management believes that there are limited, if any, alternative accounting principles or methods which could be applied to the Companys transactions. While the use of estimates means that actual future results may be different from those contemplated by the estimates, the Company believes that alternative principles and methods used for making such estimates would not produce materially different results than those reported. 17 Recent Accounting Pronouncements In June 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (SFAS) No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations which addresses financial accounting and reporting for obligations associated with the retirement of tangible long lived assets and for the associated asset retirement costs. The standard applies to legal obligations associated with the retirement of long lived assets that result from the acquisition, construction or development and or normal use of the asset. The Company adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 143 beginning in the first quarter of 2003. Adoption of SFAS No. 143 had no material impact on the Companys consolidated financial condition or results of operations. In June 2002, SFAS No. 146, Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities was issued which addresses financial accounting and reporting for costs associated with exit or disposal activities and nullifies EITF 94 3, Liability Recognition for Certain Employee Termination Benefits and Other Costs to Exit an Activity (including Certain Costs Incurred in a Restructuring). The Company adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 146 beginning in the first quarter of 2003. Adoption of SFAS No. 146 had no material impact on the Companys consolidated financial condition or results of operations. In November 2002, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 45 (FIN 45), Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others, which clarifies disclosure and recognition/measurement requirements related to certain guarantees. The disclosure requirements are effective for financial statements issued after December 15, 2002 and the recognition/measurement requirements are effective on a prospective basis for guarantees issued or modified after December 31, 2002. The provisions of FIN 45 require the Company to value and record the liability for any indirect or direct guarantees of the indebtedness of others entered into after December 31, 2002. The Company adopted the recognition and measurement provisions of FIN 45 beginning in the first quarter of 2003. As of December 31, 2003, the Company had no material obligations under guarantees that fall within the scope of FIN 45. In November 2002, the EITF reached a consensus on Issue No. 00 21 (EITF 00 21), Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables. EITF 00 21 addresses certain aspects of the accounting by a vendor for arrangements under which the vendor will perform multiple revenue generating activities. EITF 00 21 became effective for periods beginning after June 15, 2003. The Companys adoption of the provisions of EITF 00 21 beginning in the third quarter of 2003 had no impact on the Companys consolidated financial position or results of operations. In December 2003, the FASB issued revised Interpretation No. 46, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities (Revised), an Interpretation of ARB No. 51, (FIN 46R). FIN 46R addresses the consolidation by business enterprises of variable interest entities as defined in FIN 46R. The provisions of FIN 46R are generally effective for public entities that have interests in variable interest entities or potential variable interest entities commonly referred to as special purpose entities for periods ending after December 15, 2003. Application by public entities (other than small business issuers) for all other types of entities is required in financial statements for periods ending after March 15, 2004. The Company adopted only the disclosure provisions of FIN 46R in the fourth quarter of 2003 and will adopt the remaining provisions of FIN 46R in the first quarter of 2004. The Company does not expect adoption of the remaining provisions of FIN 46R to have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial condition or results of operations. 18 Results of Operations The following table shows the consolidated net revenues (revenues less transportation expenses) attributable to the Companys principal services and the Companys expenses for 2003, 2002, and 2001, expressed as percentages of net revenues. Management believes that net revenues are a better measure than total revenues of the relative importance of the Companys principal services since total revenues earned by the Company as a freight consolidator include the carriers charges to the Company for carrying the shipment whereas revenues earned by the Company in its other capacities include only the commissions and fees actually earned by the Company. 2003 2002 2001 In thousands Amount Percent of net revenues Amount Percent of net revenues Amount Percent of net revenues Net Revenues: Airfreight $ 278,968 37 % $ 284,954 42 % $ 254,502 42 % Ocean freight and ocean services 191,116 26 164,114 24 138,881 23 Customs brokerage and import services 280,426 37 233,145 34 213,153 35 Net revenues 750,510 100 682,213 100 606,536 100 Operating Expenses: Salaries and related costs 398,475 53 359,769 53 325,545 54 Other 165,273 22 151,435 22 134,974 22 Total operating expenses 563,748 75 511,204 75 460,519 76 Operating income 186,762 25 171,009 25 146,017 24 Other income, net 8,880 1 8,201 1 8,497 1 Earnings before income taxes and minority interest 195,642 26 179,210 26 154,514 25 Income tax expense 71,142 10 65,461 10 57,051 9 Net earnings before minority interest 124,500 16 113,749 16 97,463 16 Minority interest (2,548 ) (1,220 ) (220 ) Net earnings $ 121,952 16 % $ 112,529 16 % $ 97,243 16 % 2003 compared with 2002 Airfreight net revenues in 2003 decreased 2% compared with 2002. Global airfreight tonnages in 2003 were comparable with those in 2002. The decrease in 2003 airfreight net revenues was a reflection of an overall decline in airfreight yields and an inability to increase 2003 airfreight tonnages beyond those levels experienced in 2002. Airfreight tonnages and yields in 2002 were an anomaly as the airfreight markets were swamped by cargo that would otherwise have moved by ocean, but did not due to the disruption caused by the labor disputes in the west coast ports of the United States. The 1% decrease in airfreight yields in 2003 was primarily a result of air carriers increasing their rates such that the Company was unable to increase its corresponding rates to customers in a timely and effective manner. The Company elected to absorb these short term decreases in the interest of maintaining long term customer relationships. The Companys North American export airfreight net revenues decreased 5% in 2003 compared to 2002. Airfreight net revenues from the Far East and from Europe decreased 11% and increased 26%, respectively, for 2003 compared with 2002. Ocean freight volumes, measured in terms of forty foot container equivalent units (FEUs), increased 23% over 2002 while ocean freight and ocean services net revenues increased only 16% during the same period. The difference in these two growth rates is a result of a 252 basis point decline in ocean freight yields. In May 2003, ocean freight carriers implemented substantial rate increases. In order to gain market share and maintain its focus on long term customer relationships, the Company chose not to immediately pass on the full rate increases. The resulting increase in ocean freight volumes more than offset the revenue foregone by not implementing the full rate increases. The Company continued its focus of offering competitive rates to customers at the retail level, while leveraging freight volumes to 19 obtain favorable rates from carriers at the wholesale level. Expeditors Cargo Management Systems (ECMS), an ocean freight consolidation management and purchase order tracking service, continued to be instrumental in attracting new business. The Companys North American export ocean freight net revenues decreased 3% in 2003 compared to 2002. This decrease was a result of the Company handling more ocean shipments moving from North America to the Far East, a market which has lower profit per container, and, to a lesser extent, from North America to Europe, a market which has higher profit per container. Ocean freight net revenues from the Far East and from Europe increased 24%, respectively, for 2003 compared with 2002. Customs brokerage and import services net revenues increased 20% in 2003 as compared with 2002 as a result of the Companys growing reputation for providing high quality service and consolidation within the customs brokerage market as customers seek out customs brokers with more sophisticated computerized capabilities critical to an overall logistics management program. Salaries and related costs increased 11% in 2003 compared to 2002 as a result of (1) the Companys increased, albeit limited, hiring of sales, operations, and administrative personnel in existing and new offices to accommodate increases in business activity and (2) increased compensation levels. Salaries and related costs remained constant as a percentage of net revenues. The relatively consistent relationship between salaries and net revenues is the result of a compensation philosophy that has been maintained since the inception of the Company: offer a modest base salary and the opportunity to share in a fixed and determinable percentage of the operating profit of the business unit controlled by each key employee. Using this compensation model, changes in individual compensation will occur in proportion to changes in Company profits. Management believes that the growth in revenues, net revenues and net earnings for 2003 are a result of the incentives inherent in the Companys compensation program. Other operating expenses increased in 2003 as compared with 2002 as rent expense, communications expense, quality and training expenses, and other costs expanded to accommodate the Companys growing operations. Other operating expenses as a percentage of net revenues remained constant in 2003 as compared with 2002. Management believes that this was significant as it reflects the successful achievement of cost containment objectives initiated at the branch level. The ability to sustain these savings into future periods is contingent upon branch level managements ability to adhere to these objectives. Other income, net, increased in 2003 as compared with 2002. Due to much lower interest rates on higher average cash balances and short term investments during 2003, interest income decreased by $1.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. Rental income, net of applicable depreciation, of $3.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2003, is included in other income. The rental income is derived from two of the Companys properties, one located near Heathrow airport in London, England and an office and warehouse facility near the San Francisco, California International Airport. Other income in the year ended December 31, 2002 includes the $1.5 million gain on the sale of the Companys former Dublin, Ireland facility. The Company pays income taxes in the United States and other jurisdictions, as well as other taxes which are typically included in costs of operations. The Companys consolidated effective income tax rate in 2003 of 36.4% is comparable to the 36.5% rate in 2002. In the fourth quarter of 2003, the Company recorded additional tax expense of $9.5 million in order to provide full U.S. taxation on approximately $41.9 million of foreign earnings accumulated through December 31, 1992, for which U.S. income taxes had not previously been provided. Income taxes had not previously been provided on these earnings as a result of the Companys previous intent to reinvest such earnings indefinitely or to distribute them in a manner in which no significant additional taxes would be incurred. Also during the fourth quarter of 2003, the Company eliminated $8 million of certain taxes which the Company had previously expected to pay. Upon recent analysis of the state tax implications of the Companys pattern of remitting foreign earnings, the Company has determined that these taxes are not owed. 2002 compared with 2001 Airfreight net revenues in 2002 increased 12% compared with 2001 primarily due to increased airfreight tonnages handled in 2002 as compared with 2001. Airfreight margins decreased approximately 2% during 2002 as compared with 2001 as a result of rate increases initiated by air carriers during the third and fourth quarters in response to excess air cargo demands associated with the port disruptions on the west coast of the United States. Efficient consolidations of dense and fluffy (volumetric) freight allowed the Company to optimize purchased transportation costs while still offering competitive rates to customers. The Companys North American export airfreight net revenues decreased 2% in 2002 compared to 2001. Airfreight net revenues from the Far East and from Europe increased 22% and 12%, respectively, for 2002 compared with 2001. Airfreight rates on Far East to North American trade lanes, the Companys most dominant lane, remained strong throughout 2002, and were particularly strong during the fourth quarter. Ocean freight and ocean services net revenues increased 18% in 2002 compared to 2001. Ocean freight demand remained strong throughout 2002. Ocean freight rates from the Far East, the Companys largest trade lane fell throughout the year. Ocean freight volumes increased during the last half of 2002, despite a 10 day disruption in service at the ports located on the west coast of the United States. The aftermath of this disruption continued throughout the fourth quarter. Management believes that the Companys continued strong performance through this work disruption is a significant indication of both the strength of the Companys relationships with its vendors and the expertise of its staff. During 2002, management continued to expand market share, increase ocean tonnage, and increase net ocean freight revenues while offering competitive market rates to customers. Changes in the regulatory environment in the United States continued to create new opportunities for the Companys NVOCC operations to provide 20 services to customers who had previously dealt directly with the ocean carriers. Margins decreased 1% in 2002 as compared with 2001 because the Company reduced rates to increase volumes in response to an environment of falling prices which were a result of the overcapacity situation that existed in the ocean markets. The Company continued its focus of offering competitive rates to customers at the retail level, while leveraging freight volumes to obtain favorable rates from carriers at the wholesale level. ECMS, an ocean freight consolidation management and purchase order tracking service, continued to be instrumental in attracting new business. The Companys North American export ocean freight net revenues increased 18% in 2002 compared to 2001. This increase was a result of the Company handling more ocean shipments moving from North America to the Far East and, to a lesser extent, from North America to Europe. Ocean freight net revenues from the Far East and from Europe increased 21% and 14%, respectively, for 2002 compared with 2001. Customs brokerage and import services net revenues increased 9% in 2002 as compared with 2001 as a result of the Companys growing reputation for providing high quality service and consolidation within the customs brokerage market as customers seek out customs brokers with more sophisticated computerized capabilities critical to an overall logistics management program. Salaries and related costs increased in 2002 compared to 2001 as a result of (1) the Companys increased hiring of sales, operations, and administrative personnel in existing offices to accommodate increases in business activity and (2) increased compensation levels. Salaries and related costs decreased 1% as a percentage of net revenues. Other operating expenses increased in 2002 as compared with 2001 as rent expense, communications expense, quality and training expenses, and other costs expanded to accommodate the Companys growing operations. Other operating expenses as a percentage of net revenues remained constant in 2002 as compared with 2001. Management believes that this was significant as it reflects the successful achievement of cost containment objectives initiated at the branch level. The ability to sustain these savings into future periods is contingent upon branch level managements ability to adhere to these objectives. During the fourth quarter of 2002, the Company evaluated the recoverability of certain other assets and determined that an impairment had occurred. Accordingly, a $3.5 million loss was recorded as an operating expense. Other income, net, decreased in 2002 as compared with 2001. Due to much lower interest rates on higher average cash balances and short term investments during 2002, interest income decreased by $2.9 million. The decrease in interest income during the year ended December 31, 2002, was offset by a $1.5 million gain on the sale of the Companys former Dublin, Ireland facility. The Company pays income taxes in the United States and other jurisdictions, as well as other taxes which are typically included in costs of operations. The Companys consolidated effective income tax rate in 2002 was 36.5%, down from the 36.9% rate experienced in 2001. The .4% decrease was caused primarily by a reduction in state tax expense required to be paid by the Company. Currency and Other Risk Factors International air/ocean freight forwarding and customs brokerage are intensively competitive and are expected to remain so for the foreseeable future. There are a large number of entities competing in the international logistics industry; however, the Companys primary competition is confined to a relatively small number of companies within this group. While there is currently a marked trend within the industry toward consolidation into large firms with multinational offices and agency networks, regional and local broker/forwarders remain a competitive force. Historically, the primary competitive factors in the international logistics industry have been price and quality of service, including reliability, responsiveness, expertise, convenience, and scope of operations. The Company emphasizes quality service and believes that its prices are competitive with those of others in the industry. Customers have exhibited a trend towards more sophisticated and efficient procedures for the management of the logistics supply chain by embracing strategies such as just in time inventory management. Accordingly, sophisticated computerized customer service capabilities and a stable worldwide network have become significant factors in attracting and retaining customers. Developing these systems and a worldwide network has added a considerable indirect cost to the services provided to customers. Smaller and middle tier competitors, in general, do not have the resources available to develop customized systems and a worldwide network. As a result, there is a significant amount of consolidation currently taking place in the industry. Management expects that this trend toward consolidation will continue for the short to medium term. The nature of the Companys worldwide operations necessitates the Company dealing with a multitude of currencies other than the 21 U.S. Dollar. This results in the Company being exposed to the inherent risks of the international currency markets and governmental interference. Some of the countries where the Company maintains offices and or agency relationships have strict currency control regulations which influence the Companys ability to hedge foreign currency exposure. The Company tries to compensate for these exposures by accelerating international currency settlements among its offices or agents. The Company enters into foreign currency hedging transactions only in limited locations where there are regulatory or commercial limitations on the Companys ability to move money freely around the world or the short term financial outlook in any country is such that hedging is the most time sensitive way to avoid short term exchange losses. Any such hedging activity during 2003, 2002 and 2001 was insignificant. Net foreign currency gains realized in 2003 and 2002 were $588,000 and $70,000, respectively. Net foreign currency losses realized during 2001 were $366,000. The Company had no foreign currency derivatives outstanding at December 31, 2003 and 2002. The Company has traditionally generated revenues from airfreight, ocean freight and customs brokerage and import services. In light of the customer driven trend to provide customer rates on a door to door basis, management foresees the potential, in the medium to long term, for fees normally associated with customs house brokerage to be de emphasized and included as a component of other services offered by the Company. Sources of Growth Historically, growth through aggressive acquisition has proven to be a challenge for many of the Companys competitors and typically involves the purchase of significant goodwill, the value of which can be realized in large measure only by retaining the customers and profit margins of the acquired business. As a result, the Company has pursued a strategy emphasizing organic growth supplemented by certain strategic acquisitions, where future economic benefit significantly exceeds the goodwill recorded in the transaction. Office Additions The Company opened 3 start up offices and one office through an acquisition during 2003. The office added through an acquisition is followed by an asterisk. North America South America USA: COSTA RICA: Austin, Texas San Jose* Orlando, Florida Tampa, Florida During 2003, the Company closed its Luton, England office and consolidated those operations with the operations of its London, England office. Internal Growth Management believes that a comparison of same store growth is critical in the evaluation of the quality and extent of the Companys internally generated growth. This same store analysis isolates the financial contributions from offices that have been included in the Companys operating results for at least one full year. The table below presents same store comparisons on a year over year basis for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001. Same store comparisons for the years ended December 31, 2003 2002 2001 Net revenues 10 % 12 % 7 % Operating income 9 % 16 % 13 % Liquidity and Capital Resources The Companys principal source of liquidity is cash generated from operating activities. Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2003 was approximately $114 million, as compared with $116 million for 2002. This $2 million decrease is principally due to increased accounts receivable, offset by increased net earnings and increased accounts payable, accrued expenses and taxes payable. Increased accounts receivable is primarily due to slower collections on certain large technology accounts required to meet current market conditions. Increases in accounts payable and accrued expenses are a result of the Companys attempts to manage cash flows by matching the timing of cash outflows for payments to vendors with cash inflows from collections of customer billings. The Companys business is subject to seasonal fluctuations. Cash flow fluctuates as a result of this seasonality. Historically, the first quarter shows an excess of customer collections over customer billings. This results in positive cash flow. The increased activity 22 associated with peak season (typically commencing late second or early third quarter) causes an excess of customer billings over customer collections. This cyclical growth in customer receivables consumes available cash. In the past, the Company has utilized short term borrowings to satisfy normal operating expenditures when temporary cash outflows exceed cash inflows. These short term borrowings have been repaid when the trend reverses and customer collections exceed customer billings. During 2003, short term borrowings were not required in the United States despite the intense cash flow pressures in this market due to funds advanced in association with customs brokerage activity. As a customs broker, the Company makes significant 5 10 business day cash advances for certain of its customers obligations such as the payment of duties to the Bureau of Customs and Border Protection. These advances are made as an accommodation for a select group of credit worthy customers. Cash advances are a pass through and are not recorded as a component of revenue and expense. The billings of such advances to customers are accounted for as a direct increase in accounts receivable to the customer and a corresponding increase in accounts payable to governmental customs authorities. As a result of these pass through billings, the conventional Days Sales Outstanding or DSO calculation does not directly measure collection efficiency. Cash used in investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2003 was $26 million, as compared with $113 million during the same period of 2002. The largest use of cash in investing activities is cash paid for capital expenditures. As a non asset based provider of integrated logistics services, the Company does not own any physical means of transportation (i.e., airplanes, ships, trucks, etc.). However, the Company does have need, on occasion, to purchase buildings to house staff and to facilitate the staging of customers freight. The Company routinely invests in technology, office furniture and equipment and leasehold improvements. For the year ended December 31, 2003, the Company made capital expenditures of $21 million as compared with $81 million for the same period in 2002. Capital expenditures in 2002 included $59 million for acquisitions of real estate and office/warehouse facilities in New Jersey and the United Kingdom. Other capital expenditures in 2003 and 2002 related primarily to investments in technology and office furniture and equipment. Cash of $31.3 million was paid into escrow during 2002 to acquire an office and warehouse facility near the San Francisco, California International Airport; the transaction closed on January 7, 2003. The Company currently expects to spend approximately $33 million for normal capital expenditures in 2004. In addition to property and equipment, normal capital expenditures include leasehold improvements, warehouse equipment, computer hardware and furniture and fixtures. The Company expects to finance capital expenditures in 2004, with cash. Cash used in financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2003 was $18 million as compared with $13 million for the same period in 2002. The Company uses the proceeds from stock option exercises to repurchase the Companys stock on the open market. The differences between proceeds from the issuance of common stock and the amounts paid to repurchase common stock for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002 represent a timing difference in the receipt of proceeds and the subsequent repurchase of outstanding shares. In 2001, the Company repurchased 2,000,000 shares at an average price of $22.56 per share under a discretionary plan authorized by the Board of Directors. In November 2001, the Board of Directors voted to allow the repurchase of such shares as may be necessary to reduce the issued and outstanding stock to 100,000,000 shares of common stock. No repurchases were made under this plan in 2003 and 2002. During 2003 and 2002 the net use of cash in financing activities was primarily for the payment of dividends of $.16 per share and $.12 per share, respectively. At December 31, 2003, working capital was $370 million, including cash and short term investments of $296 million. The Company had no long term debt at December 31, 2003. While the nature of its business does not require an extensive investment in property and equipment, the Company cannot eliminate the possibility that it could acquire an equity interest in property in certain geographic locations. The Company borrows internationally and domestically under unsecured bank lines of credit. At December 31, 2003, the U.S. facility totaled $50 million and the international bank lines of credit totaled $14.9 million. In addition, the Company maintains bank facilities with U.K. banks for $21.4 million. At December 31, 2003, the Company was directly liable for $0.2 million drawn on these lines of credit and was contingently liable for an additional $51.9 million from standby letters of credit and guarantees related to these lines of credit and other obligations. The guarantees relate to obligations of the Companys foreign subsidiaries for credit extended in the ordinary course of business by direct carriers, primarily airlines, and for duty and tax deferrals available from governmental entities responsible for customs and value added tax (VAT) taxation. The total underlying amounts due and payable for transportation and governmental excises are properly recorded as obligations in the books of the respective foreign subsidiaries, and there would be no need to record additional expense in the unlikely event the parent company were to be required to perform. 23 At December 31, 2003, the Companys contractual obligations and other commitments are as follows: Payments Due by Period In thousands Total Less than 1 year 1 3 years 4 5 years After 5 years Contractual Obligations: Operating leases $ 92,850 33,580 44,305 10,733 4,232 Unconditional purchase obligations 94,360 94,360 Total contractual cash obligations $ 187,210 127,940 44,305 10,733 4,232 The Company enters into short term agreements with asset based providers reserving space on a guaranteed basis. The pricing of these obligations varies to some degree with market conditions. The Company only enters into agreements that management believes the Company can fulfill with relative ease. Historically, the Company has not paid for guaranteed space that it has not used. Management believes, in line with historical experience, committed purchase obligations outstanding as of December 31, 2003, will be fulfilled during 2004 in the Companys ordinary course of business. Total Amount of Commitment Expiration Per Period In thousands amounts committed Less than 1 year 1 3 years 4 5 years After 5 years Other Commitments: Lines of credit $ 64,866 64,678 188 Credit facility 21,429 21,375 54 Standby letters of credit 50,348 46,995 810 2,530 13 Total commitments $ 136,643 133,048 998 2,530 67 The Company has a Non Discretionary Stock Repurchase Plan to repurchase shares from the proceeds of stock option exercises. As of December 31, 2003, the Company had repurchased and retired 5,815,182 shares of common stock at an average price of $14.57 per share over the period from 1994 through 2003. During 2003, 565,374 shares were repurchased at an average price of $35.56 per share. Management believes that the Companys current cash position, bank financing arrangements, and operating cash flows will be sufficient to meet its capital and liquidity requirements for the foreseeable future, including meeting any contingent liabilities related to standby letters of credit and other obligations. In some cases, the Companys ability to repatriate funds from foreign operations may be subject to foreign exchange controls. At December 31, 2003, cash and cash equivalent balances of $132.2 million were held by the Companys non U.S. subsidiaries, of which $44.9 million was held in banks in the United States. During the fourth quarter of 2003, the Company provided full U.S. taxation on approximately $41.9 million of foreign earnings accumulated through December 31, 1992, for which U.S. income taxes had not previously been provided, resulting in additional tax expense of $9.5 million. Income taxes had not previously been provided on these earnings as a result of the Companys previous intent to reinvest such earnings indefinitely or to distribute them in a manner in which no significant additional taxes would be incurred. The Companys decision to provide U.S. taxes on all unremitted foreign earnings was made based upon the desire to be able to deploy capital globally without concern for the impact of associated U.S. tax obligations that might be incurred as a result of the repatriation of these earnings. Impact of Inflation To date, the Companys business has not been adversely affected by inflation, nor has the Company experienced significant difficulty in passing carrier rate increases on to its customers by means of price increases. Direct carrier rate increases could occur over the short to medium term period. Due to the high degree of competition in the market place, these rate increases might lead to an erosion in the Companys margins. As the Company is not required to purchase or maintain extensive property and equipment and has not otherwise incurred substantial interest rate sensitive indebtedness, the Company currently has limited direct exposure to increased costs resulting from increases in interest rates. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements As of December 31, 2003, the Company did not have any material off balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Regulation S K. 24 ITEM 7A QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The Company is exposed to market risks in the ordinary course of its business. These risks are primarily related to foreign exchange risk and changes in short term interest rates. The potential impact of the Companys exposure to these risks is presented below: Foreign Exchange Risk The Company conducts business in many different countries and currencies. The Companys business often results in revenue billings issued in a country and currency which differs from that where the expenses related to the service are incurred. In the ordinary course of business, the Company creates numerous intercompany transactions. This brings a market risk to the Companys earnings. Foreign exchange rate sensitivity analysis can be quantified by estimating the impact on the Companys earnings as a result of hypothetical changes in the value of the U.S. Dollar, the Companys functional currency, relative to the other currencies in which the Company transacts business. All other things being equal, an average 10% weakening of the U.S. Dollar, throughout the year ended December 31, 2003, would have had the effect of raising operating income approximately $12.9 million. An average 10% strengthening of the U.S. Dollar, for the same period, would have the effect of reducing operating income approximately $10.5 million. The Company has approximately $7 million of intercompany transactions unsettled at any one point in time. The Company currently does not use derivative financial instruments to manage foreign currency risk and only enters into foreign currency hedging transactions in limited locations where regulatory or commercial limitations restrict the Companys ability to move money freely around the world. Any such hedging activity throughout the year ended December 31, 2003, was insignificant. The Company had no foreign currency derivatives outstanding at December 31, 2003 and 2002. The Company instead follows a policy of accelerating international currency settlements to manage foreign exchange risk relative to intercompany billings. The majority of intercompany billings are resolved within 30 days and intercompany billings arising in the normal course of business are fully settled within 90 days. Interest Rate Risk At December 31, 2003, the Company had cash and cash equivalents and short term investments of $295.9 million and short term borrowings of $0.2 million, all subject to variable short term interest rates. A hypothetical change in the interest rate of 10% would have an insignificant impact on the Companys earnings. In managements opinion, there has been no material change in the Companys market risk exposure between 2002 and 2003. 25 
 
Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in this report. PART I ITEM 1 BUSINESS Expeditors International of Washington, Inc. is engaged in the business of providing global logistics services. The Company offers its customers a seamless international network supporting the movement and strategic positioning of goods. The Companys services include the consolidation or forwarding of air and ocean freight. In each U.S. office, and in many overseas offices, the Company acts as a customs broker. The Company also provides additional services including distribution management, vendor consolidation, cargo insurance, purchase order management and customized logistics information. The Company does not compete for domestic freight, overnight courier or small parcel business and does not own aircraft or steamships. The Company, including its majority owned subsidiaries, operates full service offices ( ) in the cities identified below. Full service offices have also been established in locations where the Company maintains unilateral control over assets and operations and where the existence of the parent subsidiary relationship is maintained by means other than record ownership of voting stock (#). In other cities, the Company contracts with independent agents to provide required services and has established over 120 such relationships world wide. Locations where Company employees perform sales and customer service functions are identified below as international service centers (*). In each case, the opening date for the full service office or international service center is set forth in parenthesis. NORTH AMERICA UNITED STATES Dallas (5/92) * Rochester (10/97) MEXICO Seattle (5/79) Columbus (6/92) McAllen (4/98) Mexico City (6/95) Chicago (7/81) Charlotte (7/92) Pittsburgh (6/99) Nuevo Laredo (4/97) San Francisco (7/81) Newark (9/94) Savannah (3/00) Guadalajara (9/97) New York (11/81) Philadelphia (3/95) Washington, D.C. (9/00) Nogales (1/99) Los Angeles (5/82) Charleston (6/95) Kansas City (8/00) Ciudad Juarez (5/00) Atlanta (8/83) Memphis (8/95) Nashville (10/01) Boston (11/85) Salt Lake City (11/95) Austin (02/03) SOUTH AND CENTRAL AMERICA Miami (3/86) * Syracuse (4/96) Orlando (08/03) Minneapolis (7/86) Norfolk (9/96) Tampa (09/03) ARGENTINA Denver (2/88) Indianapolis (11/96) Buenos Aires (1/98) Detroit (7/88) Port Huron Blue Water Bridge (12/96) Portland (7/88) Detroit Ambassador Bridge (12/96) PUERTO RICO BRAZIL Cincinnati (8/89) Lewiston Queenston (12/96) San Juan (5/95) Sao Paulo (9/95) Cleveland (7/90) Dearborn (1/97) Rio de Janeiro (9/95) Phoenix (7/91) Buffalo Peace Bridge (1/97) CANADA Campinas (9/95) Louisville (10/91) El Paso (1/97) Toronto (5/84) Santos (10/97) St. Louis (4/92) Laredo (2/97) Vancouver (9/95) Manaus (7/00) Houston (4/92) Nogales (2/97) Montreal (4/99) Belo Horizonte (12/00) Baltimore (4/92) San Diego (7/97) Curitiba (3/01) 2 SOUTH AND CENTRAL AMERICA (cont). MARIANA ISLANDS ITALY INDIA CHILE Saipan (7/00) Milan (4/93) New Delhi (7/96) Santiago (2/95) Verona (4/93) Mumbai (Bombay) (1/97) PHILIPPINES Florence (3/98) Bangalore (6/97) COLOMBIA Manila (8/98) Chennai (Madras) (6/97) Bogota (12/98) THE NETHERLANDS Cali (12/98) SINGAPORE Amsterdam (6/94) KUWAIT Singapore (9/81) Rotterdam (3/95) # Kuwait City (7/97) COSTA RICA San Jose (10/03) TAIWAN PORTUGAL LEBANON # Taipei (9/81) Lisbon (10/91) Beirut (8/99) VENEZUELA # Kaohsiung (9/81) Oporto (10/91) Caracas (1/01) # Taichung (9/81) PAKISTAN # Hsin Chu (9/89) SPAIN Karachi (9/96) FAR EAST Barcelona (1/94) Lahore (9/96) THAILAND Madrid (1/94) BANGLADESH Bangkok (9/94) Alicante (4/96) SAUDI ARABIA Dhaka (6/89) # Riyadh (7/92) Chittagong (8/93) VIETNAM SWEDEN # Jeddah (7/92) Ho Chi Minh City (5/00) Stockholm (1/94) CAMBODIA Goteborg (1/94) SRI LANKA Phnom Penh (4/00) EUROPE Colombo (3/95) SWITZERLAND CHINA AUSTRIA Chiasso (2/01) TURKEY Beijing (7/94) Vienna (11/95) Ankara (1/99) Guangzhou (4/94) UNITED KINGDOM Istanbul (1/99) Dalian (7/94) BELGIUM London (4/86) Izmir (1/99) Shanghai (7/94) Brussels (7/90) Manchester (11/88) Mersin (1/99) Shenzhen (7/94) Antwerp (4/91) Birmingham (3/90) Qingdao (7/94) Glasgow (4/92) U.A.E. Tianjin (7/94) THE CZECH REPUBLIC Swindon/Bristol (3/97) * Abu Dhabi (1/94) Xian (7/94) Prague (6/98) East Midlands (1/99) Dubai (10/98) Xiamen (7/94) Belfast (09/01) Nanjing (8/95) FINLAND CYPRUS Helsinki (4/94) AUSTRALASIA * Nicosia (6/96) HONG KONG * Larnaca (1/98) Kowloon (9/81) FRANCE AUSTRALIA Paris (1/97) Sydney (8/88) AFRICA INDONESIA Mulhouse (1/97) Melbourne (8/88) Jakarta (12/90) Lyon (1/97) Brisbane (10/93) SOUTH AFRICA # Surabaya (2/92) Lille (3/97) Perth (12/94) Johannesburg (3/94) Bordeaux (7/00) Adelaide (10/97) Durban (3/94) JAPAN Capetown (1/97) Tokyo (1/01) GERMANY FIJI Osaka (1/01) Frankfurt (4/92) * Nadi (7/96) MADAGASCAR Munich (4/92) * Suva (5/97) Antananarivo (11/01) KOREA Dusseldorf (4/92) Pusan (10/94) Stuttgart (4/92) NEW ZEALAND MAURITIUS Seoul (10/94) Hamburg (1/93) Auckland (8/88) Port Louis (7/99) Bupyung (6/96) Nuremberg (1/01) Chonan (6/96) NEAR/MIDDLE EAST Kwangju (6/96) HUNGARY Kumi (6/96) Budapest (4/00) EGYPT Masan (6/96) Cairo (2/95) Taegu (6/96) IRELAND Alexandria (2/95) Dublin (3/97) MALAYSIA Cork (3/97) GREECE Penang (11/87) Shannon (3/97) Athens (2/99) Kuala Lumpur (6/90) Johor Bahru (11/94) 3 The Company was incorporated in the State of Washington in May 1979. Its executive offices are located at 1015 Third Avenue, 12th Floor, Seattle, Washington, and its telephone number is (206) 674 3400. The Companys Internet address is http://www.expeditors.com. The Company makes available free of charge on or through its Internet website its annual report on Form 10 K, quarterly reports on Form 10 Q, current reports on Form 8 K, and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). For information concerning the amount of revenues, net revenues, operating income, identifiable assets, capital expenditures and depreciation and amortization attributable to the geographic areas in which the Company conducts its business, see Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Beginning in 1981, the Companys primary business focus was on airfreight shipments from the Far East to the United States and related customs brokerage and import services. In the mid 1980s, the Company began to expand its service capabilities in export airfreight, ocean freight and distribution services. Today the Company offers a complete range of global logistics services to a diversified group of customers, both in terms of industry specialization and geographic location. As opportunities for profitable growth arise, the Company plans to create new offices. While the Company has historically expanded through organic growth, the Company has also been open to growth through acquisition of, or establishing joint ventures with, existing agents or others within the industry. Airfreight Services Airfreight services accounted for approximately 37, 42, and 42 percent of the Companys 2003, 2002, and 2001 consolidated revenues net of freight consolidation expenses (net revenues), respectively. When performing airfreight services, the Company typically acts either as a freight consolidator or as an agent for the airline which carries the shipment. When acting as a freight consolidator, the Company purchases cargo space from airlines on a volume basis and resells that space to its customers at lower rates than the customers could obtain directly from airlines. When moving shipments between points where the volume of business does not facilitate consolidation, the Company receives and forwards individual shipments as the agent of the airline which carries the shipment. Whether acting as an agent or consolidator, the Company offers its customers knowledge of optimum routing, familiarity with local business practices, knowledge of export and import documentation and procedures, the ability to arrange for ancillary services, and assistance with space availability in periods of peak demand. In its airfreight forwarding operations, the Company procures shipments from its customers, determines the routing, consolidates shipments bound for a particular airport distribution point, and selects the airline for transportation to the distribution point. At the distribution point, the Company or its agent arranges for the consolidated lot to be broken down into its component shipments and for the transportation of the individual shipments to their final destinations. The Company estimates its average airfreight consolidation weighs approximately 3,500 to 4,500 pounds and includes merchandise from several shippers. Because shipment by air is relatively expensive compared with ocean transportation, air shipments are generally characterized by a high value to weight ratio, the need for rapid delivery, or both. The Company typically delivers shipments from a Company warehouse at the origin to the airline after consolidating the freight into containers or onto pallets. Shipments normally arrive at the destination distribution point within forty eight hours after such delivery. During peak shipment periods, cargo space available from the scheduled air carriers can be limited and backlogs of freight shipments may occur. When these conditions exist, the Company may charter aircraft to meet customer demand. The Company consolidates individual shipments based on weight and volume characteristics in cost effective combinations. Typically, as the weight or volume of a shipment increases, the cost per pound/kilo or cubic inch/centimeter charged by the Company decreases. The rates charged by airlines to forwarders and others also generally decrease as the weight or volume of the shipment increases. As a result, by aggregating shipments and presenting them to an airline as a single shipment, the Company is able to obtain a lower rate per pound/kilo or cubic inch/centimeter than that which it charges to its customers for the individual shipment, while generally offering the customer a lower rate than could be obtained from the airline for an unconsolidated shipment. The Companys net airfreight forwarding revenues from a consolidated shipment include the differential between the rate charged to the Company by an airline and the rate which the Company charges to its customers, commissions paid to the Company by the airline carrying the freight and fees for ancillary services. Such ancillary services provided by the Company include preparation of shipping and customs documentation, packing, crating and insurance services, negotiation of letters of credit, and preparation of documentation to comply with local export laws. When the Company acts as an agent for an airline handling an unconsolidated 4 shipment, its net revenues are primarily derived from commissions paid by the airline and fees for ancillary services paid by the customer. The Company does not own aircraft and does not plan to do so. Management believes that the ownership of aircraft would subject the Company to undue business risks, including large capital outlays, increased fixed operating expenses, problems of fully utilizing aircraft and competition with airlines. Because the Company relies on commercial airlines to transport its shipments, changes in carrier policies and practices such as pricing, payment terms, scheduling, and frequency of service may affect its business. The Company also performs breakbulk services which involve receiving and breaking down consolidated airfreight lots and arranging for distribution of the individual shipments. Breakbulk service revenues also include commissions from agents for airfreight shipments. Customs Brokerage and Import Services Customs brokerage and import services accounted for approximately 37, 34, and 35 percent of the Companys 2003, 2002, and 2001 consolidated net revenues, respectively. As a customs broker, the Company assists importers to clear shipments through customs by preparing required documentation, calculating and providing for payment of duties on behalf of the importer, arranging for any required inspections by governmental agencies, and arranging for delivery. The Company also provides other services at destination including temporary warehousing, inland transportation, inventory management, cargo insurance and product distribution. The Company provides customs clearance services in connection with many of the shipments it handles as a freight forwarder. However, substantial customs brokerage revenues are derived from customers that elect to use a competing forwarder. Conversely, shipments handled by the Company as a forwarder may be processed by another customs broker selected by the customer. The Company also provides custom clearances for goods moving by rail and truck between the United States, Canada and or Mexico. The commodities being cleared and the time sensitive nature of the border brokerage business require the Company to continue to make enhancements to its systems in order to provide competitive service. During 1996 the Company established a subsidiary, Expeditors Tradewin, L.L.C., to respond to customer driven requests for high end customs consulting services. The demand for these services was stimulated by the changes made by the U.S. Customs Service in response to the 1993 Customs Modernization Act. Fees for these non transactional services are based upon hourly billing rates and bids for mutually agreed procedures. There is a noticeable trend, prompted by customer demand, to quote rates on a door to door basis. Management foresees the potential, in the medium to long term, for fees normally associated with customs clearance to be de emphasized and included as a component of other services offered by the Company. Ocean Freight and Ocean Services Ocean freight services accounted for approximately 26, 24, and 23 percent of the Companys 2003, 2002, and 2001 consolidated net revenues, respectively. The Companys revenues as an ocean freight forwarder are derived from commissions paid by the carrier and revenues from fees charged to customers for ancillary services which the Company may provide, such as preparing documentation, procuring insurance, arranging for packing and crating services, and providing consultation. The Company operates Expeditors International Ocean (EIO), a Non Vessel Operating Common Carrier (NVOCC) specializing in ocean freight consolidation from the Far East to the United States. EIO also provides service, on a smaller scale, to and from any location where the Company has an office or agent. As an NVOCC, EIO contracts with ocean shipping lines to obtain transportation for a fixed number of containers between various points during a specified time period at an agreed rate. EIO solicits Less than Container Load (LCL) freight to fill the containers and charges lower rates than those available directly from shipping lines. EIO also handles full container loads for customers that do not have annual shipping volumes sufficient to negotiate comparable contracts directly with the ocean carriers. The Company does not own vessels and generally does not physically handle the cargo. Expeditors Cargo Management Systems (ECMS) supplies a sophisticated ocean consolidation service. The Company owns and maintains software that allows it to sell ECMS to large volume customers that have signed their own service contracts with the ocean carriers. As an ocean consolidator, ECMS may obtain LCL freight from several vendors and consolidate this cargo into full containers. The Companys revenues as an ocean consolidator are derived from handling LCL cargo at origin and from the fees paid by customers for access to data captured during the consolidation process. 5 Marketing and Customers The Company provides flexible service and seeks to understand the needs of the customers from points of origin to ultimate destinations. Although the domestic importer usually designates the logistics company and the services that will be required, the foreign shipper may also participate in this selection process. Therefore, the Company coordinates its marketing program to reach both domestic importers and their overseas suppliers. The Companys marketing efforts are focused primarily on the traffic, shipping and purchasing departments of existing and potential customers. The district manager of each office is responsible for marketing, sales coordination, and implementation in the area in which he or she is located. All employees are responsible for customer service and relations. The Company staffs its offices largely with managers and other key personnel who are citizens of the nations in which they operate and who have extensive experience in global logistics. Marketing and customer service staffs are responsible for marketing the Companys services directly to local shippers and traffic managers who may select or influence the selection of the logistics vendor and for ensuring that customers receive timely and efficient service. The Company believes that its expertise in supplying solutions customized to the needs of its customers, its emphasis on coordinating its origin and destination customer service and marketing activities, and the incentives it gives to its managers have been important elements of its success. The goods handled by the Company are generally a function of the products which dominate international trade between any particular origin and destination. Shipments of computer components, other electronic equipment, housewares, sporting goods, machine parts, and toys, comprise a significant percentage of the Companys business. Typical import customers include computer retailers and distributors of consumer electronics, department store chains, clothing and shoe wholesalers, manufacturers and catalogue stores. Historically, no single customer has accounted for five percent or more of the Companys revenues. Competition The global logistics services industry is intensely competitive and is expected to remain so for the foreseeable future. There are a large number of companies competing in one or more segments of the industry, but the number of firms with a global network that offer a full complement of logistics services is more limited. Depending on the location of the shipper and the importer, the Company must compete against both the niche players and larger entities. While there is currently a marked trend within the industry toward consolidation into larger firms striving for immediate multinational and multi service networks, the regional and local competitors maintain a strong market presence. Historically, the primary competitive factors in the global logistics services industry have been price and quality of service, including reliability, responsiveness, expertise, convenience, and scope of operations. The Company emphasizes quality service and believes that its prices are competitive with the prices of others in the industry. Recently, larger customers have exhibited a trend toward more sophisticated and efficient procedures for the management of the logistics supply chain by embracing strategies such as just in time inventory management. This trend has made computerized customer service capabilities a significant factor in attracting and retaining customers. These computerized customer service capabilities include customized Electronic Data Interchange, (EDI), and on line freight tracing and tracking applications. The customized EDI applications allow the transfer of key information between the customers systems and the Companys systems. Freight tracing and tracking applications allow customers to know the location, transit time and estimated delivery time of inventory in transit. Management believes that the ability to develop and deliver innovative solutions to meet customers increasingly sophisticated information requirements is a critical factor in the ongoing success of the Company. Accordingly, the Company has devoted a significant amount of resources towards the maintenance and enhancement of systems that will meet these customer demands. Management believes that the Companys existing systems are competitive with the systems currently in use by other logistics services companies with which it competes. Developing these systems has added a considerable indirect cost to the services provided to customers. Small and middle tier competitors, in general, do not have the resources available to develop these customized systems. As a result, there is a significant amount of consolidation currently taking place in the industry. Management expects that this trend toward consolidation will continue for the short to medium term. Historically, growth through aggressive acquisition has proven to be a challenge for many of the Companys competitors and typically involves the purchase of significant goodwill. As a result, the Company has pursued a strategy emphasizing organic growth supplemented by certain strategic acquisitions. 6 The Companys ability to attract, retain, and motivate highly qualified personnel with experience in global logistics services is an essential, if not the most important, element of its ability to compete in the industry. To this end, the Company has adopted incentive compensation programs which make percentages of branch revenues or profits available to managers for distribution among key personnel. The Company believes that these incentive compensation programs, combined with its experienced personnel and its ability to coordinate global marketing efforts, provide it with a distinct competitive advantage and account for historical growth that competitors have generally matched only through acquisition. Currency and Other Risk Factors The nature of the Companys worldwide operations necessitate the Company dealing with a multitude of currencies other than the U.S. Dollar. This results in the Company being exposed to the inherent risks of the international currency markets and governmental interference. Many of the countries where the Company maintains offices and or agency relationships have strict currency control regulations which influence the Companys ability to hedge foreign currency exposure. The Company tries to compensate for these exposures by accelerating international currency settlements among these offices or agents. In addition, the Companys ability to provide service to its customers is highly dependent on good working relationships with a variety of entities including airlines, steamship lines and governmental agencies. The Company considers its current working relationships with these entities to be good. However, changes in space allotments available from carriers, governmental deregulation efforts, modernization of the regulations governing customs clearance, and or changes in governmental quota restrictions could affect the Companys business in unpredictable ways. Seasonality Historically, the Companys operating results have been subject to seasonal trends when measured on a quarterly basis. The first quarter has traditionally been the weakest and the third and fourth quarters have traditionally been the strongest. This pattern has been the result of, or influenced by, numerous factors including climate, national holidays, consumer demand, economic conditions and a myriad of other similar and subtle forces. In addition, this historical quarterly trend has been influenced by the growth and diversification of the Companys international network and service offerings. The Company cannot accurately forecast many of these factors, nor can the Company estimate accurately the relative influence of any particular factor and, as a result, there can be no assurance that historical patterns will continue in future periods. A significant portion of the Companys revenues are derived from customers in industries whose shipping patterns are tied closely to consumer demand and from customers in industries whose shipping patterns are dependent upon just in time production schedules. Therefore, the timing of the Companys revenues are, to a large degree, impacted by factors out of the Companys control, such as shifting consumer demand for retail goods and manufacturing production delays. Additionally, many customers ship a significant portion of their goods at or near the end of a quarter, and therefore, the Company may not learn of a shortfall in revenues until late in a quarter. To the extent that a shortfall in revenues or earnings was not expected by securities analysts, any such shortfall from levels predicted by securities analysts could have an immediate and adverse effect on the trading price of the Companys stock. Environmental In the United States, the Company is subject to Federal, state and local provisions regulating the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise for the protection of the environment. Similar laws apply in many foreign jurisdictions in which the Company operates. Although current operations have not been significantly affected by compliance with these environmental laws, governments are becoming increasingly sensitive to environmental issues, and the Company cannot predict what impact future environmental regulations may have on its business. The Company does not anticipate making any material capital expenditures for environmental control purposes during the remainder of the current or succeeding fiscal years. Employees At January 31, 2004, the Company employed approximately 8,600 people, 2,950 in the United States and 525 in the balance of North America, 425 in South America, 1,345 in Europe, 2,450 in the Far East & Australasia, 725 in the Near/Middle East and 180 in Africa. Approximately 1,150 of the Companys employees are engaged principally in sales and marketing and customer service, 4,500 in operations and 2,950 in finance and administration. The Company is not a party to any collective bargaining agreement and considers its relations with its employees to be satisfactory. In order to retain the services of highly qualified, experienced, and motivated employees, the Company places considerable emphasis on its incentive compensation programs and stock option plans. 7 Executive Officers of the Registrant The following table sets forth the names, ages, and positions of current executive officers of the Company. Name Age Position Peter J. Rose 60 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and director James L.K. Wang 55 President Asia and director Glenn M. Alger 47 President and Chief Operating Officer Sandy K.Y. Liu 56 Chief Operating Officer Asia R. Jordan Gates 48 Executive Vice President Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer and director Timothy C. Barber 44 Executive Vice President Global Sales Rommel C. Saber 46 Executive Vice President Europe, Africa and Near/Middle East Robert L. Villanueva 51 Executive Vice President The Americas Eugene K. Alger 43 Senior Vice President North America L. Manfred Amberger 55 Senior Vice President Continental Europe Jean Claude Carcaillet 58 Senior Vice President Australasia William J. Coogan 49 Senior Vice President Ocean Cargo Philip M. Coughlin 43 Senior Vice President North America Rosanne Esposito 52 Senior Vice President Global Customs Roger A. Idiart 50 Senior Vice President Air Cargo Jeffrey J. King 49 Senior Vice President General Counsel and Secretary David M. Lincoln 45 Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer Charles J. Lynch 43 Senior Vice President Corporate Controller Peter J. Rose has served as a director and Vice President of the Company since July 1981. Mr. Rose was elected a Senior Vice President of the Company in May 1986, Executive Vice President in May 1987, President and Chief Executive Officer in October 1988, and Chairman and Chief Executive Officer in May 1991. James L.K. Wang has served as a director and the Managing Director of Expeditors International Taiwan Ltd., the Companys former exclusive Taiwan agent, since September 1981. Mr. Wangs employment agreement with the Company has been assigned to the Companys current exclusive Taiwan agent, E.I. Freight (Taiwan), Ltd. In October 1988, Mr. Wang became a director of the Company and its Director Far East, and Executive Vice President in January 1996. In May 2000, Mr. Wang was elected President Asia. Glenn M. Alger joined the Company in July 1981 as a District Manager. Mr. Alger was elected Vice President and Regional Manager in October 1988, Senior Vice President U.S. Operations in January 1992, Senior Vice President and Director North America in January 1993, and Executive Vice President and Director North America in March 1997. In September 1999, Mr. Alger was elected President and Chief Operating Officer. Sandy K.Y. Liu became Chief Operating Officer Asia of the Company in January 2001. From 1969 through 2000, Mr. Liu was employed in various positions by China Airlines. In November 1998, Mr. Liu was appointed President of China Airlines. R. Jordan Gates joined the Company as its Controller Europe in February 1991. Mr. Gates was elected Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer of the Company in August 1994 and Senior Vice President Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer in January 1998. In May 2000, Mr. Gates was elected Executive Vice President Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer. Mr. Gates was also elected as a director in May 2000. Timothy C. Barber joined the Company in May 1986. Mr. Barber was promoted to District Manager of the Seattle office in January 1987 and Regional Vice President in January 1993. Mr. Barber was elected Vice President Sales and Marketing in September 1993 and Senior Vice President Sales and Marketing in January 1998. In September 1999, Mr. Barber was elected Executive Vice President Global Sales. Rommel C. Saber joined the Company as Director Near/Middle East in February 1990 and was elected Senior Vice President Sales and Marketing in January 1993. Mr. Saber was elected Senior Vice President Air Export in September 1993. In July 1997 he was elected Senior Vice President Near/Middle East and Indian Subcontinent. In August 2000, Mr. Saber was elected Executive Vice President Europe, Africa and Near/Middle East. 8 Robert L. Villanueva joined the Company as Regional Vice President Northwest U.S. Region in April 1994. In September 1999, he was elected Executive Vice President The Americas. Eugene K. Alger joined the Company in October 1982. Mr. Alger was promoted to District Manager and Regional Vice President of the Los Angeles office in May 1983. He was elected Regional Vice President Southwestern U.S. and Mexico Region in January 1992, and Senior Vice President of North America in September 1999. L. Manfred Amberger joined the Company as Managing Director of Germany in April 1992. Mr. Amberger was promoted to Regional Director Europe in May 1996 and Vice President in January 1998. Mr. Amberger was elected Senior Vice President Continental Europe in May 2000. Jean Claude Carcaillet joined the Company as Managing Director Australasia in August 1988. He was elected Senior Vice President Australasia in September 1997. William J. Coogan has worked for the Company since May 1985. Mr. Coogan was promoted to District Manager of the Companys New York office in July 1988 and Senior Vice President of EIO in April 1989. Mr. Coogan was elected Senior Vice President Ocean in February 1993 and Senior Vice President Ocean Cargo in May 1996. Philip M. Coughlin joined the Company in October 1985. Mr. Coughlin was promoted to District Manager in August 1986. He was elected Regional Manager for New England and Canada in January 1991, Regional Vice President Northeastern U.S. and Northern Border in January 1992, and Senior Vice President of North America in September 1999. Rosanne Esposito joined the Company as its Director U.S. Import Services in January 1996. Ms. Esposito was promoted to Vice President in May 1997 and Senior Vice President Global Customs in May 2001. Roger A. Idiart joined the Company as its Manager of Gateway Operations in December 1995. Mr. Idiart was elected Vice President Global Air Cargo in January 1998, and Senior Vice President Air Cargo in May 2001. Jeffrey J. King joined the Company in October 1990 as Director Taxation and Legal Services and was elected Vice President General Counsel in May 1992. In August 1994, Mr. King was elected Vice President General Counsel and Secretary and Senior Vice President General Counsel and Secretary in January 1998. David M. Lincoln joined the Company as its Controller U.S. Operations in March 1984. Mr. Lincoln served as Corporate Controller of the Company from May 1986 to January 1991, and was elected Vice President Systems Management in December 1989. Mr. Lincoln was elected Vice President Information Systems in May 1996 and Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer in October 1997. Charles J. Lynch joined the Company in September 1984. Mr. Lynch was promoted to Assistant Controller in July 1985 and Controller Domestic Operations in January 1989. Mr. Lynch was elected Corporate Controller in January 1991 and Vice President Corporate Controller in January 1998. In May 2002, Mr. Lynch was elected Senior Vice President Corporate Controller. Regulation With respect to the Companys activities in the air transportation industry in the United States, it is subject to regulation by the Department of Transportation (DOT) as an indirect air carrier. The Companys overseas offices and agents are licensed as airfreight forwarders in their respective countries of operation. The Company is licensed in each of its offices or in the case of its newer offices, has made application for a license, as an airfreight forwarder by the International Air Transport Association (IATA). IATA is a voluntary association of airlines which prescribes certain operating procedures for airfreight forwarders acting as agents for its members. The majority of the Companys airfreight forwarding business is conducted with airlines which are IATA members. The Company is licensed as a customs broker by the Customs Service of the Department of the Treasury in each U.S. customs district in which it does business. All U.S. customs brokers are required to maintain prescribed records and are subject to periodic audits by the Customs Service. In other jurisdictions in which the Company performs clearance services, the Company is licensed by the appropriate governmental authority. 9 The Company is registered as an Ocean Transportation Intermediary by the Federal Maritime Commission (FMC). The FMC has established certain qualifications for shipping agents, including certain surety bonding requirements. The FMC also is responsible for the economic regulation of NVOCC activity originating or terminating in the United States. To comply with these economic regulations, vessel operators and NVOCCs, such as EIO, are required to file tariffs electronically which establish the rates to be charged for the movement of specified commodities into and out of the U.S. The FMC has the power to enforce these regulations by assessing penalties. The Company does not believe that current U.S. and foreign governmental regulations impose significant economic restraint upon its business operations. In general, the Company conducts its business activities in each country through a majority owned subsidiary corporation that is organized and existing under the laws of that country. However, the regulations of foreign governments can impose barriers to the Companys ability to provide the full range of its business activities in a wholly or majority U.S. owned subsidiary. For example, foreign ownership of a customs brokerage business is prohibited in some jurisdictions and less frequently the ownership of the licenses required for freight forwarding and or freight consolidation is restricted to local entities. When the Company encounters this sort of governmental restriction, it works to establish a legal structure that meets the requirements of the local regulations while also giving the Company the substantive operating and economic advantages that would be available in the absence of such regulation. This can be accomplished by creating a joint venture or exclusive agency relationship with a qualified local entity that holds the required license. In cases where the Company has unilateral control over the assets and operations of the local entity, notwithstanding the lack of technical majority ownership of common stock, the Company consolidates the accounts of the local entity. In such cases, consolidation is necessary to fairly present the financial position and results of operations of the Company because of the existence of the parent subsidiary relationship by means other than record ownership of voting common stock. Cargo Liability When acting as an airfreight consolidator, the Company assumes a carriers liability for lost or damaged shipments. This legal liability is typically limited by contract to the lower of the transaction value or the released value ($9.07 per pound unless the customer declares a higher value and pays a surcharge), except if the loss or damage is caused by willful misconduct or in the absence of an appropriate airway bill. The airline which the Company utilizes to make the actual shipment is generally liable to the Company in the same manner and to the same extent. When acting solely as the agent of the airline or shipper, the Company does not assume any contractual liability for loss or damage to shipments tendered to the airline. When acting as an ocean freight consolidator, the Company assumes a carriers liability for lost or damaged shipments. This liability is typically limited by contract to the lower of the transaction value or the released value ($500 per package or customary freight unit unless the customer declares a higher value and pays a surcharge). The steamship line which the Company utilizes to make the actual shipment is generally liable to the Company in the same manner and to the same extent. In its ocean freight forwarding and customs clearance operations, the Company does not assume cargo liability. When providing warehouse and distribution services, the Company limits its legal liability by contract and tariff to an amount generally equal to the lower of fair value or fifty cents per pound with a maximum of fifty dollars per lot which is defined as the smallest unit that the warehouse is required to track. Upon payment of a surcharge for warehouse and distribution services, the Company will assume additional liability. The Company maintains marine cargo insurance covering claims for losses attributable to missing or damaged shipments for which it is legally liable. The Company also maintains insurance coverage for the property of others which is stored in Company warehouse facilities. 10 ITEM 2 PROPERTIES Location Office/Warehouse Square Footage Adjoining Acreage of Land United States: Seattle, Washington 214,000 sq. ft. Near Seattle Tacoma International Airport (in Washington) 27,200 sq. ft. Nassau County, New York 150,000 sq. ft. Middlesex County, New Jersey 224,000 sq. ft. 10.5 acre parcel Near San Francisco International Airport (in California) 320,000 sq. ft. 13.22 acre parcel Near OHare International Airport (in Illinois) 80,000 sq. ft. 10 acre parcel Far East: Tsim Sha Tsui East district of Kowloon, Hong Kong 5,500 sq. ft. Taipei, Taiwan 10,900 sq. ft. Europe: Brussels, Belgium 23,400 sq. ft. Dublin, Ireland 85,000 sq. ft. Near Heathrow Airport (in London, England) 15 acre parcel Latin America: Alajuela, Costa Rica 9,300 sq. ft. Middle East: Cairo, Egypt 51,000 sq. ft. The Company leases and maintains 60 additional offices and satellite locations in the United States and 131 offices throughout the world, each located close to an airport, ocean port, or on an important border crossing. The majority of these facilities contain warehouse facilities. Lease terms are either on a month to month basis or terminate at various times through 2013. As an office matures, the Company will investigate the possibility of building or buying suitable facilities. Lease payments currently aggregate to approximately $2,900,000 per month. See Note 7 to the Companys Consolidated Financial Statements. The Company believes that current leases can be extended and that suitable alternative facilities are available in the vicinity of each present facility should extensions be unavailable at the conclusion of current leases. ITEM 3 LEGAL PROCEEDINGS The Company is ordinarily involved in claims and lawsuits which arise in the normal course of business, none of which currently, in managements opinion, will have a material affect on the Companys operations or financial position. ITEM 4 SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS Inapplicable. 11 PART II ITEM 5 MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS The following table sets forth the high and low sale prices in the over the counter market for the Companys Common Stock as reported by The NASDAQ National Market System under the symbol EXPD. Common Stock Common Stock Quarter High Low Quarter High Low 2003 2002 First $ 38.00 29.61 First $ 31.17 25.50 Second 37.81 30.75 Second 31.78 27.50 Third 39.28 32.94 Third 33.98 24.94 Fourth 40.83 34.25 Fourth 34.44 26.98 There were 2,634 shareholders of record as of December 31, 2003. Management estimates that there were approximately 21,500 beneficial shareholders at that date. The Board of Directors declared semi annual dividends during the two most recent fiscal years as follows: June 16, 2003 $ .08 December 15, 2003 $ .08 June 17, 2002 $ .06 December 16, 2002 $ .06 ITEM 6 SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA Financial Highlights In thousands except per share data 2003 2002 2001 2000 1999 Revenues $ 2,624,941 2,296,903 1,883,070 1,906,726 1,616,383 Net earnings 121,952 112,529 97,243 83,035 59,175 Basic earnings per share 1.16 1.08 .93 .81 .59 Diluted earnings per share 1.12 1.03 .89 .76 .55 Cash dividends paid per share .16 .12 .10 .07 .05 Working capital 370,057 250,920 238,287 223,423 150,030 Total assets 1,040,847 879,948 688,437 661,740 535,461 Shareholders equity 645,501 523,812 414,623 361,784 282,385 Basic weighted average shares outstanding 104,733 103,893 104,160 102,305 100,274 Diluted weighted average shares outstanding 109,002 108,881 109,741 109,358 107,656 All share and per share information have been adjusted to reflect two 2 for 1 stock splits effected in June, 2002 and May, 1999. 12 SAFE HARBOR FOR FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS UNDER SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995; CERTAIN CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS From time to time, the Company or its representatives have made or may make forward looking statements, orally or in writing. Such forward looking statements may be included in, but not limited to, press releases, oral statements made with the approval of an authorized executive officer or in various filings made by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The words or phrases will likely result, are expected to, will continue, is anticipated, estimate, project or similar expressions are intended to identify forward looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Litigation Reform Act. Such statements are qualified in their entirety by reference to and are accompanied by the following discussion of certain important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from such forward looking statements. The risks included here are not exhaustive. Furthermore, reference is also made to other sections of this report which include additional factors which could adversely impact the Companys business and financial performance. Moreover, the Company operates in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all of such risk factors, nor can it assess the impact of all of such risk factors on the Companys business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward looking statements. Accordingly, forward looking statements cannot be relied upon as a guarantee of actual results. Shareholders should be aware that while the Company does, from time to time, communicate with securities analysts, it is against the Companys policy to disclose to such analysts any material non public information or other confidential commercial information. Accordingly, shareholders should not assume that the Company agrees with any statement or report issued by any analyst irrespective of the content of such statement or report. Furthermore, the Company has a policy against issuing financial forecasts or projections or confirming the accuracy of forecasts or projections issued by others. Accordingly, to the extent that reports issued by securities analysts contain any projections, forecasts or opinions, such reports are not the responsibility of the Company. 13 RISK FACTORS DISCUSSION AND POTENTIAL SIGNIFICANCE International Trade The Company primarily provides services to customers engaged in international commerce. Everything that affects international trade has the potential to expand or contract the Companys primary market. For example, international trade is influenced by: currency exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations; changes in governmental policies; changes in international and domestic customs regulations; wars, acts of terrorism, and other conflicts; natural disasters; changes in consumer attitudes regarding goods made in countries other than their own; and changes in the price and readily available quantities of oil and other petroleum related products. Third Party Vendors The Company is a non asset based supplier of global logistics services. As a result, the Company depends on a variety of asset based third party vendors. The quality and profitability of the Companys services depend upon effective selection, management and discipline of third party vendors. Predictability of Results The Company is not aware of any accurate means of forecasting short term customer requirements. However, long term customer satisfaction depends upon the Companys ability to meet these unpredictable short term customer requirements. Personnel costs, the Companys single largest variable expense, are always less flexible in the very near term as the Company must staff to meet uncertain demand. As a result, short term operating results could be disproportionately affected. Foreign Operations The majority of the Companys revenues and operating income come from operations conducted outside the United States. To maintain a global service network, the Company may be required to operate in hostile locations and in dangerous situations. Key Personnel The Company is a service business. The quality of this service is directly related to the quality of the Companys employees. Identifying, training and retaining key employees is essential to continued growth and future profitability. Continued loyalty to the Company will not be assured by contract. Technology Increasingly, the Company must compete based upon the flexibility and sophistication of the technologies utilized in performing its core businesses. Future results depend upon the Companys success in the cost effective development and integration of communication and information systems technologies. Growth To date, the Company has relied primarily upon organic growth and has tended to avoid growth through acquisition. Future results will depend upon the Companys ability to continue to grow internally or to demonstrate the ability to successfully identify and integrate non dilutive acquisitions. 14 ITEM 7 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Executive Summary Expeditors International of Washington, Inc. is engaged in the business of global logistics management, including international freight forwarding and consolidation, for both air and ocean freight. The Company acts as a customs broker in all domestic offices, and in many of its international offices. The Company also provides additional services for its customers including value added distribution, purchase order management, vendor consolidation and other logistics solutions. The Company does not compete for overnight courier or small parcel business. The Company does not own or operate aircraft or steamships. International trade is influenced by many factors, including economic and political conditions in the United States and abroad, currency exchange rates, and United States and foreign laws and policies relating to tariffs, trade restrictions, foreign investments and taxation. Periodically, governments consider a variety of changes to current tariffs and trade restrictions. The Company cannot predict which, if any, of these proposals may be adopted, nor can the Company predict the affects adoption of any such proposal will have on the Companys business. Doing business in foreign locations also subjects the Company to a variety of risks and considerations not normally encountered by domestic enterprises. In addition to being influenced by governmental policies concerning international trade, the Companys business may also be affected by political developments and changes in government personnel or policies in the nations in which it does business. The Company derives its revenues from three principal sources: airfreight, ocean freight and customs brokerage and import services and these are the revenue categories presented in the financial statements. As a non asset based carrier, the Company does not own transportation assets. Rather, the Company generates the major portion of its air and ocean freight revenues by purchasing transportation services from direct (asset based) carriers and reselling those services to its customers. The difference between the rate billed to customers (the sell rate), and the rate paid to the carrier (the buy rate) is termed Net Revenue or yield. By consolidating shipments from multiple customers and concentrating its buying power, the Company is able to negotiate favorable buy rates from the direct carriers, while at the same time offering lower sell rates than customers would otherwise be able to negotiate themselves. Customs brokerage and import services involves providing services at destination, such as helping customers clear shipments through customs by preparing required documentation, calculating and providing for payment of duties and other taxes on behalf of the customers as well as arranging for any required inspections by governmental agencies, and arranging for delivery. This is a complicated function requiring technical knowledge of customs rules and regulations in the multitude of countries in which the Company has offices. The Companys ability to provide services to its customers is highly dependent on good working relationships with a variety of entities including airlines, ocean steamship lines, and governmental agencies. The significance of maintaining acceptable working relationships with governmental agencies and asset based providers involved in global trade has gained increased importance as a result of ongoing concern over terrorism. As each carrier labors to comply with governmental regulations implementing security policies and procedures, inherent conflicts emerge which can and do affect global trade to some degree. A good reputation helps to develop, to the degree possible, practical working understandings that will effectively meet security requirements while minimizing potential international trade obstacles. The Company considers its current working relationships with these entities to be satisfactory. However, changes in space allotments available from carriers, governmental deregulation efforts, modernization of the regulations governing customs brokerage, and or changes in governmental quota restrictions could affect the Companys business in unpredictable ways. Historically, the Companys operating results have been subject to a seasonal trend when measured on a quarterly basis. The first quarter has traditionally been the weakest and the third and fourth quarters have traditionally been the strongest. This pattern is the result of, or is influenced by, numerous factors including climate, national holidays, consumer demand, economic conditions and a myriad of other similar and subtle forces. In addition, this historical quarterly trend has been influenced by the growth and diversification of the Companys international network and service offerings. The Company cannot accurately forecast many of these factors nor can the Company estimate accurately the relative influence of any particular factor and, as a result, there can be no assurance that historical patterns, if any, will continue in future periods. A significant portion of the Companys revenues are derived from customers in retail industries whose shipping patterns are tied closely to consumer demand, and from customers in industries whose shipping patterns are dependent upon just in time production schedules. Therefore, the timing of the Companys revenues are, to a large degree, impacted by factors out of the Companys control, such as a sudden change in consumer demand for retail goods and or manufacturing production delays. Additionally, many customers ship a significant portion of their goods at or near the end of a quarter, and therefore, the Company may not learn of a shortfall in 15 revenues until late in a quarter. To the extent that a shortfall in revenues or earnings was not expected by securities analysts, any such shortfall from levels predicted by securities analysts could have an immediate and adverse effect on the trading price of the Companys stock. In terms of the opportunities, challenges and risks that management is focused on in 2004, the Company operates in 56 countries throughout the world in the competitive global logistics industry and Company activities are tied directly to the global economy. From the inception of the Company, management has believed that the elements required for a successful global service organization can only be assured through recruiting, training, and ultimately retaining superior personnel. The Companys greatest challenge is now and always has been perpetuating a consistent global culture which demands: Total dedication, first and foremost, to providing superior customer service; Aggressive marketing of all of the Companys service offerings; Ongoing development of key employees and management personnel via formal and informal means; Creation of unlimited advancement opportunities for employees dedicated to hard work, personal growth and continuous improvement; Individual commitment to the identification and mentoring of successors for every key position so that when inevitable change is required, a qualified and well trained internal candidate is ready to step forward; and Continuous identification, design and implementation of system solutions, both technological and otherwise, to meet and exceed the needs of our customers while simultaneously delivering tools to make our employees more efficient and more effective. The Company has reinforced these values with a compensation system that rewards employees for profitably managing the things they can control. There is no limit to how much a key manager can be compensated for success. The Company believes in a real world environment in every operating unit where individuals are not sheltered from the profit implications of their decisions. At the same time, the Company insists on continued focus on such things as accounts receivable collection, cash flow management and credit soundness in an attempt to insulate managers from the sort of catastrophic errors that might end a career. Any failure to perpetuate this unique culture on a self sustained basis throughout the Company, provides a greater threat to the Companys continued success than any external force, which would be largely beyond our control. Consequently, management spends the majority of its time focused on creating an environment where employees can learn and develop while also building systems and taking preventative action to reduce exposure to negative events. The Company strongly believes that it is nearly impossible to predict events that, in the aggregate, could have a positive or a negative impact on future operations. As a result our focus is on building and maintaining a global culture of well trained employees and managers that are prepared to identify and react to subtle changes as they develop and thereby help the Company adapt and thrive as major trends emerge. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates A summary of the Companys significant accounting policies can be found in Note 1 in the consolidated financial statements in this 10 K. Management believes that the nature of the Companys business is such that there are few, if any, complex challenges in accounting for operations. Revenue recognition is considered the critical accounting policy due to the complexity of arranging and managing global logistics and supply chain management transactions. 16 Revenue Recognition Airfreight revenues include the charges to the Company for carrying the shipments when the Company acts as a freight consolidator. Ocean freight revenues include the charges to the Company for carrying the shipments when the Company acts as a Non Vessel Operating Common Carrier (NVOCC). In each case the Company is acting as an indirect carrier. When acting as an indirect carrier, the Company will issue a House Airway Bill (HAWB) or a House Ocean Bill of Lading (HOBL) to customers as the contract of carriage. In turn, when the freight is physically tendered to a direct carrier, the Company receives a contract of carriage known as a Master Airway Bill for airfreight shipments and a Master Ocean Bill of Lading for ocean shipments. At this point, the risk of loss passes to the carrier, however, in order to claim for any such loss, the customer is first obligated to pay the freight charges. Based upon the terms in the contract of carriage, revenues related to shipments where the Company issues an HAWB or an HOBL are recognized at the time the freight is tendered to the direct carrier at origin. Costs related to the shipments are also recognized at this same time. Revenues realized in other capacities, for instance, when the Company acts as an agent for the shipper, and does not issue an HAWB or an HOBL, include only the commissions and fees earned for the services performed. These revenues are recognized upon completion of the services. Similarly, revenues related to customs brokerage and import services are recognized upon completion of the services. Arranging international shipments is a complex task. Each actual movement can require multiple services. In some instances, the Company is asked to perform only one of these services. However, in most instances, the Company may perform multiple services. These services include destination breakbulk services and value added ancillary services such as local transportation, export customs formalities, distribution services and logistics management. Each of these services has an associated fee, which is recognized as revenue upon completion of the service. Typically, the fees for each of these services are quoted as separate components, however, customers on occasion will request an all inclusive rate for a set of services known in the industry as door to door service. This means that the customer is billed a single rate for all services from pickup at origin to delivery at destination. In these instances, the revenue for origin and destination services, as well as revenue that will be characterized as freight charges, is allocated to branches as set by preexisting Company policy perhaps supplemented by customer specific negotiations between the offices involved. Each of the Companys branches are independent profit centers and the primary compensation for the branch management group comes in the form of incentive based compensation calculated directly from the operating income of that branch. This compensation structure ensures that the allocation of revenue and expense among components of services, when provided under an all inclusive rate, are done in an objective manner on a fair value basis, in accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) 00 21, Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables. Estimates While judgments and estimates are a necessary component of any system of accounting, the Companys use of estimates is limited primarily to the following areas that in the aggregate are not a major component of the Companys statement of earnings: accounts receivable valuation, the useful lives of long term assets, the accrual of costs related to ancillary services the Company provides, establishment of adequate insurance liabilities for the portion of the freight related exposure which the Company has self insured, and accrual of tax expense on an interim basis. During the fourth quarter of 2003, the Company provided full U.S. taxation on approximately $41.9 million of foreign earnings accumulated through December 31, 1992, for which U.S. income taxes had not previously been provided, resulting in additional tax expense of $9.5 million. Income taxes had not previously been provided on these earnings as a result of the Companys previous intent to reinvest such earnings indefinitely or to distribute them in a manner in which no significant additional taxes would be incurred. The Companys decision to provide U.S. taxes on all unremitted foreign earnings was made based upon the desire to be able to deploy capital globally without concern for the impact of associated U.S. tax obligations that might be incurred as a result of the repatriation of these earnings. Management believes that the methods utilized in all of these areas are non aggressive in approach and consistent in application. Management believes that there are limited, if any, alternative accounting principles or methods which could be applied to the Companys transactions. While the use of estimates means that actual future results may be different from those contemplated by the estimates, the Company believes that alternative principles and methods used for making such estimates would not produce materially different results than those reported. 17 Recent Accounting Pronouncements In June 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (SFAS) No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations which addresses financial accounting and reporting for obligations associated with the retirement of tangible long lived assets and for the associated asset retirement costs. The standard applies to legal obligations associated with the retirement of long lived assets that result from the acquisition, construction or development and or normal use of the asset. The Company adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 143 beginning in the first quarter of 2003. Adoption of SFAS No. 143 had no material impact on the Companys consolidated financial condition or results of operations. In June 2002, SFAS No. 146, Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities was issued which addresses financial accounting and reporting for costs associated with exit or disposal activities and nullifies EITF 94 3, Liability Recognition for Certain Employee Termination Benefits and Other Costs to Exit an Activity (including Certain Costs Incurred in a Restructuring). The Company adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 146 beginning in the first quarter of 2003. Adoption of SFAS No. 146 had no material impact on the Companys consolidated financial condition or results of operations. In November 2002, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 45 (FIN 45), Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others, which clarifies disclosure and recognition/measurement requirements related to certain guarantees. The disclosure requirements are effective for financial statements issued after December 15, 2002 and the recognition/measurement requirements are effective on a prospective basis for guarantees issued or modified after December 31, 2002. The provisions of FIN 45 require the Company to value and record the liability for any indirect or direct guarantees of the indebtedness of others entered into after December 31, 2002. The Company adopted the recognition and measurement provisions of FIN 45 beginning in the first quarter of 2003. As of December 31, 2003, the Company had no material obligations under guarantees that fall within the scope of FIN 45. In November 2002, the EITF reached a consensus on Issue No. 00 21 (EITF 00 21), Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables. EITF 00 21 addresses certain aspects of the accounting by a vendor for arrangements under which the vendor will perform multiple revenue generating activities. EITF 00 21 became effective for periods beginning after June 15, 2003. The Companys adoption of the provisions of EITF 00 21 beginning in the third quarter of 2003 had no impact on the Companys consolidated financial position or results of operations. In December 2003, the FASB issued revised Interpretation No. 46, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities (Revised), an Interpretation of ARB No. 51, (FIN 46R). FIN 46R addresses the consolidation by business enterprises of variable interest entities as defined in FIN 46R. The provisions of FIN 46R are generally effective for public entities that have interests in variable interest entities or potential variable interest entities commonly referred to as special purpose entities for periods ending after December 15, 2003. Application by public entities (other than small business issuers) for all other types of entities is required in financial statements for periods ending after March 15, 2004. The Company adopted only the disclosure provisions of FIN 46R in the fourth quarter of 2003 and will adopt the remaining provisions of FIN 46R in the first quarter of 2004. The Company does not expect adoption of the remaining provisions of FIN 46R to have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial condition or results of operations. 18 Results of Operations The following table shows the consolidated net revenues (revenues less transportation expenses) attributable to the Companys principal services and the Companys expenses for 2003, 2002, and 2001, expressed as percentages of net revenues. Management believes that net revenues are a better measure than total revenues of the relative importance of the Companys principal services since total revenues earned by the Company as a freight consolidator include the carriers charges to the Company for carrying the shipment whereas revenues earned by the Company in its other capacities include only the commissions and fees actually earned by the Company. 2003 2002 2001 In thousands Amount Percent of net revenues Amount Percent of net revenues Amount Percent of net revenues Net Revenues: Airfreight $ 278,968 37 % $ 284,954 42 % $ 254,502 42 % Ocean freight and ocean services 191,116 26 164,114 24 138,881 23 Customs brokerage and import services 280,426 37 233,145 34 213,153 35 Net revenues 750,510 100 682,213 100 606,536 100 Operating Expenses: Salaries and related costs 398,475 53 359,769 53 325,545 54 Other 165,273 22 151,435 22 134,974 22 Total operating expenses 563,748 75 511,204 75 460,519 76 Operating income 186,762 25 171,009 25 146,017 24 Other income, net 8,880 1 8,201 1 8,497 1 Earnings before income taxes and minority interest 195,642 26 179,210 26 154,514 25 Income tax expense 71,142 10 65,461 10 57,051 9 Net earnings before minority interest 124,500 16 113,749 16 97,463 16 Minority interest (2,548 ) (1,220 ) (220 ) Net earnings $ 121,952 16 % $ 112,529 16 % $ 97,243 16 % 2003 compared with 2002 Airfreight net revenues in 2003 decreased 2% compared with 2002. Global airfreight tonnages in 2003 were comparable with those in 2002. The decrease in 2003 airfreight net revenues was a reflection of an overall decline in airfreight yields and an inability to increase 2003 airfreight tonnages beyond those levels experienced in 2002. Airfreight tonnages and yields in 2002 were an anomaly as the airfreight markets were swamped by cargo that would otherwise have moved by ocean, but did not due to the disruption caused by the labor disputes in the west coast ports of the United States. The 1% decrease in airfreight yields in 2003 was primarily a result of air carriers increasing their rates such that the Company was unable to increase its corresponding rates to customers in a timely and effective manner. The Company elected to absorb these short term decreases in the interest of maintaining long term customer relationships. The Companys North American export airfreight net revenues decreased 5% in 2003 compared to 2002. Airfreight net revenues from the Far East and from Europe decreased 11% and increased 26%, respectively, for 2003 compared with 2002. Ocean freight volumes, measured in terms of forty foot container equivalent units (FEUs), increased 23% over 2002 while ocean freight and ocean services net revenues increased only 16% during the same period. The difference in these two growth rates is a result of a 252 basis point decline in ocean freight yields. In May 2003, ocean freight carriers implemented substantial rate increases. In order to gain market share and maintain its focus on long term customer relationships, the Company chose not to immediately pass on the full rate increases. The resulting increase in ocean freight volumes more than offset the revenue foregone by not implementing the full rate increases. The Company continued its focus of offering competitive rates to customers at the retail level, while leveraging freight volumes to 19 obtain favorable rates from carriers at the wholesale level. Expeditors Cargo Management Systems (ECMS), an ocean freight consolidation management and purchase order tracking service, continued to be instrumental in attracting new business. The Companys North American export ocean freight net revenues decreased 3% in 2003 compared to 2002. This decrease was a result of the Company handling more ocean shipments moving from North America to the Far East, a market which has lower profit per container, and, to a lesser extent, from North America to Europe, a market which has higher profit per container. Ocean freight net revenues from the Far East and from Europe increased 24%, respectively, for 2003 compared with 2002. Customs brokerage and import services net revenues increased 20% in 2003 as compared with 2002 as a result of the Companys growing reputation for providing high quality service and consolidation within the customs brokerage market as customers seek out customs brokers with more sophisticated computerized capabilities critical to an overall logistics management program. Salaries and related costs increased 11% in 2003 compared to 2002 as a result of (1) the Companys increased, albeit limited, hiring of sales, operations, and administrative personnel in existing and new offices to accommodate increases in business activity and (2) increased compensation levels. Salaries and related costs remained constant as a percentage of net revenues. The relatively consistent relationship between salaries and net revenues is the result of a compensation philosophy that has been maintained since the inception of the Company: offer a modest base salary and the opportunity to share in a fixed and determinable percentage of the operating profit of the business unit controlled by each key employee. Using this compensation model, changes in individual compensation will occur in proportion to changes in Company profits. Management believes that the growth in revenues, net revenues and net earnings for 2003 are a result of the incentives inherent in the Companys compensation program. Other operating expenses increased in 2003 as compared with 2002 as rent expense, communications expense, quality and training expenses, and other costs expanded to accommodate the Companys growing operations. Other operating expenses as a percentage of net revenues remained constant in 2003 as compared with 2002. Management believes that this was significant as it reflects the successful achievement of cost containment objectives initiated at the branch level. The ability to sustain these savings into future periods is contingent upon branch level managements ability to adhere to these objectives. Other income, net, increased in 2003 as compared with 2002. Due to much lower interest rates on higher average cash balances and short term investments during 2003, interest income decreased by $1.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. Rental income, net of applicable depreciation, of $3.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2003, is included in other income. The rental income is derived from two of the Companys properties, one located near Heathrow airport in London, England and an office and warehouse facility near the San Francisco, California International Airport. Other income in the year ended December 31, 2002 includes the $1.5 million gain on the sale of the Companys former Dublin, Ireland facility. The Company pays income taxes in the United States and other jurisdictions, as well as other taxes which are typically included in costs of operations. The Companys consolidated effective income tax rate in 2003 of 36.4% is comparable to the 36.5% rate in 2002. In the fourth quarter of 2003, the Company recorded additional tax expense of $9.5 million in order to provide full U.S. taxation on approximately $41.9 million of foreign earnings accumulated through December 31, 1992, for which U.S. income taxes had not previously been provided. Income taxes had not previously been provided on these earnings as a result of the Companys previous intent to reinvest such earnings indefinitely or to distribute them in a manner in which no significant additional taxes would be incurred. Also during the fourth quarter of 2003, the Company eliminated $8 million of certain taxes which the Company had previously expected to pay. Upon recent analysis of the state tax implications of the Companys pattern of remitting foreign earnings, the Company has determined that these taxes are not owed. 2002 compared with 2001 Airfreight net revenues in 2002 increased 12% compared with 2001 primarily due to increased airfreight tonnages handled in 2002 as compared with 2001. Airfreight margins decreased approximately 2% during 2002 as compared with 2001 as a result of rate increases initiated by air carriers during the third and fourth quarters in response to excess air cargo demands associated with the port disruptions on the west coast of the United States. Efficient consolidations of dense and fluffy (volumetric) freight allowed the Company to optimize purchased transportation costs while still offering competitive rates to customers. The Companys North American export airfreight net revenues decreased 2% in 2002 compared to 2001. Airfreight net revenues from the Far East and from Europe increased 22% and 12%, respectively, for 2002 compared with 2001. Airfreight rates on Far East to North American trade lanes, the Companys most dominant lane, remained strong throughout 2002, and were particularly strong during the fourth quarter. Ocean freight and ocean services net revenues increased 18% in 2002 compared to 2001. Ocean freight demand remained strong throughout 2002. Ocean freight rates from the Far East, the Companys largest trade lane fell throughout the year. Ocean freight volumes increased during the last half of 2002, despite a 10 day disruption in service at the ports located on the west coast of the United States. The aftermath of this disruption continued throughout the fourth quarter. Management believes that the Companys continued strong performance through this work disruption is a significant indication of both the strength of the Companys relationships with its vendors and the expertise of its staff. During 2002, management continued to expand market share, increase ocean tonnage, and increase net ocean freight revenues while offering competitive market rates to customers. Changes in the regulatory environment in the United States continued to create new opportunities for the Companys NVOCC operations to provide 20 services to customers who had previously dealt directly with the ocean carriers. Margins decreased 1% in 2002 as compared with 2001 because the Company reduced rates to increase volumes in response to an environment of falling prices which were a result of the overcapacity situation that existed in the ocean markets. The Company continued its focus of offering competitive rates to customers at the retail level, while leveraging freight volumes to obtain favorable rates from carriers at the wholesale level. ECMS, an ocean freight consolidation management and purchase order tracking service, continued to be instrumental in attracting new business. The Companys North American export ocean freight net revenues increased 18% in 2002 compared to 2001. This increase was a result of the Company handling more ocean shipments moving from North America to the Far East and, to a lesser extent, from North America to Europe. Ocean freight net revenues from the Far East and from Europe increased 21% and 14%, respectively, for 2002 compared with 2001. Customs brokerage and import services net revenues increased 9% in 2002 as compared with 2001 as a result of the Companys growing reputation for providing high quality service and consolidation within the customs brokerage market as customers seek out customs brokers with more sophisticated computerized capabilities critical to an overall logistics management program. Salaries and related costs increased in 2002 compared to 2001 as a result of (1) the Companys increased hiring of sales, operations, and administrative personnel in existing offices to accommodate increases in business activity and (2) increased compensation levels. Salaries and related costs decreased 1% as a percentage of net revenues. Other operating expenses increased in 2002 as compared with 2001 as rent expense, communications expense, quality and training expenses, and other costs expanded to accommodate the Companys growing operations. Other operating expenses as a percentage of net revenues remained constant in 2002 as compared with 2001. Management believes that this was significant as it reflects the successful achievement of cost containment objectives initiated at the branch level. The ability to sustain these savings into future periods is contingent upon branch level managements ability to adhere to these objectives. During the fourth quarter of 2002, the Company evaluated the recoverability of certain other assets and determined that an impairment had occurred. Accordingly, a $3.5 million loss was recorded as an operating expense. Other income, net, decreased in 2002 as compared with 2001. Due to much lower interest rates on higher average cash balances and short term investments during 2002, interest income decreased by $2.9 million. The decrease in interest income during the year ended December 31, 2002, was offset by a $1.5 million gain on the sale of the Companys former Dublin, Ireland facility. The Company pays income taxes in the United States and other jurisdictions, as well as other taxes which are typically included in costs of operations. The Companys consolidated effective income tax rate in 2002 was 36.5%, down from the 36.9% rate experienced in 2001. The .4% decrease was caused primarily by a reduction in state tax expense required to be paid by the Company. Currency and Other Risk Factors International air/ocean freight forwarding and customs brokerage are intensively competitive and are expected to remain so for the foreseeable future. There are a large number of entities competing in the international logistics industry; however, the Companys primary competition is confined to a relatively small number of companies within this group. While there is currently a marked trend within the industry toward consolidation into large firms with multinational offices and agency networks, regional and local broker/forwarders remain a competitive force. Historically, the primary competitive factors in the international logistics industry have been price and quality of service, including reliability, responsiveness, expertise, convenience, and scope of operations. The Company emphasizes quality service and believes that its prices are competitive with those of others in the industry. Customers have exhibited a trend towards more sophisticated and efficient procedures for the management of the logistics supply chain by embracing strategies such as just in time inventory management. Accordingly, sophisticated computerized customer service capabilities and a stable worldwide network have become significant factors in attracting and retaining customers. Developing these systems and a worldwide network has added a considerable indirect cost to the services provided to customers. Smaller and middle tier competitors, in general, do not have the resources available to develop customized systems and a worldwide network. As a result, there is a significant amount of consolidation currently taking place in the industry. Management expects that this trend toward consolidation will continue for the short to medium term. The nature of the Companys worldwide operations necessitates the Company dealing with a multitude of currencies other than the 21 U.S. Dollar. This results in the Company being exposed to the inherent risks of the international currency markets and governmental interference. Some of the countries where the Company maintains offices and or agency relationships have strict currency control regulations which influence the Companys ability to hedge foreign currency exposure. The Company tries to compensate for these exposures by accelerating international currency settlements among its offices or agents. The Company enters into foreign currency hedging transactions only in limited locations where there are regulatory or commercial limitations on the Companys ability to move money freely around the world or the short term financial outlook in any country is such that hedging is the most time sensitive way to avoid short term exchange losses. Any such hedging activity during 2003, 2002 and 2001 was insignificant. Net foreign currency gains realized in 2003 and 2002 were $588,000 and $70,000, respectively. Net foreign currency losses realized during 2001 were $366,000. The Company had no foreign currency derivatives outstanding at December 31, 2003 and 2002. The Company has traditionally generated revenues from airfreight, ocean freight and customs brokerage and import services. In light of the customer driven trend to provide customer rates on a door to door basis, management foresees the potential, in the medium to long term, for fees normally associated with customs house brokerage to be de emphasized and included as a component of other services offered by the Company. Sources of Growth Historically, growth through aggressive acquisition has proven to be a challenge for many of the Companys competitors and typically involves the purchase of significant goodwill, the value of which can be realized in large measure only by retaining the customers and profit margins of the acquired business. As a result, the Company has pursued a strategy emphasizing organic growth supplemented by certain strategic acquisitions, where future economic benefit significantly exceeds the goodwill recorded in the transaction. Office Additions The Company opened 3 start up offices and one office through an acquisition during 2003. The office added through an acquisition is followed by an asterisk. North America South America USA: COSTA RICA: Austin, Texas San Jose* Orlando, Florida Tampa, Florida During 2003, the Company closed its Luton, England office and consolidated those operations with the operations of its London, England office. Internal Growth Management believes that a comparison of same store growth is critical in the evaluation of the quality and extent of the Companys internally generated growth. This same store analysis isolates the financial contributions from offices that have been included in the Companys operating results for at least one full year. The table below presents same store comparisons on a year over year basis for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001. Same store comparisons for the years ended December 31, 2003 2002 2001 Net revenues 10 % 12 % 7 % Operating income 9 % 16 % 13 % Liquidity and Capital Resources The Companys principal source of liquidity is cash generated from operating activities. Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2003 was approximately $114 million, as compared with $116 million for 2002. This $2 million decrease is principally due to increased accounts receivable, offset by increased net earnings and increased accounts payable, accrued expenses and taxes payable. Increased accounts receivable is primarily due to slower collections on certain large technology accounts required to meet current market conditions. Increases in accounts payable and accrued expenses are a result of the Companys attempts to manage cash flows by matching the timing of cash outflows for payments to vendors with cash inflows from collections of customer billings. The Companys business is subject to seasonal fluctuations. Cash flow fluctuates as a result of this seasonality. Historically, the first quarter shows an excess of customer collections over customer billings. This results in positive cash flow. The increased activity 22 associated with peak season (typically commencing late second or early third quarter) causes an excess of customer billings over customer collections. This cyclical growth in customer receivables consumes available cash. In the past, the Company has utilized short term borrowings to satisfy normal operating expenditures when temporary cash outflows exceed cash inflows. These short term borrowings have been repaid when the trend reverses and customer collections exceed customer billings. During 2003, short term borrowings were not required in the United States despite the intense cash flow pressures in this market due to funds advanced in association with customs brokerage activity. As a customs broker, the Company makes significant 5 10 business day cash advances for certain of its customers obligations such as the payment of duties to the Bureau of Customs and Border Protection. These advances are made as an accommodation for a select group of credit worthy customers. Cash advances are a pass through and are not recorded as a component of revenue and expense. The billings of such advances to customers are accounted for as a direct increase in accounts receivable to the customer and a corresponding increase in accounts payable to governmental customs authorities. As a result of these pass through billings, the conventional Days Sales Outstanding or DSO calculation does not directly measure collection efficiency. Cash used in investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2003 was $26 million, as compared with $113 million during the same period of 2002. The largest use of cash in investing activities is cash paid for capital expenditures. As a non asset based provider of integrated logistics services, the Company does not own any physical means of transportation (i.e., airplanes, ships, trucks, etc.). However, the Company does have need, on occasion, to purchase buildings to house staff and to facilitate the staging of customers freight. The Company routinely invests in technology, office furniture and equipment and leasehold improvements. For the year ended December 31, 2003, the Company made capital expenditures of $21 million as compared with $81 million for the same period in 2002. Capital expenditures in 2002 included $59 million for acquisitions of real estate and office/warehouse facilities in New Jersey and the United Kingdom. Other capital expenditures in 2003 and 2002 related primarily to investments in technology and office furniture and equipment. Cash of $31.3 million was paid into escrow during 2002 to acquire an office and warehouse facility near the San Francisco, California International Airport; the transaction closed on January 7, 2003. The Company currently expects to spend approximately $33 million for normal capital expenditures in 2004. In addition to property and equipment, normal capital expenditures include leasehold improvements, warehouse equipment, computer hardware and furniture and fixtures. The Company expects to finance capital expenditures in 2004, with cash. Cash used in financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2003 was $18 million as compared with $13 million for the same period in 2002. The Company uses the proceeds from stock option exercises to repurchase the Companys stock on the open market. The differences between proceeds from the issuance of common stock and the amounts paid to repurchase common stock for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002 represent a timing difference in the receipt of proceeds and the subsequent repurchase of outstanding shares. In 2001, the Company repurchased 2,000,000 shares at an average price of $22.56 per share under a discretionary plan authorized by the Board of Directors. In November 2001, the Board of Directors voted to allow the repurchase of such shares as may be necessary to reduce the issued and outstanding stock to 100,000,000 shares of common stock. No repurchases were made under this plan in 2003 and 2002. During 2003 and 2002 the net use of cash in financing activities was primarily for the payment of dividends of $.16 per share and $.12 per share, respectively. At December 31, 2003, working capital was $370 million, including cash and short term investments of $296 million. The Company had no long term debt at December 31, 2003. While the nature of its business does not require an extensive investment in property and equipment, the Company cannot eliminate the possibility that it could acquire an equity interest in property in certain geographic locations. The Company borrows internationally and domestically under unsecured bank lines of credit. At December 31, 2003, the U.S. facility totaled $50 million and the international bank lines of credit totaled $14.9 million. In addition, the Company maintains bank facilities with U.K. banks for $21.4 million. At December 31, 2003, the Company was directly liable for $0.2 million drawn on these lines of credit and was contingently liable for an additional $51.9 million from standby letters of credit and guarantees related to these lines of credit and other obligations. The guarantees relate to obligations of the Companys foreign subsidiaries for credit extended in the ordinary course of business by direct carriers, primarily airlines, and for duty and tax deferrals available from governmental entities responsible for customs and value added tax (VAT) taxation. The total underlying amounts due and payable for transportation and governmental excises are properly recorded as obligations in the books of the respective foreign subsidiaries, and there would be no need to record additional expense in the unlikely event the parent company were to be required to perform. 23 At December 31, 2003, the Companys contractual obligations and other commitments are as follows: Payments Due by Period In thousands Total Less than 1 year 1 3 years 4 5 years After 5 years Contractual Obligations: Operating leases $ 92,850 33,580 44,305 10,733 4,232 Unconditional purchase obligations 94,360 94,360 Total contractual cash obligations $ 187,210 127,940 44,305 10,733 4,232 The Company enters into short term agreements with asset based providers reserving space on a guaranteed basis. The pricing of these obligations varies to some degree with market conditions. The Company only enters into agreements that management believes the Company can fulfill with relative ease. Historically, the Company has not paid for guaranteed space that it has not used. Management believes, in line with historical experience, committed purchase obligations outstanding as of December 31, 2003, will be fulfilled during 2004 in the Companys ordinary course of business. Total Amount of Commitment Expiration Per Period In thousands amounts committed Less than 1 year 1 3 years 4 5 years After 5 years Other Commitments: Lines of credit $ 64,866 64,678 188 Credit facility 21,429 21,375 54 Standby letters of credit 50,348 46,995 810 2,530 13 Total commitments $ 136,643 133,048 998 2,530 67 The Company has a Non Discretionary Stock Repurchase Plan to repurchase shares from the proceeds of stock option exercises. As of December 31, 2003, the Company had repurchased and retired 5,815,182 shares of common stock at an average price of $14.57 per share over the period from 1994 through 2003. During 2003, 565,374 shares were repurchased at an average price of $35.56 per share. Management believes that the Companys current cash position, bank financing arrangements, and operating cash flows will be sufficient to meet its capital and liquidity requirements for the foreseeable future, including meeting any contingent liabilities related to standby letters of credit and other obligations. In some cases, the Companys ability to repatriate funds from foreign operations may be subject to foreign exchange controls. At December 31, 2003, cash and cash equivalent balances of $132.2 million were held by the Companys non U.S. subsidiaries, of which $44.9 million was held in banks in the United States. During the fourth quarter of 2003, the Company provided full U.S. taxation on approximately $41.9 million of foreign earnings accumulated through December 31, 1992, for which U.S. income taxes had not previously been provided, resulting in additional tax expense of $9.5 million. Income taxes had not previously been provided on these earnings as a result of the Companys previous intent to reinvest such earnings indefinitely or to distribute them in a manner in which no significant additional taxes would be incurred. The Companys decision to provide U.S. taxes on all unremitted foreign earnings was made based upon the desire to be able to deploy capital globally without concern for the impact of associated U.S. tax obligations that might be incurred as a result of the repatriation of these earnings. Impact of Inflation To date, the Companys business has not been adversely affected by inflation, nor has the Company experienced significant difficulty in passing carrier rate increases on to its customers by means of price increases. Direct carrier rate increases could occur over the short to medium term period. Due to the high degree of competition in the market place, these rate increases might lead to an erosion in the Companys margins. As the Company is not required to purchase or maintain extensive property and equipment and has not otherwise incurred substantial interest rate sensitive indebtedness, the Company currently has limited direct exposure to increased costs resulting from increases in interest rates. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements As of December 31, 2003, the Company did not have any material off balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Regulation S K. 24 ITEM 7A QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The Company is exposed to market risks in the ordinary course of its business. These risks are primarily related to foreign exchange risk and changes in short term interest rates. The potential impact of the Companys exposure to these risks is presented below: Foreign Exchange Risk The Company conducts business in many different countries and currencies. The Companys business often results in revenue billings issued in a country and currency which differs from that where the expenses related to the service are incurred. In the ordinary course of business, the Company creates numerous intercompany transactions. This brings a market risk to the Companys earnings. Foreign exchange rate sensitivity analysis can be quantified by estimating the impact on the Companys earnings as a result of hypothetical changes in the value of the U.S. Dollar, the Companys functional currency, relative to the other currencies in which the Company transacts business. All other things being equal, an average 10% weakening of the U.S. Dollar, throughout the year ended December 31, 2003, would have had the effect of raising operating income approximately $12.9 million. An average 10% strengthening of the U.S. Dollar, for the same period, would have the effect of reducing operating income approximately $10.5 million. The Company has approximately $7 million of intercompany transactions unsettled at any one point in time. The Company currently does not use derivative financial instruments to manage foreign currency risk and only enters into foreign currency hedging transactions in limited locations where regulatory or commercial limitations restrict the Companys ability to move money freely around the world. Any such hedging activity throughout the year ended December 31, 2003, was insignificant. The Company had no foreign currency derivatives outstanding at December 31, 2003 and 2002. The Company instead follows a policy of accelerating international currency settlements to manage foreign exchange risk relative to intercompany billings. The majority of intercompany billings are resolved within 30 days and intercompany billings arising in the normal course of business are fully settled within 90 days. Interest Rate Risk At December 31, 2003, the Company had cash and cash equivalents and short term investments of $295.9 million and short term borrowings of $0.2 million, all subject to variable short term interest rates. A hypothetical change in the interest rate of 10% would have an insignificant impact on the Companys earnings. In managements opinion, there has been no material change in the Companys market risk exposure between 2002 and 2003. 25 
 
ITEM 7 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Executive Summary Expeditors International of Washington, Inc. is engaged in the business of global logistics management, including international freight forwarding and consolidation, for both air and ocean freight. The Company acts as a customs broker in all domestic offices, and in many of its international offices. The Company also provides additional services for its customers including value added distribution, purchase order management, vendor consolidation and other logistics solutions. The Company does not compete for overnight courier or small parcel business. The Company does not own or operate aircraft or steamships. International trade is influenced by many factors, including economic and political conditions in the United States and abroad, currency exchange rates, and United States and foreign laws and policies relating to tariffs, trade restrictions, foreign investments and taxation. Periodically, governments consider a variety of changes to current tariffs and trade restrictions. The Company cannot predict which, if any, of these proposals may be adopted, nor can the Company predict the affects adoption of any such proposal will have on the Companys business. Doing business in foreign locations also subjects the Company to a variety of risks and considerations not normally encountered by domestic enterprises. In addition to being influenced by governmental policies concerning international trade, the Companys business may also be affected by political developments and changes in government personnel or policies in the nations in which it does business. The Company derives its revenues from three principal sources: airfreight, ocean freight and customs brokerage and import services and these are the revenue categories presented in the financial statements. As a non asset based carrier, the Company does not own transportation assets. Rather, the Company generates the major portion of its air and ocean freight revenues by purchasing transportation services from direct (asset based) carriers and reselling those services to its customers. The difference between the rate billed to customers (the sell rate), and the rate paid to the carrier (the buy rate) is termed Net Revenue or yield. By consolidating shipments from multiple customers and concentrating its buying power, the Company is able to negotiate favorable buy rates from the direct carriers, while at the same time offering lower sell rates than customers would otherwise be able to negotiate themselves. Customs brokerage and import services involves providing services at destination, such as helping customers clear shipments through customs by preparing required documentation, calculating and providing for payment of duties and other taxes on behalf of the customers as well as arranging for any required inspections by governmental agencies, and arranging for delivery. This is a complicated function requiring technical knowledge of customs rules and regulations in the multitude of countries in which the Company has offices. The Companys ability to provide services to its customers is highly dependent on good working relationships with a variety of entities including airlines, ocean steamship lines, and governmental agencies. The significance of maintaining acceptable working relationships with governmental agencies and asset based providers involved in global trade has gained increased importance as a result of ongoing concern over terrorism. As each carrier labors to comply with governmental regulations implementing security policies and procedures, inherent conflicts emerge which can and do affect global trade to some degree. A good reputation helps to develop, to the degree possible, practical working understandings that will effectively meet security requirements while minimizing potential international trade obstacles. The Company considers its current working relationships with these entities to be satisfactory. However, changes in space allotments available from carriers, governmental deregulation efforts, modernization of the regulations governing customs brokerage, and or changes in governmental quota restrictions could affect the Companys business in unpredictable ways. Historically, the Companys operating results have been subject to a seasonal trend when measured on a quarterly basis. The first quarter has traditionally been the weakest and the third and fourth quarters have traditionally been the strongest. This pattern is the result of, or is influenced by, numerous factors including climate, national holidays, consumer demand, economic conditions and a myriad of other similar and subtle forces. In addition, this historical quarterly trend has been influenced by the growth and diversification of the Companys international network and service offerings. The Company cannot accurately forecast many of these factors nor can the Company estimate accurately the relative influence of any particular factor and, as a result, there can be no assurance that historical patterns, if any, will continue in future periods. A significant portion of the Companys revenues are derived from customers in retail industries whose shipping patterns are tied closely to consumer demand, and from customers in industries whose shipping patterns are dependent upon just in time production schedules. Therefore, the timing of the Companys revenues are, to a large degree, impacted by factors out of the Companys control, such as a sudden change in consumer demand for retail goods and or manufacturing production delays. Additionally, many customers ship a significant portion of their goods at or near the end of a quarter, and therefore, the Company may not learn of a shortfall in 15 revenues until late in a quarter. To the extent that a shortfall in revenues or earnings was not expected by securities analysts, any such shortfall from levels predicted by securities analysts could have an immediate and adverse effect on the trading price of the Companys stock. In terms of the opportunities, challenges and risks that management is focused on in 2004, the Company operates in 56 countries throughout the world in the competitive global logistics industry and Company activities are tied directly to the global economy. From the inception of the Company, management has believed that the elements required for a successful global service organization can only be assured through recruiting, training, and ultimately retaining superior personnel. The Companys greatest challenge is now and always has been perpetuating a consistent global culture which demands: Total dedication, first and foremost, to providing superior customer service; Aggressive marketing of all of the Companys service offerings; Ongoing development of key employees and management personnel via formal and informal means; Creation of unlimited advancement opportunities for employees dedicated to hard work, personal growth and continuous improvement; Individual commitment to the identification and mentoring of successors for every key position so that when inevitable change is required, a qualified and well trained internal candidate is ready to step forward; and Continuous identification, design and implementation of system solutions, both technological and otherwise, to meet and exceed the needs of our customers while simultaneously delivering tools to make our employees more efficient and more effective. The Company has reinforced these values with a compensation system that rewards employees for profitably managing the things they can control. There is no limit to how much a key manager can be compensated for success. The Company believes in a real world environment in every operating unit where individuals are not sheltered from the profit implications of their decisions. At the same time, the Company insists on continued focus on such things as accounts receivable collection, cash flow management and credit soundness in an attempt to insulate managers from the sort of catastrophic errors that might end a career. Any failure to perpetuate this unique culture on a self sustained basis throughout the Company, provides a greater threat to the Companys continued success than any external force, which would be largely beyond our control. Consequently, management spends the majority of its time focused on creating an environment where employees can learn and develop while also building systems and taking preventative action to reduce exposure to negative events. The Company strongly believes that it is nearly impossible to predict events that, in the aggregate, could have a positive or a negative impact on future operations. As a result our focus is on building and maintaining a global culture of well trained employees and managers that are prepared to identify and react to subtle changes as they develop and thereby help the Company adapt and thrive as major trends emerge. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates A summary of the Companys significant accounting policies can be found in Note 1 in the consolidated financial statements in this 10 K. Management believes that the nature of the Companys business is such that there are few, if any, complex challenges in accounting for operations. Revenue recognition is considered the critical accounting policy due to the complexity of arranging and managing global logistics and supply chain management transactions. 16 Revenue Recognition Airfreight revenues include the charges to the Company for carrying the shipments when the Company acts as a freight consolidator. Ocean freight revenues include the charges to the Company for carrying the shipments when the Company acts as a Non Vessel Operating Common Carrier (NVOCC). In each case the Company is acting as an indirect carrier. When acting as an indirect carrier, the Company will issue a House Airway Bill (HAWB) or a House Ocean Bill of Lading (HOBL) to customers as the contract of carriage. In turn, when the freight is physically tendered to a direct carrier, the Company receives a contract of carriage known as a Master Airway Bill for airfreight shipments and a Master Ocean Bill of Lading for ocean shipments. At this point, the risk of loss passes to the carrier, however, in order to claim for any such loss, the customer is first obligated to pay the freight charges. Based upon the terms in the contract of carriage, revenues related to shipments where the Company issues an HAWB or an HOBL are recognized at the time the freight is tendered to the direct carrier at origin. Costs related to the shipments are also recognized at this same time. Revenues realized in other capacities, for instance, when the Company acts as an agent for the shipper, and does not issue an HAWB or an HOBL, include only the commissions and fees earned for the services performed. These revenues are recognized upon completion of the services. Similarly, revenues related to customs brokerage and import services are recognized upon completion of the services. Arranging international shipments is a complex task. Each actual movement can require multiple services. In some instances, the Company is asked to perform only one of these services. However, in most instances, the Company may perform multiple services. These services include destination breakbulk services and value added ancillary services such as local transportation, export customs formalities, distribution services and logistics management. Each of these services has an associated fee, which is recognized as revenue upon completion of the service. Typically, the fees for each of these services are quoted as separate components, however, customers on occasion will request an all inclusive rate for a set of services known in the industry as door to door service. This means that the customer is billed a single rate for all services from pickup at origin to delivery at destination. In these instances, the revenue for origin and destination services, as well as revenue that will be characterized as freight charges, is allocated to branches as set by preexisting Company policy perhaps supplemented by customer specific negotiations between the offices involved. Each of the Companys branches are independent profit centers and the primary compensation for the branch management group comes in the form of incentive based compensation calculated directly from the operating income of that branch. This compensation structure ensures that the allocation of revenue and expense among components of services, when provided under an all inclusive rate, are done in an objective manner on a fair value basis, in accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) 00 21, Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables. Estimates While judgments and estimates are a necessary component of any system of accounting, the Companys use of estimates is limited primarily to the following areas that in the aggregate are not a major component of the Companys statement of earnings: accounts receivable valuation, the useful lives of long term assets, the accrual of costs related to ancillary services the Company provides, establishment of adequate insurance liabilities for the portion of the freight related exposure which the Company has self insured, and accrual of tax expense on an interim basis. During the fourth quarter of 2003, the Company provided full U.S. taxation on approximately $41.9 million of foreign earnings accumulated through December 31, 1992, for which U.S. income taxes had not previously been provided, resulting in additional tax expense of $9.5 million. Income taxes had not previously been provided on these earnings as a result of the Companys previous intent to reinvest such earnings indefinitely or to distribute them in a manner in which no significant additional taxes would be incurred. The Companys decision to provide U.S. taxes on all unremitted foreign earnings was made based upon the desire to be able to deploy capital globally without concern for the impact of associated U.S. tax obligations that might be incurred as a result of the repatriation of these earnings. Management believes that the methods utilized in all of these areas are non aggressive in approach and consistent in application. Management believes that there are limited, if any, alternative accounting principles or methods which could be applied to the Companys transactions. While the use of estimates means that actual future results may be different from those contemplated by the estimates, the Company believes that alternative principles and methods used for making such estimates would not produce materially different results than those reported. 17 Recent Accounting Pronouncements In June 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (SFAS) No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations which addresses financial accounting and reporting for obligations associated with the retirement of tangible long lived assets and for the associated asset retirement costs. The standard applies to legal obligations associated with the retirement of long lived assets that result from the acquisition, construction or development and or normal use of the asset. The Company adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 143 beginning in the first quarter of 2003. Adoption of SFAS No. 143 had no material impact on the Companys consolidated financial condition or results of operations. In June 2002, SFAS No. 146, Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities was issued which addresses financial accounting and reporting for costs associated with exit or disposal activities and nullifies EITF 94 3, Liability Recognition for Certain Employee Termination Benefits and Other Costs to Exit an Activity (including Certain Costs Incurred in a Restructuring). The Company adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 146 beginning in the first quarter of 2003. Adoption of SFAS No. 146 had no material impact on the Companys consolidated financial condition or results of operations. In November 2002, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 45 (FIN 45), Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others, which clarifies disclosure and recognition/measurement requirements related to certain guarantees. The disclosure requirements are effective for financial statements issued after December 15, 2002 and the recognition/measurement requirements are effective on a prospective basis for guarantees issued or modified after December 31, 2002. The provisions of FIN 45 require the Company to value and record the liability for any indirect or direct guarantees of the indebtedness of others entered into after December 31, 2002. The Company adopted the recognition and measurement provisions of FIN 45 beginning in the first quarter of 2003. As of December 31, 2003, the Company had no material obligations under guarantees that fall within the scope of FIN 45. In November 2002, the EITF reached a consensus on Issue No. 00 21 (EITF 00 21), Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables. EITF 00 21 addresses certain aspects of the accounting by a vendor for arrangements under which the vendor will perform multiple revenue generating activities. EITF 00 21 became effective for periods beginning after June 15, 2003. The Companys adoption of the provisions of EITF 00 21 beginning in the third quarter of 2003 had no impact on the Companys consolidated financial position or results of operations. In December 2003, the FASB issued revised Interpretation No. 46, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities (Revised), an Interpretation of ARB No. 51, (FIN 46R). FIN 46R addresses the consolidation by business enterprises of variable interest entities as defined in FIN 46R. The provisions of FIN 46R are generally effective for public entities that have interests in variable interest entities or potential variable interest entities commonly referred to as special purpose entities for periods ending after December 15, 2003. Application by public entities (other than small business issuers) for all other types of entities is required in financial statements for periods ending after March 15, 2004. The Company adopted only the disclosure provisions of FIN 46R in the fourth quarter of 2003 and will adopt the remaining provisions of FIN 46R in the first quarter of 2004. The Company does not expect adoption of the remaining provisions of FIN 46R to have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial condition or results of operations. 18 Results of Operations The following table shows the consolidated net revenues (revenues less transportation expenses) attributable to the Companys principal services and the Companys expenses for 2003, 2002, and 2001, expressed as percentages of net revenues. Management believes that net revenues are a better measure than total revenues of the relative importance of the Companys principal services since total revenues earned by the Company as a freight consolidator include the carriers charges to the Company for carrying the shipment whereas revenues earned by the Company in its other capacities include only the commissions and fees actually earned by the Company. 2003 2002 2001 In thousands Amount Percent of net revenues Amount Percent of net revenues Amount Percent of net revenues Net Revenues: Airfreight $ 278,968 37 % $ 284,954 42 % $ 254,502 42 % Ocean freight and ocean services 191,116 26 164,114 24 138,881 23 Customs brokerage and import services 280,426 37 233,145 34 213,153 35 Net revenues 750,510 100 682,213 100 606,536 100 Operating Expenses: Salaries and related costs 398,475 53 359,769 53 325,545 54 Other 165,273 22 151,435 22 134,974 22 Total operating expenses 563,748 75 511,204 75 460,519 76 Operating income 186,762 25 171,009 25 146,017 24 Other income, net 8,880 1 8,201 1 8,497 1 Earnings before income taxes and minority interest 195,642 26 179,210 26 154,514 25 Income tax expense 71,142 10 65,461 10 57,051 9 Net earnings before minority interest 124,500 16 113,749 16 97,463 16 Minority interest (2,548 ) (1,220 ) (220 ) Net earnings $ 121,952 16 % $ 112,529 16 % $ 97,243 16 % 2003 compared with 2002 Airfreight net revenues in 2003 decreased 2% compared with 2002. Global airfreight tonnages in 2003 were comparable with those in 2002. The decrease in 2003 airfreight net revenues was a reflection of an overall decline in airfreight yields and an inability to increase 2003 airfreight tonnages beyond those levels experienced in 2002. Airfreight tonnages and yields in 2002 were an anomaly as the airfreight markets were swamped by cargo that would otherwise have moved by ocean, but did not due to the disruption caused by the labor disputes in the west coast ports of the United States. The 1% decrease in airfreight yields in 2003 was primarily a result of air carriers increasing their rates such that the Company was unable to increase its corresponding rates to customers in a timely and effective manner. The Company elected to absorb these short term decreases in the interest of maintaining long term customer relationships. The Companys North American export airfreight net revenues decreased 5% in 2003 compared to 2002. Airfreight net revenues from the Far East and from Europe decreased 11% and increased 26%, respectively, for 2003 compared with 2002. Ocean freight volumes, measured in terms of forty foot container equivalent units (FEUs), increased 23% over 2002 while ocean freight and ocean services net revenues increased only 16% during the same period. The difference in these two growth rates is a result of a 252 basis point decline in ocean freight yields. In May 2003, ocean freight carriers implemented substantial rate increases. In order to gain market share and maintain its focus on long term customer relationships, the Company chose not to immediately pass on the full rate increases. The resulting increase in ocean freight volumes more than offset the revenue foregone by not implementing the full rate increases. The Company continued its focus of offering competitive rates to customers at the retail level, while leveraging freight volumes to 19 obtain favorable rates from carriers at the wholesale level. Expeditors Cargo Management Systems (ECMS), an ocean freight consolidation management and purchase order tracking service, continued to be instrumental in attracting new business. The Companys North American export ocean freight net revenues decreased 3% in 2003 compared to 2002. This decrease was a result of the Company handling more ocean shipments moving from North America to the Far East, a market which has lower profit per container, and, to a lesser extent, from North America to Europe, a market which has higher profit per container. Ocean freight net revenues from the Far East and from Europe increased 24%, respectively, for 2003 compared with 2002. Customs brokerage and import services net revenues increased 20% in 2003 as compared with 2002 as a result of the Companys growing reputation for providing high quality service and consolidation within the customs brokerage market as customers seek out customs brokers with more sophisticated computerized capabilities critical to an overall logistics management program. Salaries and related costs increased 11% in 2003 compared to 2002 as a result of (1) the Companys increased, albeit limited, hiring of sales, operations, and administrative personnel in existing and new offices to accommodate increases in business activity and (2) increased compensation levels. Salaries and related costs remained constant as a percentage of net revenues. The relatively consistent relationship between salaries and net revenues is the result of a compensation philosophy that has been maintained since the inception of the Company: offer a modest base salary and the opportunity to share in a fixed and determinable percentage of the operating profit of the business unit controlled by each key employee. Using this compensation model, changes in individual compensation will occur in proportion to changes in Company profits. Management believes that the growth in revenues, net revenues and net earnings for 2003 are a result of the incentives inherent in the Companys compensation program. Other operating expenses increased in 2003 as compared with 2002 as rent expense, communications expense, quality and training expenses, and other costs expanded to accommodate the Companys growing operations. Other operating expenses as a percentage of net revenues remained constant in 2003 as compared with 2002. Management believes that this was significant as it reflects the successful achievement of cost containment objectives initiated at the branch level. The ability to sustain these savings into future periods is contingent upon branch level managements ability to adhere to these objectives. Other income, net, increased in 2003 as compared with 2002. Due to much lower interest rates on higher average cash balances and short term investments during 2003, interest income decreased by $1.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. Rental income, net of applicable depreciation, of $3.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2003, is included in other income. The rental income is derived from two of the Companys properties, one located near Heathrow airport in London, England and an office and warehouse facility near the San Francisco, California International Airport. Other income in the year ended December 31, 2002 includes the $1.5 million gain on the sale of the Companys former Dublin, Ireland facility. The Company pays income taxes in the United States and other jurisdictions, as well as other taxes which are typically included in costs of operations. The Companys consolidated effective income tax rate in 2003 of 36.4% is comparable to the 36.5% rate in 2002. In the fourth quarter of 2003, the Company recorded additional tax expense of $9.5 million in order to provide full U.S. taxation on approximately $41.9 million of foreign earnings accumulated through December 31, 1992, for which U.S. income taxes had not previously been provided. Income taxes had not previously been provided on these earnings as a result of the Companys previous intent to reinvest such earnings indefinitely or to distribute them in a manner in which no significant additional taxes would be incurred. Also during the fourth quarter of 2003, the Company eliminated $8 million of certain taxes which the Company had previously expected to pay. Upon recent analysis of the state tax implications of the Companys pattern of remitting foreign earnings, the Company has determined that these taxes are not owed. 2002 compared with 2001 Airfreight net revenues in 2002 increased 12% compared with 2001 primarily due to increased airfreight tonnages handled in 2002 as compared with 2001. Airfreight margins decreased approximately 2% during 2002 as compared with 2001 as a result of rate increases initiated by air carriers during the third and fourth quarters in response to excess air cargo demands associated with the port disruptions on the west coast of the United States. Efficient consolidations of dense and fluffy (volumetric) freight allowed the Company to optimize purchased transportation costs while still offering competitive rates to customers. The Companys North American export airfreight net revenues decreased 2% in 2002 compared to 2001. Airfreight net revenues from the Far East and from Europe increased 22% and 12%, respectively, for 2002 compared with 2001. Airfreight rates on Far East to North American trade lanes, the Companys most dominant lane, remained strong throughout 2002, and were particularly strong during the fourth quarter. Ocean freight and ocean services net revenues increased 18% in 2002 compared to 2001. Ocean freight demand remained strong throughout 2002. Ocean freight rates from the Far East, the Companys largest trade lane fell throughout the year. Ocean freight volumes increased during the last half of 2002, despite a 10 day disruption in service at the ports located on the west coast of the United States. The aftermath of this disruption continued throughout the fourth quarter. Management believes that the Companys continued strong performance through this work disruption is a significant indication of both the strength of the Companys relationships with its vendors and the expertise of its staff. During 2002, management continued to expand market share, increase ocean tonnage, and increase net ocean freight revenues while offering competitive market rates to customers. Changes in the regulatory environment in the United States continued to create new opportunities for the Companys NVOCC operations to provide 20 services to customers who had previously dealt directly with the ocean carriers. Margins decreased 1% in 2002 as compared with 2001 because the Company reduced rates to increase volumes in response to an environment of falling prices which were a result of the overcapacity situation that existed in the ocean markets. The Company continued its focus of offering competitive rates to customers at the retail level, while leveraging freight volumes to obtain favorable rates from carriers at the wholesale level. ECMS, an ocean freight consolidation management and purchase order tracking service, continued to be instrumental in attracting new business. The Companys North American export ocean freight net revenues increased 18% in 2002 compared to 2001. This increase was a result of the Company handling more ocean shipments moving from North America to the Far East and, to a lesser extent, from North America to Europe. Ocean freight net revenues from the Far East and from Europe increased 21% and 14%, respectively, for 2002 compared with 2001. Customs brokerage and import services net revenues increased 9% in 2002 as compared with 2001 as a result of the Companys growing reputation for providing high quality service and consolidation within the customs brokerage market as customers seek out customs brokers with more sophisticated computerized capabilities critical to an overall logistics management program. Salaries and related costs increased in 2002 compared to 2001 as a result of (1) the Companys increased hiring of sales, operations, and administrative personnel in existing offices to accommodate increases in business activity and (2) increased compensation levels. Salaries and related costs decreased 1% as a percentage of net revenues. Other operating expenses increased in 2002 as compared with 2001 as rent expense, communications expense, quality and training expenses, and other costs expanded to accommodate the Companys growing operations. Other operating expenses as a percentage of net revenues remained constant in 2002 as compared with 2001. Management believes that this was significant as it reflects the successful achievement of cost containment objectives initiated at the branch level. The ability to sustain these savings into future periods is contingent upon branch level managements ability to adhere to these objectives. During the fourth quarter of 2002, the Company evaluated the recoverability of certain other assets and determined that an impairment had occurred. Accordingly, a $3.5 million loss was recorded as an operating expense. Other income, net, decreased in 2002 as compared with 2001. Due to much lower interest rates on higher average cash balances and short term investments during 2002, interest income decreased by $2.9 million. The decrease in interest income during the year ended December 31, 2002, was offset by a $1.5 million gain on the sale of the Companys former Dublin, Ireland facility. The Company pays income taxes in the United States and other jurisdictions, as well as other taxes which are typically included in costs of operations. The Companys consolidated effective income tax rate in 2002 was 36.5%, down from the 36.9% rate experienced in 2001. The .4% decrease was caused primarily by a reduction in state tax expense required to be paid by the Company. Currency and Other Risk Factors International air/ocean freight forwarding and customs brokerage are intensively competitive and are expected to remain so for the foreseeable future. There are a large number of entities competing in the international logistics industry; however, the Companys primary competition is confined to a relatively small number of companies within this group. While there is currently a marked trend within the industry toward consolidation into large firms with multinational offices and agency networks, regional and local broker/forwarders remain a competitive force. Historically, the primary competitive factors in the international logistics industry have been price and quality of service, including reliability, responsiveness, expertise, convenience, and scope of operations. The Company emphasizes quality service and believes that its prices are competitive with those of others in the industry. Customers have exhibited a trend towards more sophisticated and efficient procedures for the management of the logistics supply chain by embracing strategies such as just in time inventory management. Accordingly, sophisticated computerized customer service capabilities and a stable worldwide network have become significant factors in attracting and retaining customers. Developing these systems and a worldwide network has added a considerable indirect cost to the services provided to customers. Smaller and middle tier competitors, in general, do not have the resources available to develop customized systems and a worldwide network. As a result, there is a significant amount of consolidation currently taking place in the industry. Management expects that this trend toward consolidation will continue for the short to medium term. The nature of the Companys worldwide operations necessitates the Company dealing with a multitude of currencies other than the 21 U.S. Dollar. This results in the Company being exposed to the inherent risks of the international currency markets and governmental interference. Some of the countries where the Company maintains offices and or agency relationships have strict currency control regulations which influence the Companys ability to hedge foreign currency exposure. The Company tries to compensate for these exposures by accelerating international currency settlements among its offices or agents. The Company enters into foreign currency hedging transactions only in limited locations where there are regulatory or commercial limitations on the Companys ability to move money freely around the world or the short term financial outlook in any country is such that hedging is the most time sensitive way to avoid short term exchange losses. Any such hedging activity during 2003, 2002 and 2001 was insignificant. Net foreign currency gains realized in 2003 and 2002 were $588,000 and $70,000, respectively. Net foreign currency losses realized during 2001 were $366,000. The Company had no foreign currency derivatives outstanding at December 31, 2003 and 2002. The Company has traditionally generated revenues from airfreight, ocean freight and customs brokerage and import services. In light of the customer driven trend to provide customer rates on a door to door basis, management foresees the potential, in the medium to long term, for fees normally associated with customs house brokerage to be de emphasized and included as a component of other services offered by the Company. Sources of Growth Historically, growth through aggressive acquisition has proven to be a challenge for many of the Companys competitors and typically involves the purchase of significant goodwill, the value of which can be realized in large measure only by retaining the customers and profit margins of the acquired business. As a result, the Company has pursued a strategy emphasizing organic growth supplemented by certain strategic acquisitions, where future economic benefit significantly exceeds the goodwill recorded in the transaction. Office Additions The Company opened 3 start up offices and one office through an acquisition during 2003. The office added through an acquisition is followed by an asterisk. North America South America USA: COSTA RICA: Austin, Texas San Jose* Orlando, Florida Tampa, Florida During 2003, the Company closed its Luton, England office and consolidated those operations with the operations of its London, England office. Internal Growth Management believes that a comparison of same store growth is critical in the evaluation of the quality and extent of the Companys internally generated growth. This same store analysis isolates the financial contributions from offices that have been included in the Companys operating results for at least one full year. The table below presents same store comparisons on a year over year basis for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001. Same store comparisons for the years ended December 31, 2003 2002 2001 Net revenues 10 % 12 % 7 % Operating income 9 % 16 % 13 % Liquidity and Capital Resources The Companys principal source of liquidity is cash generated from operating activities. Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2003 was approximately $114 million, as compared with $116 million for 2002. This $2 million decrease is principally due to increased accounts receivable, offset by increased net earnings and increased accounts payable, accrued expenses and taxes payable. Increased accounts receivable is primarily due to slower collections on certain large technology accounts required to meet current market conditions. Increases in accounts payable and accrued expenses are a result of the Companys attempts to manage cash flows by matching the timing of cash outflows for payments to vendors with cash inflows from collections of customer billings. The Companys business is subject to seasonal fluctuations. Cash flow fluctuates as a result of this seasonality. Historically, the first quarter shows an excess of customer collections over customer billings. This results in positive cash flow. The increased activity 22 associated with peak season (typically commencing late second or early third quarter) causes an excess of customer billings over customer collections. This cyclical growth in customer receivables consumes available cash. In the past, the Company has utilized short term borrowings to satisfy normal operating expenditures when temporary cash outflows exceed cash inflows. These short term borrowings have been repaid when the trend reverses and customer collections exceed customer billings. During 2003, short term borrowings were not required in the United States despite the intense cash flow pressures in this market due to funds advanced in association with customs brokerage activity. As a customs broker, the Company makes significant 5 10 business day cash advances for certain of its customers obligations such as the payment of duties to the Bureau of Customs and Border Protection. These advances are made as an accommodation for a select group of credit worthy customers. Cash advances are a pass through and are not recorded as a component of revenue and expense. The billings of such advances to customers are accounted for as a direct increase in accounts receivable to the customer and a corresponding increase in accounts payable to governmental customs authorities. As a result of these pass through billings, the conventional Days Sales Outstanding or DSO calculation does not directly measure collection efficiency. Cash used in investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2003 was $26 million, as compared with $113 million during the same period of 2002. The largest use of cash in investing activities is cash paid for capital expenditures. As a non asset based provider of integrated logistics services, the Company does not own any physical means of transportation (i.e., airplanes, ships, trucks, etc.). However, the Company does have need, on occasion, to purchase buildings to house staff and to facilitate the staging of customers freight. The Company routinely invests in technology, office furniture and equipment and leasehold improvements. For the year ended December 31, 2003, the Company made capital expenditures of $21 million as compared with $81 million for the same period in 2002. Capital expenditures in 2002 included $59 million for acquisitions of real estate and office/warehouse facilities in New Jersey and the United Kingdom. Other capital expenditures in 2003 and 2002 related primarily to investments in technology and office furniture and equipment. Cash of $31.3 million was paid into escrow during 2002 to acquire an office and warehouse facility near the San Francisco, California International Airport; the transaction closed on January 7, 2003. The Company currently expects to spend approximately $33 million for normal capital expenditures in 2004. In addition to property and equipment, normal capital expenditures include leasehold improvements, warehouse equipment, computer hardware and furniture and fixtures. The Company expects to finance capital expenditures in 2004, with cash. Cash used in financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2003 was $18 million as compared with $13 million for the same period in 2002. The Company uses the proceeds from stock option exercises to repurchase the Companys stock on the open market. The differences between proceeds from the issuance of common stock and the amounts paid to repurchase common stock for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002 represent a timing difference in the receipt of proceeds and the subsequent repurchase of outstanding shares. In 2001, the Company repurchased 2,000,000 shares at an average price of $22.56 per share under a discretionary plan authorized by the Board of Directors. In November 2001, the Board of Directors voted to allow the repurchase of such shares as may be necessary to reduce the issued and outstanding stock to 100,000,000 shares of common stock. No repurchases were made under this plan in 2003 and 2002. During 2003 and 2002 the net use of cash in financing activities was primarily for the payment of dividends of $.16 per share and $.12 per share, respectively. At December 31, 2003, working capital was $370 million, including cash and short term investments of $296 million. The Company had no long term debt at December 31, 2003. While the nature of its business does not require an extensive investment in property and equipment, the Company cannot eliminate the possibility that it could acquire an equity interest in property in certain geographic locations. The Company borrows internationally and domestically under unsecured bank lines of credit. At December 31, 2003, the U.S. facility totaled $50 million and the international bank lines of credit totaled $14.9 million. In addition, the Company maintains bank facilities with U.K. banks for $21.4 million. At December 31, 2003, the Company was directly liable for $0.2 million drawn on these lines of credit and was contingently liable for an additional $51.9 million from standby letters of credit and guarantees related to these lines of credit and other obligations. The guarantees relate to obligations of the Companys foreign subsidiaries for credit extended in the ordinary course of business by direct carriers, primarily airlines, and for duty and tax deferrals available from governmental entities responsible for customs and value added tax (VAT) taxation. The total underlying amounts due and payable for transportation and governmental excises are properly recorded as obligations in the books of the respective foreign subsidiaries, and there would be no need to record additional expense in the unlikely event the parent company were to be required to perform. 23 At December 31, 2003, the Companys contractual obligations and other commitments are as follows: Payments Due by Period In thousands Total Less than 1 year 1 3 years 4 5 years After 5 years Contractual Obligations: Operating leases $ 92,850 33,580 44,305 10,733 4,232 Unconditional purchase obligations 94,360 94,360 Total contractual cash obligations $ 187,210 127,940 44,305 10,733 4,232 The Company enters into short term agreements with asset based providers reserving space on a guaranteed basis. The pricing of these obligations varies to some degree with market conditions. The Company only enters into agreements that management believes the Company can fulfill with relative ease. Historically, the Company has not paid for guaranteed space that it has not used. Management believes, in line with historical experience, committed purchase obligations outstanding as of December 31, 2003, will be fulfilled during 2004 in the Companys ordinary course of business. Total Amount of Commitment Expiration Per Period In thousands amounts committed Less than 1 year 1 3 years 4 5 years After 5 years Other Commitments: Lines of credit $ 64,866 64,678 188 Credit facility 21,429 21,375 54 Standby letters of credit 50,348 46,995 810 2,530 13 Total commitments $ 136,643 133,048 998 2,530 67 The Company has a Non Discretionary Stock Repurchase Plan to repurchase shares from the proceeds of stock option exercises. As of December 31, 2003, the Company had repurchased and retired 5,815,182 shares of common stock at an average price of $14.57 per share over the period from 1994 through 2003. During 2003, 565,374 shares were repurchased at an average price of $35.56 per share. Management believes that the Companys current cash position, bank financing arrangements, and operating cash flows will be sufficient to meet its capital and liquidity requirements for the foreseeable future, including meeting any contingent liabilities related to standby letters of credit and other obligations. In some cases, the Companys ability to repatriate funds from foreign operations may be subject to foreign exchange controls. At December 31, 2003, cash and cash equivalent balances of $132.2 million were held by the Companys non U.S. subsidiaries, of which $44.9 million was held in banks in the United States. During the fourth quarter of 2003, the Company provided full U.S. taxation on approximately $41.9 million of foreign earnings accumulated through December 31, 1992, for which U.S. income taxes had not previously been provided, resulting in additional tax expense of $9.5 million. Income taxes had not previously been provided on these earnings as a result of the Companys previous intent to reinvest such earnings indefinitely or to distribute them in a manner in which no significant additional taxes would be incurred. The Companys decision to provide U.S. taxes on all unremitted foreign earnings was made based upon the desire to be able to deploy capital globally without concern for the impact of associated U.S. tax obligations that might be incurred as a result of the repatriation of these earnings. Impact of Inflation To date, the Companys business has not been adversely affected by inflation, nor has the Company experienced significant difficulty in passing carrier rate increases on to its customers by means of price increases. Direct carrier rate increases could occur over the short to medium term period. Due to the high degree of competition in the market place, these rate increases might lead to an erosion in the Companys margins. As the Company is not required to purchase or maintain extensive property and equipment and has not otherwise incurred substantial interest rate sensitive indebtedness, the Company currently has limited direct exposure to increased costs resulting from increases in interest rates. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements As of December 31, 2003, the Company did not have any material off balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Regulation S K. 24 ITEM 7A QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The Company is exposed to market risks in the ordinary course of its business. These risks are primarily related to foreign exchange risk and changes in short term interest rates. The potential impact of the Companys exposure to these risks is presented below: Foreign Exchange Risk The Company conducts business in many different countries and currencies. The Companys business often results in revenue billings issued in a country and currency which differs from that where the expenses related to the service are incurred. In the ordinary course of business, the Company creates numerous intercompany transactions. This brings a market risk to the Companys earnings. Foreign exchange rate sensitivity analysis can be quantified by estimating the impact on the Companys earnings as a result of hypothetical changes in the value of the U.S. Dollar, the Companys functional currency, relative to the other currencies in which the Company transacts business. All other things being equal, an average 10% weakening of the U.S. Dollar, throughout the year ended December 31, 2003, would have had the effect of raising operating income approximately $12.9 million. An average 10% strengthening of the U.S. Dollar, for the same period, would have the effect of reducing operating income approximately $10.5 million. The Company has approximately $7 million of intercompany transactions unsettled at any one point in time. The Company currently does not use derivative financial instruments to manage foreign currency risk and only enters into foreign currency hedging transactions in limited locations where regulatory or commercial limitations restrict the Companys ability to move money freely around the world. Any such hedging activity throughout the year ended December 31, 2003, was insignificant. The Company had no foreign currency derivatives outstanding at December 31, 2003 and 2002. The Company instead follows a policy of accelerating international currency settlements to manage foreign exchange risk relative to intercompany billings. The majority of intercompany billings are resolved within 30 days and intercompany billings arising in the normal course of business are fully settled within 90 days. Interest Rate Risk At December 31, 2003, the Company had cash and cash equivalents and short term investments of $295.9 million and short term borrowings of $0.2 million, all subject to variable short term interest rates. A hypothetical change in the interest rate of 10% would have an insignificant impact on the Companys earnings. In managements opinion, there has been no material change in the Companys market risk exposure between 2002 and 2003. 25 
 
