Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in this report. PART I ITEM 1 BUSINESS Expeditors International of Washington, Inc. is engaged in the business of providing global logistics services. The Company offers its customers a seamless international network supporting the movement and strategic positioning of goods. The Companys services include the consolidation or forwarding of air and ocean freight. In each U.S. office, and in many overseas offices, the Company acts as a customs broker. The Company also provides additional services including distribution management, vendor consolidation, cargo insurance, purchase order management and customized logistics information. The Company does not compete for domestic freight, overnight courier or small parcel business and does not own aircraft or steamships. The Company, including its majority owned subsidiaries, operates full service offices ( ) in the cities identified below. Full service offices have also been established in locations where the Company maintains unilateral control over assets and operations and where the existence of the parent subsidiary relationship is maintained by means other than record ownership of voting stock (#). In other cities, the Company contracts with independent agents to provide required services and has established over 120 such relationships world wide. Locations where Company employees perform sales and customer service functions are identified below as international service centers (*). Wholly owned locations operating under the supervision and control of another full service office are identified as satellite offices (+). In each case, the opening date for the full service office, international service center or satellite office is set forth in parenthesis. NORTH AMERICA UNITED STATES Dallas (5/92) + Rochester (10/97) MEXICO Seattle (5/79) Columbus (6/92) McAllen (4/98) Mexico City (6/95) Chicago (7/81) Charlotte (7/92) Pittsburgh (6/99) Nuevo Laredo (4/97) San Francisco (7/81) Newark (9/94) Savannah (3/00) Guadalajara (9/97) New York (11/81) Philadelphia (3/95) + Milwaukee (7/00) Nogales (1/99) Los Angeles (5/82) Charleston (6/95) Kansas City (8/00) Ciudad Juarez (5/00) Atlanta (8/83) Memphis (8/95) Washington, D.C. (9/00) Monterrey (1/05) Boston (11/85) Salt Lake City (11/95) Nashville (10/01) Miami (3/86) + Syracuse (4/96) + Huntsville (12/02) SOUTH AND CENTRAL AMERICA Minneapolis (7/86) Norfolk (9/96) Austin (02/03) Denver (2/88) Indianapolis (11/96) Orlando (08/03) ARGENTINA Detroit (7/88) + Port Huron Blue Water Bridge (12/96) Tampa (09/03) Buenos Aires (1/98) Portland (7/88) + Detroit Ambassador Bridge (12/96) + New Orleans (9/04) Cincinnati (8/89) + Lewiston Queenston (12/96) BRAZIL Cleveland (7/90) Buffalo Peace Bridge (1/97) PUERTO RICO Sao Paulo (9/95) Phoenix (7/91) El Paso (1/97) San Juan (5/95) Rio de Janeiro (9/95) Louisville (10/91) Laredo (2/97) Campinas (9/95) St. Louis (4/92) Nogales (2/97) CANADA + Santos (10/97) Houston (4/92) San Diego (7/97) Toronto (5/84) Manaus (7/00) Baltimore (4/92) Vancouver (9/95) Porto Alegre (1/05) + Windsor (6/98) Montreal (4/99) Calgary (9/04) 2 SOUTH AND CENTRAL AMERICA (cont.) AUSTRALASIA CHILE JAPAN FRANCE Santiago (2/95) Tokyo (1/01) Paris (1/97) AUSTRALIA + Concepcion (4/03) Osaka (1/01) Mulhouse (1/97) Sydney (8/88) Lyon (1/97) Melbourne (8/88) COLOMBIA KOREA Lille (3/97) Brisbane (10/93) Bogota (12/98) + Pusan (10/94) Bordeaux (7/00) Perth (12/94) + Cali (12/98) Seoul (10/94) Adelaide (10/97) + Medellin (7/00) + Bupyung (6/96) GERMANY + Chonan (6/96) Frankfurt (4/92) FIJI COSTA RICA + Kwangju (6/96) Munich (4/92) * Nadi (7/96) San Jose (10/03) + Kumi (6/96) Dusseldorf (4/92) * Suva (5/97) + Masan (6/96) Stuttgart (4/92) VENEZUELA + Taegu (6/96) Hamburg (1/93) NEW ZEALAND Caracas (1/01) Nuremberg (1/01) Auckland (8/88) MALAYSIA + Hannover (1/05) FAR EAST Penang (11/87) NEAR/MIDDLE EAST Kuala Lumpur (6/90) HUNGARY BANGLADESH *Johor Bahru (11/94) Budapest (4/00) EGYPT Dhaka (6/89) Cairo (2/95) + Chittagong (8/93) MARIANA ISLANDS IRELAND + Alexandria (2/95) Saipan (7/00) Dublin (3/97) CAMBODIA Cork (3/97) GREECE Phnom Penh (4/00) PHILIPPINES Shannon (3/97) Athens (2/99) Manila (8/98) + Thessaloniki (2/99) CHINA + Olongapo City (8/98) ITALY Guangzhou (4/94) + Mandaue City (9/99) Milan (4/93) INDIA Beijing (7/94) Verona (4/93) New Delhi (7/96) Dalian (7/94) SINGAPORE Florence (3/98) Mumbai (Bombay) (1/97) Singapore (9/81) Bangalore (6/97) Shanghai (7/94) THE NETHERLANDS Chennai (Madras) (6/97) Shenzhen (7/94) TAIWAN Amsterdam (6/94) + Hyderabad (9/01) Qingdao (7/94) Taipei (9/81) Rotterdam (3/95) Tianjin (7/94) + Kaohsiung (9/81) KUWAIT + Xian (7/94) + Taichung (9/81) POLAND # Kuwait City (7/97) Xiamen (7/94) + Hsin Chu (9/89) Warsaw (2/05) + Chengdu (9/00) LEBANON + Ningbo (7/01) THAILAND PORTUGAL Beirut (8/99) + Suzhou (9/01) Bangkok (9/94) Lisbon (10/91) + Zhongshan (9/01) Oporto (10/91) PAKISTAN + Hangzhou (10/01) VIETNAM Karachi (9/96) + Kunshan (12/01) Ho Chi Minh City (5/00) SPAIN Lahore (9/96) + Fuzhou (6/02) Hanoi (3/04) Barcelona (1/94) + Sialkot (6/03) + Yantai (11/02) Madrid (1/94) + Shenyang (12/02) EUROPE Alicante (4/96) SAUDI ARABIA + Wuhan (1/03) # Riyadh (7/92) + Huizhou (12/03) AUSTRIA SWEDEN # Jeddah (7/92) + Zhuhai (12/03) Vienna (11/95) Stockholm (1/94) + Foshan (1/04) Goteborg (1/94) SRI LANKA + Chongqing (7/04) BELGIUM + Malmoe (3/05) Colombo (3/95) Dongguan (2/05) Brussels (7/90) Nanjing (3/05) +Antwerp (4/91) SWITZERLAND Chiasso (2/01) HONG KONG THE CZECH REPUBLIC Kowloon (9/81) Prague (6/98) UNITED KINGDOM London (4/86) INDONESIA FINLAND Manchester (11/88) Jakarta (12/90) Helsinki (4/94) Birmingham (3/90) * Surabaya (2/92) Glasgow (4/92) Bristol (3/97) East Midlands (1/99) + Hull (1/00) Belfast (09/01) 3 NEAR/MIDDLE EAST (cont.) AFRICA MADAGASCAR TURKEY U.A.E. Antananarivo (11/01) Ankara (1/99) * Abu Dhabi (1/94) SOUTH AFRICA Istanbul (1/99) Dubai (10/98) Johannesburg (3/94) MAURITIUS Izmir (1/99) Durban (3/94) Port Louis (7/99) Mersin (1/99) CYPRUS Capetown (1/97) + Adana (1/99) * Nicosia (6/96) + Maseru (6/03) * Larnaca (1/98) + Port Elizabeth (7/03) The Company was incorporated in the State of Washington in May 1979. Its executive offices are located at 1015 Third Avenue, 12th Floor, Seattle, Washington, and its telephone number is (206) 674 3400. The Companys Internet address is http://www.expeditors.com. The Company makes available free of charge on or through its Internet website its annual report on Form 10 K, quarterly reports on Form 10 Q, current reports on Form 8 K, and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). For information concerning the amount of revenues, net revenues, operating income, identifiable assets, capital expenditures and depreciation and amortization attributable to the geographic areas in which the Company conducts its business, see Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Beginning in 1981, the Companys primary business focus was on airfreight shipments from the Far East to the United States and related customs brokerage and other services. In the mid 1980s, the Company began to expand its service capabilities in export airfreight, ocean freight and distribution services. Today the Company offers a complete range of global logistics services to a diversified group of customers, both in terms of industry specialization and geographic location. As opportunities for profitable growth arise, the Company plans to create new offices. While the Company has historically expanded through organic growth, the Company has also been open to growth through acquisition of, or establishing joint ventures with, existing agents or others within the industry. Airfreight Services Airfreight services accounted for approximately 39, 37, and 42 percent of the Companys 2004, 2003, and 2002 consolidated revenues net of freight consolidation expenses (net revenues), respectively. When performing airfreight services, the Company typically acts either as a freight consolidator or as an agent for the airline which carries the shipment. When acting as a freight consolidator, the Company purchases cargo space from airlines on a volume basis and resells that space to its customers at lower rates than the customers could obtain directly from airlines. When moving shipments between points where the volume of business does not facilitate consolidation, the Company receives and forwards individual shipments as the agent of the airline which carries the shipment. Whether acting as an agent or consolidator, the Company offers its customers knowledge of optimum routing, familiarity with local business practices, knowledge of export and import documentation and procedures, the ability to arrange for ancillary services, and assistance with space availability in periods of peak demand. In its airfreight forwarding operations, the Company procures shipments from its customers, determines the routing, consolidates shipments bound for a particular airport distribution point, and selects the airline for transportation to the distribution point. At the distribution point, the Company or its agent arranges for the consolidated lot to be broken down into its component shipments and for the transportation of the individual shipments to their final destinations. The Company estimates its average airfreight consolidation weighs approximately 3,500 to 4,500 pounds and includes merchandise from several shippers. Because shipment by air is relatively expensive compared with ocean transportation, air shipments are generally characterized by a high value to weight ratio, the need for rapid delivery, or both. The Company typically delivers shipments from a Company warehouse at the origin to the airline after consolidating the freight into containers or onto pallets. Shipments normally arrive at the destination distribution point within forty eight hours after such delivery. During peak shipment periods, cargo space available from the scheduled air carriers can be limited and backlogs of freight shipments may occur. When these conditions exist, the Company may charter aircraft to meet customer demand. The Company consolidates individual shipments based on weight and volume characteristics in cost effective combinations. Typically, as the weight or volume of a shipment increases, the cost per pound/kilo or cubic inch/centimeter charged by the Company decreases. The rates charged by airlines to forwarders and others also generally decrease as the weight or volume of the shipment 4 increases. As a result, by aggregating shipments and presenting them to an airline as a single shipment, the Company is able to obtain a lower rate per pound/kilo or cubic inch/centimeter than that which it charges to its customers for the individual shipment, while generally offering the customer a lower rate than could be obtained from the airline for an unconsolidated shipment. The Companys net airfreight forwarding revenues from a consolidated shipment include the differential between the rate charged to the Company by an airline and the rate which the Company charges to its customers, commissions paid to the Company by the airline carrying the freight and fees for ancillary services. Such ancillary services provided by the Company include preparation of shipping and customs documentation, packing, crating and insurance services, negotiation of letters of credit, and preparation of documentation to comply with local export laws. When the Company acts as an agent for an airline handling an unconsolidated shipment, its net revenues are primarily derived from commissions paid by the airline and fees for ancillary services paid by the customer. The Company does not own aircraft and does not plan to do so. Management believes that the ownership of aircraft would subject the Company to undue business risks, including large capital outlays, increased fixed operating expenses, problems of fully utilizing aircraft and competition with airlines. Because the Company relies on commercial airlines to transport its shipments, changes in carrier policies and practices such as pricing, payment terms, scheduling, and frequency of service may affect its business. The Company also performs breakbulk services which involve receiving and breaking down consolidated airfreight lots and arranging for distribution of the individual shipments. Breakbulk service revenues also include commissions from agents for airfreight shipments. Customs Brokerage and Other Services Customs brokerage and other services accounted for approximately 38, 37, and 34 percent of the Companys 2004, 2003, and 2002 consolidated net revenues, respectively. As a customs broker, the Company assists importers to clear shipments through customs by preparing required documentation, calculating and providing for payment of duties on behalf of the importer, arranging for any required inspections by governmental agencies, and arranging for delivery. The Company also provides other value added services at destination such as warehousing and product distribution, time definite transportation and inventory management. None of these other services are currently individually significant to the Companys net revenues. The Company provides customs clearance services in connection with many of the shipments it handles as a freight forwarder. However, substantial customs brokerage revenues are derived from customers that elect to use a competing forwarder. Conversely, shipments handled by the Company as a forwarder may be processed by another customs broker selected by the customer. The Company also provides custom clearances for goods moving by rail and truck between the United States, Canada and or Mexico. The commodities being cleared and the time sensitive nature of the border brokerage business require the Company to continue to make enhancements to its systems in order to provide competitive service. During 1996 the Company established a subsidiary, Expeditors Tradewin, L.L.C., to respond to customer driven requests for high end customs consulting services. The demand for these services was stimulated by the changes made by the U.S. Customs Service in response to the 1993 Customs Modernization Act. Fees for these non transactional services are based upon hourly billing rates and bids for mutually agreed procedures. Ocean Freight and Ocean Services Ocean freight services accounted for approximately 23, 26, and 24 percent of the Companys 2004, 2003, and 2002 consolidated net revenues, respectively. The Companys revenues as an ocean freight forwarder are derived from commissions paid by the carrier and revenues from fees charged to customers for ancillary services which the Company may provide, such as preparing documentation, procuring insurance, arranging for packing and crating services, and providing consultation. The Company operates Expeditors International Ocean (EIO), a Non Vessel Operating Common Carrier (NVOCC) specializing in ocean freight consolidation from the Far East to the United States. EIO also provides service, on a smaller scale, to and from any location where the Company has an office or agent. As an NVOCC, EIO contracts with ocean shipping lines to obtain transportation for a fixed number of containers between various points during a specified time period at an agreed rate. EIO solicits Less than Container Load (LCL) freight to fill the containers and charges lower rates than those available directly from shipping lines. EIO also handles full container loads for customers that do not have annual shipping volumes sufficient to negotiate comparable contracts directly with the ocean carriers. The Company does not own vessels and generally does not physically handle the cargo. 5 Expeditors Cargo Management Systems (ECMS) supplies a sophisticated ocean consolidation service. The Company owns and maintains software that allows it to sell ECMS to large volume customers that have signed their own service contracts with the ocean carriers. As an ocean consolidator, ECMS may obtain LCL freight from several vendors and consolidate this cargo into full containers. The Companys revenues as an ocean consolidator are derived from handling LCL cargo at origin and from the fees paid by customers for access to data captured during the consolidation process. Marketing and Customers The Company provides flexible service and seeks to understand the needs of the customers from points of origin to ultimate destinations. Although the domestic importer usually designates the logistics company and the services that will be required, the foreign shipper may also participate in this selection process. Therefore, the Company coordinates its marketing program to reach both domestic importers and their overseas suppliers. The Companys marketing efforts are focused primarily on the traffic, shipping and purchasing departments of existing and potential customers. The district manager of each office is responsible for marketing, sales coordination, and implementation in the area in which he or she is located. All employees are responsible for customer service and relations. The Company staffs its offices largely with managers and other key personnel who are citizens of the nations in which they operate and who have extensive experience in global logistics. Marketing and customer service staffs are responsible for marketing the Companys services directly to local shippers and traffic managers who may select or influence the selection of the logistics vendor and for ensuring that customers receive timely and efficient service. The Company believes that its expertise in supplying solutions customized to the needs of its customers, its emphasis on coordinating its origin and destination customer service and marketing activities, and the incentives it gives to its managers have been important elements of its success. The goods handled by the Company are generally a function of the products which dominate international trade between any particular origin and destination. Shipments of computer components, other electronic equipment, housewares, sporting goods, machine parts, and toys, comprise a significant percentage of the Companys business. Typical import customers include computer retailers and distributors of consumer electronics, department store chains, clothing and shoe wholesalers, manufacturers and catalogue stores. Historically, no single customer has accounted for five percent or more of the Companys revenues. Competition The global logistics services industry is intensely competitive and is expected to remain so for the foreseeable future. There are a large number of companies competing in one or more segments of the industry, but the number of firms with a global network that offer a full complement of logistics services is more limited. Depending on the location of the shipper and the importer, the Company must compete against both the niche players and larger entities. While there is currently a marked trend within the industry toward consolidation into larger firms striving for immediate multinational and multi service networks, the regional and local competitors maintain a strong market presence. Historically, the primary competitive factors in the global logistics services industry have been price and quality of service, including reliability, responsiveness, expertise, convenience, and scope of operations. The Company emphasizes quality service and believes that its prices are competitive with the prices of others in the industry. Recently, larger customers have exhibited a trend toward more sophisticated and efficient procedures for the management of the logistics supply chain by embracing strategies such as just in time inventory management. This trend has made computerized customer service capabilities a significant factor in attracting and retaining customers. These computerized customer service capabilities include customized Electronic Data Interchange, (EDI), and on line freight tracing and tracking applications. The customized EDI applications allow the transfer of key information between the customers systems and the Companys systems. Freight tracing and tracking applications allow customers to know the location, transit time and estimated delivery time of inventory in transit. Management believes that the ability to develop and deliver innovative solutions to meet customers increasingly sophisticated information requirements is a critical factor in the ongoing success of the Company. Accordingly, the Company has devoted a significant amount of resources towards the maintenance and enhancement of systems that will meet these customer demands. Management believes that the Companys existing systems are competitive with the systems currently in use by other logistics services companies with which it competes. Developing these systems has added a considerable indirect cost to the services provided to customers. Small and middle tier competitors, in general, do not have the resources available to develop these customized systems. As a result, there is a significant amount of consolidation currently taking place in the industry. Management expects that this trend toward consolidation will continue for the short to medium term. Historically, growth through aggressive acquisition has proven to be a challenge for many of the Companys competitors and typically involves the purchase of significant goodwill. As a result, the Company has pursued a strategy emphasizing organic growth supplemented by certain strategic acquisitions. 6 The Companys ability to attract, retain, and motivate highly qualified personnel with experience in global logistics services is an essential, if not the most important, element of its ability to compete in the industry. To this end, the Company has adopted incentive compensation programs which make percentages of branch revenues or profits available to managers for distribution among key personnel. The Company believes that these incentive compensation programs, combined with its experienced personnel and its ability to coordinate global marketing efforts, provide it with a distinct competitive advantage and account for historical growth that competitors have generally matched only through acquisition. Currency and Other Risk Factors The nature of the Companys worldwide operations necessitate the Company dealing with a multitude of currencies other than the U.S. Dollar. This results in the Company being exposed to the inherent risks of the international currency markets and governmental interference. Many of the countries where the Company maintains offices and or agency relationships have strict currency control regulations which influence the Companys ability to hedge foreign currency exposure. The Company tries to compensate for these exposures by accelerating international currency settlements among these offices or agents. In addition, the Companys ability to provide service to its customers is highly dependent on good working relationships with a variety of entities including airlines, steamship lines and governmental agencies. The Company considers its current working relationships with these entities to be good. However, changes in space allotments available from carriers, governmental deregulation efforts, modernization of the regulations governing customs clearance, and or changes in governmental quota restrictions could affect the Companys business in unpredictable ways. Seasonality Historically, the Companys operating results have been subject to seasonal trends when measured on a quarterly basis. The first quarter has traditionally been the weakest and the third and fourth quarters have traditionally been the strongest. This pattern has been the result of, or influenced by, numerous factors including climate, national holidays, consumer demand, economic conditions and a myriad of other similar and subtle forces. In addition, this historical quarterly trend has been influenced by the growth and diversification of the Companys international network and service offerings. The Company cannot accurately forecast many of these factors, nor can the Company estimate accurately the relative influence of any particular factor and, as a result, there can be no assurance that historical patterns will continue in future periods. A significant portion of the Companys revenues are derived from customers in industries whose shipping patterns are tied closely to consumer demand and from customers in industries whose shipping patterns are dependent upon just in time production schedules. Therefore, the timing of the Companys revenues are, to a large degree, impacted by factors out of the Companys control, such as shifting consumer demand for retail goods and manufacturing production delays. Additionally, many customers ship a significant portion of their goods at or near the end of a quarter, and therefore, the Company may not learn of a shortfall in revenues until late in a quarter. To the extent that a shortfall in revenues or earnings was not expected by securities analysts, any such shortfall from levels predicted by securities analysts could have an immediate and adverse effect on the trading price of the Companys stock. Environmental In the United States, the Company is subject to Federal, state and local provisions regulating the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise for the protection of the environment. Similar laws apply in many foreign jurisdictions in which the Company operates. Although current operations have not been significantly affected by compliance with these environmental laws, governments are becoming increasingly sensitive to environmental issues, and the Company cannot predict what impact future environmental regulations may have on its business. The Company does not anticipate making any material capital expenditures for environmental control purposes during the remainder of the current or succeeding fiscal years. Employees At January 31, 2005, the Company employed approximately 9,400 people, 3,400 in the United States and 600 in the balance of North America, 450 in South America, 1,450 in Europe, 2,500 in the Far East & Australasia, 800 in the Near/Middle East and 200 in Africa. Approximately 1,300 of the Companys employees are engaged principally in sales and marketing and customer service, 5,850 in operations and 2,250 in finance and administration. The Company is not a party to any collective bargaining agreement and considers its relations with its employees to be satisfactory. In order to retain the services of highly qualified, experienced, and motivated employees, the Company places considerable emphasis on its incentive compensation programs and stock option plans. 7 Executive Officers of the Registrant The following table sets forth the names, ages, and positions of current executive officers of the Company. Name Age Position Peter J. Rose 61 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and director James L.K. Wang 56 President Asia and director Glenn M. Alger 48 President and Chief Operating Officer Robert L. Villanueva 52 President The Americas Sandy K.Y. Liu 57 Chief Operating Officer Asia R. Jordan Gates 49 Executive Vice President Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer and director Timothy C. Barber 45 Executive Vice President Global Sales Rosanne Esposito 53 Executive Vice President Global Customs Rommel C. Saber 47 Executive Vice President Europe, Africa and Near/Middle East Eugene K. Alger 44 Senior Vice President North America L. Manfred Amberger 56 Senior Vice President Continental Europe Jean Claude Carcaillet 59 Senior Vice President Australasia Philip M. Coughlin 44 Senior Vice President North America Roger A. Idiart 51 Senior Vice President Air Cargo Jeffrey J. King 50 Senior Vice President General Counsel and Secretary David M. Lincoln 46 Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer Charles J. Lynch 44 Senior Vice President Corporate Controller Daniel R. Wall 36 Senior Vice President Ocean & Cargo Management Services Peter J. Rose has served as a director and Vice President of the Company since July 1981. Mr. Rose was elected a Senior Vice President of the Company in May 1986, Executive Vice President in May 1987, President and Chief Executive Officer in October 1988, and Chairman and Chief Executive Officer in May 1991. James L.K. Wang has served as a director and the Managing Director of Expeditors International Taiwan Ltd., the Companys former exclusive Taiwan agent, since September 1981. Mr. Wangs employment agreement with the Company has been assigned to the Companys current exclusive Taiwan agent, E.I. Freight (Taiwan), Ltd. In October 1988, Mr. Wang became a director of the Company and its Director Far East, and Executive Vice President in January 1996. In May 2000, Mr. Wang was elected President Asia. Glenn M. Alger joined the Company in July 1981 as a District Manager. Mr. Alger was elected Vice President and Regional Manager in October 1988, Senior Vice President U.S. Operations in January 1992, Senior Vice President and Director North America in January 1993, and Executive Vice President and Director North America in March 1997. In September 1999, Mr. Alger was elected President and Chief Operating Officer. Robert L. Villanueva joined the Company as Regional Vice President Northwest U.S. Region in April 1994. In September 1999, he was elected Executive Vice President The Americas and President The Americas in May 2004. Sandy K.Y. Liu became Chief Operating Officer Asia of the Company in January 2001. From 1969 through 2000, Mr. Liu was employed in various positions by China Airlines. In November 1998, Mr. Liu was appointed President of China Airlines. R. Jordan Gates joined the Company as its Controller Europe in February 1991. Mr. Gates was elected Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer of the Company in August 1994 and Senior Vice President Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer in January 1998. In May 2000, Mr. Gates was elected Executive Vice President Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer. Mr. Gates was also elected as a director in May 2000. Timothy C. Barber joined the Company in May 1986. Mr. Barber was promoted to District Manager of the Seattle office in January 1987 and Regional Vice President in January 1993. Mr. Barber was elected Vice President Sales and Marketing in September 1993 and Senior Vice President Sales and Marketing in January 1998. In September 1999, Mr. Barber was elected Executive Vice President Global Sales. Rosanne Esposito joined the Company as its Director U.S. Import Services in January 1996. Ms. Esposito was promoted to Vice President in May 1997 and Senior Vice President Global Customs in May 2001. In May 2004, Ms. Esposito was promoted to Executive Vice President Global Customs. 8 Rommel C. Saber joined the Company as Director Near/Middle East in February 1990 and was elected Senior Vice President Sales and Marketing in January 1993. Mr. Saber was elected Senior Vice President Air Export in September 1993. In July 1997 he was elected Senior Vice President Near/Middle East and Indian Subcontinent. In August 2000, Mr. Saber was elected Executive Vice President Europe, Africa and Near/Middle East. Eugene K. Alger joined the Company in October 1982. Mr. Alger was promoted to District Manager and Regional Vice President of the Los Angeles office in May 1983. He was elected Regional Vice President Southwestern U.S. and Mexico Region in January 1992, and Senior Vice President of North America in September 1999. L. Manfred Amberger joined the Company as Managing Director of Germany in April 1992. Mr. Amberger was promoted to Regional Director Europe in May 1996 and Vice President in January 1998. Mr. Amberger was elected Senior Vice President Continental Europe in May 2000. Jean Claude Carcaillet joined the Company as Managing Director Australasia in August 1988. He was elected Senior Vice President Australasia in September 1997. Philip M. Coughlin joined the Company in October 1985. Mr. Coughlin was promoted to District Manager in August 1986. He was elected Regional Manager for New England and Canada in January 1991, Regional Vice President Northeastern U.S. and Northern Border in January 1992, and Senior Vice President of North America in September 1999. Roger A. Idiart joined the Company as its Manager of Gateway Operations in December 1995. Mr. Idiart was elected Vice President Global Air Cargo in January 1998, and Senior Vice President Air Cargo in May 2001. Jeffrey J. King joined the Company in October 1990 as Director Taxation and Legal Services and was elected Vice President General Counsel in May 1992. In August 1994, Mr. King was elected Vice President General Counsel and Secretary and Senior Vice President General Counsel and Secretary in January 1998. David M. Lincoln joined the Company as its Controller U.S. Operations in March 1984. Mr. Lincoln served as Corporate Controller of the Company from May 1986 to January 1991, and was elected Vice President Systems Management in December 1989. Mr. Lincoln was elected Vice President Information Systems in May 1996 and Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer in October 1997. Charles J. Lynch joined the Company in September 1984. Mr. Lynch was promoted to Assistant Controller in July 1985 and Controller Domestic Operations in January 1989. Mr. Lynch was elected Corporate Controller in January 1991 and Vice President Corporate Controller in January 1998. In May 2002, Mr. Lynch was elected Senior Vice President Corporate Controller. Daniel R. Wall joined the Company in March 1987. Mr. Wall was promoted to District Manager in May 1992 and Global Director Account Management in March 2002. Mr. Wall was elected Vice President ECMS in January 2004 and Senior Vice President Ocean & Cargo Management in September 2004. Regulation With respect to the Companys activities in the air transportation industry in the United States, it is subject to regulation by the Department of Transportation (DOT) as an indirect air carrier. The Companys overseas offices and agents are licensed as airfreight forwarders in their respective countries of operation. The Company is licensed in each of its offices or in the case of its newer offices, has made application for a license, as an airfreight forwarder by the International Air Transport Association (IATA). IATA is a voluntary association of airlines which prescribes certain operating procedures for airfreight forwarders acting as agents for its members. The majority of the Companys airfreight forwarding business is conducted with airlines which are IATA members. The Company is licensed as a customs broker by the Customs Service of the Department of the Treasury in each U.S. customs district in which it does business. All U.S. customs brokers are required to maintain prescribed records and are subject to periodic audits by the Customs Service. In other jurisdictions in which the Company performs clearance services, the Company is licensed by the appropriate governmental authority. 9 The Company is registered as an Ocean Transportation Intermediary by the Federal Maritime Commission (FMC). The FMC has established certain qualifications for shipping agents, including certain surety bonding requirements. The FMC also is responsible for the economic regulation of NVOCC activity originating or terminating in the United States. To comply with these economic regulations, vessel operators and NVOCCs, such as EIO, are required to file tariffs electronically which establish the rates to be charged for the movement of specified commodities into and out of the U.S. The FMC has the power to enforce these regulations by assessing penalties. The Company does not believe that current U.S. and foreign governmental regulations impose significant economic restraint upon its business operations. In general, the Company conducts its business activities in each country through a majority owned subsidiary corporation that is organized and existing under the laws of that country. However, the regulations of foreign governments can impose barriers to the Companys ability to provide the full range of its business activities in a wholly or majority U.S. owned subsidiary. For example, foreign ownership of a customs brokerage business is prohibited in some jurisdictions and less frequently the ownership of the licenses required for freight forwarding and or freight consolidation is restricted to local entities. When the Company encounters this sort of governmental restriction, it works to establish a legal structure that meets the requirements of the local regulations while also giving the Company the substantive operating and economic advantages that would be available in the absence of such regulation. This can be accomplished by creating a joint venture or exclusive agency relationship with a qualified local entity that holds the required license. In cases where the Company has unilateral control over the assets and operations of the local entity, notwithstanding the lack of technical majority ownership of common stock, the Company consolidates the accounts of the local entity. In such cases, consolidation is necessary to fairly present the financial position and results of operations of the Company because of the existence of the parent subsidiary relationship by means other than record ownership of voting common stock. Cargo Liability When acting as an airfreight consolidator, the Company assumes a carriers liability for lost or damaged shipments. This legal liability is typically limited by contract to the lower of the transaction value or the released value ($9.07 per pound unless the customer declares a higher value and pays a surcharge), except if the loss or damage is caused by willful misconduct or in the absence of an appropriate airway bill. The airline which the Company utilizes to make the actual shipment is generally liable to the Company in the same manner and to the same extent. When acting solely as the agent of the airline or shipper, the Company does not assume any contractual liability for loss or damage to shipments tendered to the airline. When acting as an ocean freight consolidator, the Company assumes a carriers liability for lost or damaged shipments. This liability is typically limited by contract to the lower of the transaction value or the released value ($500 per package or customary freight unit unless the customer declares a higher value and pays a surcharge). The steamship line which the Company utilizes to make the actual shipment is generally liable to the Company in the same manner and to the same extent. In its ocean freight forwarding and customs clearance operations, the Company does not assume cargo liability. When providing warehouse and distribution services, the Company limits its legal liability by contract and tariff to an amount generally equal to the lower of fair value or fifty cents per pound with a maximum of fifty dollars per lot which is defined as the smallest unit that the warehouse is required to track. Upon payment of a surcharge for warehouse and distribution services, the Company will assume additional liability. The Company maintains marine cargo insurance covering claims for losses attributable to missing or damaged shipments for which it is legally liable. The Company also maintains insurance coverage for the property of others which is stored in Company warehouse facilities. This insurance coverage is provided by a Vermont based insurance entity wholly owned by the Company. The coverage is fronted and reinsured by a global insurance company. The total risk retained by the Company in 2004 was approximately $3 million, although actual and estimated losses are expected to be less. In addition, the Company is licensed as an insurance broker through its subsidiary, Expeditors Cargo Insurance Brokers, Inc. and places stand alone insurance coverage for other customers. 10 ITEM 2 PROPERTIES The Company owns the following properties: Location Nature of Property United States: Seattle, Washington Office Near Seattle Tacoma International Airport (in Washington) Office Nassau County, New York Office and Warehouse Middlesex County, New Jersey Office and Warehouse Near San Francisco International Airport (in California) Office and Warehouse Near Los Angeles International Airport (in California) Office and Warehouse Near OHare International Airport (in Illinois) Office and Warehouse Far East: Tsim Sha Tsui East district of Kowloon, Hong Kong Office Taipei, Taiwan Office Seoul, Korea Office Europe: Brussels, Belgium Office and Warehouse Dublin, Ireland Office and Warehouse Cork, Ireland Office and Warehouse Near Heathrow Airport (in London, England) Acreage Latin America: Alajuela, Costa Rica Office Middle East: Cairo, Egypt Office and Warehouse The Company leases and maintains 60 additional offices and satellite locations in the United States and 189 offices throughout the world, each located close to an airport, ocean port, or on an important border crossing. The majority of these facilities contain warehouse facilities. Lease terms are either on a month to month basis or terminate at various times through 2014. See Note 7 to the Companys Consolidated Financial Statements for lease commitments. As an office matures, the Company will investigate the possibility of building or buying suitable facilities. The Company believes that current leases can be extended and that suitable alternative facilities are available in the vicinity of each present facility should extensions be unavailable at the conclusion of current leases. ITEM 3 LEGAL PROCEEDINGS The Company is ordinarily involved in claims and lawsuits which arise in the normal course of business, none of which currently, in managements opinion, will have a material affect on the Companys operations or financial position. ITEM 4 SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS Not Applicable. 11 PART II ITEM 5 MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES The following table sets forth the high and low sale prices in the over the counter market for the Companys Common Stock as reported by The NASDAQ National Market System under the symbol EXPD. Common Stock Common Stock Quarter High Low Quarter High Low 2004 2003 First $ 41.00 35.70 First $ 38.00 29.61 Second 49.50 39.38 Second 37.81 30.75 Third 53.34 45.15 Third 39.28 32.94 Fourth 58.40 47.92 Fourth 40.83 34.25 There were 2,207 shareholders of record as of March 10, 2005. Management estimates that there were approximately 72,400 beneficial shareholders at that date. The Board of Directors declared semi annual dividends during the two most recent fiscal years as follows: June 15, 2004 $ .11 December 15, 2004 $ .11 June 16, 2003 $ .08 December 15, 2003 $ .08 ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Period Total Number of Shares Purchased Average Price Paid per Share Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs Maximum Number of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans or Programs October 1 31, 2004 $ 10,183,973 November 1 30, 2004 28,096 $ 51.17 28,096 10,197,059 December 1 31, 2004 18,762 $ 55.17 18,762 10,216,310 Total 46,858 $ 52.77 46,858 10,216,310 In November 1993, under a Non Discretionary Stock Repurchase Plan, the Companys Board of Directors authorized, and subsequently amended in February 2001, the repurchase of up to 10 million shares of the Companys common stock. This authorization has no expiration date. This plan was disclosed in the Companys report on Form 10 K filed March 31, 1995. In November 2001, under a Discretionary Stock Repurchase Plan, the Companys Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of such shares as may be necessary to reduce the issued and outstanding stock to 100,000,000 shares of common stock. The maximum number of shares available for repurchase under this plan will increase as the total number of outstanding shares increase. This authorization has no expiration date. This plan was announced on November 13, 2001. 12 ITEM 6 SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA Financial Highlights In thousands except per share data 2004 2003 2002 2001 2000 Revenues $ 3,317,499 2,624,941 2,296,903 1,883,070 1,906,726 Net earnings 156,126 121,952 112,529 97,243 83,035 Basic earnings per share 1.47 1.16 1.08 .93 .81 Diluted earnings per share 1.41 1.12 1.03 .89 .76 Cash dividends paid per share .22 .16 .12 .10 .07 Working capital 521,544 383,614 250,920 238,287 223,423 Total assets 1,364,053 1,044,078 879,948 688,437 661,740 Shareholders equity 807,404 645,501 523,812 414,623 361,784 Basic weighted average shares outstanding 106,384 104,733 103,893 104,160 102,305 Diluted weighted average shares outstanding 110,818 109,002 108,881 109,741 109,358 All share and per share information have been adjusted to reflect a 2 for 1 stock split effected in June, 2002. 13 SAFE HARBOR FOR FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS UNDER SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995; CERTAIN CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS From time to time, the Company or its representatives have made or may make forward looking statements, orally or in writing. Such forward looking statements may be included in, but not limited to, press releases, oral statements made with the approval of an authorized executive officer or in various filings made by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The words or phrases will likely result, are expected to, will continue, is anticipated, estimate, project or similar expressions are intended to identify forward looking statements within the meaning of the Securities Litigation Reform Act. Such statements are qualified in their entirety by reference to and are accompanied by the following discussion of certain important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from such forward looking statements. The risks included here are not exhaustive. Furthermore, reference is also made to other sections of this report which include additional factors which could adversely impact the Companys business and financial performance. Moreover, the Company operates in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible for management to predict all of such risk factors, nor can it assess the impact of all of such risk factors on the Companys business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward looking statements. Accordingly, forward looking statements cannot be relied upon as a guarantee of actual results. Shareholders should be aware that while the Company does, from time to time, communicate with securities analysts, it is against the Companys policy to disclose to such analysts any material non public information or other confidential commercial information. Accordingly, shareholders should not assume that the Company agrees with any statement or report issued by any analyst irrespective of the content of such statement or report. Furthermore, the Company has a policy against issuing financial forecasts or projections or confirming the accuracy of forecasts or projections issued by others. Accordingly, to the extent that reports issued by securities analysts contain any projections, forecasts or opinions, such reports are not the responsibility of the Company. 14 RISK FACTORS DISCUSSION AND POTENTIAL SIGNIFICANCE International Trade The Company primarily provides services to customers engaged in international commerce. Everything that affects international trade has the potential to expand or contract the Companys primary market. For example, international trade is influenced by: currency exchange rate and interest rate fluctuations; changes in governmental policies; changes in international and domestic customs regulations; wars, acts of terrorism, and other conflicts; natural disasters; changes in consumer attitudes regarding goods made in countries other than their own; and changes in the price and readily available quantities of oil and other petroleum related products. Third Party Vendors The Company is a non asset based supplier of global logistics services. As a result, the Company depends on a variety of asset based third party vendors. The quality and profitability of the Companys services depend upon effective selection, management and discipline of third party vendors. Predictability of Results The Company is not aware of any accurate means of forecasting short term customer requirements. However, long term customer satisfaction depends upon the Companys ability to meet these unpredictable short term customer requirements. Personnel costs, the Companys single largest variable expense, are always less flexible in the very near term as the Company must staff to meet uncertain demand. As a result, short term operating results could be disproportionately affected. Foreign Operations The majority of the Companys revenues and operating income come from operations conducted outside the United States. To maintain a global service network, the Company may be required to operate in hostile locations and in dangerous situations. Key Personnel The Company is a service business. The quality of this service is directly related to the quality of the Companys employees. Identifying, training and retaining key employees is essential to continued growth and future profitability. Continued loyalty to the Company will not be assured by contract. Technology Increasingly, the Company must compete based upon the flexibility and sophistication of the technologies utilized in performing its core businesses. Future results depend upon the Companys success in the cost effective development and integration of communication and information systems technologies. Growth To date, the Company has relied primarily upon organic growth and has tended to avoid growth through acquisition. Future results will depend upon the Companys ability to continue to grow internally or to demonstrate the ability to successfully identify and integrate non dilutive acquisitions. Regulatory Environment As a publicly traded corporation, the Company is affected by regulations from a number of sources, including the newly formed Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB). The current business environment tends to stress the avoidance of risk through regulation and oversight, the effect of which is likely to be unforeseen costs and potentially unforeseen consequences. In reaction to the global war on terror, governments around the world are continuously enacting or updating security regulations. The implementation of these regulations, including deadlines and substantive requirements, is driven by political urgencies rather than the industries realistic ability to comply. Failure to timely comply may result in increased operating costs, restrictions on operations and or fines and penalties. 15 ITEM 7 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Executive Summary Expeditors International of Washington, Inc. is engaged in the business of global logistics management, including international freight forwarding and consolidation, for both air and ocean freight. The Company acts as a customs broker in all domestic offices, and in many of its international offices. The Company also provides additional services for its customers including value added distribution, purchase order management, vendor consolidation and other logistics solutions. The Company does not compete for overnight courier or small parcel business. The Company does not own or operate aircraft or steamships. International trade is influenced by many factors, including economic and political conditions in the United States and abroad, currency exchange rates, and United States and foreign laws and policies relating to tariffs, trade restrictions, foreign investments and taxation. Periodically, governments consider a variety of changes to current tariffs and trade restrictions. The Company cannot predict which, if any, of these proposals may be adopted, nor can the Company predict the affects adoption of any such proposal will have on the Companys business. Doing business in foreign locations also subjects the Company to a variety of risks and considerations not normally encountered by domestic enterprises. In addition to being influenced by governmental policies concerning international trade, the Companys business may also be affected by political developments and changes in government personnel or policies in the nations in which it does business. The Company derives its revenues from three principal sources: airfreight, ocean freight and customs brokerage and other services and these are the revenue categories presented in the financial statements. As a non asset based carrier, the Company does not own transportation assets. Rather, the Company generates the major portion of its air and ocean freight revenues by purchasing transportation services from direct (asset based) carriers and reselling those services to its customers. The difference between the rate billed to customers (the sell rate), and the rate paid to the carrier (the buy rate) is termed Net Revenue or yield. By consolidating shipments from multiple customers and concentrating its buying power, the Company is able to negotiate favorable buy rates from the direct carriers, while at the same time offering lower sell rates than customers would otherwise be able to negotiate themselves. Customs brokerage and other services involves providing services at destination, such as helping customers clear shipments through customs by preparing required documentation, calculating and providing for payment of duties and other taxes on behalf of the customers as well as arranging for any required inspections by governmental agencies, and arranging for delivery. This is a complicated function requiring technical knowledge of customs rules and regulations in the multitude of countries in which the Company has offices. The Companys ability to provide services to its customers is highly dependent on good working relationships with a variety of entities including airlines, ocean steamship lines, and governmental agencies. The significance of maintaining acceptable working relationships with governmental agencies and asset based providers involved in global trade has gained increased importance as a result of ongoing concern over terrorism. As each carrier labors to comply with governmental regulations implementing security policies and procedures, inherent conflicts emerge which can and do affect global trade to some degree. A good reputation helps to develop, to the degree possible, practical working understandings that will effectively meet security requirements while minimizing potential international trade obstacles. The Company considers its current working relationships with these entities to be satisfactory. However, changes in space allotments available from carriers, governmental deregulation efforts, modernization of the regulations governing customs brokerage, and or changes in governmental quota restrictions could affect the Companys business in unpredictable ways. Historically, the Companys operating results have been subject to a seasonal trend when measured on a quarterly basis. The first quarter has traditionally been the weakest and the third and fourth quarters have traditionally been the strongest. This pattern is the result of, or is influenced by, numerous factors including climate, national holidays, consumer demand, economic conditions and a myriad of other similar and subtle forces. In addition, this historical quarterly trend has been influenced by the growth and diversification of the Companys international network and service offerings. The Company cannot accurately forecast many of these factors nor can the Company estimate accurately the relative influence of any particular factor and, as a result, there can be no assurance that historical patterns, if any, will continue in future periods. A significant portion of the Companys revenues are derived from customers in retail industries whose shipping patterns are tied closely to consumer demand, and from customers in industries whose shipping patterns are dependent upon just in time production schedules. Therefore, the timing of the Companys revenues are, to a large degree, impacted by factors out of the Companys control, such as a sudden change in consumer demand for retail goods and or manufacturing production delays. Additionally, many customers ship a significant portion of their goods at or near the end of a quarter, and therefore, the Company may not learn of a shortfall in 16 revenues until late in a quarter. To the extent that a shortfall in revenues or earnings was not expected by securities analysts, any such shortfall from levels predicted by securities analysts could have an immediate and adverse effect on the trading price of the Companys stock. As further discussed under liquidity and capital resources, total capital expenditures in 2005 are expected to exceed $100 million. In terms of the opportunities, challenges and risks that management focused on in 2004, the Company operates in 57 countries throughout the world in the competitive global logistics industry and Company activities are tied directly to the global economy. From the inception of the Company, management has believed that the elements required for a successful global service organization can only be assured through recruiting, training, and ultimately retaining superior personnel. The Companys greatest challenge is now and always has been perpetuating a consistent global culture which demands: Total dedication, first and foremost, to providing superior customer service; Aggressive marketing of all of the Companys service offerings; Ongoing development of key employees and management personnel via formal and informal means; Creation of unlimited advancement opportunities for employees dedicated to hard work, personal growth and continuous improvement; Individual commitment to the identification and mentoring of successors for every key position so that when inevitable change is required, a qualified and well trained internal candidate is ready to step forward; and Continuous identification, design and implementation of system solutions, both technological and otherwise, to meet and exceed the needs of our customers while simultaneously delivering tools to make our employees more efficient and more effective. The Company has reinforced these values with a compensation system that rewards employees for profitably managing the things they can control. There is no limit to how much a key manager can be compensated for success. The Company believes in a real world environment in every operating unit where individuals are not sheltered from the profit implications of their decisions. At the same time, the Company insists on continued focus on such things as accounts receivable collection, cash flow management and credit soundness in an attempt to insulate managers from the sort of catastrophic errors that might end a career. Any failure to perpetuate this unique culture on a self sustained basis throughout the Company, provides a greater threat to the Companys continued success than any external force, which would be largely beyond our control. Consequently, management spends the majority of its time focused on creating an environment where employees can learn and develop while also building systems and taking preventative action to reduce exposure to negative events. The Company strongly believes that it is nearly impossible to predict events that, in the aggregate, could have a positive or a negative impact on future operations. As a result our focus is on building and maintaining a global culture of well trained employees and managers that are prepared to identify and react to subtle changes as they develop and thereby help the Company adapt and thrive as major trends emerge. Critical Accounting Estimates A summary of the Companys significant accounting policies can be found in Note 1 in the consolidated financial statements in this 10 K. Management believes that the nature of the Companys business is such that there are few, if any, complex measurement issues or challenges in accounting for operations. While judgments and estimates are a necessary component of any system of accounting, the Companys use of estimates is limited primarily to the following areas that in the aggregate are not a major component of the Companys statement of earnings: accounts receivable valuation, the useful lives of long term assets, the accrual of costs related to ancillary services the Company provides, establishment of adequate insurance liabilities for the portion of the freight related exposure which the Company has self insured, and accrual of tax expense on an interim basis. Management believes that the methods utilized in all of these areas are non aggressive in approach and consistent in application. Management believes that there are limited, if any, alternative accounting principles or methods which could be applied to the Companys transactions. While the use of estimates means that actual future results may be different from those contemplated by the estimates, the Company believes that alternative principles and methods used for making such estimates would not produce materially different results than those reported. 17 Recent Accounting Pronouncements In December 2003, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued revised Interpretation No. 46, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities (Revised), an Interpretation of ARB No. 51, (FIN 46R). FIN 46R addresses the consolidation by business enterprises of variable interest entities as defined in FIN 46R. The provisions of FIN 46R are generally effective for public entities that have interests in variable interest entities or potential variable interest entities commonly referred to as special purpose entities for periods ending after December 15, 2003. Application by public entities (other than small business issuers) for all other types of entities is required in financial statements for periods ending after March 15, 2004. The Company adopted only the disclosure provisions of FIN 46R in the fourth quarter of 2003 and adopted the remaining provisions of FIN 46R in the first quarter of 2004. The adoption of the remaining provisions of FIN 46R did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial condition or results of operations. In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004), Share Based Payment (SFAS No. 123R), which replaces SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation (SFAS No. 123) and supercedes APB Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees. SFAS No. 123R requires all share based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock options and employee stock purchase plans, to be recognized in the financial statements based on their fair values, beginning with the first interim or annual period beginning after June 15, 2005, with early adoption encouraged. In addition, SFAS No. 123R will cause unrecognized expense (based on the amount in the Companys pro forma footnote disclosure) related to options vesting after the date of initial adoption to be recognized as a charge to results of operations over the remaining vesting period. The Company is required to adopt SFAS No. 123R in the third quarter of 2005, beginning July 1, 2005. Under SFAS No. 123R, the Company must determine the appropriate fair value model to be used for valuing share based payments, the amortization method for compensation cost and the transition method to be used at the date of adoption. The transition alternatives include prospective and retrospective adoption methods. Under the retrospective methods, prior periods may be restated either as of the beginning of the year of adoption or for all periods presented. The prospective method requires that compensation expense be recorded for all unvested stock options and share awards as of the beginning of the first quarter of adoption of SFAS No. 123R, while the retrospective methods would record compensation expense for all unvested stock options and share awards beginning with the first period restated. The Company is evaluating the requirements of SFAS No. 123R and expects the adoption of SFAS No. 123R will have a material impact on the consolidated results of operations, earnings per share and consolidated statement of cash flows. The Company has not determined the method of adoption or the effect of adopting SFAS No. 123R. In December 2004, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position (FSP) No. 109 2, Accounting and Disclosure Guidance for the Foreign Earnings Repatriation Provision within the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, which provides guidance under SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, with respect to recording the potential impact of the repatriation provisions of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the Jobs Act) on enterprises income tax expense and deferred tax liability. The Jobs Act was enacted on October 22, 2004. The Jobs Act creates a temporary incentive for U.S. corporations to repatriate accumulated income earned abroad by providing an 85% dividends received deduction for certain dividends from controlled foreign corporations. FSP No. 109 2 states that an enterprise is allowed time beyond the financial reporting period of enactment to evaluate the effect of the Jobs Act on its plan for reinvestment or repatriation of foreign earnings for purposes of applying SFAS No. 109. The deduction is subject to a number of limitations and uncertainty remains as to how to interpret certain provisions in the Act. As such, the Company is not yet in a position to determine to what extent the Company will repatriate foreign earnings that have not yet been remitted to the U.S. and, as provided for in FSP No. 109 2, the Company has not adjusted its tax expense or deferred tax liability to reflect the repatriation provisions of the Jobs Act. The Company will complete its evaluation and quantification in 2005. Since the Company has provided U.S. taxes on all unremitted foreign earnings, the repatriation of foreign earnings in accordance with the repatriations provisions of the Jobs Act would result in a reduction of the Companys tax expense and deferred tax liability. 18 Results of Operations The following table shows the consolidated net revenues (revenues less transportation expenses) attributable to the Companys principal services and the Companys expenses for 2004, 2003, and 2002, expressed as percentages of net revenues. Management believes that net revenues are a better measure than total revenues of the relative importance of the Companys principal services since total revenues earned by the Company as a freight consolidator include the carriers charges to the Company for carrying the shipment whereas revenues earned by the Company in its other capacities include only the commissions and fees actually earned by the Company. 2004 2003 2002 In thousands Amount Percent of net revenues Amount Percent of net revenues Amount Percent of net revenues Net Revenues: Airfreight $ 348,949 39 % $ 278,968 37 % $ 284,954 42 % Ocean freight and ocean services 210,967 23 191,116 26 164,114 24 Customs brokerage and other services 346,321 38 280,426 37 233,145 34 Net revenues 906,237 100 750,510 100 682,213 100 Operating Expenses: Salaries and related costs 479,364 53 398,475 53 359,769 53 Other 185,828 20 165,273 22 151,435 22 Total operating expenses 665,192 73 563,748 75 511,204 75 Operating income 241,045 27 186,762 25 171,009 25 Other income, net 8,535 1 8,880 1 8,201 1 Earnings before income taxes and minority interest 249,580 28 195,642 26 179,210 26 Income tax expense 88,415 10 71,142 10 65,461 10 Net earnings before minority interest 161,165 18 124,500 16 113,749 16 Minority interest (5,039 ) (1 ) (2,548 ) (1,220 ) Net earnings $ 156,126 17 % $ 121,952 16 % $ 112,529 16 % 2004 compared with 2003 Airfreight net revenues in 2004 increased 25% compared with 2003 primarily because of an increase in airfreight volumes. Global airfreight tonnages in 2004 increased 23% compared with 2003. The 1% decrease in airfreight yields in 2004 was primarily a result of air carriers increasing their rates such that the Company was unable to increase its corresponding rates to customers in a timely and effective manner. As with the second half of 2003, the Company elected to absorb these short term decreases in the interest of maintaining long term customer relationships. The Companys North American export airfreight net revenues increased 25% in 2004 compared to 2003. The increase is partly a recovery of the prior year decrease and partly the result of increased exports from the United States due to the weakening of the U.S. Dollar. Airfreight net revenues from the Far East and from Europe increased 37% and 23%, respectively, for 2004 compared with 2003. These increases are the result of market price increases, partially offset by yield declines of less than 1%, and increased tonnage of 26% from the Far East and 18% from Europe, primarily as a result of increased sales success. Ocean freight volumes, measured in terms of forty foot container equivalents (FEUs), increased 29% over 2003 while ocean freight and ocean services net revenues increased only 10% during the same period. The difference in these two growth rates is a result of a 200 basis point reduction in ocean freight yields. The reduction in a yield is a function of two major factors: Revenue from Expeditors Cargo Management (ECMS) in 2004 increased only 2% over 2003 because of rate pressures on vendor consolidation fees. A series of rate increases put forward by direct ocean freight carriers throughout 2004. Due to market conditions primarily related to capacity, these rate increases, because of magnitude and frequency, could not be passed on to customers in a timely manner. The Company continued its focus of offering competitive rates to customers at the retail level, while leveraging freight volumes to 19 obtain favorable rates from carriers at the wholesale level. The Companys North American ocean freight net revenues increased 8% in 2004 compared to 2003. Ocean freight net revenues from the Far East and from Europe increased 22% and 8%, respectively, for 2004 compared with 2003. Customs brokerage and other services net revenues increased 23% in 2004 as compared with 2003. This is a result of the Companys growing reputation for providing high quality service and consolidation within the customs brokerage market as customers seek out customs brokers with more sophisticated computerized capabilities critical to an overall logistics management program. In addition, increased emphasis on regulatory compliance has benefited the Companys customs brokerage offerings. Salaries and related costs increased 20% in 2004 compared to 2003 as a result of (1) the Companys increased hiring of sales, operations, and administrative personnel in existing and new offices to accommodate increases in business activity and (2) increased compensation levels. Salaries and related costs remained constant as a percentage of net revenues. The relatively consistent relationship between salaries and net revenues is the result of a compensation philosophy that has been maintained since the inception of the Company: offer a modest base salary and the opportunity to share in a fixed and determinable percentage of the operating profit of the business unit controlled by each key employee. Using this compensation model, changes in individual compensation will occur in proportion to changes in Company profits. Management believes that the growth in revenues, net revenues and net earnings for 2004 are a result of the incentives inherent in the Companys compensation program. This trend may not continue in 2005 and future years as a result of the adoption of SFAS 123R, which requires the expensing of the fair value of employee stock options, effective in the third quarter of 2005. Management expects salaries and related costs as a percentage of net revenues will be more volatile. Other operating expenses increased 12% in 2004 as compared with 2003 as rent expense, communications expense, quality and training expenses, and other costs expanded to accommodate the Companys growing operations. Other operating expenses as a percentage of net revenues decreased in 2004 as compared with 2003. Management believes that this was significant as it reflects the successful achievement of ongoing cost containment objectives at the branch level. The ability to sustain these savings into future periods is contingent upon branch level managements ability to adhere to these objectives. Other income, net, decreased 4% in 2004 as compared with 2003. Due to higher interest rates on higher average cash balances and short term investments during 2004, interest income increased by $1.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. Rental income, net of applicable depreciation, of $2.6 million and $3.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively, is included in other income. The rental income is derived from two of the Companys properties, one located near Heathrow airport in London, England and an office and warehouse facility near the San Francisco, California International Airport. As a result of the scheduled remodeling of the San Francisco, California office and warehouse facility, rental income from that property ceased at the end of the first quarter of 2004. The Company pays income taxes in the United States and other jurisdictions, as well as other taxes which are typically included in costs of operations. The Companys consolidated effective income tax rate in 2004 of 35.4% decreased when compared with the 36.4% rate in 2003. The lower tax rate in 2004 is the result of the decreased state tax expense caused by an increase in the taxable income sourced outside the U.S. and certain accounting adjustments made in 2003 as described in the following section. If the Company adopts a plan under Internal Revenue Code (IRC) 965, which was added by the Jobs Act, the Companys 2005 tax rate will be lower than prior years. This lower tax rate will only affect 2005. 2003 compared with 2002 Airfreight net revenues in 2003 decreased 2% compared with 2002. Global airfreight tonnages in 2003 were comparable with those in 2002. The decrease in 2003 airfreight net revenues was a reflection of an overall decline in airfreight yields and an inability to increase 2003 airfreight tonnages beyond those levels experienced in 2002. Airfreight tonnages and yields in 2002 were an anomaly as the airfreight markets were swamped by cargo that would otherwise have moved by ocean, but did not due to the disruption caused by the labor disputes in the west coast ports of the United States. The 1% decrease in airfreight yields in 2003 was primarily a result of air carriers increasing their rates such that the Company was unable to increase its corresponding rates to customers in a timely and effective manner. The Company elected to absorb these short term decreases in the interest of maintaining long term customer relationships. The Companys North American export airfreight net revenues decreased 5% in 2003 compared to 2002. Airfreight net revenues from the Far East and from Europe decreased 11% and increased 26%, respectively, for 2003 compared with 2002. Ocean freight volumes, measured in terms of forty foot container equivalents (FEUs), increased 23% over 2002 while ocean freight and ocean services net revenues increased only 16% during the same period. The difference in these two growth rates is a result of a 252 basis point decline in ocean freight yields. In May 2003, ocean freight carriers implemented substantial rate increases. In order to gain market share and maintain its focus on long term customer relationships, the Company chose not to immediately pass on the full rate increases. The resulting increase in ocean freight volumes more than offset the revenue foregone by not implementing the full rate increases. 20 The Company continued its focus of offering competitive rates to customers at the retail level, while leveraging freight volumes to obtain favorable rates from carriers at the wholesale level. ECMS continued to be instrumental in attracting new business. The Companys North American export ocean freight net revenues decreased 3% in 2003 compared to 2002. This decrease was a result of the Company handling more ocean shipments moving from North America to the Far East, a market which has lower profit per container, and, to a lesser extent, from North America to Europe, a market which has higher profit per container. Ocean freight net revenues from the Far East and from Europe increased 24%, respectively, for 2003 compared with 2002. Customs brokerage and other services net revenues increased 20% in 2003 as compared with 2002 as a result of the Companys growing reputation for providing high quality service and consolidation within the customs brokerage market as customers seek out customs brokers with more sophisticated computerized capabilities critical to an overall logistics management program. Salaries and related costs increased 11% in 2003 compared to 2002 as a result of (1) the Companys increased, albeit limited, hiring of sales, operations, and administrative personnel in existing and new offices to accommodate increases in business activity and (2) increased compensation levels. Salaries and related costs remained constant as a percentage of net revenues. Other operating expenses increased in 2003 as compared with 2002 as rent expense, communications expense, quality and training expenses, and other costs expanded to accommodate the Companys growing operations. Other operating expenses as a percentage of net revenues remained constant in 2003 as compared with 2002. Other income, net, increased in 2003 as compared with 2002. Due to much lower interest rates on higher average cash balances and short term investments during 2003, interest income decreased by $1.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. Rental income, net of applicable depreciation, of $3.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2003, is included in other income. The rental income is derived from two of the Companys properties, one located near Heathrow airport in London, England and an office and warehouse facility near the San Francisco, California International Airport. Other income in the year ended December 31, 2002 includes the $1.5 million gain on the sale of the Companys former Dublin, Ireland facility. The Company pays income taxes in the United States and other jurisdictions, as well as other taxes which are typically included in costs of operations. The Companys consolidated effective income tax rate in 2003 of 36.4% is comparable to the 36.5% rate in 2002. In the fourth quarter of 2003, the Company recorded additional tax expense of $9.5 million in order to provide full U.S. taxation on approximately $41.9 million of foreign earnings accumulated through December 31, 1992, for which U.S. income taxes had not previously been provided. Income taxes had not previously been provided on these earnings as a result of the Companys previous intent to reinvest such earnings indefinitely or to distribute them in a manner in which no significant additional taxes would be incurred. Also during the fourth quarter of 2003, the Company eliminated $8 million of certain taxes which the Company had previously expected to pay. Upon analysis of the state tax implications of the Companys pattern of remitting foreign earnings, the Company has determined that these taxes were not owed. Currency and Other Risk Factors International air/ocean freight forwarding and customs brokerage are intensively competitive and are expected to remain so for the foreseeable future. There are a large number of entities competing in the international logistics industry; however, the Companys primary competition is confined to a relatively small number of companies within this group. While there is currently a marked trend within the industry toward consolidation into large firms with multinational offices and agency networks, regional and local broker/forwarders remain a competitive force. Historically, the primary competitive factors in the international logistics industry have been price and quality of service, including reliability, responsiveness, expertise, convenience, and scope of operations. The Company emphasizes quality service and believes that its prices are competitive with those of others in the industry. Customers have exhibited a trend towards more sophisticated and efficient procedures for the management of the logistics supply chain by embracing strategies such as just in time inventory management. The Company believes that this trend has resulted in customers using fewer service providers with greater technological capacity and consistent global coverage. Accordingly, sophisticated computerized customer service capabilities and a stable worldwide network have become significant factors in attracting and retaining customers. Developing these systems and a worldwide network has added a considerable indirect cost to the services provided to customers. Smaller and middle tier competitors, in general, do not have the resources available to develop customized systems and a worldwide network. As a result, there is a significant amount of consolidation currently taking place in the industry. Management expects that this trend toward consolidation will continue for the short to medium term. The nature of the Companys worldwide operations necessitates the Company dealing with a multitude of currencies other than the U.S. Dollar. This results in the Company being exposed to the inherent risks of the international currency markets and governmental interference. Some of the countries where the Company maintains offices and or agency relationships have strict currency control 21 regulations which influence the Companys ability to hedge foreign currency exposure. The Company tries to compensate for these exposures by accelerating international currency settlements among its offices or agents. The Company enters into foreign currency hedging transactions only in limited locations where there are regulatory or commercial limitations on the Companys ability to move money freely around the world or the short term financial outlook in any country is such that hedging is the most time sensitive way to avoid short term exchange losses. Any such hedging activity during 2004, 2003 and 2002 was insignificant. Net foreign currency gains realized in 2004, 2003 and 2002 were $86, $588 and $70, respectively. The Company had no foreign currency derivatives outstanding at December 31, 2004 and 2003. The Company has traditionally generated revenues from airfreight, ocean freight and customs brokerage and other services. In light of the customer driven trend to provide customer rates on a door to door basis, management foresees the potential, in the medium to long term, for fees normally associated with customs house brokerage to be de emphasized and included as a component of other services offered by the Company. Sources of Growth Historically, growth through aggressive acquisition has proven to be a challenge for many of the Companys competitors and typically involves the purchase of significant goodwill, the value of which can be realized in large measure only by retaining the customers and profit margins of the acquired business. As a result, the Company has pursued a strategy emphasizing organic growth supplemented by certain strategic acquisitions, where future economic benefit significantly exceeds the goodwill recorded in the transaction. Office Additions The Company opened 2 start up offices during 2004. North America Far East Calgary, Canada Hanoi, Vietnam During 2004, the Company closed its offices in Curitiba and Belo Horizonte, Brazil; these two offices were converted to non exclusive agents. Internal Growth Management believes that a comparison of same store growth is critical in the evaluation of the quality and extent of the Companys internally generated growth. This same store analysis isolates the financial contributions from offices that have been included in the Companys operating results for at least one full year. The table below presents same store comparisons on a year over year basis for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002. Same store comparisons for the years ended December 31, 2004 2003 2002 Net revenues 20 % 10 % 12 % Operating income 29 % 9 % 16 % Liquidity and Capital Resources The Companys principal source of liquidity is cash generated from operating activities. Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2004 was approximately $193 million, as compared with $114 million for 2003. This $79 million increase is principally due to increased net earnings, the tax benefit of non qualified stock option exercises and deferred tax expense on unremitted foreign earnings. The increased accounts receivable is offset by increased accounts payable, accrued expenses and taxes payable. Increased accounts receivable is primarily due to higher billings in November and December 2004, compared to the same periods in 2003 and slower collections on certain large technology accounts required to meet current market conditions. Increases in accounts payable and accrued expenses are a result of the Companys attempts to manage cash flows by matching the timing of cash outflows for payments to vendors with cash inflows from collections of customer billings. The Companys business is subject to seasonal fluctuations. Cash flow fluctuates as a result of this seasonality. Historically, the first quarter shows an excess of customer collections over customer billings. This results in positive cash flow. The increased activity associated with peak season (typically commencing late second or early third quarter) causes an excess of customer billings over customer collections. This cyclical growth in customer receivables consumes available cash. Due to the Companys management of accounts payable and accrued expenses as described in the preceding paragraph, cash flow from operating activities remained positive. 22 As a customs broker, the Company makes significant 5 10 business day cash advances for certain of its customers obligations such as the payment of duties to the Bureau of Customs and Border Protection. These advances are made as an accommodation for a select group of credit worthy customers. Cash advances are a pass through and are not recorded as a component of revenue and expense. The billings of such advances to customers are accounted for as a direct increase in accounts receivable to the customer and a corresponding increase in accounts payable to governmental customs authorities. As a result of these pass through billings, the conventional Days Sales Outstanding or DSO calculation does not directly measure collection efficiency. Cash used in investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2004 was $65 million, as compared with $26 million during the same period of 2003. The largest use of cash in investing activities is cash paid for capital expenditures. As a non asset based provider of integrated logistics services, the Company does not own any physical means of transportation (i.e., airplanes, ships, trucks, etc.). However, the Company does have need, on occasion, to purchase buildings to house staff and to facilitate the staging of customers freight. The Company routinely invests in technology, office furniture and equipment and leasehold improvements. For the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company made capital expenditures of $66 million as compared with $21 million for the same period in 2003. Capital expenditures in 2004 included $24 million for acquisitions of real estate and office/warehouse facilities in New York, California and Korea. Other capital expenditures in 2004 and 2003 related primarily to investments in technology, office furniture and equipment and leasehold improvements. Cash of $31.3 million was paid into escrow during 2002 to acquire an office and warehouse facility near the San Francisco, California International Airport; the transaction closed on January 7, 2003. The Company currently expects to spend approximately $30 million for normal capital expenditures in 2005. In addition to property and equipment, normal capital expenditures include leasehold improvements, warehouse equipment, computer hardware and furniture and fixtures. Total capital expenditures in 2005 are expected to exceed $100 million if the Company adopts a plan calling for capital expenditures to meet the investment requirements of IRC 965. The Company expects to finance capital expenditures in 2005, with cash. Cash used in financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2004 was $22 million as compared with $18 million for the same period in 2003. The Company uses the proceeds from stock option exercises to repurchase the Companys stock on the open market. The differences between proceeds from the issuance of common stock and the amounts paid to repurchase common stock for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 represent a timing difference in the receipt of proceeds and the subsequent repurchase of outstanding shares. In November 2001, the Board of Directors voted to allow the repurchase under a discretionary plan of such shares as may be necessary to reduce the issued and outstanding stock to 100,000,000 shares of common stock. No repurchases were made under this plan in 2004 and 2003. During 2004 and 2003 the net use of cash in financing activities was primarily for the payment of dividends of $.22 per share and $.16 per share, respectively. At December 31, 2004, working capital was $522 million, including cash and short term investments of $409 million. The Company had no long term debt at December 31, 2004. While the nature of its business does not require an extensive investment in property and equipment, the Company cannot eliminate the possibility that it could acquire an equity interest in property in certain geographic locations. The Company maintains international and domestic unsecured bank lines of credit. At December 31, 2004, the U.S. facility totaled $50 million and the international bank lines of credit totaled $13.5 million. In addition, the Company maintains bank facilities with U.K. banks for $23 million. At December 31, 2004, the Company was directly liable for $2.3 million drawn on these lines of credit and was contingently liable for an additional $82.7 million from standby letters of credit and guarantees related to these lines of credit and other obligations. The guarantees relate to obligations of the Companys foreign subsidiaries for credit extended in the ordinary course of business by direct carriers, primarily airlines, and for duty and tax deferrals available from governmental entities responsible for customs and value added tax (VAT) taxation. The total underlying amounts due and payable for transportation and governmental excises are properly recorded as obligations in the books of the respective foreign subsidiaries, and there would be no need to record additional expense in the unlikely event the parent company were to be required to perform. 23 At December 31, 2004, the Companys contractual obligations and other commitments are as follows: Payments Due by Period In thousands Total Less than 1 year 1 3 years 3 5 years After 5 years Contractual Obligations: Operating leases $ 115,578 35,955 47,865 23,415 8,343 Unconditional purchase obligations 195,496 195,496 Total contractual cash obligations $ 311,074 231,451 47,865 23,415 8,343 The Company enters into short term agreements with asset based providers reserving space on a guaranteed basis. The pricing of these obligations varies to some degree with market conditions. The Company only enters into agreements that management believes the Company can fulfill with relative ease. Historically, the Company has not paid for guaranteed space that it has not used. Management believes, in line with historical experience, committed purchase obligations outstanding as of December 31, 2004, will be fulfilled during 2005 in the Companys ordinary course of business. Amount of Commitment Expiration Per Period In thousands Total amounts committed Less than 1 year 1 3 years 3 5 years After 5 years Other Commitments: Lines of credit $ 11,625 11,187 246 192 Credit facility 23,033 22,959 13 61 Standby letters of credit 61,531 60,105 858 554 14 Total commitments $ 96,189 94,251 1,117 746 75 The Company has a Non Discretionary Stock Repurchase Plan to repurchase shares from the proceeds of stock option exercises. As of December 31, 2004, the Company had repurchased and retired 6,427,715 shares of common stock at an average price of $17.72 per share over the period from 1994 through 2004. During 2004, 612,533 shares were repurchased at an average price of $47.62 per share. Management believes that the Companys current cash position, bank financing arrangements, and operating cash flows will be sufficient to meet its capital and liquidity requirements for the foreseeable future, including meeting any contingent liabilities related to standby letters of credit and other obligations. In some cases, the Companys ability to repatriate funds from foreign operations may be subject to foreign exchange controls. At December 31, 2004, cash and cash equivalent balances of $239.5 million were held by the Companys non U.S. subsidiaries, of which $43.9 million was held in banks in the United States. Impact of Inflation To date, the Companys business has not been adversely affected by inflation. Direct carrier rate increases could occur over the short to medium term period. Due to the high degree of competition in the market place, these rate increases can lead to an erosion in the Companys margins. As the Company is not required to purchase or maintain extensive property and equipment and has not otherwise incurred substantial interest rate sensitive indebtedness, the Company currently has limited direct exposure to increased costs resulting from increases in interest rates. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements As of December 31, 2004, the Company did not have any material off balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Regulation S K. 24 ITEM 7A QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The Company is exposed to market risks in the ordinary course of its business. These risks are primarily related to foreign exchange risk and changes in short term interest rates. The potential impact of the Companys exposure to these risks is presented below: Foreign Exchange Risk The Company conducts business in many different countries and currencies. The Companys business often results in revenue billings issued in a country and currency which differs from that where the expenses related to the service are incurred. In the ordinary course of business, the Company creates numerous intercompany transactions. This brings a market risk to the Companys earnings. Foreign exchange rate sensitivity analysis can be quantified by estimating the impact on the Companys earnings as a result of hypothetical changes in the value of the U.S. Dollar, the Companys functional currency, relative to the other currencies in which the Company transacts business. All other things being equal, an average 10% weakening of the U.S. Dollar, throughout the year ended December 31, 2004, would have had the effect of raising operating income approximately $19 million. An average 10% strengthening of the U.S. Dollar, for the same period, would have the effect of reducing operating income approximately $15 million. The Company has approximately $6 million of net unsettled intercompany transactions at any one point in time. The Company currently does not use derivative financial instruments to manage foreign currency risk and only enters into foreign currency hedging transactions in limited locations where regulatory or commercial limitations restrict the Companys ability to move money freely. Any such hedging activity throughout the year ended December 31, 2004, was insignificant. The Company had no foreign currency derivatives outstanding at December 31, 2004 and 2003. The Company instead follows a policy of accelerating international currency settlements to manage foreign exchange risk relative to intercompany billings. The majority of intercompany billings are resolved within 30 days and intercompany billings arising in the normal course of business are fully settled within 90 days. Interest Rate Risk At December 31, 2004, the Company had cash and cash equivalents and short term investments of $409 million and short term borrowings of $2.3 million, all subject to variable short term interest rates. A hypothetical change in the interest rate of 10% would have an insignificant impact on the Companys earnings. In managements opinion, there has been no material change in the Companys market risk exposure between 2003 and 2004. 25 
 
ITEM 7 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Executive Summary Expeditors International of Washington, Inc. is engaged in the business of global logistics management, including international freight forwarding and consolidation, for both air and ocean freight. The Company acts as a customs broker in all domestic offices, and in many of its international offices. The Company also provides additional services for its customers including value added distribution, purchase order management, vendor consolidation and other logistics solutions. The Company does not compete for overnight courier or small parcel business. The Company does not own or operate aircraft or steamships. International trade is influenced by many factors, including economic and political conditions in the United States and abroad, currency exchange rates, and United States and foreign laws and policies relating to tariffs, trade restrictions, foreign investments and taxation. Periodically, governments consider a variety of changes to current tariffs and trade restrictions. The Company cannot predict which, if any, of these proposals may be adopted, nor can the Company predict the affects adoption of any such proposal will have on the Companys business. Doing business in foreign locations also subjects the Company to a variety of risks and considerations not normally encountered by domestic enterprises. In addition to being influenced by governmental policies concerning international trade, the Companys business may also be affected by political developments and changes in government personnel or policies in the nations in which it does business. The Company derives its revenues from three principal sources: airfreight, ocean freight and customs brokerage and other services and these are the revenue categories presented in the financial statements. As a non asset based carrier, the Company does not own transportation assets. Rather, the Company generates the major portion of its air and ocean freight revenues by purchasing transportation services from direct (asset based) carriers and reselling those services to its customers. The difference between the rate billed to customers (the sell rate), and the rate paid to the carrier (the buy rate) is termed Net Revenue or yield. By consolidating shipments from multiple customers and concentrating its buying power, the Company is able to negotiate favorable buy rates from the direct carriers, while at the same time offering lower sell rates than customers would otherwise be able to negotiate themselves. Customs brokerage and other services involves providing services at destination, such as helping customers clear shipments through customs by preparing required documentation, calculating and providing for payment of duties and other taxes on behalf of the customers as well as arranging for any required inspections by governmental agencies, and arranging for delivery. This is a complicated function requiring technical knowledge of customs rules and regulations in the multitude of countries in which the Company has offices. The Companys ability to provide services to its customers is highly dependent on good working relationships with a variety of entities including airlines, ocean steamship lines, and governmental agencies. The significance of maintaining acceptable working relationships with governmental agencies and asset based providers involved in global trade has gained increased importance as a result of ongoing concern over terrorism. As each carrier labors to comply with governmental regulations implementing security policies and procedures, inherent conflicts emerge which can and do affect global trade to some degree. A good reputation helps to develop, to the degree possible, practical working understandings that will effectively meet security requirements while minimizing potential international trade obstacles. The Company considers its current working relationships with these entities to be satisfactory. However, changes in space allotments available from carriers, governmental deregulation efforts, modernization of the regulations governing customs brokerage, and or changes in governmental quota restrictions could affect the Companys business in unpredictable ways. Historically, the Companys operating results have been subject to a seasonal trend when measured on a quarterly basis. The first quarter has traditionally been the weakest and the third and fourth quarters have traditionally been the strongest. This pattern is the result of, or is influenced by, numerous factors including climate, national holidays, consumer demand, economic conditions and a myriad of other similar and subtle forces. In addition, this historical quarterly trend has been influenced by the growth and diversification of the Companys international network and service offerings. The Company cannot accurately forecast many of these factors nor can the Company estimate accurately the relative influence of any particular factor and, as a result, there can be no assurance that historical patterns, if any, will continue in future periods. A significant portion of the Companys revenues are derived from customers in retail industries whose shipping patterns are tied closely to consumer demand, and from customers in industries whose shipping patterns are dependent upon just in time production schedules. Therefore, the timing of the Companys revenues are, to a large degree, impacted by factors out of the Companys control, such as a sudden change in consumer demand for retail goods and or manufacturing production delays. Additionally, many customers ship a significant portion of their goods at or near the end of a quarter, and therefore, the Company may not learn of a shortfall in 16 revenues until late in a quarter. To the extent that a shortfall in revenues or earnings was not expected by securities analysts, any such shortfall from levels predicted by securities analysts could have an immediate and adverse effect on the trading price of the Companys stock. As further discussed under liquidity and capital resources, total capital expenditures in 2005 are expected to exceed $100 million. In terms of the opportunities, challenges and risks that management focused on in 2004, the Company operates in 57 countries throughout the world in the competitive global logistics industry and Company activities are tied directly to the global economy. From the inception of the Company, management has believed that the elements required for a successful global service organization can only be assured through recruiting, training, and ultimately retaining superior personnel. The Companys greatest challenge is now and always has been perpetuating a consistent global culture which demands: Total dedication, first and foremost, to providing superior customer service; Aggressive marketing of all of the Companys service offerings; Ongoing development of key employees and management personnel via formal and informal means; Creation of unlimited advancement opportunities for employees dedicated to hard work, personal growth and continuous improvement; Individual commitment to the identification and mentoring of successors for every key position so that when inevitable change is required, a qualified and well trained internal candidate is ready to step forward; and Continuous identification, design and implementation of system solutions, both technological and otherwise, to meet and exceed the needs of our customers while simultaneously delivering tools to make our employees more efficient and more effective. The Company has reinforced these values with a compensation system that rewards employees for profitably managing the things they can control. There is no limit to how much a key manager can be compensated for success. The Company believes in a real world environment in every operating unit where individuals are not sheltered from the profit implications of their decisions. At the same time, the Company insists on continued focus on such things as accounts receivable collection, cash flow management and credit soundness in an attempt to insulate managers from the sort of catastrophic errors that might end a career. Any failure to perpetuate this unique culture on a self sustained basis throughout the Company, provides a greater threat to the Companys continued success than any external force, which would be largely beyond our control. Consequently, management spends the majority of its time focused on creating an environment where employees can learn and develop while also building systems and taking preventative action to reduce exposure to negative events. The Company strongly believes that it is nearly impossible to predict events that, in the aggregate, could have a positive or a negative impact on future operations. As a result our focus is on building and maintaining a global culture of well trained employees and managers that are prepared to identify and react to subtle changes as they develop and thereby help the Company adapt and thrive as major trends emerge. Critical Accounting Estimates A summary of the Companys significant accounting policies can be found in Note 1 in the consolidated financial statements in this 10 K. Management believes that the nature of the Companys business is such that there are few, if any, complex measurement issues or challenges in accounting for operations. While judgments and estimates are a necessary component of any system of accounting, the Companys use of estimates is limited primarily to the following areas that in the aggregate are not a major component of the Companys statement of earnings: accounts receivable valuation, the useful lives of long term assets, the accrual of costs related to ancillary services the Company provides, establishment of adequate insurance liabilities for the portion of the freight related exposure which the Company has self insured, and accrual of tax expense on an interim basis. Management believes that the methods utilized in all of these areas are non aggressive in approach and consistent in application. Management believes that there are limited, if any, alternative accounting principles or methods which could be applied to the Companys transactions. While the use of estimates means that actual future results may be different from those contemplated by the estimates, the Company believes that alternative principles and methods used for making such estimates would not produce materially different results than those reported. 17 Recent Accounting Pronouncements In December 2003, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued revised Interpretation No. 46, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities (Revised), an Interpretation of ARB No. 51, (FIN 46R). FIN 46R addresses the consolidation by business enterprises of variable interest entities as defined in FIN 46R. The provisions of FIN 46R are generally effective for public entities that have interests in variable interest entities or potential variable interest entities commonly referred to as special purpose entities for periods ending after December 15, 2003. Application by public entities (other than small business issuers) for all other types of entities is required in financial statements for periods ending after March 15, 2004. The Company adopted only the disclosure provisions of FIN 46R in the fourth quarter of 2003 and adopted the remaining provisions of FIN 46R in the first quarter of 2004. The adoption of the remaining provisions of FIN 46R did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial condition or results of operations. In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004), Share Based Payment (SFAS No. 123R), which replaces SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation (SFAS No. 123) and supercedes APB Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees. SFAS No. 123R requires all share based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock options and employee stock purchase plans, to be recognized in the financial statements based on their fair values, beginning with the first interim or annual period beginning after June 15, 2005, with early adoption encouraged. In addition, SFAS No. 123R will cause unrecognized expense (based on the amount in the Companys pro forma footnote disclosure) related to options vesting after the date of initial adoption to be recognized as a charge to results of operations over the remaining vesting period. The Company is required to adopt SFAS No. 123R in the third quarter of 2005, beginning July 1, 2005. Under SFAS No. 123R, the Company must determine the appropriate fair value model to be used for valuing share based payments, the amortization method for compensation cost and the transition method to be used at the date of adoption. The transition alternatives include prospective and retrospective adoption methods. Under the retrospective methods, prior periods may be restated either as of the beginning of the year of adoption or for all periods presented. The prospective method requires that compensation expense be recorded for all unvested stock options and share awards as of the beginning of the first quarter of adoption of SFAS No. 123R, while the retrospective methods would record compensation expense for all unvested stock options and share awards beginning with the first period restated. The Company is evaluating the requirements of SFAS No. 123R and expects the adoption of SFAS No. 123R will have a material impact on the consolidated results of operations, earnings per share and consolidated statement of cash flows. The Company has not determined the method of adoption or the effect of adopting SFAS No. 123R. In December 2004, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position (FSP) No. 109 2, Accounting and Disclosure Guidance for the Foreign Earnings Repatriation Provision within the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, which provides guidance under SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, with respect to recording the potential impact of the repatriation provisions of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the Jobs Act) on enterprises income tax expense and deferred tax liability. The Jobs Act was enacted on October 22, 2004. The Jobs Act creates a temporary incentive for U.S. corporations to repatriate accumulated income earned abroad by providing an 85% dividends received deduction for certain dividends from controlled foreign corporations. FSP No. 109 2 states that an enterprise is allowed time beyond the financial reporting period of enactment to evaluate the effect of the Jobs Act on its plan for reinvestment or repatriation of foreign earnings for purposes of applying SFAS No. 109. The deduction is subject to a number of limitations and uncertainty remains as to how to interpret certain provisions in the Act. As such, the Company is not yet in a position to determine to what extent the Company will repatriate foreign earnings that have not yet been remitted to the U.S. and, as provided for in FSP No. 109 2, the Company has not adjusted its tax expense or deferred tax liability to reflect the repatriation provisions of the Jobs Act. The Company will complete its evaluation and quantification in 2005. Since the Company has provided U.S. taxes on all unremitted foreign earnings, the repatriation of foreign earnings in accordance with the repatriations provisions of the Jobs Act would result in a reduction of the Companys tax expense and deferred tax liability. 18 Results of Operations The following table shows the consolidated net revenues (revenues less transportation expenses) attributable to the Companys principal services and the Companys expenses for 2004, 2003, and 2002, expressed as percentages of net revenues. Management believes that net revenues are a better measure than total revenues of the relative importance of the Companys principal services since total revenues earned by the Company as a freight consolidator include the carriers charges to the Company for carrying the shipment whereas revenues earned by the Company in its other capacities include only the commissions and fees actually earned by the Company. 2004 2003 2002 In thousands Amount Percent of net revenues Amount Percent of net revenues Amount Percent of net revenues Net Revenues: Airfreight $ 348,949 39 % $ 278,968 37 % $ 284,954 42 % Ocean freight and ocean services 210,967 23 191,116 26 164,114 24 Customs brokerage and other services 346,321 38 280,426 37 233,145 34 Net revenues 906,237 100 750,510 100 682,213 100 Operating Expenses: Salaries and related costs 479,364 53 398,475 53 359,769 53 Other 185,828 20 165,273 22 151,435 22 Total operating expenses 665,192 73 563,748 75 511,204 75 Operating income 241,045 27 186,762 25 171,009 25 Other income, net 8,535 1 8,880 1 8,201 1 Earnings before income taxes and minority interest 249,580 28 195,642 26 179,210 26 Income tax expense 88,415 10 71,142 10 65,461 10 Net earnings before minority interest 161,165 18 124,500 16 113,749 16 Minority interest (5,039 ) (1 ) (2,548 ) (1,220 ) Net earnings $ 156,126 17 % $ 121,952 16 % $ 112,529 16 % 2004 compared with 2003 Airfreight net revenues in 2004 increased 25% compared with 2003 primarily because of an increase in airfreight volumes. Global airfreight tonnages in 2004 increased 23% compared with 2003. The 1% decrease in airfreight yields in 2004 was primarily a result of air carriers increasing their rates such that the Company was unable to increase its corresponding rates to customers in a timely and effective manner. As with the second half of 2003, the Company elected to absorb these short term decreases in the interest of maintaining long term customer relationships. The Companys North American export airfreight net revenues increased 25% in 2004 compared to 2003. The increase is partly a recovery of the prior year decrease and partly the result of increased exports from the United States due to the weakening of the U.S. Dollar. Airfreight net revenues from the Far East and from Europe increased 37% and 23%, respectively, for 2004 compared with 2003. These increases are the result of market price increases, partially offset by yield declines of less than 1%, and increased tonnage of 26% from the Far East and 18% from Europe, primarily as a result of increased sales success. Ocean freight volumes, measured in terms of forty foot container equivalents (FEUs), increased 29% over 2003 while ocean freight and ocean services net revenues increased only 10% during the same period. The difference in these two growth rates is a result of a 200 basis point reduction in ocean freight yields. The reduction in a yield is a function of two major factors: Revenue from Expeditors Cargo Management (ECMS) in 2004 increased only 2% over 2003 because of rate pressures on vendor consolidation fees. A series of rate increases put forward by direct ocean freight carriers throughout 2004. Due to market conditions primarily related to capacity, these rate increases, because of magnitude and frequency, could not be passed on to customers in a timely manner. The Company continued its focus of offering competitive rates to customers at the retail level, while leveraging freight volumes to 19 obtain favorable rates from carriers at the wholesale level. The Companys North American ocean freight net revenues increased 8% in 2004 compared to 2003. Ocean freight net revenues from the Far East and from Europe increased 22% and 8%, respectively, for 2004 compared with 2003. Customs brokerage and other services net revenues increased 23% in 2004 as compared with 2003. This is a result of the Companys growing reputation for providing high quality service and consolidation within the customs brokerage market as customers seek out customs brokers with more sophisticated computerized capabilities critical to an overall logistics management program. In addition, increased emphasis on regulatory compliance has benefited the Companys customs brokerage offerings. Salaries and related costs increased 20% in 2004 compared to 2003 as a result of (1) the Companys increased hiring of sales, operations, and administrative personnel in existing and new offices to accommodate increases in business activity and (2) increased compensation levels. Salaries and related costs remained constant as a percentage of net revenues. The relatively consistent relationship between salaries and net revenues is the result of a compensation philosophy that has been maintained since the inception of the Company: offer a modest base salary and the opportunity to share in a fixed and determinable percentage of the operating profit of the business unit controlled by each key employee. Using this compensation model, changes in individual compensation will occur in proportion to changes in Company profits. Management believes that the growth in revenues, net revenues and net earnings for 2004 are a result of the incentives inherent in the Companys compensation program. This trend may not continue in 2005 and future years as a result of the adoption of SFAS 123R, which requires the expensing of the fair value of employee stock options, effective in the third quarter of 2005. Management expects salaries and related costs as a percentage of net revenues will be more volatile. Other operating expenses increased 12% in 2004 as compared with 2003 as rent expense, communications expense, quality and training expenses, and other costs expanded to accommodate the Companys growing operations. Other operating expenses as a percentage of net revenues decreased in 2004 as compared with 2003. Management believes that this was significant as it reflects the successful achievement of ongoing cost containment objectives at the branch level. The ability to sustain these savings into future periods is contingent upon branch level managements ability to adhere to these objectives. Other income, net, decreased 4% in 2004 as compared with 2003. Due to higher interest rates on higher average cash balances and short term investments during 2004, interest income increased by $1.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. Rental income, net of applicable depreciation, of $2.6 million and $3.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively, is included in other income. The rental income is derived from two of the Companys properties, one located near Heathrow airport in London, England and an office and warehouse facility near the San Francisco, California International Airport. As a result of the scheduled remodeling of the San Francisco, California office and warehouse facility, rental income from that property ceased at the end of the first quarter of 2004. The Company pays income taxes in the United States and other jurisdictions, as well as other taxes which are typically included in costs of operations. The Companys consolidated effective income tax rate in 2004 of 35.4% decreased when compared with the 36.4% rate in 2003. The lower tax rate in 2004 is the result of the decreased state tax expense caused by an increase in the taxable income sourced outside the U.S. and certain accounting adjustments made in 2003 as described in the following section. If the Company adopts a plan under Internal Revenue Code (IRC) 965, which was added by the Jobs Act, the Companys 2005 tax rate will be lower than prior years. This lower tax rate will only affect 2005. 2003 compared with 2002 Airfreight net revenues in 2003 decreased 2% compared with 2002. Global airfreight tonnages in 2003 were comparable with those in 2002. The decrease in 2003 airfreight net revenues was a reflection of an overall decline in airfreight yields and an inability to increase 2003 airfreight tonnages beyond those levels experienced in 2002. Airfreight tonnages and yields in 2002 were an anomaly as the airfreight markets were swamped by cargo that would otherwise have moved by ocean, but did not due to the disruption caused by the labor disputes in the west coast ports of the United States. The 1% decrease in airfreight yields in 2003 was primarily a result of air carriers increasing their rates such that the Company was unable to increase its corresponding rates to customers in a timely and effective manner. The Company elected to absorb these short term decreases in the interest of maintaining long term customer relationships. The Companys North American export airfreight net revenues decreased 5% in 2003 compared to 2002. Airfreight net revenues from the Far East and from Europe decreased 11% and increased 26%, respectively, for 2003 compared with 2002. Ocean freight volumes, measured in terms of forty foot container equivalents (FEUs), increased 23% over 2002 while ocean freight and ocean services net revenues increased only 16% during the same period. The difference in these two growth rates is a result of a 252 basis point decline in ocean freight yields. In May 2003, ocean freight carriers implemented substantial rate increases. In order to gain market share and maintain its focus on long term customer relationships, the Company chose not to immediately pass on the full rate increases. The resulting increase in ocean freight volumes more than offset the revenue foregone by not implementing the full rate increases. 20 The Company continued its focus of offering competitive rates to customers at the retail level, while leveraging freight volumes to obtain favorable rates from carriers at the wholesale level. ECMS continued to be instrumental in attracting new business. The Companys North American export ocean freight net revenues decreased 3% in 2003 compared to 2002. This decrease was a result of the Company handling more ocean shipments moving from North America to the Far East, a market which has lower profit per container, and, to a lesser extent, from North America to Europe, a market which has higher profit per container. Ocean freight net revenues from the Far East and from Europe increased 24%, respectively, for 2003 compared with 2002. Customs brokerage and other services net revenues increased 20% in 2003 as compared with 2002 as a result of the Companys growing reputation for providing high quality service and consolidation within the customs brokerage market as customers seek out customs brokers with more sophisticated computerized capabilities critical to an overall logistics management program. Salaries and related costs increased 11% in 2003 compared to 2002 as a result of (1) the Companys increased, albeit limited, hiring of sales, operations, and administrative personnel in existing and new offices to accommodate increases in business activity and (2) increased compensation levels. Salaries and related costs remained constant as a percentage of net revenues. Other operating expenses increased in 2003 as compared with 2002 as rent expense, communications expense, quality and training expenses, and other costs expanded to accommodate the Companys growing operations. Other operating expenses as a percentage of net revenues remained constant in 2003 as compared with 2002. Other income, net, increased in 2003 as compared with 2002. Due to much lower interest rates on higher average cash balances and short term investments during 2003, interest income decreased by $1.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. Rental income, net of applicable depreciation, of $3.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2003, is included in other income. The rental income is derived from two of the Companys properties, one located near Heathrow airport in London, England and an office and warehouse facility near the San Francisco, California International Airport. Other income in the year ended December 31, 2002 includes the $1.5 million gain on the sale of the Companys former Dublin, Ireland facility. The Company pays income taxes in the United States and other jurisdictions, as well as other taxes which are typically included in costs of operations. The Companys consolidated effective income tax rate in 2003 of 36.4% is comparable to the 36.5% rate in 2002. In the fourth quarter of 2003, the Company recorded additional tax expense of $9.5 million in order to provide full U.S. taxation on approximately $41.9 million of foreign earnings accumulated through December 31, 1992, for which U.S. income taxes had not previously been provided. Income taxes had not previously been provided on these earnings as a result of the Companys previous intent to reinvest such earnings indefinitely or to distribute them in a manner in which no significant additional taxes would be incurred. Also during the fourth quarter of 2003, the Company eliminated $8 million of certain taxes which the Company had previously expected to pay. Upon analysis of the state tax implications of the Companys pattern of remitting foreign earnings, the Company has determined that these taxes were not owed. Currency and Other Risk Factors International air/ocean freight forwarding and customs brokerage are intensively competitive and are expected to remain so for the foreseeable future. There are a large number of entities competing in the international logistics industry; however, the Companys primary competition is confined to a relatively small number of companies within this group. While there is currently a marked trend within the industry toward consolidation into large firms with multinational offices and agency networks, regional and local broker/forwarders remain a competitive force. Historically, the primary competitive factors in the international logistics industry have been price and quality of service, including reliability, responsiveness, expertise, convenience, and scope of operations. The Company emphasizes quality service and believes that its prices are competitive with those of others in the industry. Customers have exhibited a trend towards more sophisticated and efficient procedures for the management of the logistics supply chain by embracing strategies such as just in time inventory management. The Company believes that this trend has resulted in customers using fewer service providers with greater technological capacity and consistent global coverage. Accordingly, sophisticated computerized customer service capabilities and a stable worldwide network have become significant factors in attracting and retaining customers. Developing these systems and a worldwide network has added a considerable indirect cost to the services provided to customers. Smaller and middle tier competitors, in general, do not have the resources available to develop customized systems and a worldwide network. As a result, there is a significant amount of consolidation currently taking place in the industry. Management expects that this trend toward consolidation will continue for the short to medium term. The nature of the Companys worldwide operations necessitates the Company dealing with a multitude of currencies other than the U.S. Dollar. This results in the Company being exposed to the inherent risks of the international currency markets and governmental interference. Some of the countries where the Company maintains offices and or agency relationships have strict currency control 21 regulations which influence the Companys ability to hedge foreign currency exposure. The Company tries to compensate for these exposures by accelerating international currency settlements among its offices or agents. The Company enters into foreign currency hedging transactions only in limited locations where there are regulatory or commercial limitations on the Companys ability to move money freely around the world or the short term financial outlook in any country is such that hedging is the most time sensitive way to avoid short term exchange losses. Any such hedging activity during 2004, 2003 and 2002 was insignificant. Net foreign currency gains realized in 2004, 2003 and 2002 were $86, $588 and $70, respectively. The Company had no foreign currency derivatives outstanding at December 31, 2004 and 2003. The Company has traditionally generated revenues from airfreight, ocean freight and customs brokerage and other services. In light of the customer driven trend to provide customer rates on a door to door basis, management foresees the potential, in the medium to long term, for fees normally associated with customs house brokerage to be de emphasized and included as a component of other services offered by the Company. Sources of Growth Historically, growth through aggressive acquisition has proven to be a challenge for many of the Companys competitors and typically involves the purchase of significant goodwill, the value of which can be realized in large measure only by retaining the customers and profit margins of the acquired business. As a result, the Company has pursued a strategy emphasizing organic growth supplemented by certain strategic acquisitions, where future economic benefit significantly exceeds the goodwill recorded in the transaction. Office Additions The Company opened 2 start up offices during 2004. North America Far East Calgary, Canada Hanoi, Vietnam During 2004, the Company closed its offices in Curitiba and Belo Horizonte, Brazil; these two offices were converted to non exclusive agents. Internal Growth Management believes that a comparison of same store growth is critical in the evaluation of the quality and extent of the Companys internally generated growth. This same store analysis isolates the financial contributions from offices that have been included in the Companys operating results for at least one full year. The table below presents same store comparisons on a year over year basis for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002. Same store comparisons for the years ended December 31, 2004 2003 2002 Net revenues 20 % 10 % 12 % Operating income 29 % 9 % 16 % Liquidity and Capital Resources The Companys principal source of liquidity is cash generated from operating activities. Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2004 was approximately $193 million, as compared with $114 million for 2003. This $79 million increase is principally due to increased net earnings, the tax benefit of non qualified stock option exercises and deferred tax expense on unremitted foreign earnings. The increased accounts receivable is offset by increased accounts payable, accrued expenses and taxes payable. Increased accounts receivable is primarily due to higher billings in November and December 2004, compared to the same periods in 2003 and slower collections on certain large technology accounts required to meet current market conditions. Increases in accounts payable and accrued expenses are a result of the Companys attempts to manage cash flows by matching the timing of cash outflows for payments to vendors with cash inflows from collections of customer billings. The Companys business is subject to seasonal fluctuations. Cash flow fluctuates as a result of this seasonality. Historically, the first quarter shows an excess of customer collections over customer billings. This results in positive cash flow. The increased activity associated with peak season (typically commencing late second or early third quarter) causes an excess of customer billings over customer collections. This cyclical growth in customer receivables consumes available cash. Due to the Companys management of accounts payable and accrued expenses as described in the preceding paragraph, cash flow from operating activities remained positive. 22 As a customs broker, the Company makes significant 5 10 business day cash advances for certain of its customers obligations such as the payment of duties to the Bureau of Customs and Border Protection. These advances are made as an accommodation for a select group of credit worthy customers. Cash advances are a pass through and are not recorded as a component of revenue and expense. The billings of such advances to customers are accounted for as a direct increase in accounts receivable to the customer and a corresponding increase in accounts payable to governmental customs authorities. As a result of these pass through billings, the conventional Days Sales Outstanding or DSO calculation does not directly measure collection efficiency. Cash used in investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2004 was $65 million, as compared with $26 million during the same period of 2003. The largest use of cash in investing activities is cash paid for capital expenditures. As a non asset based provider of integrated logistics services, the Company does not own any physical means of transportation (i.e., airplanes, ships, trucks, etc.). However, the Company does have need, on occasion, to purchase buildings to house staff and to facilitate the staging of customers freight. The Company routinely invests in technology, office furniture and equipment and leasehold improvements. For the year ended December 31, 2004, the Company made capital expenditures of $66 million as compared with $21 million for the same period in 2003. Capital expenditures in 2004 included $24 million for acquisitions of real estate and office/warehouse facilities in New York, California and Korea. Other capital expenditures in 2004 and 2003 related primarily to investments in technology, office furniture and equipment and leasehold improvements. Cash of $31.3 million was paid into escrow during 2002 to acquire an office and warehouse facility near the San Francisco, California International Airport; the transaction closed on January 7, 2003. The Company currently expects to spend approximately $30 million for normal capital expenditures in 2005. In addition to property and equipment, normal capital expenditures include leasehold improvements, warehouse equipment, computer hardware and furniture and fixtures. Total capital expenditures in 2005 are expected to exceed $100 million if the Company adopts a plan calling for capital expenditures to meet the investment requirements of IRC 965. The Company expects to finance capital expenditures in 2005, with cash. Cash used in financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2004 was $22 million as compared with $18 million for the same period in 2003. The Company uses the proceeds from stock option exercises to repurchase the Companys stock on the open market. The differences between proceeds from the issuance of common stock and the amounts paid to repurchase common stock for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 represent a timing difference in the receipt of proceeds and the subsequent repurchase of outstanding shares. In November 2001, the Board of Directors voted to allow the repurchase under a discretionary plan of such shares as may be necessary to reduce the issued and outstanding stock to 100,000,000 shares of common stock. No repurchases were made under this plan in 2004 and 2003. During 2004 and 2003 the net use of cash in financing activities was primarily for the payment of dividends of $.22 per share and $.16 per share, respectively. At December 31, 2004, working capital was $522 million, including cash and short term investments of $409 million. The Company had no long term debt at December 31, 2004. While the nature of its business does not require an extensive investment in property and equipment, the Company cannot eliminate the possibility that it could acquire an equity interest in property in certain geographic locations. The Company maintains international and domestic unsecured bank lines of credit. At December 31, 2004, the U.S. facility totaled $50 million and the international bank lines of credit totaled $13.5 million. In addition, the Company maintains bank facilities with U.K. banks for $23 million. At December 31, 2004, the Company was directly liable for $2.3 million drawn on these lines of credit and was contingently liable for an additional $82.7 million from standby letters of credit and guarantees related to these lines of credit and other obligations. The guarantees relate to obligations of the Companys foreign subsidiaries for credit extended in the ordinary course of business by direct carriers, primarily airlines, and for duty and tax deferrals available from governmental entities responsible for customs and value added tax (VAT) taxation. The total underlying amounts due and payable for transportation and governmental excises are properly recorded as obligations in the books of the respective foreign subsidiaries, and there would be no need to record additional expense in the unlikely event the parent company were to be required to perform. 23 At December 31, 2004, the Companys contractual obligations and other commitments are as follows: Payments Due by Period In thousands Total Less than 1 year 1 3 years 3 5 years After 5 years Contractual Obligations: Operating leases $ 115,578 35,955 47,865 23,415 8,343 Unconditional purchase obligations 195,496 195,496 Total contractual cash obligations $ 311,074 231,451 47,865 23,415 8,343 The Company enters into short term agreements with asset based providers reserving space on a guaranteed basis. The pricing of these obligations varies to some degree with market conditions. The Company only enters into agreements that management believes the Company can fulfill with relative ease. Historically, the Company has not paid for guaranteed space that it has not used. Management believes, in line with historical experience, committed purchase obligations outstanding as of December 31, 2004, will be fulfilled during 2005 in the Companys ordinary course of business. Amount of Commitment Expiration Per Period In thousands Total amounts committed Less than 1 year 1 3 years 3 5 years After 5 years Other Commitments: Lines of credit $ 11,625 11,187 246 192 Credit facility 23,033 22,959 13 61 Standby letters of credit 61,531 60,105 858 554 14 Total commitments $ 96,189 94,251 1,117 746 75 The Company has a Non Discretionary Stock Repurchase Plan to repurchase shares from the proceeds of stock option exercises. As of December 31, 2004, the Company had repurchased and retired 6,427,715 shares of common stock at an average price of $17.72 per share over the period from 1994 through 2004. During 2004, 612,533 shares were repurchased at an average price of $47.62 per share. Management believes that the Companys current cash position, bank financing arrangements, and operating cash flows will be sufficient to meet its capital and liquidity requirements for the foreseeable future, including meeting any contingent liabilities related to standby letters of credit and other obligations. In some cases, the Companys ability to repatriate funds from foreign operations may be subject to foreign exchange controls. At December 31, 2004, cash and cash equivalent balances of $239.5 million were held by the Companys non U.S. subsidiaries, of which $43.9 million was held in banks in the United States. Impact of Inflation To date, the Companys business has not been adversely affected by inflation. Direct carrier rate increases could occur over the short to medium term period. Due to the high degree of competition in the market place, these rate increases can lead to an erosion in the Companys margins. As the Company is not required to purchase or maintain extensive property and equipment and has not otherwise incurred substantial interest rate sensitive indebtedness, the Company currently has limited direct exposure to increased costs resulting from increases in interest rates. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements As of December 31, 2004, the Company did not have any material off balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Regulation S K. 24 ITEM 7A QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The Company is exposed to market risks in the ordinary course of its business. These risks are primarily related to foreign exchange risk and changes in short term interest rates. The potential impact of the Companys exposure to these risks is presented below: Foreign Exchange Risk The Company conducts business in many different countries and currencies. The Companys business often results in revenue billings issued in a country and currency which differs from that where the expenses related to the service are incurred. In the ordinary course of business, the Company creates numerous intercompany transactions. This brings a market risk to the Companys earnings. Foreign exchange rate sensitivity analysis can be quantified by estimating the impact on the Companys earnings as a result of hypothetical changes in the value of the U.S. Dollar, the Companys functional currency, relative to the other currencies in which the Company transacts business. All other things being equal, an average 10% weakening of the U.S. Dollar, throughout the year ended December 31, 2004, would have had the effect of raising operating income approximately $19 million. An average 10% strengthening of the U.S. Dollar, for the same period, would have the effect of reducing operating income approximately $15 million. The Company has approximately $6 million of net unsettled intercompany transactions at any one point in time. The Company currently does not use derivative financial instruments to manage foreign currency risk and only enters into foreign currency hedging transactions in limited locations where regulatory or commercial limitations restrict the Companys ability to move money freely. Any such hedging activity throughout the year ended December 31, 2004, was insignificant. The Company had no foreign currency derivatives outstanding at December 31, 2004 and 2003. The Company instead follows a policy of accelerating international currency settlements to manage foreign exchange risk relative to intercompany billings. The majority of intercompany billings are resolved within 30 days and intercompany billings arising in the normal course of business are fully settled within 90 days. Interest Rate Risk At December 31, 2004, the Company had cash and cash equivalents and short term investments of $409 million and short term borrowings of $2.3 million, all subject to variable short term interest rates. A hypothetical change in the interest rate of 10% would have an insignificant impact on the Companys earnings. In managements opinion, there has been no material change in the Companys market risk exposure between 2003 and 2004. 25 
 
