FILE:DVA/DVA-8K-20031103123859.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On November 3, 2003, DaVita Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2003. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
The attached press release contains non-GAAP financial measures. For purposes of Regulation G, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. To supplement our third quarter 2003 consolidated financial results presented in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States, or GAAP, we have used non-GAAP measures of (a) net earnings excluding refinancing charges and prior period lab services recoveries, (b) free cash flow, (c) rolling twelve (12) months operating cash flows and free cash flows excluding prior period lab services recoveries and (d) operating income excluding depreciation, amortization, minority interest and prior period lab services recoveries. These non-GAAP financial measures are provided to enhance the user's overall understanding of our current financial performance and our prospects for the future. In addition, because we have historically reported certain non-GAAP financial measures in our financial results, we believe the inclusion of these non-GAAP financial measures provides consistency and comparability in our financial reporting to prior periods for which these non-GAAP financial measures were previously reported. These non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered or used as a substitute for or superior to GAAP financial measures. Reconciliations of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most comparable GAAP financial measures are included in the attached press release.
 
The attached press release also contains forward-looking statements relating to our performance during 2003 and 2004. The Company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. A more thorough discussion of certain factors which may affect our operating results are included under the captions "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and "Risk Factors" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2002, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2003, and June 30, 2003, and will also be included in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2003.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
El Segundo, California, November 3, 2003  DaVita Inc. (NYSE: DVA), today announced results for the quarter ended September 30, 2003. Net earnings for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2003, excluding after-tax refinancing charges of $10.4 million, were $48.5 million and $123.4 million, or $0.67 and $1.74 per share respectively.
 
Net earnings for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2003, including the refinancing charges were $38.1 million and $113 million, or $0.54 and $1.61 per share, respectively.
 
Financial and operating highlights include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Recent transactions:
 
 
 
 
 
Outlook:
 
 
DaVita will be holding a conference call to discuss its third quarter 2003 results on November 3, 2003, at 1:00 PM Eastern Standard Time. The dial in number is 800 399-4406. A replay of the conference call will be available on DaVita's official web page, www.davita.com, for the following 30 days.
 
This press release includes non-GAAP financial measures, which we believe provide useful information to investors by excluding certain nonrecurring expenses and prior period recoveries and by allowing consistency and comparability in our financial reporting to prior periods for which these non-GAAP measures were previously reported. These measures should be considered in addition to results prepared in accordance with GAAP, but are not a substitute for or superior to GAAP results. Included in this press release is a reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP financial measures.
 
This release also contains forward-looking statements. Factors which could impact future results include the uncertainties associated with governmental regulation, general economic and other market conditions, and the risk factors set forth in the Company's SEC filings, including its Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2003. The forward-looking statements should be considered in light of these risks and uncertainties. These risks include those relating to:
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 1. Leverage ratio is defined as net debt (total debt net of cash) to operating income excluding depreciation, amortization, minority interests and prior period Medicare lab revenue. The operating income reconciliation is provided below.
 
 
Free cash flow represents net cash provided by operating activities less non-development capital expenditures. We believe free cash flow is a useful adjunct to cash flow from operating activities and other measurements under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States since it is a meaningful measure of our ability to fund development activities and meet our debt service requirements. Free cash flow is not a measure of financial performance under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States and should not be considered as an alternative to cash flows from operating, investing or financing activities as an indicator of cash flows or as a measure of liquidity.
 


