FILE:DVA/DVA-8K-20030505152529.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.    Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c)  Exhibits
 
 
Item 9.    Regulation FD Disclosure  Information Provided Under Item 12.
 
The information contained in this Current Report is intended to be furnished under Item 12, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition," but is instead being furnished under Item 9, "Regulation FD Disclosure" pursuant to interim guidance issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission in Release Nos. 33-8216 and 34-47583. As such, the information hereunder shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be incorporated by reference into a filing under the Securities Act of 1933, or the Exchange Act of 1934, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
The attached press release contains non-GAAP financial measures. For purposes of Regulation G, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. To supplement our consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, or GAAP, we use non-GAAP measures of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization, or EBITDA, free cash flow, rolling twelve (12) months operating cash flows, and leverage ratio (debt/EBITDA), which are adjusted from operations based on GAAP to exclude certain items of income and expense. These non-GAAP measures are provided to enhance the user's overall understanding of our current financial performance and our prospects for the future. Specifically, we believe the non-GAAP results provide useful information to both management and investors by excluding certain items of income and expense that may not be indicative of longer-term customary operating results. In addition, because we have historically reported certain non-GAAP results to investors, we believe the inclusion of non-GAAP numbers provides consistency and comparability in our financial reporting. These measures should be considered in addition to results prepared in accordance with GAAP, but are not a substitute for or superior to GAAP results. A reconciliation of the non-GAAP measures is included in the attached press release, which reconciles the non-GAAP measures to the most comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP.
 
 
The attached press release also contains forward-looking statements relating to our performance during 2003. A more thorough discussion of certain factors which may affect our operating results is included under the captions "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and "Risk Factors" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2002, and will also be included in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2003 to be filed in the second quarter of 2003.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
Contact:    LeAnne Zumwalt
Investor Relations
DaVita Inc.
310-750-2072
 
 
Torrance, California, May 5, 2003  DaVita Inc. (NYSE: DVA), today announced results for the quarter ended March 31, 2003. Net income for the three months ended March 31, 2003 was $36 million or $0.52 per share, compared with $36 million or $0.40 per share for the same period of 2002.
 
Financial and operating highlights include:
 
Our 2003 EBITDA guidance remains at $380 million to $400 million. This guidance implies Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) operating income of $300 million to $320 million for 2003.
 
DaVita will be holding a conference call to discuss its first quarter 2003 results on May 5, 2003, at 1:30 PM Eastern Daylight Time. The dial in number is 800 399-4406. A replay of the conference call will be available on DaVita's official web page, , for the following 30 days.
www.davita.com
 
This press release includes non-GAAP financial measures, which we believe provide useful information to investors by excluding certain nonrecurring expenses and prior period recoveries and by allowing consistency and comparability in our financial reporting to prior periods for which these non-GAAP measures were previously reported. These measures should be considered in addition to results prepared in accordance with GAAP, but are not a substitute for or superior to GAAP results. Included in this press release is a reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP financial measures.
 
This release also contains forward-looking statements. Factors which could impact future results include the uncertainties associated with governmental regulation, general economic and other market conditions, and the risk factors set forth in the Company's SEC filings, including its Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002. The forward-looking statements should be considered in light of these risks and uncertainties. These risks include those relating to:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


