FILE:DVA/DVA-8K-20041103115746.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On November 2, 2004, DaVita Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter and nine months ended September 30, 2004. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
The attached press release contains non-GAAP financial measures. For purposes of Regulation G, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the Unites States, or GAAP. To supplement our consolidated financial results presented in accordance with GAAP, for all periods presented, we have used non-GAAP measures of (a) net income excluding Medicare lab recoveries associated with prior years' services, (b) free cash flow, (c) operating cash flows and free cash flows excluding Medicare lab recoveries and excluding the tax benefit from stock option exercises, (d) operating income excluding Medicare lab recoveries, and depreciation, amortization, and minority interest (used to calculate debt leverage ratio), and (e) revenue excluding Medicare lab recoveries. These non-GAAP financial measures are provided to enhance the user's overall understanding of our current financial performance and our prospects for the future by excluding certain revenue and expenses that may not be indicative of our core operating results. In addition, because we have historically reported certain non-GAAP financial measures in our financial results that exclude certain non-recurring expenses and Medicare lab recoveries for prior period services that result in unusual fluctuations in our operating performance, we believe the inclusion of these non-GAAP financial measures provides consistency and comparability in our financial reporting to prior periods for which these non-GAAP financial measures were previously reported. These non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered or used as a substitute for or superior to GAAP financial measures. Reconciliations of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most comparable GAAP financial measures are included in the attached press release.
 
The attached press release also contains forward-looking statements relating to our performance for 2004 and 2005. These forward-looking statements can be affected by numerous known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause the actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. For further details concerning these risks and uncertainties, please review the Company's SEC filings including the most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2003, and the Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarters ending March 31, 2004 and June 30, 2004. The Company's forward-looking statements are based on information currently available to us, and we undertake no obligation to update these statements, whether as a result of changes in underlying factors, new information, future events or other developments.
 
The information contained in this Form 8-K (including Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto) is being furnished and shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (The "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section and shall not be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
El Segundo, California, November 2, 2004  DaVita Inc. (NYSE: DVA), today announced results for the quarter ended September 30, 2004. Net income for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2004, excluding after tax Medicare lab recoveries of $5.1 million was $55.3 million and $160.6 million, or $0.54 and $1.56 per share, respectively.
 
Net income, on a GAAP basis, including the lab recoveries, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2004, was $60.4 million and $165.7 million, or $0.59 and $1.61 per share, respectively.
 
Financial and operating highlights include:
 
 
 
 
Recent Transactions
 
On September 1, 2004, we completed our acquisition of Physicians Dialysis, Inc. (PDI), by acquiring 24 centers for approximately $150 million in cash.
 
In August 2004, we began repurchasing shares of our common stock in the open market pursuant to a previous authorization by our Board of Directors. During the third quarter of 2004, we repurchased a total of 3,049,800 shares of common stock at an average price of $28.69 per share.
 
On November 2, 2004, the Board of Directors authorized the Company to repurchase up to an additional $200 million of the Company's common stock. The purchases are expected to be made on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions from time to time, depending upon market conditions as well as other considerations. The total outstanding Board authorizations for share repurchases are now approximately $250 million.
 
Outlook
 
We expect our fourth quarter operating income to be comparable to the third quarter of 2004. For 2005 we currently expect operating income to be flat to 6% higher than the 2004 level.
 
DaVita will be holding a conference call to discuss its third quarter 2004 results on November 3, 2004, at 12:00 PM Eastern Time. The dial in number is 800-399-4406. A replay of the conference call will be available on DaVita's official web page, , for the following 30 days.
www.davita.com
 
This release contains forward-looking statements. Factors which could impact future results include the uncertainties associated with governmental regulations, general economic and other market conditions, acquisitions and the risk factors set forth in the Company's SEC filings, including its Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2004. The forward-looking statements should be considered in light of these risks and uncertainties.
 
These risks and uncertainties include those relating to:
 
 
 
 
 
 
This Company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. Net income excluding Medicare lab recoveries and refinancing charges:
 
 
3. Operating cash flow, excluding Medicare lab recoveries related to prior years' services, and tax benefit from stock option exercises:
 
 
 
 
4. Free cash flow, excluding Medicare lab recoveries related to prior years' services, and tax benefit from stock option exercises:
 
Free cash flow represents net cash provided by operating activities less non-development capital expenditures. We believe free cash flow is a useful adjunct to cash flow from operating activities and other measurements under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States since it is a meaningful measure of our ability to fund acquisition and development activities and meet our debt service requirements. Free cash flow is not a measure of financial performance under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States and should not be considered as an alternative to cash flows from operating, investing or financing activities as an indicator of cash flows or as a measure of liquidity.
 
 


