FILE:DVA/DVA-8K-20040211124025.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(c) Exhibits
 
 
 
On February 11, 2004, DaVita Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2003. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
The attached press release contains non-GAAP financial measures. For purposes of Regulation G, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. To supplement our 2003 and fourth quarter of 2002 consolidated financial results presented in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States, or GAAP, we have used non-GAAP measures of (a) net earnings excluding refinancing charges and Medicare lab recoveries, (b) operating income excluding Medicare lab recoveries, and excluding depreciation, amortization, minority interest, (c) operating cash flows and free cash flows, excluding Medicare lab recoveries collected in the period, and (d) revenue excluding Medicare lab recoveries. These non-GAAP financial measures are provided to enhance the user's overall understanding of our current financial performance and our prospects for the future. In addition, because we have historically reported certain non-GAAP financial measures in our financial results that exclude certain non-recurring charges and Medicare lab recoveries for prior years' services, we believe the inclusion of these non-GAAP financial measures provides consistency and comparability in our financial reporting to prior periods for which these non-GAAP financial measures were previously reported. These non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered or used as a substitute for or superior to GAAP financial measures. Reconciliations of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most comparable GAAP financial measures are included in the attached press release.
 
The attached press release also contains forward-looking statements relating to our performance for 2004. The Company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. A more thorough discussion of certain factors which may affect our operating results are included under the captions "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and "Risk Factors" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2002, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2003, June 30, 2003, and September 30, 2003, and will also be included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2003 to be filed no later than March 15, 2004.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Contact:    LeAnne Zumwalt
Investor Relations
DaVita Inc.
310 536-2420
 
 
El Segundo, California, February 11, 2004DaVita Inc. (NYSE: DVA), today announced results for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2003. Net earnings for the fourth quarter and the full year, excluding refinancing charges and Medicare lab recoveries, were $53.9 million and $177.3 million or $0.79 and $2.51 per share, respectively. However, the fourth quarter benefited from a year-to-date reduction in the annualized effective tax rate that added $0.02 to fourth quarter earnings per share.
 
Net earnings, on a GAAP basis including these items, for the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2003, were $62.8 million and $175.8 million, or $0.92 and $2.49 per share, respectively.
 
Financial and operating highlights include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Recent transactions:
 
 
 
Outlook:
 
 
DaVita will be holding a conference call to discuss its fourth quarter and year ended 2003 results on February 11, 2004, at 1:00 PM Eastern Standard Time. The dial in number is (800) 399-4406. A replay of the conference call will be available on DaVita's official web page, , for the following 30 days.
www.davita.com
 
This press release includes non-GAAP financial measures, which we believe provide useful information to investors by excluding certain nonrecurring charges and prior period recoveries and by allowing consistency and comparability in our financial reporting to prior periods for which these non-GAAP measures were previously reported. These measures should be considered in addition to results prepared in accordance with GAAP, but are not a substitute for or superior to GAAP results. Included in this press release is a reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP financial measures.
 
This release also contains forward-looking statements. Factors which could impact future results include the uncertainties associated with governmental regulation, general economic and other market conditions, and the risk factors set forth in the Company's SEC filings, including its Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2003. The forward-looking statements should be considered in light of these risks and uncertainties. These risks include those relating to:
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 1. Leverage ratio is defined as net debt (total debt net of cash) to operating income excluding depreciation, amortization, minority interests and prior period Medicare lab revenue. The operating income reconciliation is provided below.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Free cash flow represents net cash provided by operating activities less non-development capital expenditures. We believe free cash flow is a useful adjunct to cash flow from operating activities and other measurements under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States since it is a meaningful measure of our ability to fund development activities and meet our debt service requirements. Free cash flow is not a measure of financial performance under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States and should not be considered as an alternative to cash flows from operating, investing or financing activities as an indicator of cash flows or as a measure of liquidity.
 
 


