FILE:DVA/DVA-8K-20040803115507.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c) Exhibits
 
 
Item 12. Disclosure of Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On August 2, 2004, DaVita Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2004. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
The attached press release contains non-GAAP financial measures. For purposes of Regulation G, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. To supplement our consolidated financial results presented in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States, or GAAP, for all periods presented, we have used non-GAAP measures of (a) free cash flow, (b) operating cash flows and free cash flows excluding Medicare lab recoveries related to prior period services and excluding the tax benefit from stock option exercises, and (c) operating income excluding depreciation, amortization, and minority interest (used to calculate debt leverage ratio). These non-GAAP financial measures are provided to enhance the user's overall understanding of our current financial performance and our prospects for the future. In addition, because we have historically reported certain non-GAAP financial measures in our financial results that exclude certain non-recurring expenses and Medicare lab recoveries for prior years' services, we believe the inclusion of these non-GAAP financial measures provides consistency and comparability in our financial reporting to prior periods for which these non-GAAP financial measures were previously reported. These non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered or used as a substitute for or superior to GAAP financial measures. Reconciliations of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most comparable GAAP financial measures are included in the attached press release.
 
The attached press release also contains forward-looking statements relating to our performance for 2004. The Company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. A more thorough discussion of certain factors which may affect our operating results are included under the captions "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and "Risk Factors" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2003, and will also be included in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2004.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
 
 
El Segundo, California, August 2, 2004  DaVita Inc. (NYSE: DVA), today announced results for the quarter ended June 30, 2004. Net income for the three months and six months ended June 30, 2004 was $52.4 million and $105.3 million, or $0.50 and $1.02 per share, respectively.
 
Financial and operating highlights include:
 
 
 
 
 
Recent Transactions
 
On July 22, 2004, we announced that we had entered into a definitive agreement to acquire Physicians Dialysis, Inc. ("PDI"), for approximately $150 million in cash. The transaction is expected to close by the end of the third quarter. As previously disclosed, we anticipate this acquisition to be EPS neutral in 2005. Operating synergies and growth opportunities over the subsequent 24 months as several centers mature are expected to deliver incremental earnings over the longer-term.
On July 30, 2004, we amended our existing credit facilities in order to modify certain covenants and borrowed an additional $250 million under a new Term Loan C to fund the PDI transaction as well as other potential acquisitions or share repurchases. We are also in the process of extending the maturity of the Term Loan B until June 30, 2010. We intend to enter into interest rate swap transactions that will effectively fix the interest rate on approximately 40% of our long-term debt.
 
In May 2004, our Board of Directors approved a three-for-two stock split payable on June 15, 2004, to stockholders of record on June 1, 2004. All share and per share data have been restated to reflect the effects of the stock split.
 
Outlook
 
We are increasing our 2004 operating income target to $385 to $400 million. Regarding 2005, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) recently released proposed policy changes with respect to EPO utilization and the 2003 Medicare Modernization Act (MMA) implementation that have the potential to have a material negative impact on our operating income going forward. Our current assessment, which captures a majority of the likely outcomes, is that operating income could be reduced by $15 to $30 million annually. Taking this uncertainty into account, we currently expect 2005 operating income to be flat to 6% higher than the 2004 level.
 
DaVita will be holding a conference call to discuss its second quarter 2004 results on August 3, 2004, at 12:00 PM Eastern Time. The dial in number is 800 399-4406. A replay of the conference call will be available on DaVita's official web page, , for the following 30 days.
www.davita.com
 
This press release includes non-GAAP financial measures, which we believe provide useful information to investors by excluding prior period recoveries and by allowing consistency and comparability in our financial reporting to prior periods for which these non-GAAP measures were previously reported. These measures should be considered in addition to results prepared in accordance with GAAP, but are not a substitute for or superior to GAAP results. Included in this press release is a reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures to the most comparable GAAP financial measures.
 
This release also contains forward-looking statements. Factors which could impact future results include the uncertainties associated with governmental regulation, general economic and other market conditions, and the risk factors set forth in the Company's SEC filings, including its Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2004. The forward-looking statements should be considered in light of these risks and uncertainties.
These risks include those relating to:
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 1. Leverage ratio is defined as net debt (total debt net of cash) to operating income excluding depreciation, amortization, and minority interests. The operating income reconciliation is provided below.
 
 
 
 
 
Free cash flow represents net cash provided by operating activities less non-development capital expenditures. We believe free cash flow is a useful adjunct to cash flow from operating activities and other measurements under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States since it is a meaningful measure of our ability to fund acquisition and development activities and meet our debt service requirements. Free cash flow is not a measure of financial performance under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States and should not be considered as an alternative to cash flows from operating, investing or financing activities as an indicator of cash flows or as a measure of liquidity.
 
 
 
 


