FILE:DVA/DVA-8K-20050526172342.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
 
On May 20, 2005, the Board of Directors of DaVita Inc. (the "Company") elected Richard C. Vaughan as a member of the Board of Directors. A copy of the press release announcing the election of Mr. Vaughan is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
No arrangement or understanding exists between Mr. Vaughan and any other person or persons pursuant to which he was selected as a director. Neither Mr. Vaughan, nor any member of his immediate family, is a party to any other transactions or proposed transactions with the Company.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
 
 
El Segundo, CA, May, 26, 2005, DaVita Inc. (NYSE: DVA) announced today that Richard C. Vaughan has joined its Board of Directors.
 
Mr. Vaughan, recently retired, served as executive vice president and chief financial officer of Lincoln Financial Group from 1995 to April 2005. He joined Lincoln in July 1990, as senior vice president and chief financial officer of Lincoln National's Employee Benefits Division. In June 1992, he was appointed to chief financial officer for the corporation.
 
He was previously employed with EQUICOR from September 1988 to July 1990. Prior to that, Vaughan was a partner at KPMG Peat Marwick, St. Louis, from June 1980 to September 1988.
 
"We are excited that Richard is joining our Board of Directors. His background and skills add additional depth and expertise to our board. We look forward to working with him," stated Kent Thiry, Chairman and CEO.
 
Mr. Vaughan holds a bachelor's degree in accounting from the University of Missouri and has served on the Board of Directors of Oxford Health Plans, Inc. and was Chairman of Oxford's Audit Committee when it was acquired by United Health Plans in July, 2004. He currently serves on the following boards and committees: Chairman of the Philadelphia Museum of Art's Corporate Executive Board, Member of the Board of the YMCA of Philadelphia and Vicinity, serving as its Chair in 2003 and 2004, Moody's Financial Institutions CFO Council and Standard & Poor's Insurance Ratings CFO Roundtable.
 
DaVita is a leading provider of dialysis services for patients suffering from chronic kidney failure. DaVita operates and provides administrative services to kidney dialysis centers and home peritoneal dialysis programs domestically in 37 states, as well as Washington, D.C. As of March 31, 2005, DaVita operates or provides administrative services to 665 outpatient facilities serving approximately 55,000 patients.


