FILE:DVA/DVA-8K-20051031110308.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 31, 2005, DaVita Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter and nine months ended September 30, 2005. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
The attached press release contains non-GAAP financial measures. For purposes of Regulation G, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, or GAAP. To supplement our consolidated financial results presented in accordance with GAAP, for all periods presented, we have used the following non-GAAP measures: (a) net income excluding Medicare lab recoveries related to prior years' services, swap valuations and refinance charges, (b) operating income excluding Medicare lab recoveries related to prior years' services, (c) operating cash flows and free cash flows excluding Medicare lab recoveries related to prior years' services and the tax benefit from stock option exercises, (d) free cash flow and (e) operating revenue excluding Medicare lab recoveries related to prior years' services. We have also used consolidated EBITDA as defined in our existing senior notes indentures for purposes of calculating a debt leverage ratio. These non-GAAP financial measures are provided to enhance the user's overall understanding of our current and historical financial performance and compliance with the financial covenants contained in our indentures and our prior senior secured credit agreement by excluding certain revenue and expenses that may not be indicative of our normal operating results. In addition, because we have historically reported certain non-GAAP financial measures in our financial results that exclude certain non-recurring expenses and Medicare lab recoveries for prior years' services that result in unusual fluctuations in our operating performance, we believe the inclusion of these non-GAAP financial measures provides consistency and comparability in our financial reporting to prior periods for which these non-GAAP financial measures were previously reported. These non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered or used as a substitute for or superior to GAAP financial measures. Reconciliations of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most comparable GAAP financial measures are included in the attached press release.
 
The attached press release also contains forward-looking statements relating to our performance for 2005 and 2006. All statements that do not concern historical facts are forward-looking statements. These statements involve substantial known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause the actual results to differ materially from those described in the press release and in the Company's SEC filings including its most recent Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2005, and its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004. The Company's forward-looking statements are based on information currently available to us, and we undertake no obligation to update or revise these statements, whether as a result of changes in underlying factors, new information, future events or otherwise.
 
The information contained in this Form 8-K (including Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto) is being furnished and shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (The "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section and shall not be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
 
(c) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
El Segundo, California, October 31, 2005  DaVita Inc. (NYSE: DVA), today announced results for the quarter ended September 30, 2005. Net income for the three months and nine months ended September 30, 2005 was $55.2 million and $164.5 million, or $0.53 and $1.58 per share, respectively.
 
Net income for the quarter ended September 30, 2005 included pre-tax Medicare lab recoveries related to prior years' services of $1.1 million and a net swap valuation loss of $1.7 million.
 
Financial and operating highlights include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Summary of Recent Transactions:
 
On October 5, 2005, we completed our acquisition of Gambro Healthcare, one of the largest dialysis service providers in the U.S. for an aggregate purchase price of $3.055 billion. In connection with the acquisition we:
 
 
 
 
As of September 30, 2005, proforma for the Gambro Healthcare acquisition and divestitures, we would have operated or provided administrative services to over 1,200 outpatient centers in 41 states serving approximately 94,000 patients.
 
Outlook
 
Our 2006 operating income is currently projected to be in the $600-$670 million range, before the impact of FASB No. 123R related to stock option expensing. Major variables include integration of the Gambro Healthcare operations, government reimbursement rates, intensities of physician prescribed pharmaceuticals, payor contracting, and growth assumptions.
 
Kent Thiry, CEO, stated, "This is a difficult time to provide guidance because there is an unusual amount of change going on, internally and externally. The integration is off to a strong start and we remain confident the combination of these two teams was the correct long-term decision for shareholders. In addition we remain confident that the combination will lead to even better patient care."
 
DaVita will be holding a conference call to discuss its third quarter results for 2005 on October 31, 2005, at 11:30 AM Eastern Time. The dial in number is 800-399-4406. A replay of the conference call will be available on DaVita's official web page, www.davita.com, for the following 30 days.
 
This release contains forwardlooking statements. Factors which could impact future results include the uncertainties associated with governmental regulations, general economic and other market conditions, acquisitions and the risk factors set forth in the Company's SEC filings, including its Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2005. The forward-looking statements should be considered in light of these risks and uncertainties.
 
These risks and uncertainties include those relating to:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
We undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of changes in underlying factors, new information, future events or otherwise.
 
This release contains non-GAAP financial measures. For reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to their most comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP, see the attached reconciliation schedules.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 1: Calculation of the Leverage Ratio
 
The leverage ratio under the Company's senior secured credit agreement as in effect for the quarter ended September 30, 2005 (the Prior Credit Agreement), is defined as all funded debt plus the face amount of all letters of credit issued, minus cash and cash equivalents, divided by "EBITDA". The leverage ratio determines the interest rate margin payable by the Company under the Prior Credit Agreement by establishing the margin over the base interest rate (LIBOR) that is applicable. The following Leverage Ratio was calculated using "Consolidated EBITDA" as defined in the indentures governing our recently issued senior notes. Such calculation is on a basis that is materially consistent with the definition of "EBITDA" contained in the Prior Credit Agreement, except that EBITDA under our Prior Credit Agreement is based on the last twelve-months and is not based on annualized EBITDA, and pro forma incremental "EBITDA" relating to acquisitions is included in the calculation of "EBITDA" under the Prior Credit Agreement and is not included in the following calculations.
 
 
As a result of the Gambro Healthcare acquisition and our related borrowings under our new senior secured credit agreement, we anticipate that our post-acquisition leverage ratio will initially be in the range of 4.5x to 5.0x, which is in compliance with the leverage ratio covenants contained within the new credit agreement. The leverage ratio calculation in our new credit agreement is materially consistent with our Prior Credit Agreement, existing at September 30, 2005.
 
 
 
1. Net income excluding Medicare lab recoveries related to prior years' services, swap valuations and refinance charges:
 
 
2. Operating income, excluding Medicare lab recoveries related to prior years' services:
 
 
3. Operating cash flow, excluding Medicare lab recoveries related to prior years' services, and tax benefit from stock option exercises:
 
 
 
 
4. Free cash flow and free cash flow, excluding Medicare lab recoveries related to prior years' services, and tax benefit from stock option exercises:
 
Free cash flow represents net cash provided by operating activities less non-development capital expenditures. We believe free cash flow is a useful adjunct to cash flow from operating activities and other measurements under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States since it is a meaningful measure of our ability to fund acquisition and development activities and meet our debt service requirements. Free cash flow is not a measure of financial performance under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States and should not be considered as an alternative to cash flows from operating, investing or financing activities as an indicator of cash flows or as a measure of liquidity.
 
 


