FILE:DVA/DVA-8K-20051201153114.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This Amendment No. 1 amends the Current Report on Form 8-K of DaVita Inc. filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on October 11, 2005 related to our acquisition of Gambro Healthcare, Inc. This Form 8-K/A amends the October 11, 2005 8-K to include financial statements required by Item 9.01(a) and Item 9.01(b) of Form 8-K to include exhibits under Item 9.01(c) of Form 8-K. The information previously reported in the October 11, 2005 8-K is hereby incorporated by reference into this Form 8-K/A.
 
 
(a) Financial statements of businesses acquired.
 
The following information is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2:
 
 
(b) Pro forma financial information.
 
The following information is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.3:
 
 
(d) Exhibits:
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 23.1
 
 
We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statement on Form S-8 (No. 33-84610, No. 33-83018, No. 33-99862, No. 33-99864, No. 333-01620, No. 333-34693, No. 333-34695, No. 333-46887, No. 333-75361, No. 333-56149, No. 333-30734, No. 333-30736, No. 333-63158, No. 333-42653, No. 333-86550 and No. 333-86556) of DaVita Inc. of our report dated February 24, 2005 relating to the combined financial statements of Gambro Healthcare US, which appears in the Current Report on Form 8-K of DaVita Inc. dated October 4, 2005.
 
/s/ PC LLP
RICEWATERHOUSE
OOPERS
 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Denver, Colorado
November 29, 2005

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
Gambro Healthcare US
 
Unaudited Combined Condensed Interim Financial Statements
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Unless otherwise indicated in these notes to combined condensed financial statements "the Company", "we", "us", "our" and similar terms refer to Gambro Healthcare US.
 
1. Condensed combined interim financial statements
 
The condensed consolidated interim financial statements included in this report are prepared by the Company without audit in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. In the opinion of the Company's management, all adjustments consisting only of normal recurring items necessary for a fair presentation of the results of operations are reflected in these consolidated interim financial statements. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. The most significant estimates and assumptions underlying these financial statements and accompanying notes generally involve revenue recognition and provisions for uncollectible accounts, impairments and valuation adjustments, accounting for income taxes and variable compensation accruals. The results of operations for the six months ended June 30, 2005 are not necessarily indicative of the operating results for the full year. The consolidated interim financial statements should be read in conjunction with the audited consolidated financial statements and notes therein for the year ended December 31, 2004. Gambro Healthcare, Inc. was a wholly-owned subsidiary of Gambro, Inc. (the "Parent").
 
2. Long-term Debt and Due to Parent
 
Long-term debt consists of the following:
 
 
Due to Parent
 
The Company entered into a revolving line of credit agreement with its Parent that is used to fund development expenditure, capital expenditure and working capital needs in the amount of $1,500,000 as amended effective November 15, 2004. The agreement expires on January 31, 2013. The agreement requires repayment of debt when the Company generates net positive cash flows, and allows the Company to re-borrow at any time any unutilized amounts. Through September 30, 2004 the variable interest rate was determined based on the Parent's variable interest rates on its debt portfolio. On September 30, 2004 the agreement was amended to determine interest based on the twelve-month LIBOR rate plus 1%. The Company's average interest rate under the line of credit was 4.7% for the six months ended June 30, 2005 and 2.9% for the six months ended June 30, 2004. The Due to Parent note balance was paid in full by DaVita Inc. as part of the acquisition of Gambro Healthcare, Inc. on October 5, 2005, see Note 8.
 
Because repayment requirements under the line of credit are triggered only when positive cash flows are generated, there are no scheduled current maturities related to this feature under the terms of the agreement.
 
Acquisition Obligations
 
In connection with the acquisition of clinics or interests in joint ventures, the Company from time to time executes promissory notes with sellers agreeing to pay a portion of the purchase price over time. The obligations outstanding at June 30, 2005 accrues interest at prime plus 1% per annum.
 
3. New Accounting Standards
 
In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement No. 123R, , that amends FASB Statements No. 123 and 95, and supersedes APB Opinion No. 25 . This statement requires a company to measure the cost of employee services received in exchange for an award of equity instruments, such as stock options, based on the grant-date fair value of the award and to recognize such cost over the requisite period during
Share-Based Payment
Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees
 
which an employee provides service. The grant-date fair value will be determined using option-pricing models adjusted for unique characteristics of the equity instruments. The statement also addresses the accounting for transactions in which a company incurs liabilities in exchange for goods or services that are based on the fair value of the Company's equity instruments or that may be settled through the issuance of such equity instruments. The statement does not change the accounting for transactions in which a company issues equity instruments for services to non-employees or the accounting for employee stock ownership plans. This statement is effective beginning in the first quarter of 2006, and requires compensation costs to be recognized on outstanding awards for which the requisite service has not yet been rendered. The Company is currently evaluating the transition alternatives and cannot project the impact of this pronouncement on future results.
 
4. Commitments and Contingencies
 
Laws and regulations governing the Medicare and Medicaid programs are complex and subject to varying interpretation. Management believes that it is in compliance in all material respects with all applicable laws and regulations governing the Medicare and Medicaid programs. With the exception of the issues and cases discussed below or in Note 7, management is not aware of any significant pending or threatened investigations or litigation involving allegations of potential noncompliance with applicable laws or regulations. Ongoing compliance with such laws and regulations can be subject to future government review and interpretation, noncompliance with which can lead to significant regulatory action including fines, penalties and exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs.
 
US Department of Justice, Eastern District of New York Subpoena
 
On November 5, 2004, the Company, its parent Gambro, Inc., and its wholly-owned laboratory received identical subpoenas from the U.S. Department of Justice, Eastern District of New York. The subpoenas request a wide range of documents relating to the operations of the subpoenaed entities. The subpoenas appear to be similar to the subpoenas received in the same time period by several other companies in the dialysis industry in the U.S. However, the Company has agreed with the government to significantly narrow the subpoenas, at least for the time being, to issues relating only to parathyroid hormone (PTH) testing and dosing of vitamin D. The subpoenas substantially overlap with the matters covered by the June 2001 subpoena from the U.S. Attorney's office in St. Louis, Missouri (see Note 7). The Company intends to cooperate with the Department of Justice. To the Company's knowledge, no proceedings have been initiated against the Company at this time. Compliance with the subpoenas will require management attention and legal expense. The Company cannot predict whether legal proceedings will be initiated against the Company relating to this investigation or, if proceedings are initiated, the outcome of any such proceedings. In addition, criminal proceedings may be initiated against the Company in connection with this inquiry. Any negative findings could result in substantial financial penalties against the Company, exclusion from future participation in the Medicare and Medicaid programs and criminal penalties.
 
Securities Litigation
 
During 2003 a longstanding legal dispute with a former shareholder of the Company went to trial. The plaintiffs alleged various counts of state securities law violation including breach of fiduciary duty. In April 2003, a jury verdict was rendered in favor of the plaintiffs with damages awarded of approximately $3,700 plus interest costs. A subsequent ruling by the presiding judge reduced the damages awarded to $968 plus interest. Both the judgment costs and approximately $551 of interest costs were recorded in 2003 with a corresponding liability being established. During 2004, $68 of incremental interest expense was accrued on the original judgment. Certain appeals related to the case were filed, but a preliminary settlement agreement was reached in April 2005. The settlement agreement called for the Company to make a one-time cash payment of $7,050. A charge for this amount, offset by the release of $2,375 of related accruals that had been recorded in previous periods based on the original verdict and other litigation with the same general plaintiffs, was recorded in the second quarter of 2005. The final settlement was reached in July 2005 with the terms consistent with the preliminary settlement. A cash payment of $7,050 was made in July 2005. An equity infusion of $7,755 was made by the Company's parent in the second quarter of 2005 with the purpose of offsetting the due to parent obligation impact of the settlement and related defense costs incurred after the agreement to divest the Company to DaVita (see Note 8).
 
Patient Transportation
Qui Tam
Litigation
 
In 1998, a qui tam suit was served against the Company, among others, by two relators. (In a qui tam lawsuit private individuals, known as relators, bring suit on behalf of the U.S. Government). The suit, which claimed unspecified damages, alleged, among other things, that the Company participated in conspiracy to defraud the Medicare program through the inappropriate use of ambulances to transport dialysis patients back and forth to dialysis clinics in non-emergency situations. Any claims submitted to the Medicare program for payment would have been submitted by the ambulance companies. The Company did not receive any payment for these transports. In December 2002, one of the two relators was dismissed by order of the court. In November 2004, the court issued an order granting the Company's motions for summary judgment and dismissing the case. In January 2005, the relator filed a notice of appeal, but that notice of appeal was withdrawn in exchange for nominal payment from the Company.
 
California Employment Complaint
 
In June 2004, the Company was served with a complaint filed in the Superior Court of California by one of its former employees that worked for its California acute services program. The complaint, which is styled as a class action, alleges, among other things, that the Company failed to provide overtime wages, defined rest periods and meal periods, or compensation in lieu of such provisions and failed to comply with certain other California labor code requirements. The Company is evaluating the claims and intends to vigorously defend itself in the matter. It also intends to vigorously oppose the certification of this matter as a class action. At this time, the Company cannot estimate the range of damages, if any.
 
Blue Cross/Blue Shield of Louisiana
 
On August 8, 2005, Blue Cross/Blue Shield of Louisiana filed a complaint in the United States District Court for the Western District of Louisiana against Gambro AB, the Company and related entities. The plaintiff seeks to bring its claims as a class action on behalf of itself and all entities that paid any of the defendants for health care goods and services from on or about January 1991 through at least December 2004. The complaint, alleges, among other things, damages resulting from facts and circumstances underlying the Company's December 2004 settlement agreement with the Department of Justice and certain agencies of the United States Government. The Company is investigating these claims and intends to vigorously defend itself in the matter. It also intends to vigorously oppose the certification of this matter as a class action. At this time, the Company cannot estimate the range of damages, if any.
 
Other Commitments
 
The Company is involved in other litigation arising in the ordinary course of business. In the opinion of the Company's management, after consultation with legal counsel, these matters will be resolved without material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated financial position or results of operations.
 
The Company generally engages practicing board-certified or board-eligible nephrologists to serve as medical directors for its centers. Medical directors are responsible for the administration and monitoring of the Company's patient care policies, including patient education, administration of dialysis treatment, development programs and assessment of all patients. The Company pays medical director fees that are based on the value of the required supervisory services. Such medical director agreements typically have a term of seven to ten years with various renewal options.
 
The Company has guaranteed two separate loan agreements which total $2,050 related to the purchase of several clinics in New York State. The Company provides certain management and administrative services to the New York clinics. These off balance sheet guarantees were outstanding as of June 30, 2005.
 
The Company has potential obligations to purchase the minority interest share in certain of its joint ventures. These obligations are in the form of put options, exercisable at the minority owners' discretion, and require the Company to purchase the minority owners' interest at either the appraised fair market value or a predetermined multiple of cash flow, earnings, or revenues. As of June 30, 2005, the Company's potential exposure on these put options was approximately $29,000 all of which could be exercised within one year.
 
5. Related Party Transactions
 
Following is a summary of significant related party transactions:
 
 
The purchases of goods and services above relate primarily to equipment and supplies utilized in the Company's dialysis clinics. The equipment and supplies are distributed by an affiliated company, and in some cases are manufactured by other affiliated companies. Various costs are shared by the Company and Parent and affiliates related primarily to shared facility occupancy and centralized functions including compliance, tax, treasury, finance, travel and other administrative functions. The costs associated with these shared facilities and functions have been allocated among the entities on an agreed upon manner based on square footage occupied and allocated time that is believed to be reasonable and fair to each party; these costs are included in general and administrative costs on the statements of operations. Certain benefit plan related liabilities that ultimately relate to the Company are recorded at the parent company level reflecting the legal entity under which the plan agreements have been entered. The corresponding intercompany liability included in the above balance sheets reflects the Company's ultimate liability.
 
6. Stock-Based Compensation Plans
 
The Company participates in the Stock Option, Stock Appreciation Right, and Performance and Restricted Share plans of its ultimate parent company, Gambro AB. Compensation under the plans is tied to the Gambro AB's series B common stock, which is traded on the OM Stockholm Stock Exchange. Compensation expense recognized under the plans for the six months ended June 30, 2005 and 2004 was approximately $6,809 and $1,176, respectively.
 
Stock-based Compensation
 
If the Company had adopted the fair value-based compensation expense provisions of Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 123 upon the issuance of that standard, net income would have been adjusted to the pro forma amounts indicated below:
 
 
7. U.S. Department of Justice Investigation and Settlement
 
In June 2001 the Company received a subpoena from the U.S. Attorney's Office in St. Louis, Missouri in connection with an investigation by the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ). This and similar inquiries are part of the U.S. authorities' process of regulating their expenditures on medical care and the relationships they have with the providers of such care. The subpoena requested information and documentation from the Company and certain related parties concerning various aspects of its dialysis operations in the United States. The information requested by the subpoena focused principally on Medicare and Medicaid billing practices and relationships with physicians and pharmaceutical manufacturers.
 
On December 1, 2004, the Company reached a final settlement with the DOJ and other agencies of the U.S. government to resolve matters raised as a consequence of this subpoena. The settlement provides as follows:
 
 
 
 
The Company also reached a preliminary agreement with the National Association of Medicaid Fraud Control Units ("NAMFCU"), to settle all state Medicaid claims arising as a result of the aforementioned subpoena. Under the terms of the settlement, the Company paid an aggregate of $15,375 in July 2005 to a trust administered on behalf of the NAMFCU. In turn, the NAMFCU is disbursing each participating State's share of the settlement amount as they execute and deliver their settlement and release documentation. Forty-one States are reported to be participating in the settlement.
 
In connection with the DOJ settlement, the Company incurred approximately $3,600 of additional charges to settle other outstanding matters related to the same investigation in 2004. Included in these charges were more limited-scope settlements with government agencies, reimbursement of legal fees incurred by the relator, and certain charges associated with acquiring the minority interest share in certain joint venture arrangements where the minority partners were potential patient referral sources.
 
The total pre-tax charge recorded in 2004 in connection with the settlement and other related matters was approximately $354,000. Approximately $2,000 was recorded as interest expense, the remaining $352,000 was recorded as operating expense.
 
8. Sale of Gambro Healthcare, Inc. to DaVita Inc.
 
On December 7, 2004, Gambro AB announced that it had entered into an agreement to sell its shares of Gambro Healthcare, Inc. to DaVita Inc. (DaVita), a U.S. dialysis provider. Total consideration for the shares to be sold in Gambro Healthcare, Inc. and other Gambro Inc. subsidiaries included in these combined financial statements along with the concurrent repayment of all outstanding debt at the time of the close was expected to be approximately $3,000,000. The acquisition was dependent upon the government completing a Hart-Scott-Rodino antitrust review process. Effective October 5, 2005, DaVita completed the acquisition of Gambro Healthcare Inc. for a purchase price of approximately $3,055,000. DaVita has also incurred approximately $18,000 of transaction costs through September 30, 2005. In accordance with a consent order issued by the Federal Trade Commission on October 4, 2005, DaVita was required to divest a total of 69 outpatient dialysis centers and to terminate two management services agreements. In conjunction with the consent order, on October 6, 2005, DaVita and the Company completed the sale of 70 outpatient renal dialysis centers to Renal Advantage Inc., formerly known as RenalAmerica, Inc. The sale of an additional three centers, also to Renal Advantage, will be made upon receipt of Illinois State regulatory approval. DaVita also completed the sale of one other center to a separate physician group, and terminated two management services agreements. DaVita is receiving total cash consideration of approximately $333,000 for all of the centers being divested which includes approximately $5,000 for anticipated post closing adjustments. A portion of the sale price of approximately $12,000 was used to purchase the minority interest ownership at several centers that were part of a joint venture, and to pay income taxes on the sale of approximately $90,000.

Exhibit 99.2
 
Gambro Healthcare US
Combined Financial Statements
December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002
 
 
To the Stockholder of Gambro Healthcare US:
 
In our opinion, the accompanying combined balance sheets and the related combined statements of operations, of investment by parent and of cash flows present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Gambro Healthcare US at December 31, 2004 and 2003, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2004 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits of these statements in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
As more fully described in Note 16 to the financial statements, on December 1, 2004, the Company reached a settlement with the US Department of Justice and other agencies of the US government to resolve matters relating to Medicare and Medicaid compliance. Pursuant to the settlement, the Company recorded a charge during 2004 of approximately $350 million. Additionally, as described in Note 11, in 2004 the Company received a subpoena from the US Attorney's Office for the Eastern District of New York related to certain aspects of its business with a particular focus on PTH lab testing and dosing of vitamin D.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. Organization
 
Gambro Healthcare, Inc. and combined companies (collectively, "Gambro Healthcare US" and "the Company") provide dialysis services to patients with chronic kidney failure, also known as end-stage renal disease ("ESRD"). As of December 31, 2004, the Company provided dialysis and ancillary services to approximately 43,000 patients through 564 outpatient dialysis centers in 33 states. In addition to its outpatient dialysis center operations, as of December 31, 2004, the Company provided acute dialysis services through contractual relationships with approximately 450 hospitals. Gambro Healthcare, Inc. and combined companies are wholly-owned subsidiaries of Gambro, Inc. (the "Parent"). Gambro, Inc., is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Gambro AB, a global medical device and healthcare services company headquartered in Stockholm, Sweden, with operations in renal care and blood component technology. In December, 2004 Gambro AB entered an agreement to divest the Company to DaVita Inc. (see Note 17).
 
2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
 
Basis of Presentation
 
These combined financial statements and accompanying notes are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The combined financial statements include the accounts of the Company, its wholly-owned subsidiaries and its majority-owned subsidiaries and joint venture entities over which the Company exercises majority-voting control and for which control is other than temporary. Also included in the above financial statements are certain entities owned by Gambro, Inc. These entities have been combined due to their ultimate function of providing healthcare services to patients in the US and their common management reporting structure. All significant intercompany transactions and accounts are eliminated.
 
Use of Estimates
 
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of revenues, expenses, assets, liabilities and contingencies. Although actual results in subsequent periods will differ from these estimates, such estimates are developed based on the best information available to management and management's best judgments at the time made. All significant assumptions and estimates underlying the reported amounts in the financial statements and accompanying notes are regularly reviewed and updated. Changes in estimates are reflected in the financial statements based upon on-going actual experience trends, or subsequent settlements and realizations depending on the nature and predictability of the estimates and contingencies
 
The most significant assumptions and estimates underlying these financial statements and accompanying notes involve revenue recognition and provisions for uncollectible accounts, impairments and valuation adjustments, accounting for income taxes, reserves for medical malpractice and workers compensation claims, variable compensation accruals and other contingencies. Estimating specific risks and contingencies are further addressed in these notes to the combined financial statements.
 
Cash Equivalents
 
The Company considers all highly-liquid investments with maturities of three months or less when purchased to be cash equivalents. The Company places its cash in financial institutions that are federally insured.
 
Inventories
 
Inventories consist of drugs and dialysis related supplies consumed in dialysis treatments and are stated at the lower of cost or net realizable value. Cost is determined using the first-in, first-out method.
 
Property, Plant and Equipment
 
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost. Upon removal from service, the cost and related accumulated depreciation of property disposed of are removed from the related accounts, and any resulting gain or loss is reflected in the results of operations. Repair and maintenance costs are expensed as incurred. Costs of improvements and extraordinary repairs that extend the life of an asset are capitalized. For financial reporting purposes, depreciation and amortization of property and equipment is provided on a straight-line basis over the useful lives of the related assets. Following is a summary of estimated useful lives:
 
 
Certain direct development costs in connection with developing or obtaining internal use software are capitalized. Costs incurred during the preliminary project stage, as well as maintenance and training costs are expensed as incurred.
 
Goodwill and Other Intangibles
 
Effective June 29, 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board approved Statements of Financial Accounting Standards No. 141, ("SFAS No. 141") and No. 142, ("SFAS No. 142"). SFAS No. 141 changed the criteria to recognize intangible assets apart from goodwill. The Company adopted SFAS No. 142 on January 1, 2002. Upon adoption, the Company completed the transitional goodwill impairment assessment required by SFAS No. 142 and concluded that goodwill was not impaired as of January 1, 2002. Annual impairment tests were performed as of December 31, 2004 and December 31, 2003 and indicated that goodwill was not impaired.
Business Combinations
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets
 
As of December 31, 2004, and 2003, the carrying amount of goodwill was $1,483,134 and $1,454,395, respectively. Goodwill acquired prior to July 1, 2001, was determined based on the criteria defined in APB Opinion No. 16, . Goodwill acquired after June 30, 2001 was recognized in accordance with criteria established in SFAS No. 141. During 2004 and 2003, separable intangible assets with definite lives, such as non-competition agreements were amortized over the estimated useful lives of such assets.
Business Combinations
 
Due to Third-Party Payors
 
Amounts reflected as due to third-party payors include amounts received in excess of revenue recognized for specific billed charges. These amounts are commonly referred to as overpayments. Overpayments received from federally funded programs are reported to the federal program in accordance with the program's established procedures. The amounts remain in due to third-party payors until either a refund is made or until the amount is recouped by the federal payor. For overpayments received from non-federally funded payors, the Company uses various procedures to reclassify or communicate and refund such amounts to the respective payor. Similar to the federally funded overpayments, these amounts remain in due to third-party payors until either a refund is made, the amount is recouped by the payor, or it is determined that the amount was not an overpayment in which case it is recognized as revenue.
 
Minority Interest
 
Minority interest represents the proportionate equity interest of other owners in the Company's consolidated entities that are not wholly owned. As of December 31, 2004, the Company was the majority and controlling owner in 6 joint ventures. During 2004 the Company acquired the minority interests' share in 19 other joint ventures (see Note 3).
 
Net Revenue
 
Net revenue is recognized as services are provided at the estimated net realizable amount from Medicare, Medicaid, commercial insurers and other third-party payors, including estimated retroactive adjustments under reimbursement agreements with third party payors. Retroactive adjustments are accrued on an estimated basis in the period the related services are rendered and adjusted in future periods as changes in estimated provisions and final settlements are determined. Changes in estimated provisions and final settlements are included in net revenue. See Note 14 for the revenue recognition policy regarding certain laboratory related revenues. The Company's net revenue is largely derived from the following sources:
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Medicare and Medicaid programs, along with certain third-party payors, reimburse the Company at amounts that are different from the Company's established rates. Contractual adjustments represent the difference between the amounts billed for these services and the amounts that are reimbursable by third-party payors. A summary of the basis for reimbursement with these payors follows:
 
Medicare
 
The Company is reimbursed by the Medicare program predominantly on a prospective payment system for dialysis services. Under the prospective payment system, each facility receives a composite rate per treatment. The composite rate differs among facilities to account for geographic differences in the cost of labor. Some drugs and other ancillary services are reimbursed on a fee for service basis.
 
Medicaid
 
Medicaid is a state-administered program with reimbursements varying by state. The Medicaid programs are separately administered in each state in which the Company operates, and they reimburse the Company predominantly on a prospective payment system for dialysis services rendered. Some drugs and other ancillary services are reimbursed on a fee for service basis.
 
Other
 
Payments from commercial insurers, other third-party payors and patients are received pursuant to a variety of reimbursement arrangements.
 
Reimbursements from US government payors (principally Medicare and Medicaid) approximated 57%, 55% and 56% of total revenue for the years 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. These figures exclude reimbursement from treatments covered by Medicare replacement insurance, which although linked to Medicare reimbursement rates, are actually paid by non-governmental insurance carriers.
 
Provision for Doubtful Accounts
 
The provision for doubtful accounts is determined as a function of payor mix, billing practices and other factors. The Company reserves for doubtful accounts in the period in which the revenue is recognized based on management's estimate of the net collectibility of the accounts receivable. Management estimates and monitors the net collectibility of accounts receivable based upon a variety of factors. These factors include, but are not limited to, analyzing revenues generated from payor sources, performing subsequent collection testing and regularly reviewing detailed accounts receivable agings. Accounts deemed to be uncollectible are charged against the provision for doubtful accounts and subsequent recoveries, if any, are credited to the allowance.
 
Income Taxes
 
The Company accounts for income taxes under the asset and liability method. The Company recognizes deferred tax assets and liabilities for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which these temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect of a change in tax rates on deferred tax assets and liabilities is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date for the change.
 
The Company is included in the consolidated federal income tax return filed by Gambro, Inc. Income taxes related to the Company are determined on a separate entity basis. Current tax liabilities or refunds are settled with Gambro, Inc. through the Company's due to Parent account. Net operating loss carryforwards ("NOL's"), net of any valuation allowance, are determined on a separate entity basis and are settled currently with Gambro, Inc. through the due to Parent account, with the exception of state net operating loss carryforwards arising from separate return filed states. The separate return state NOL's are included in long-term deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance.
 
Self Insurance
 
The Company is subject to medical malpractice and workers compensation claims or lawsuits in the ordinary course of business. Accordingly, the Company maintains insurance for malpractice claims exceeding certain individual amounts. Similarly, the Company maintains workers compensation insurance for claims exceeding certain individual and aggregate amounts. The Company estimates its self-insured retention portion of the malpractice risks using actuarial calculations considering historical claims data, demographic factors and other assumptions. Workers compensation risks are estimated by the Company using historical claims data and other assumptions.
 
For purposes of self insurance programs, the Company accrues estimates of loss adjustment expenses including legal costs as period expenses. For other discrete loss contingencies, legal costs are expensed as incurred.
 
Fair Value of Financial Instruments
 
Cash and Cash Equivalents
 
The carrying amounts reported in the consolidated balance sheets for cash and cash equivalents approximate fair value.
 
Accounts Receivable, Accounts Payable and Accrued Liabilities
 
The carrying amounts reported in the consolidated balance sheets for accounts receivable, accounts payable and accrued liabilities approximate fair value. Accounts receivable are generally unsecured.
 
Due to Parent
 
Borrowings under the Company's revolving line of credit with its Parent bear interest at variable rates and therefore carrying amounts approximate market value.
 
Concentration of Credit Risks
 
The Company's primary concentration of credit risk exists within accounts receivable, which consist of amounts owed by various governmental agencies, insurance companies and private patients. Receivables from US government payors (principally Medicare and Medicaid) represented 48% and 47% of gross accounts receivable at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Concentration of credit risk relating to accounts receivable is limited to some extent by the diversity of the number of patients and payors and the geographic dispersion of the Company's operations.
 
The Company administers Erythropoietin (EPO) to most of its patients to treat anemia, a medical complication frequently experienced by dialysis patients. Revenue from the administration of EPO was approximately 26%, 22% and 20% of total revenue for the years ended 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. EPO is produced by a single manufacturer.
 
Impairment of Goodwill and Long-Lived Assets
 
The Company reviews goodwill at least annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of goodwill may not be recoverable. The impairment test is performed in two phases. The first step of the goodwill impairment test compares the fair value of the reporting unit with its carrying amount, including goodwill. If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, goodwill of the reporting unit is considered not impaired; however, if the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, an additional procedure must be performed. That additional procedure compares the implied fair value of the reporting unit's goodwill (as defined in SFAS No. 142) with the carrying amount of that goodwill. An impairment loss is recorded to the extent that the carrying amount of goodwill exceeds its implied fair value. The Company operates as one reporting unit for goodwill impairment assessments.
 
Long-lived assets, including property and equipment and amortizable intangible assets, are evaluated for impairment if events and circumstances indicate a possible impairment. Such evaluation of other intangible assets is based on undiscounted cash flow projections. If long-lived assets other than goodwill are identified as impaired, the impairment is measured by the amount by which the carrying amount of the assets exceeds the fair value of the assets as determined by independent appraisals or estimates of discounted future cash flows.
 
Stock-based Compensation
 
The Company has adopted the disclosure provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation" (SFAS 123), as amended. As permitted by SFAS 123, the Company continues to apply Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees," (APB 25) and related interpretations and recognizes compensation expense for its employee stock-based compensation plans under APB 25 as allowed by SFAS 123.
 
Compensation cost for stock-based compensation plans, if any, is measured as the excess of the quoted market price at grant date over the exercise price and is recognized ratably over the vesting period. Compensation cost for stock-based programs requiring cash payouts, if any, is measured as the excess of the quoted market price over the exercise price. Had compensation cost for stock plans been determined based on the fair value at the grant dates for awards under the plan consistent with the method of SFAS No.123, the Company's net income would have been reduced to the pro forma amounts indicated below:
 
 
The stock-based compensation expense determined under the fair value method, included in the table above, was calculated using the Black-Scholes model. The assumptions used in this model are discussed further in Note 15.
 
New Accounting Standards
 
In January 2003, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Interpretation No. 46 ("FIN 46"), No. 51, Consolidated Financial Statements to improve financial reporting of special purpose and other entities. In accordance with the interpretation, business enterprises that represent the primary beneficiary of another entity by retaining a controlling financial interest in that entity's assets, liabilities, and results of operating activities must consolidate the entity in their financial statements. Prior to the issuance of FIN 46, consolidation generally occurred when an enterprise controlled another entity through voting interests. Certain variable interest entities ("VIEs") that are qualifying special purpose entities ("QSPEs") subject to the reporting requirements of SFAS No.140, , will not be required to be consolidated under the provisions of FIN 46. The consolidation provisions of FIN 46 apply to all VIEs created or entered into after January 31, 2003. Originally, the provisions of FIN 46 applied to all pre-existing VIEs in the first reporting period beginning after June 15, 2003. In December of 2003, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 46revised 2003 (FIN 46R). This deferred the effective date of the interpretation until the first reporting period ending after December 15, 2003 for special purpose entities and until the first reporting period ending after March 15, 2004 for all other entities. If applicable, transition rules allow the restatement of financial statements or prospective application with a cumulative effect adjustment. In addition, FIN 46 expands the disclosure requirements for the beneficiary of a significant or a majority of the variable interests to provide information regarding the nature, purpose and financial characteristics of the entities. The adoption of FIN 46 did not have a material adverse impact on the Company's financial statements or financial condition.
Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities  an interpretation of Accounting Research Bulletin
Accounting for Transfer and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishment of Liabilities
 
In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement No. 123R, , that amends FASB Statements No. 123 and 95, and supersedes APB Opinion No. 25 . This statement requires a company to measure the cost of employee services received in exchange for an award of equity instruments, such as stock options, based on the grant-date fair value of the award and to recognize such cost over the requisite period during which an employee provides service. The grant-date fair value will be determined using option-pricing models adjusted for unique characteristics of the equity instruments. The statement also addresses the accounting for transactions in which a company incurs liabilities in exchange for goods or services that are based on the fair value of the Company's equity instruments or that may be settled through the issuance of such equity instruments. The statement does not change the accounting for transactions in
Share-Based Payment
Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees
 
which a company issues equity instruments for services to non-employees or the accounting for employee stock ownership plans. This statement is effective beginning in the third quarter of 2005, and requires compensation costs to be recognized on outstanding awards for which the requisite service has not yet been rendered. The Company is currently evaluating the transition alternatives and cannot project the impact of this pronouncement on future results.
 
3. Business Acquisitions
 
The following is a summary of acquisitions, all of which were accounted for under the purchase method of accounting:
 
 
Each of the transactions summarized above involves the acquisition of assets utilized to provide care to ESRD patients, either through owned dialysis facilities or acute dialysis programs. The acquired businesses either strengthened the Company's market share within a specific geographical area or provided the Company with an entrance into a new market.
 
Under the purchase method, the results of operations of the acquired clinics are included in the combined results of operations prospectively from the date of the acquisition.
 
Allocations of the aggregate purchase prices were as follows:
 
 
All goodwill resulting from these acquisitions is considered deductible for income tax purposes.
 
4. Property, Plant and Equipment
 
Property, plant and equipment consist of the following:
 
 
Depreciation and amortization expense on property, plant and equipment was $72,854, $67,457 and $63,370 for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.
 
5. Goodwill and Intangible Assets
 
Changes in the carrying amount of goodwill for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 are as follows:
 
 
Accumulated amortization on goodwill totaled $583,978 and $585,129 as of December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively.
 
The Company's separately identifiable intangible assets, which consist primarily of non-competition agreements, are as follows:
 
 
Separately identifiable intangible assets are being amortized over their estimated useful lives, ranging from 3 to 24 years.
 
Amortization expense of non-competition agreements for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003, and 2002 was $2,709, $2,765 and $3,173, respectively. Estimated amortization expense for each of the next five fiscal years is as follows:
 
 
6. Accrued Compensation and Accrued Expenses and Other Current Liabilities
 
Accrued compensation is compromised of the following:
 
 
Accrued expenses and other current liabilities are compromised of the following:
 
 
7. Long-term Debt and Due to Parent
 
Long-term debt consists of the following:
 
 
Due to Parent
 
The Company entered a revolving line of credit agreement with its Parent that is used to fund development expenditure, capital expenditure and working capital needs in the amount of $1,500,000 as amended effective November 15, 2004. The agreement expires on January 31, 2013. The agreement requires repayment of debt when the Company generates net positive cash flows, and allows the Company to re-borrow at any time any unutilized amounts. Through September 30, 2004 the variable interest rate was determined based on the Parent's variable interest rates on its debt portfolio. On September 30, 2004 the agreement was amended to determine interest based on the twelve-month LIBOR rate plus 1%. Prior to January 31, 2003 the Company had an informal line of credit agreement with its parent company with terms substantially the same as the aforementioned agreement. The Company's average interest rate under the line of credit was 3.0%, 3.3%, and 4.4% the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003, and 2002, respectively.
 
Because repayment requirements under the line of credit are triggered only when positive cash flows are generated, there are no scheduled current maturities related to this feature under the terms of the agreement.
 
Acquisition Obligation
 
In connection with the acquisition of clinics or interests in joint ventures, the Company from time to time executes promissory notes with sellers agreeing to pay a portion of the purchase price over time. The obligation outstanding at December 31, 2004 accrues interest at prime plus 1% per annum.
 
8. Income Taxes
 
The components of the provision for income taxes on income (loss) from continuing operations are as follows:
 
 
With regard to income taxes, the Company has included in its current year's tax expense, tax provisions for potential audit issues identified by the Company, including the settlement payment to the US government described in Note 16. For 2004, these provisions totaled approximately $60 million. The Company believes that this provision is adequate to cover any potential tax issues and related adjustments that may arise on audit.
 
Deferred tax assets (liabilities) are comprised of the following at December 31:
 
 
Net operating loss carryforwards arising from separate return states, net of valuation allowance, were $4,969 and $5,952 at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively, and expire beginning in 2005. Included in due to Parent are the settlement of current tax provision balances, net operating loss carryforwards and other tax related settlements. The impacts resulting from these items to the due to Parent account were $2,830 and $(42,112) at December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Gambro AB and Gambro, Inc. have indemnified the Company with respect to any tax liabilities attributable to the Company's affiliates.
 
9. Operating Leases
 
The Company rents office and space for its dialysis facilities under lease agreements that are classified as operating leases for financial statement purposes. The Company recognizes rental expenses on a straight-line basis in rental arrangements where the payments, either through abatement or escalation clauses, are made on a non straight-line basis. At December 31, 2004, future minimum rental payments under non-cancelable operating leases with terms of one year or more consist of the following:
 
 
Rent expense was $58,767, $58,359 and $52,978 for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Future rental commitments for leases have been reduced by minimum non-cancelable sublease rentals aggregating $6,906.
 
10. Employee Benefit Plans
 
The Company has qualified defined contribution plans covering substantially all employees that permit participants to make voluntary contributions. The Company pays all general and administrative expenses of the plans and makes matching contributions on behalf of the employees. The Company made contributions relating to these plans totaling $9,362, $8,927, and $8,302 for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003, and 2002, respectively.
 
The Company has 25 employees who are participants in the parent company's defined benefit pension plan. Benefit accruals under the plan were frozen in 1993. The plan had sufficient surplus as of December 31, 2004 to cover expected actuarial exposures. See Note 12.
 
The Company participates in its parent company's non-qualified executive retirement plan and voluntary deferral plan. The executive retirement plan is a funded defined contribution plan for executives. The Company made executive retirement plan contributions to participants' accounts in the amount of $827, $775 and $758 in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The voluntary deferral plan is a funded plan which allows eligible participants to contribute pre-tax earnings to participant directed accounts. The Company made voluntary deferral plan contributions of earnings withheld from participants of $777, $825 and $980 in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.
 
11. Commitments and Contingencies
 
Laws and regulations governing the Medicare and Medicaid programs are complex and subject to varying interpretation. Management believes that it is in compliance in all material respects with all applicable laws and regulations governing the Medicare and Medicaid programs. With the exception of the issues and cases discussed below or in Note 16, management is not aware of any significant pending or threatened investigations or litigation involving allegations of potential noncompliance with applicable laws or regulations. Ongoing compliance with such laws and regulations can be subject to future government review and interpretation, noncompliance with which can lead to significant regulatory action including fines, penalties and exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs.
 
US Department of Justice, Eastern District of New York Subpoena
 
On November 5, 2004, the Company, its parent Gambro, Inc., and its wholly-owned laboratory received identical subpoenas from the U.S. Department of Justice, Eastern District of New York. The subpoenas request a wide range of documents relating to the operations of the subpoenaed entities. The subpoenas appear to be similar to the subpoenas received in the same time period by several other companies in the dialysis industry in the U.S. However, the Company has agreed with the government to
 
significantly narrow the subpoenas, at least for the time being, to issues relating only to parathyroid hormone (PTH) testing and dosing of vitamin D. The subpoenas substantially overlap with the matters covered by the June 2001 subpoena from the U.S. Attorney's office in St. Louis, Missouri (see Note 16). The Company intends to cooperate with the Department of Justice. The government has served no formal complaint or demand in connection with this subpoena and at this time management is not aware of any areas of potential exposure related to the areas being investigated.
 
Securities Litigation
 
During 2003 a longstanding legal dispute with a former shareholder of the Company went to trial. The plaintiffs alleged various counts of state securities law violation including breach of fiduciary duty. In April 2003, a jury verdict was rendered in favor of the plaintiffs with damages awarded of approximately $3,700 plus interest costs. A subsequent ruling by the presiding judge reduced the damages awarded to $968 plus interest. Both the judgment costs and approximately $551 of interest costs were included in the Combined Income Statements and Combined Balance Sheets above for 2003. During 2004, $68 of incremental interest expense was accrued on the original judgment. Certain appeals related to the case are still in process and the Company is unable to predict the ultimate outcome.
 
Patient Transportation
Qui Tam
Litigation
 
In 1998, a qui tam suit was served against the Company, among others, by two relators. (In a lawsuit private individuals, known as relators, bring suit on behalf of the U.S. Government). The suit, which claims unspecified damages, alleges, among other things, that the Company participated in conspiracy to defraud the Medicare program through the inappropriate use of ambulances to transport dialysis patients back and forth to dialysis clinics in non-emergency situations. Any claims submitted to the Medicare program for payment would have been submitted by the ambulance companies. The Company has not received any payment for these transports. In December 2002, one of the two relators was dismissed by order of the court. In November 2004, the court issued an order granting the Company's motions for summary judgment and dismissing the case. In January 2005, the relator filed a notice of appeal.
qui tam
 
California Employment Complaint
 
In June 2004, the Company was served with a complaint by one of its former employees that worked for its California acute services program. The complaint, which is styled as a class action, alleges, among other things, that the Company failed to provide overtime wages, defined rest periods and meal periods, or compensation in lieu of such provisions and failed to comply with certain other California labor code requirements. Based on conversations with its counsel, the Company believes it has meritorious defenses and intends to vigorously defend itself in the matter. It also intends to vigorously oppose the certification of this matter as a class action. At this time, the Company cannot estimate the range of damages, if any.
 
Other Commitments
 
The Company is involved in other litigation arising in the ordinary course of business. In the opinion of management, after consultation with legal counsel, these matters will be resolved without material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated financial position or results of operations.
 
The Company generally engages practicing board-certified or board-eligible nephrologists to serve as medical directors for its centers. Medical directors are responsible for the administration and monitoring of the Company's patient care policies, including patient education, administration of dialysis treatment, development programs and assessment of all patients. The Company pays medical director fees that are based on the value of the required supervisory services. Such medical director agreements typically have a term of seven to ten years with various renewal options.
 
The Company has guaranteed two separate loan agreements which total $2,050 related to the purchase of several clinics in New York State. The Company provides certain management and administrative services to the New York clinics. These off balance sheet guarantees were outstanding for each of the years included in the financial statements.
 
The Company has potential obligations to purchase the minority interest share in certain of its joint ventures. These obligations are in the form of put options, exercisable at the minority owners' discretion, and require the Company to purchase the minority owners' interest at either the appraised fair market value or a predetermined multiple of cash flow, earnings, or revenues. As of December 31, 2004, the Company's potential exposure on these put options was approximately $29,000 all of which could be exercised within one year. During 2004, the Company purchased minority interests from certain of its joint venture partners as described in Note 3.
 
12. Related Party Transactions
 
Following is a summary of significant related party transactions:
 
 
The purchases of goods and services above relate primarily to equipment and supplies utilized in the Company's dialysis clinics. The equipment and supplies are distributed by an affiliated company, and in some cases are manufactured by other affiliated companies. Various costs are shared by the Company and the parent company and affiliates related primarily to shared facility occupancy and centralized functions including compliance, tax, treasury, finance, travel and other administrative functions. The costs associated with these shared facilities and functions have been allocated among the entities on an agreed upon manner based on square footage occupied and allocated time that is believed to be reasonable and fair to each party; these costs are included in general and administrative costs on the statements of operations. Certain benefit plan related liabilities that ultimately relate to the Company are recorded at the parent company level reflecting the legal entity under which the plan agreements have been entered. The corresponding intercompany liability included in the above balance sheets reflects the Company's ultimate liability.
 
13. Investment by Parent
 
The Company received an equity infusion of $8,300 from its ultimate parent, Gambro AB, during the year ended December 31, 2002. The equity infusion was received in the form of cash and was initiated to help fund the investment activity during the period.
 
14. Laboratory Regulatory and Revenue Recognition Issues
 
In connection with settlements of investigations by the US government, the Company and its laboratory entered into a Corporate Integrity Agreement covering the period of 2001 through 2005. Annual reviews conducted in 2002 through 2004 by the Company's Independent Review Organization have revealed no material instances of non-compliance with the terms of the Corporate Integrity Agreement.
 
As a result of collection experience in previous periods, the Company recognized laboratory revenues on an as-billed methodology during 2002. Approximately $11 million of net operating revenues related to tests conducted in 2001 was recorded in 2002, and approximately $5 million of net revenues related to tests conducted in 2002 was recorded in 2003. Effective January 1, 2003, the Company returned to a full-accrual method of revenue recognition based on the implementation of improved systems and successful experience with billing and collection during 2002.
 
During 2002, the Company's subsidiary, Dialysis Holdings, Inc. (formerly known as VIVRA, Inc.) reached a settlement with the US Department of Justice regarding a lawsuit involving certain laboratory operations in a lab which was legally dissolved in 1996, but whose liabilities were assumed by the Company when it acquired VIVRA, Inc. in 1997. The settlement, under which the Company denied any wrongdoing, resulted in a cash payment and a corresponding charge to general and administrative expenses of approximately $4,102.
qui tam
 
15. Stock-Based Compensation Plans
 
Stock Option Plans
 
The Company participates in the stock option plans of its ultimate parent company, Gambro AB. Under the plans, stock options are granted to executives and senior management in Gambro AB's series B common stock, which is traded on the OM Stockholm Stock Exchange (OMX). Grants are made on a yearly basis to participants selected annually. In accordance with US security laws participants must be classified as either accredited or non-accredited investors based on certain criteria. Accredited investors are
 
eligible to receive shares upon exercise of options. Non- accredited investors cannot receive shares upon exercise and thus are paid in cash upon settlement of options.
 
The exercise price for the options is 110% of the share price on the grant date. For all options granted subsequent to 1999, the vesting period is such that one-third of the options become exercisable one year after grant, one-third after two years and the final third after three years. Unvested options expire immediately if employment is terminated. Vested options must be exercised within three months of termination of employment. The options granted in 2001 and prior have a life of seven years while subsequent programs have a life of five years.
 
The following table summarizes the Company's accredited investor stock options for each of the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 (share amounts in thousands), weighted average exercise price is presented in Swedish Kronor (SEK), the SEK to US Dollar exchange rate at December 31, 2004 was 0.1512:
 
 
There are 10,757,633 shares outstanding and 5,631,827 shares exercisable as of December 31, 2004 in the complete Gambro AB plan. The weighted average exercise price of these shares outstanding is 66.62 SEK.
 
Significant option groups for accredited investors outstanding as of December 31, 2004 are as follows (share amounts in thousands), weighted average exercise price is presented in Swedish Kronor (SEK), the SEK to US Dollar exchange rate at December 31, 2004 was 0.1512:
 
 
The Company accounts for stock-based compensation on stock options granted to accredited investors, using the intrinsic value method as prescribed in APB No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees," and related interpretations. The Company provides pro forma disclosures to illustrate the effects on the results of operations as if the Company had recorded compensation
 
costs based on the estimated grant date fair value, as defined by SFAS No. 123, for awards granted under its stock option plans (see Note 2). The estimated weighted average grant date fair value, as defined by SFAS No. 123, was calculated using the Black-Scholes model. The Black-Scholes option valuation model was developed for use in estimating the fair value of traded options which have no vesting restrictions and are fully transferable.
 
The Company accounts for stock-based compensation on stock options granted to non-accredited investors as prescribed in APB 25 and FASB Interpretation No. 28, "Accounting for Stock Appreciation Rights and Other Variable Stock Option or Award Plans," (FIN 28) and related interpretations. The market closing price for Gambro AB's series B common stock at December 31, 2004 and December 31, 2003 was above the option exercise price for the stock options granted; thus, compensation cost was recognized at December 31, 2004 and December 31, 2003 in the amount of $8,309 and $1,135, respectively. There was no compensation expense recognized in 2002 because the market closing price at that year end date was below the exercise price of all outstanding options.
 
The following weighted average assumptions were included in the estimated grant date fair value calculations:
 
 
Stock Appreciation Rights
 
In 2001, a Stock Appreciation Right (SAR) plan was introduced for employees in key positions with the Company. Grants under the plan are made at least annually and have a four-year term. The vesting period is one year and the exercise price is equivalent to 100% of the share price on the grant date as quoted on the OMX. There were 299,625, 467,000 and 431,091 SARs granted in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The weighted average share price at grant was 57.50 SEK, 51.85 SEK and 50.82 SEK in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The plan allows participants to exercise SARs throughout the year. The exercise price is the closing share price as quoted on the OMX. Participants exercising SARs receive cash payments, calculated by taking the exercise price less the grant price for each SAR exercised. As of December 31, 2004, there are 274,500, 229,275 and 134,780 shares outstanding for each of the 2004, 2003 and 2002 programs, respectively.
 
The Company accounts for stock-based compensation on SAR grants, as prescribed in APB 25 and FASB Interpretation No. 28, "Accounting for Stock Appreciation Rights and Other Variable Stock Option or Award Plans," (FIN 28) and related interpretations. The market closing price at December 31, 2004 and December 31, 2003 was above the option grant price on all of the grant programs, thus, compensation cost was recognized at December 31, 2004 and December 31, 2003 in the amount of $2,975 and $420, respectively. There was no compensation expense recognized in 2002 because the option grant price was greater than the market closing price for all outstanding SARs. A total of 431,859 and 63,450 shares were exercised in 2004 and 2003, respectively, at a weighted average exercise price of 83.00 SEK and 60.14 SEK.
 
Restricted and Performance Share Plans
 
The Company participates in the restricted stock and performance stock plans of its ultimate parent company, Gambro AB. These plans were established in 2003 to provide additional long term incentives to officers, directors and key employees. Under the plans, restricted and performance stock awards are granted in Gambro AB's series B common stock. Grants are made on a yearly basis to participants selected annually. In accordance with US security laws participants must be classified as either accredited or non-accredited investors based on certain criteria. Accredited investors are eligible to receive shares upon exercise of options. Non-accredited investors cannot receive shares upon exercise and thus are paid in cash upon settlement.
 
The vesting period for the restricted stock awards is such that 40% of the awards are earned three years after grant, 30% after four years and the final 30% after five years. The vesting period for the performance stock awards is such that 1/3 of the awards are earned if certain financial performance targets are met in the following fiscal year and the remaining 2/3 of the awards are earned if certain financial targets are met in the following two fiscal years. The performance stock awards are increased or decreased dependent on over- or underachieving the financial performance targets. Performance stock awards are decreased pro-rata down to 50% of the original award if actual performance is up to 20% below the financial targets. Performance stock awards are increased pro-rata up to 150% of the original award if actual performance is up to 20% above the financial targets. Unvested
 
awards expire immediately if employment is terminated. On April 14, 2004, a total of 179,260 performance stock awards and 179,260 restricted stock awards were granted to employees, all of which were outstanding at December 31, 2004. On April 14, 2003, a total of 242,575 performance stock awards and 242,575 restricted stock awards were granted to employees, for which 217,775 of each award is still outstanding at December 31, 2004.
 
The Company accounts for stock-based compensation on stock awards granted to accredited investors, using the intrinsic value method as prescribed in APB No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees," and related interpretations. The Company accounts for stock-based compensation on performance stock awards and on restricted stock and performance stock awards granted to non-accredited investors, as prescribed in APB 25 and FASB Interpretation No. 28, "Accounting for Stock Appreciation Rights and Other Variable Stock Option or Award Plans," (FIN 28) and related interpretations. For the years ended December 31, 2004 and December 31, 2003, stock-based compensation expense of $2,487 and $1,069 were recorded related to the restricted stock and performance stock plans.
 
16. US Department of Justice Investigation and Settlement
 
In June 2001 the Company received a subpoena from the US Attorney's Office in St. Louis, Missouri in connection with an investigation by the US Department of Justice (DOJ). This and similar inquiries are part of the US authorities' process of regulating their expenditures on medical care and the relationships they have with the providers of such care. The subpoena requested information and documentation from the Company and certain related parties concerning various aspects of its dialysis operations in the United States. The information requested by the subpoena focused principally on Medicare and Medicaid billing practices and relationships with physicians and pharmaceutical manufacturers.
 
On December 1, 2004, the Company reached a final settlement with the DOJ and other agencies of the US government to resolve matters raised as a consequence of this subpoena. The settlement provides as follows:
 
 
 
 
The Company also reached a preliminary agreement with the National Association of Medicaid Fraud Control Units, to settle all state Medicaid claims arising as a result of the aforementioned subpoena. Under the terms of the settlement, the Company will pay an aggregate of $15 million, plus interest at 5% from December 1, 2004 until final payment, which is expected to occur in the first half of 2005.
 
In connection with the DOJ settlement, the Company incurred approximately $3.6 million of additional charges to settle other outstanding matters related to the same investigation. Included in these charges were more limited-scope settlements with government agencies, reimbursement of legal fees incurred by the relator, and certain charges associated with acquiring the minority interest share in certain joint venture arrangements where the minority partners were potential patient referral sources (see Note 3).
 
The total pre-tax charge recorded in 2004 in connection with the settlement and other related matters was approximately $354 million. Approximately $2 million was recorded as interest expense, the remaining $352 million was recorded as operating expense. The Company has not been served with any lawsuits or received any formal claims by non-governmental payors following the announcement of the original subpoena, the preliminary agreement or the final settlement. Potential exposure to non-governmental payers, if any, cannot be estimated at the time.
 
17. Sale of Gambro Healthcare, Inc. to DaVita Inc.
 
On December 7, 2004, Gambro AB announced that it had entered into an agreement to sell its shares of Gambro Healthcare, Inc. to DaVita Inc., a US dialysis provider. Total consideration for the shares to be sold in Gambro Healthcare, Inc. and other Gambro Inc. subsidiaries included in these combined financial statements along with the concurrent repayment of all outstanding debt at the time of the close was expected to be approximately $3,050 million. Closure of the sale is subject to approval by relevant regulatory authorities and is expected to occur in the first half of 2005.

Exhibit 99.3
 
DaVita Inc.
Unaudited Pro forma Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements
June 30, 2005 and December 31, 2004
 
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements are based on the audited financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2004 of each of DaVita Inc. (the "Company"), incorporated by reference in this filing from the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004, and Gambro Healthcare US, and unaudited financial information for the six months ended June 30, 2005 of each of the Company, incorporated by reference in this filing from the Company's quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2005, and Gambro Healthcare US. The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements give effect to the issuance of new notes, the repayment of all outstanding amounts under the term loan portions of the Company's then-existing senior secured credit facilities, and the payment of related fees and expenses (the "Notes Transactions"), the consummation of the Gambro Healthcare, Inc. ("Gambro Healthcare") acquisition, borrowings under a new senior secured credit facilities of the amount required to finance the acquisition and the payment of related fees and expenses (the "Gambro Healthcare Acquisition"), and the divestiture of 74 of the combined Companies' owned-centers, which included 73 centers sold to Renal Advantage, Inc., three of which are pending Illinois state regulatory approval, and the sale of one center to a physician group. The Company also terminated two management services agreements through which the Company provided administrative services. Most of the divestitures were required in connection with the approval by the Federal Trade Commission of the Gambro Healthcare Acquisition (the "Divestitures"). These pro forma adjustments are reflected as if each of these transactions had occurred on January 1, 2004 in the case of the unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated income statement data and gives effect to the Gambro Healthcare Acquisition and the Divestitures as if each had occurred on June 30, 2005 in the case of the unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated balance sheet data.
 
The pro forma adjustments are based upon available information, preliminary estimates and certain assumptions that we believe are reasonable and are described in the accompanying notes to the unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements. The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements do not take into account (i) any synergies or cost savings that may or are expected to occur as a result of the Gambro Healthcare acquisition, (ii) any integration costs associated with the Gambro Healthcare acquisition, (iii) any cash or non-cash charges that we may incur in connection with the Gambro Healthcare acquisition, or (iv) any use of cash proceeds from the Divestitures except to pay related income taxes, which is currently estimated at approximately $90 million. The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with SEC rules and regulations.
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements account for the Gambro Healthcare acquisition using the purchase method of accounting in accordance with the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, Statement No. 141, "Business Combinations," or SFAS No. 141, and the resultant goodwill and other intangible assets are accounted for under FASB Statement No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets," or SFAS No. 142. The total purchase price has been preliminarily allocated based on information available to us at this time, to the tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on management's preliminary estimates of their current fair values. The final allocation of the purchase price will be based upon the final determination of the values of assets and liabilities as of the closing of the transaction. The Company is currently in the process of obtaining information necessary to determine these valuations, including obtaining third-party valuations of certain long-term assets, including intangible assets. The purchase price allocations will be finalized when the Company receives the third-party valuations. Accordingly, these estimates and assumptions of fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed and related operating results are subject to change that could result in material differences between the actual amounts and those reported in the unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements.
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements are provided for illustrative purposes only and are subject to a number of uncertainties and assumptions and do not purport to represent what the combined companies' actual financial position or results of operations would have been had the transactions occurred on the dates indicated and does not purport to indicate financial position or results of operations as of any future date or for any future period.
 
 
 
 
(a) Reflects the reclassification of minority interest of $10 million and related income tax of $4 million, and $3 million of other income for consistent presentation.
 
(b) Reflects net amortization expense associated with the incremental fair value assigned to the seller non-compete agreement, the alliance and product supply agreement and other intangible and fixed assets as a result of the Gambro Healthcare acquisition. The seller non-compete agreement and alliance and product supply agreement are being amortized over ten years, and the other intangible and fixed assets are being amortized over five years as set forth in the table below (dollars in millions):
 
 
If the final fair values of the other intangible and fixed assets and the product supply agreement were to change by $10 million each, the annual amortization expense would vary by approximately $2 million and $1 million, respectively.
 
(c) Reflects the elimination of interest expense of $44 million and deferred financing costs of $2 million, that was recognized on the prior senior secured credit facilities (the "Prior Facilities") that were outstanding until March 22, 2005, when they were repaid from proceeds from the issuance of the new notes.
 
(d) Reflects interest expense of $108 million and the amortization of deferred financing costs of $5 million associated with borrowings from the new senior secured credit facilities (the "Facilities") of $2,850 million. The Facilities bear interest at LIBOR plus an assumed margin of 2.25% for an assumed annual weighted average interest rate of 3.73%. Additionally, net swap interest of $32 million is reflected on the assumption that six new interest rate swap agreements with a total notional amount of $1,250 million became effective January 1, 2004. Two of the swaps are economically fixed at 3.875% plus a margin of 2.25%. Four other swaps are economically fixed at 4.27% plus a margin of 2.25%. As a result of our total swap agreements, approximately 55% of our average outstanding 2004 variable rate debt would be economically fixed at an effective weighted average interest rate of 6.10% and our overall credit facility effective weighted average interest rate for 2004 would be 5.17%. The portion of the Facilities that is not economically fixed is subject to interest rate changes. If interest rates were to hypothetically change by 1/8%, it is estimated that our annual interest expense would vary by approximately $1.6 million.
 
(e) Reflects incremental interest expense of $95 million and the amortization of deferred financing costs of $3 million associated with the issuance of 6 5/8% senior notes of $500 million and 7 1/4% senior subordinated notes of $850 million (collectively, the "Notes"). The Notes were issued on March 22, 2005 and therefore these pro forma results do not include any write-off of existing deferred financing costs or swap valuations gain that were recorded in the first quarter of 2005.
 
(f) Reflects the elimination of the interest expense of $35 million from extinguishing the amount due to Gambro, Inc. (Parent) as a result of the purchase of Gambro Healthcare.
 
(g) Reflects the adjustment to the income tax expense amount of $(62) million based on the overall impact of the pro forma adjustments at 38.6%. The pro forma income tax expense is higher than the Company's effective tax rate because of the non-deductible portion of Gambro Healthcare's settlement with the U.S. government.
 
(h) Reflects the operations and related income tax effect for 2004 from the divestiture of 74 freestanding outpatient dialysis centers, three of which are pending Illinois state regulatory approval, and the management fee income from two management service agreements for which the Company provided administrative services that were terminated. Of the total centers divested, 69 outpatient dialysis centers were required to be divested pursuant to a consent order issued by the Federal Trade Commission on October 4, 2005, and the two management service agreements that were terminated were also required to be terminated pursuant to this consent order. No gain or loss from this transaction is reflected in the unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated statement of operations.
 
(i) The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2004, gives effect to the Notes Transactions, the Gambro Healthcare Acquisition and the Divestitures as if each had occurred on January 1, 2004.
 
 
 
 
(a) Reflects net amortization expense associated with the incremental fair value assigned to the seller non-compete agreement, the alliance and product supply agreement and other intangible and fixed assets as a result of the Gambro Healthcare acquisition. The seller non-compete agreement and alliance and product supply agreement are being amortized over ten years, and the other intangible and fixed assets are being amortized over five years as set forth in the table below (dollars in millions):
 
 
If the final fair values of the other intangible and fixed assets and the product supply agreement were to change by $10 million each, the annual amortization expense would vary by approximately $2 million and $1 million, respectively.
 
(b) Reflects the reclassification of minority interest of $2 million and related income tax of $1 million.
 
(c) Reflects the elimination of interest expense of $14 million including deferred financing costs that was recognized on the Prior Facilities that were outstanding until March 22, 2005, when they were repaid from proceeds from the issuance of the Notes.
 
(d) Reflects interest expense of $71 million and the amortization of deferred financing costs of $3 million associated with borrowings from the Facilities of $2,850 million. The Facilities bear interest at LIBOR plus an assumed margin of 2.25% for an assumed annual weighted average interest rate of 5.02%. Additionally, net swap interest of $8 million is reflected on the assumption that six new interest rate swap agreements with a total notional amount of $1,250 million became effective January 1, 2004. Two of the swaps are economically fixed at 3.875% plus a margin of 2.25%. Four other swaps are economically fixed at 4.27% plus a margin of 2.25%. As a result of our total swap agreements, approximately 55% of our variable rate debt at June 30, 2005 would be economically fixed at an effective weighted average interest rate of 6.12% and our overall credit facility effective weighted average interest rate as of June 30, 2005 would be 5.80%. The portion of the Facilities that is not economically fixed is subject to interest rate changes. If interest rates were to hypothetically change by 1/8%, it is estimated that our annual interest expense would vary by approximately $1.6 million.
 
(e) Reflects incremental interest expense of $22 million including the amortization of deferred financing costs, from January 1, 2005 through March 22, 2005 associated with the issuance of the Notes. The senior notes bear interest at 6 5/8% and the senior subordinated notes bear interest at 7 1/4%.
 
(f) Reflects the elimination of the interest expense of $31 million from extinguishing the amount due to Gambro, Inc. (Parent) as a result of the purchase of Gambro Healthcare.
 
(g) Reflects the adjustment to the income tax expense amount of $(22) million based on the overall impact of the pro forma adjustments at 38.6%.
 
(h) Reflects the operations and related income tax effect for the six months ended June 30, 2005 from the divestiture of 74 freestanding outpatient dialysis centers, three of which are pending Illinois state regulatory approval, and the management fee income from two management service agreements for which the Company provided administrative services that were terminated. Of the total centers divested, 69 outpatient dialysis centers were required to be divested pursuant to a consent order issued by the Federal Trade Commission on October 4, 2005, and the two management service agreements that were terminated were also required to be terminated pursuant to this consent order. No gain or loss from this transaction is reflected in the unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated statement of income.
 
(i) The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated statement of income for the six months ended June 30, 2005 gives effect to the Notes Transactions, the Gambro Healthcare Acquisition and the Divestitures as if each had occurred on January 1, 2004.
 
 
 
(a) Reflects net usage of cash as a result of the financing transactions and purchase of Gambro Healthcare as follows: net proceeds from borrowings under the new senior credit facilities of $2,806 million, reduced by the purchase of Gambro Healthcare for $3,055 million, and an additional $8 million of transaction costs. We also made a deposit of $12 million for transition services to be provided by Gambro AB.
 
(b) Reflects capitalized estimated deferred financing costs associated with the Facilities of $44 million.
 
(c) Reflects the purchase of Gambro Healthcare for a purchase price of approximately $3,055 million in cash, which may be adjusted for the final determination of certain tax elections (as discussed below), and other factors, and an additional $8 million of transaction costs incurred subsequent to June 30, 2005, as set forth in the table below. Through June 30, 2005, the Company had incurred actual transaction costs of $10 million that are included in the historical DaVita goodwill amount, thus the total cumulative purchase cost of the acquisition is approximately $3,073 million.
 
 
We believe our estimations and underlying assumptions of the initial purchase price allocations and fair values of Gambro Healthcare's identifiable assets and liabilities provide our current best estimate and are based upon the information available to us at this time. However, these valuations are preliminary and subject to change based upon completion of a third-party final valuation analysis of long-term assets including intangible assets. Additionally, the final purchase price is subject to certain tax elections that would require the Company to make an additional cash payment to Gambro Inc., which is currently estimated at approximately $150 to $170 million. Further the amount due to parent is also subject to certain post-closing adjustments. Accordingly, the final amounts may differ materially from the amounts shown above.
 
(d) Reflects reclassification for consistent presentation.
 
(e) Reflects the borrowing under the Facilities as set forth in the table below:
 
 
Of the $2,850 million of total borrowings, $119 million is short-term, including the revolving line of credit and $2,731 million is long-term.
 
The revolving line of credit portion of our Facilities provides commitments for total revolving borrowings of $250 million. As of June 30, 2005, after giving pro forma effect to the Gambro Healthcare Acquisition and the Divestitures, as if each had occurred on that date, we would have had $147 million of available unused borrowing capacity under the revolving line of credit portion of our Facilities (after providing for letters of credit of approximately $53 million).
 
(f) Write-off of the existing deferred financing costs associated with the extinguishment of the revolving line of credit portion of our Prior Facilities of $1 million.
 
(g) The divestiture/sale of 74 freestanding outpatient dialysis centers for a sales price of approximately $333 million, which includes approximately $5 million of anticipated post closings adjustments. The completion of the sale of three of the centers are pending Illinois state regulatory approval. Of the total centers divested, 69 outpatient dialysis centers were required to
be divested pursuant to a consent order issued by the Federal Trade Commission on October 4, 2005, and two management service agreements that were terminated were also required to be terminated pursuant to this consent order. A portion of the sales price of approximately $12 million was used to purchase the minority interest ownership at several centers that were part of a joint venture as well as transaction costs. We also anticipate paying income taxes of approximately $90 million on these Divestitures. As part of this transaction, the buyers assumed certain liabilities related to these centers and all other liabilities were retained by the Company. This unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated balance sheet does not make any assumptions about the use or investment of the net cash proceeds from the divestitures, except payment of taxes. The following is a summary of the effects of the Divestitures:
 
 
(h) The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated balance sheet as of June 30, 2005 gives effect to both the Gambro Healthcare Acquisition and the Divestitures as if each had occurred on June 30, 2005.


