FILE:DVA/DVA-8K-20050421150551.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.02 Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
Effective May 18, 2005, the Company's Employment Agreement dated as of September 13, 2004 with Denise K. Fletcher (the "Agreement") will terminate. As a result of such termination, under the terms of the Agreement, Ms. Fletcher will be entitled to receive her base salary of $350,000 for the two-year period following termination, and, subject to certain limitations, health insurance benefits during the one-year period following the effective date of termination.
 
Other material terms of the Agreement were described in the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on September 16, 2004 which is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Ms. Fletcher does not have any other material relationship with the Company or its affiliates.
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
 
Effective April 15, 2005, Ms. Fletcher stepped down as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company. This decision was reached by mutual agreement. A copy of the press release announcing this decision is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
Thomas L. Kelly, Executive Vice President, will assume the role of acting Chief Financial Officer.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c) Exhibits:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
The following exhibit is filed herewith:
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
El Segundo, California, April 19, 2005  DaVita Inc. (NYSE: DVA), today announced that Denise Fletcher has stepped down as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer effective April 15, 2005. This decision was reached by mutual agreement.
 
Kent Thiry, Chief Executive Officer, commented, "I want to thank Denise for her many contributions, in particular her role in the Gambro acquisition and related debt financing. We wish her well in her future endeavors and thank her in advance for her counsel during this transition."
 
Tom Kelly, Executive Vice President, will assume the role of acting Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Kelly has been with the Company since June 2004. Mr. Kelly will retain several of his current responsibilities including managing DaVita's reimbursement operations and payor contracting. He was previously the National Director  Healthcare for KPMG LLC. During his 20 year tenure at KPMG he served as an audit partner from 1983 to 1993, specializing in healthcare services.
 
The search for a new Chief Financial Officer will begin immediately.
 
DaVita is a leading provider of dialysis services for patients suffering from chronic kidney failure. DaVita operates and provides administrative services to kidney dialysis centers and home peritoneal dialysis programs domestically in 37 states, as well as Washington, D.C. As of December 31, 2004, DaVita operates or provides administrative services to 658 outpatient facilities serving approximately 54,000 patients.


