FILE:DVA/DVA-8K-20051004214822.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 3, 2005, DaVita Inc. ("DaVita") issued a press release announcing the expected receipt of final approval from the Federal Trade Commission ("FTC") of DaVita's acquisition of Gambro Healthcare U.S. and the anticipated close of the acquisition in early October. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
On October 4, 2005, DaVita issued a press release announcing the issuance by the FTC of a consent order allowing for the closing of DaVita's acquisition of Gambro Healthcare U.S. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
El Segundo, California, October 3, 2005  DaVita Inc. (NYSE: DVA), today announced that it expects to receive final approval of its acquisition of Gambro Healthcare U.S. from the Federal Trade Commission shortly and is working towards closing the acquisition in early October.
 
DaVita is a leading provider of dialysis services for patients suffering from chronic kidney failure. DaVita operates and provides administrative services to kidney dialysis centers and home peritoneal dialysis programs domestically in 37 states and the District of Columbia. As of June 30, 2005, DaVita operated or provided administrative services at 706 outpatient centers, serving approximately 57,200 patients.

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
El Segundo, California, October 4, 2005  DaVita Inc. (NYSE: DVA) announced today that the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) has completed its review of DaVita's acquisition of Gambro Healthcare U.S. and has issued a consent order allowing for the closing of the acquisition. The terms of the consent order require DaVita to divest sixty-seven dialysis centers within ten days, and three centers within 60 days, of the completion of its acquisition of Gambro. DaVita has entered into definitive agreements to sell all of the centers required to be divested. This includes the sale, as previously announced, of substantially all of the required divestitures to Renal Advantage, Inc. DaVita expects to complete the closing of the Gambro acquisition in early October and the required divestitures within the prescribed timeframe contained in the order.
 
DaVita is a leading provider of dialysis services for patients suffering from chronic kidney failure. DaVita operates and provides administrative services to kidney dialysis centers and home peritoneal dialysis programs domestically in 37 states and the District of Columbia. As of June 30, 2005, DaVita operated or provided administrative services at 706 outpatient centers, serving approximately 57,200 patients.


