FILE:DVA/DVA-8K-20050222181322.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 is a press release issued on February 18, 2005 announcing the receipt by DaVita Inc. of a request from the Federal Trade Commission for additional information in connection with DaVita's pending acquisition of Gambro Healthcare, Inc.
 
 
(c) Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
DAVITA INC. RECEIVES SECOND REQUEST FROM THE FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION REGARDING THE GAMBRO HEALTHCARE ACQUISITION
 
El Segundo, California, February 18, 2005  DaVita Inc. (NYSE: DVA), today announced it received a request from the Federal Trade Commission for additional information in connection with its pending acquisition of Gambro Healthcare. DaVita intends to respond promptly to this request. The effect of the second request is to extend the waiting period imposed by the Hart-Scott-Rodino Act until thirty days after DaVita and Gambro Healthcare have substantially complied with the request, unless that period is extended voluntarily by the parties or is terminated sooner by the FTC.
 
DaVita is a leading provider of dialysis services for patients suffering from chronic kidney failure. DaVita operates and provides administrative services to kidney dialysis centers and home peritoneal dialysis programs domestically in 37 states, as well as Washington, D.C. As of December 31, 2004, DaVita operates or provides administrative services to 658 outpatient facilities serving approximately 54,000 patients.
 
This release contains forwardlooking statements. Factors which could impact future results include the uncertainties associated with governmental regulations, general economic and other market conditions, acquisitions and the risk factors set forth in the Company's SEC filings, including its Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2004. The forward-looking statements should be considered in light of these risks and uncertainties.
 
These risks and uncertainties include those relating to:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This Company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 


