FILE:DVA/DVA-8K-20050209115501.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On February 8, 2005, DaVita Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2004. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
The attached press release contains non-GAAP financial measures. For purposes of Regulation G, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the Unites States, or GAAP. To supplement our consolidated financial results presented in accordance with GAAP, for all periods presented, we have used non-GAAP measures of (a) net income excluding Medicare lab recoveries, (b) free cash flow, (c) operating cash flows and free cash flows excluding Medicare lab recoveries related to prior period services and excluding the tax benefit from stock option exercises, (d) operating income excluding Medicare lab recoveries, and depreciation, amortization, and minority interest (used to calculate debt leverage ratio), and (e) revenue excluding Medicare lab recoveries. These non-GAAP financial measures are provided to enhance the user's overall understanding of our current financial performance and our prospects for the future by excluding certain revenue and expenses that may not be indicative of our normal operating results. In addition, because we have historically reported certain non-GAAP financial measures in our financial results that exclude certain non-recurring expenses and Medicare lab recoveries for prior period services that result in unusual fluctuations in our operating performance, we believe the inclusion of these non-GAAP financial measures provides consistency and comparability in our financial reporting to prior periods for which these non-GAAP financial measures were previously reported. These non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered or used as a substitute for or superior to GAAP financial measures. Reconciliations of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most comparable GAAP financial measures are included in the attached press release.
 
The attached press release also contains forward-looking statements relating to our performance for 2005. All statements that do not concern historical facts are forward-looking statements. These statements involve substantial known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause the actual results to differ materially from those described in the press release and in the Company's SEC filings including its most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2003, and its Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ending September 30, 2004. The Company's forward-looking statements are based on information currently available to us, and we undertake no obligation to update these statements, whether as a result of changes in underlying factors, new information, future events or other developments.
 
The information contained in this Form 8-K (including Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto) is being furnished and shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (The "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section and shall not be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
El Segundo, California, February 8, 2005  DaVita Inc. (NYSE: DVA), today announced results for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2004. Net income for the three months ended December 31, 2004, was $56.6 million and $0.56 per share. Net income for the year ended December 31, 2004, was $217.2 million, and $2.11 per share, excluding after-tax Medicare lab recoveries of $5.1 million.
 
Net income for the year ended December 31, 2004 including the lab recoveries (GAAP basis), was $222.3 million and $2.16 per share.
 
Financial and operating highlights include:
 
 
 
 
 
Outlook
 
Our previous 2005 operating income guidance was for operating income to improve from 0 to 6% over the 2004 operating income performance. Our new 2005 operating income guidance is for operating income to be up 2 to 6% over 2004, exclusive of the effects of the proposed Gambro Healthcare acquisition and related debt financing, as well as the anticipated expensing of stock options in accordance with FASB No. 123R. In connection with the Gambro acquisition the Company will be assessing financing alternatives, which could include closing some or all of the financing in advance of the closing of the acquisition. At this time, we expect the Gambro acquisition together with related debt financing to be dilutive to EPS in the first year, neutral in the second year and accretive thereafter.
 
DaVita will be holding a conference call to discuss its fourth quarter and year ended results for 2004 on February 9, 2005, at 12:00 PM Eastern Time. The dial in number is 800-399-4406. A replay of the conference call will be available on DaVita's official web page, , for the following 30 days.
www.davita.com
 
This release contains forwardlooking statements. Factors which could impact future results include the uncertainties associated with governmental regulations, general economic and other market conditions, acquisitions and the risk factors set forth in the Company's SEC filings, including its Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2004. The forward-looking statements should be considered in light of these risks and uncertainties.
 
These risks and uncertainties include those relating to:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This Company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 1. Leverage ratio is defined as net debt (total debt net of cash) to operating income excluding Medicare lab recoveries, depreciation, amortization, and minority interests. The operating income reconciliation is provided below.
 
 
1. Net income excluding Medicare lab recoveries and refinancing charges:
 
 
2. Operating income excluding Medicare lab recoveries, and excluding depreciation, amortization, and minority interests (used to calculate leverage ratio):
 
 
3. Operating cash flow, excluding Medicare lab recoveries related to prior years' services, and tax benefit from stock option exercises:
 
 
 
 
4. Free cash flow, excluding Medicare lab recoveries related to prior years' services, and tax benefit from stock option exercises:
 
Free cash flow represents net cash provided by operating activities less non-development capital expenditures. We believe free cash flow is a useful adjunct to cash flow from operating activities and other measurements under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States since it is a meaningful measure of our ability to fund acquisition and development activities and meet our debt service requirements. Free cash flow is not a measure of financial performance under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States and should not be considered as an alternative to cash flows from operating, investing or financing activities, as an indicator of cash flows, or as a measure of liquidity.
 
 


