FILE:DVA/DVA-8K-20050728110831.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On July 28, 2005, DaVita Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2005. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
The attached press release contains non-GAAP financial measures. For purposes of Regulation G, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, or GAAP. To supplement our consolidated financial results presented in accordance with GAAP, for all periods presented, we have included non-GAAP measures of (a) operating cash flows and free cash flows, in each case, excluding the after-tax benefit of Medicare lab recoveries related to prior period services and excluding the tax benefit from stock option exercises and (b) free cash flow, (c) operating income excluding Medicare lab recoveries related to prior period services, and (d) total operating revenue excluding the Medicare lab recoveries related to prior period services. The company has also used consolidated EBITDA as defined in our existing senior notes indentures for purposes of calculating our debt leverage ratio. These non-GAAP financial measures are provided to enhance the user's overall understanding of our current and historical financial performance and compliance with the financial covenants contained in our indentures and our senior secured credit agreement by excluding certain revenue and expenses that may not be indicative of our normal operating results. In addition, because we have historically reported certain non-GAAP financial measures in our financial results that exclude certain non-recurring expenses and Medicare lab recoveries for prior period services that result in unusual fluctuations in our operating performance, we believe the inclusion of these non-GAAP financial measures provides consistency and comparability in our financial reporting to prior periods for which these non-GAAP financial measures were previously reported. These non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered or used as a substitute for or superior to GAAP financial measures. Reconciliations of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most comparable GAAP financial measures are included in the attached press release.
 
The attached press release also contains forward-looking statements relating to our performance for 2005 and 2006. All statements that do not concern historical facts are forward-looking statements. These statements involve substantial known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause the actual results to differ materially from those described in the press release and in the Company's SEC filings including its most recent Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2005, and it's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004. The Company's forward-looking statements are based on information currently available to us, and we undertake no obligation to update or revise these statements, whether as a result of changes in underlying factors, new information, future events or other developments.
 
The information contained in this Form 8-K (including Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto) shall be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
El Segundo, California, July 28, 2005  DaVita Inc. (NYSE: DVA), today announced results for the quarter ended June 30, 2005. Net income for the three months and six months ended June 30, 2005 was $52.9 million and $109.3 million, or $0.51 and $1.06 per share, respectively, as compared with $52.4 million and $105.3 million, or $0.50 and $1.02 per share, respectively, for the same periods of 2004.
 
Net income for the quarter ended June 30, 2005 included pre-tax Medicare lab recoveries related to prior years' services of $2.6 million and a swap valuation loss of $2.1 million.
 
Financial and operating highlights include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Gambro Healthcare Acquisition:
 
We have reached a preliminary agreement with the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) staff to divest approximately 70 DaVita and Gambro Healthcare centers, which represents approximately 6% of the combined number of centers and revenues. We are nearing completion with the FTC on the contents of a consent order. We expect to execute a definitive agreement to sell the divested centers in the near future that would allow us to complete a sale of the centers contemporaneously with our closing of the Gambro acquisition. We currently expect to complete the Gambro acquisition during the next thirty to sixty days. Any consent order, including the terms of the divestitures and approval of any buyer of the divested assets, remains subject to formal approval by the Commissioners of the FTC.
Outlook
 
We are revising our 2005 operating income guidance; operating income is now expected to be up 4% to 6% over 2004. Our previous guidance was for operating income to be up 2% to 6% over 2004. This guidance is exclusive of the effects of the proposed Gambro Healthcare acquisition and related debt financings. We continue to expect the Gambro Healthcare acquisition together with the related debt financings to be dilutive to EPS in the first year, neutral in the second year and accretive thereafter. On a stand alone basis without regard to the acquisition, we would expect our 2006 operating income to be up 0% to 3% over the 2005 level.
 
DaVita will be holding a conference call to discuss its second quarter results for 2005 on July 28, 2005, at 11:30 AM Eastern Time. The dial in number is 800-399-4406. A replay of the conference call will be available on DaVita's official web page, , for the following 30 days.
www.davita.com
 
This release contains forwardlooking statements. Factors which could impact future results include the uncertainties associated with governmental regulations, general economic and other market conditions, acquisitions and the risk factors set forth in the Company's SEC filings, including its Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2005. The forward-looking statements should be considered in light of these risks and uncertainties.
 
:
These risks and uncertainties include those relating to
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
This release contains non-GAAP financial measures. For reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to their most comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP, see the attached reconciliation schedules.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 1:
 
The leverage ratio under the Company's existing senior secured credit agreement is defined as all funded debt plus the face amount of all letters of credit issued, minus cash and cash equivalents, divided by "EBITDA". The leverage ratio determines the interest rate margin payable by the Company under the existing senior secured credit agreement by establishing the margin over the base interest rate (LIBOR) that is applicable. The following Leverage Ratio was calculated using "Consolidated EBITDA" as defined in the indentures governing our recently issued Senior Notes. Such calculation is consistent with the definition of "EBITDA" contained in the existing senior secured credit agreement, except that EBITDA under our existing senior secured credit agreement is based on the last twelve-months and is not based on annualized EBITDA, and pro forma incremental "EBITDA" relating to acquisitions is included in the calculation of "EBITDA" under the existing senior secured credit agreement and is not included in the following calculations.
 
 
 
 
1. Operating income, excluding Medicare lab recoveries related to prior years' services:
 
2. Operating cash flow, excluding Medicare lab recoveries related to prior years' services, and tax benefit from stock option exercises:
 
 
3. Free cash flow and free cash flow, excluding Medicare lab recoveries related to prior years' services, and tax benefit from stock option exercises:
 
Free cash flow represents net cash provided by operating activities less non-development capital expenditures. We believe free cash flow is a useful adjunct to cash flow from operating activities and other measurements under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States since it is a meaningful measure of our ability to fund acquisition and development activities and meet our debt service requirements. Free cash flow is not a measure of financial performance under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States and should not be considered as an alternative to cash flows from operating, investing or financing activities as an indicator of cash flows or as a measure of liquidity.
 
 


