FILE:DVA/DVA-8K-20060731162743.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Approval of Amended Director Compensation Philosophy and Plan
On July 25, 2006, the Board amended the Director Compensation Philosophy and Plan (as so amended, the "Director Plan") to allow for the grant of stock appreciation rights, as an alternative to options, to new Board members upon appointment to the Board, to non-management Board members for their service on the Board and to those Board members serving as the lead independent director or the chair of the Audit, Compensation or Compliance Committee for their service in those capacities, in each case in accordance with the Director Plan.
The Director Plan was further amended to provide that options, stock appreciation rights or deferred stock units granted to non-management Board members for their service on the Board and to those Board members serving as the lead independent director or the chair of the Audit, Compensation or Compliance Committee will be granted to the Board members entitled thereto, in the amounts specified in the Director Plan, per year of service on the Board in such capacity, or the pro rata equivalent for service of less than a year.
The foregoing description of the Director Plan is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Director Plan which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1.
Approval of Amended and Restated 2002 Equity Compensation Plan
On July 25, 2006, the Board amended and restated the 2002 Equity Compensation Plan to include the definition of "Fair Market Value" as it relates to the settlement of a stock appreciation right.
The foregoing description of the amended and restated 2002 Equity Compensation Plan is qualified in its entirety by reference to the 2002 Equity Compensation Plan which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.2.
 
Appointment of Chief Financial Officer
On July 25, 2006, the Board approved the appointment of Mark G. Harrison, age 49, as the Company's Chief Financial Officer, effective September 1, 2006. Upon the effectiveness of Mr. Harrison's appointment, Gary Beil will no longer serve as acting Chief Financial Officer and will be appointed Vice President-Finance, and Mr. Harrison will be the Chief Financial Officer and principal financial officer of the Company.
From August 2003 until joining the Company, Mr. Harrison served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Allina Hospitals & Clinics. From April 1993 to August 2003, Mr. Harrison co-founded Shattuck Hammond Partners LLC, an independent investment banking and financial advisory firm that was originally founded as a healthcare services boutique, and served as a Principal and its West Coast Manager. From September 1988 to April 1993, Mr. Harrison was a Principal and Manager of the West Coast Office of Cain Brothers, Shattuck and Company. From September 1983 to September 1988, Mr. Harrison was part of the healthcare group at Lehman Brothers.
There are no family relationships between Mr. Harrison and any other director or executive officer of the Company, or with any person selected to become an officer or a director of the Company. The Company has had no transactions since the beginning of its last fiscal year, and has no transactions proposed, in which Mr. Harrison, or any member of his immediate family, has a direct or indirect material interest.
The material terms of Mr. Harrison's Employment Agreement are included in, and incorporated by reference from, the Current Report on Form 8-K filed by the Company on July 6, 2006.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
Philosophy
 
 
 
 
Options
Each non-management board member shall be granted options or stock appreciation rights (as determined by the Board) to purchase 12,000 shares of Company stock per year of service on the Board, or the prorata equivalent for service of less than a year, granted on, and priced as of the close of market on, the date of the Company's annual stockholder meeting, vesting 100% on the date of the Company's next annual stockholder meeting, expiring five years after date of grant.
Each new member of the Board after the date hereof shall be granted options or stock appreciation rights (as determined by the Board) to purchase 15,000 shares of Company stock upon appointment to the Board, priced at the closing price on the grant date, vesting 25% per year beginning on the first anniversary of the grant date, expiring five years after the grant date.
Retainer
$24,000 per year paid quarterly in arrears, half in cash and half in deferred stock units that must be held for one year.
Board Meetings
$4,000 per in person meeting
$2,000 per telephonic meeting longer than 1
 1
/
2
hours
Committee Meetings (Chair and Members)
$2,000 per in person meeting ($2,500 for Chairs of Clinical Performance Committee and Public Policy Committee/$1,500 for members of Clinical Performance Committee and Public Policy Committee).
$2,000 per telephonic meeting longer than 1 hour and for telephonic meetings of the Audit Committee related to quarterly earnings releases ($2,500 for Chairs of Clinical Performance Committee and Public Policy Committee/$1,500 for members of Clinical Performance Committee and Public Policy Committee).
No Committee meeting fees are earned for Nominating and Governance Committee meetings held on regular Board meeting dates.
Additional Retainer - Lead Independent Director and primary Committee Chairs (Audit, Compensation and Compliance)
$20,000 per year paid quarterly in arrears, half in cash and half in deferred stock units that must be held for one year, for the Chair of the Audit Committee, the Chair of the Compensation Committee and the Chair of the Compliance Committee.
$20,000 per year paid quarterly in arrears, half in cash and half in deferred stock units that must be held for one year, for the Lead Independent Director. If the Lead Independent Director also serves as the Chair of a primary Committee, the Lead Independent Director will receive a total additional retainer of $20,000, unless the Committee determines otherwise.
Additional Options - Lead Independent Director and primary Committee Chairs (Audit, Compensation and Compliance)
Each shall be granted options or stock appreciation rights (as determined by the Board) to purchase 6,000 shares of Company stock per year of service in these roles, or the prorata equivalent for service of less than a year, granted on, and priced as of the close of market on, the date of the Company's annual stockholder meeting, vesting 100% on the date of the Company's next annual stockholder meeting, expiring five years after the grant date. Vesting continues so long as the Director continues to serve on the Board (that is, does not require continued service as Lead Independent Director or Committee Chair). If the Lead Independent Director also serves as the Chair of a primary Committee, the Lead Independent Director will receive a total additional option grant or grant of stock appreciation rights (as determined by the Board) of 6,000 shares (not 12,000 shares), or the applicable prorata equivalent, unless the Committee determines otherwise.
 
Additional Deferred Stock Units - Lead Independent Director and primary Committee Chairs (Audit, Compensation and Compliance)
Each shall be granted 1,500 deferred stock units, or the prorata equivalent for service of less than a year, on the date of the Company's annual stockholder meeting that must be held for one year. If the Lead Independent Director also serves as the Chair of a primary Committee, the Lead Independent Director will receive a total deferred stock units grant of 1,500 shares (not 3,000 shares) or the applicable prorata equivalent, unless the Committee determines otherwise.
Amended July 25, 2006
 

Exhibit 10.2
. The purpose of the DaVita Inc. 2002 Equity Compensation Plan ("Plan") is to promote the interests of DaVita Inc. ("Company") and its stockholders by enabling the Company to offer an opportunity to acquire an equity interest in the Company so as to better attract, retain, and reward Employees, directors, and independent contractors and, accordingly, to strengthen the mutuality of interests between those persons and the Company's stockholders by providing those persons with a proprietary interest in pursuing the Company's long-term growth and financial success. Awards under the Plan will be made in the form of the issuance of Options, Restricted Stock, Stock Issuances, Stock Appreciation Rights, and Other Awards.
1.
Purpose
. For purposes of this Plan, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below.
2.
Definitions
(a) "Board" or "Board of Directors" means the Board of Directors of DaVita Inc.
(b) "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. Reference to any specific section of the Code shall also be deemed to be a reference to any successor provision.
(c) "Committee" means the administrative committee of this Plan that is provided for in Section 3 of this Plan.
(d) "Common Stock" means the common stock of DaVita Inc. or any security issued in substitution, exchange, or in lieu thereof.
(e) "Company" means DaVita Inc., a Delaware corporation, or any successor corporation. Except where the context indicates otherwise, the term "Company" shall include its Parent and Subsidiaries, if any.
(f) "Disabled" means permanent and total disability, as defined in Code Section 22(e)(3).
(g) "Effective Date" of this Plan is April 11, 2002.
(h) "Employee" means a worker whose earnings the Company reports on a Form W-2.
(i) "Exchange Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
(j) "Fair Market Value" of Common Stock for any day shall, except as otherwise provided below, be the last reported sale price on that day regular way, or if no such reported sale takes place on that day, the average of the last reported bid and ask prices on that day regular way, in either case on the principal national securities exchange on which the Common Stock is traded or listed.
 
 
 
(k) "Grants" mean awards of Options, Restricted Stock, Stock Issuances, Stock Appreciation Rights, and Other Awards.
(l) "Incentive Stock Option" means an option to purchase Common Stock that is intended to be an incentive stock option under Code Section 422.
(m) "Insider" means a person who is subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act.
(n) "Non-Qualified Stock Option" means any option to purchase Common Stock that is an Incentive Stock Option.
not
(o) "Option" means an Incentive Stock Option or a Non-Qualified Stock Option.
(p) "Other Awards" mean equity-based awards that are not Options, Restricted Stock, Stock Appreciation Rights, or Stock Issuances. However, in the event that the Other Award is the functional equivalent of Restricted Stock or Stock Issuance, (i) the special share-counting rule contained in Section 5(a)(iv) and (ii) the minimum vesting period contained in Section 2(u) shall apply.
(q) "Parent" means any corporation ( the Company) in an unbroken chain of corporations ending with the Company if each of the corporations ( the Company) owns stock possessing fifty percent (50%) or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock in one of the other corporations in the chain, as determined in accordance with the rules of Code Section 424(e).
other than
other than
(r) "Participant" means a person who has received a Grant.
 
(s) "Plan" means this DaVita Inc. 2002 Equity Compensation Plan.
(t) "Predecessor Plans" mean the DaVita Inc. 1994 Equity Compensation Plan, 1995 Equity Compensation Plan, 1997 Equity Compensation Plan, and 1999 Equity Compensation Plan.
(u) "Restricted Stock" mean the shares of Common Stock that are issued to a Participant, where the Participant does not immediately possess a vested right to those shares. In the case of a Grant to an Employee, the Participant may not become fully vested in the Restricted Stock in less than three (3) years from the date of the Grant. Nevertheless, the terms of a Grant may provide for faster vesting in limited situations of retirement, death, disability, change in control, and/or grants to newly-hired Employees. Other than the right to sell or otherwise transfer the shares and such other restrictions as may be contained in the Grant, the Participant shall be treated as the owner of the Restricted Stock (, for voting purposes) from the date of the issuance of the shares.
e.g.
(v) "Rule 16b-3" means Rule 16b-3 promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission.
(w) "Section 162(m)" means Code Section 162(m), which imposes a million dollar ($1,000,000) compensation deduction limitation on amounts paid to certain senior executives.
(x) "Service" means the performance of service, whether as an Employee or as an independent contractor (, as a member of the Board ).
e.g.
 
 
(y) "Severance" means, with respect to a Participant, the termination of the Participant's Service, whether by reason of death, disability, or any other reason.
 
 
 
 
(z) "Stock Appreciation Right" means the right to receive a payment equal to the difference between the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock on the date of its issuance and the date on which the right is exercised. Stock Appreciation Rights may be settled in cash or Common Stock.
(aa) "Stock Issuance" means the direct issuance of fully vested shares to an Employee or an independent contractor (including a director) for compensation previously earned. The shares may be issued immediately or on a deferred basis.
(bb) "Subsidiary" means any corporation ( the Company) in an unbroken chain of corporations beginning with the Company if each of the corporations ( the last corporation in the unbroken chain) owns stock possessing fifty percent (50%) or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock in one of the other corporations in the chain, as determined in accordance with the rules of Code Section 424(f).
other than
other than
(cc) "Substitute Grant" means an award issued to a person who had performed services for an entity that was acquired by the Company in substitution of a grant previously awarded to that individual or entity by the acquired entity.
(dd) "Ten Percent Stockholder" means any person who owns (after taking into account the constructive ownership rules of Code Section 424(d)) more than ten percent (10%) of the combined voting power of all classes of stock of DaVita Inc. or of any of its Parents or Subsidiaries.
.
3.
Administration
(a) Except as provided below, this Plan shall be administered by the Compensation Committee of the Board.
(b) If the income recognized with respect to an Option is intended to be exempt from Section 162(m), the Committee must be composed exclusively of "Outside Directors," as that term is defined in Section 162(m). Similarly, if a Grant to an Insider is intended to be an exempt purchase under Section 16 of the Exchange Act, then either (i) the Committee must be composed exclusively of "Non-Employee Directors," as that term is defined in Rule 16b-3 or (ii) the grant must be made by the Board of Directors.
(c) The Committee is authorized to interpret this Plan and to adopt rules and procedures relating to the administration of this Plan, including those relating to sub-plans established for the purpose of qualifying for preferred tax or other treatment under foreign laws.
 
All actions of the Committee in connection with the interpretation and administration of this Plan shall be binding upon all parties. No member of the Committee shall incur any liability for any actions taken or inactions done in good faith.
(d) Subject to the limitations of Sections 9 and 14 of this Plan, the Committee is expressly authorized to make such modifications to this Plan and to Grants made under this Plan as are necessary to effectuate the intent of this Plan as a result of any changes in the tax, accounting, or securities laws treatment of Participants or of the Plan.
(e) The Board of Directors may, by a resolution adopted by the Board, delegate the power to issue Grants under the Plan, provided such delegation is consistent with applicable law and the requirements of any stock exchange on which the Common Stock is traded.
.
4.
Duration of Plan
(a) This Plan shall be effective as of the Effective Date.
(b) The Plan shall terminate on February 8, 2012, which is the tenth anniversary of the date on which the Board of Directors adopted the Plan. The preceding sentence shall apply if the Company's stockholders reapprove the Plan prior to the termination date. The effect of obtaining such reapproval shall be to extend the term of the Plan for another ten (10) years from the date on which such reapproval shall be obtained.
not
.
5.
Number of Shares
(a) The following rules shall govern the size of Grants under this Plan.
 
 
 
 
The preceding numbers shall be adjusted as set forth in Section 12 of this Plan.
(b) Shares shall again become available for use under the Plan upon (i) the expiration or termination (for any reason) of an Option or Stock Appreciation Right which shall not have been exercised in full, and (ii) the forfeiture of shares of Common Stock subject to a Grant of Restricted Stock.
(c) The following rules apply for purposes of determining the number of shares that remain available for issuance under the Plan, regardless of whether the underlying Grant was made under this Plan or a Predecessor Plan.
 
 
 
 
 
(d) To the extent permitted by applicable law and the rules of any stock exchange or quotation system on which the Company's stock is traded or listed, the Corporation can replenish the number of shares available under the Plan through repurchases of its existing shares, provided that the purchases are effected solely by the use of:
 
 
provided that those exercises occur the Effective Date.
after
(e) Rules similar to the preceding provisions of this Section 5 shall apply with respect to Other Awards.
.
6.
Eligibility
(a) Persons eligible to receive Grants under this Plan shall consist of (i) Employees, (ii) members of the Board of Directors, and (iii) other persons providing Services, persons only providing Services in connection with a capital raising transaction. However, Incentive Stock Options may only be awarded to Employees.
other than
(b) In the event that the Company acquires another entity, the Committee may authorize the issuance of Substitute Grants upon such terms and conditions as the Committee shall determine, which may be different from the terms contained in this Plan, taking into account the limitations of Code Section 424(a) in the case of a Substitute Grant that is intended to be an Incentive Stock Option.
(c) In the event that the Committee makes a Grant to a person who is not currently an Employee of or an independent contractor to the Company, such Grant shall not become effective until such individual commences performing Services to the Company and it must satisfy the pricing limitations set forth in Section 7 of this Plan at that time.
(d) After taking into consideration the tax, securities, and accounting consequences of doing so, the Committee may issue Non-Qualified Stock Options, Restricted Stock, Stock Issuances, Stock Appreciation Rights, and Other Awards to individuals who are performing Services (whether as Employees or as independent contractors) to entities that are related to or affiliated with the Company but that do qualify as Parents or Subsidiaries. The Committee shall prescribe such rules as it deems appropriate regarding the crediting of Service in these circumstances.
not
. Gants shall be awarded under this Plan in such amounts, at such times, to such persons, on such terms and in such form as the Committee may approve, which shall not be inconsistent with the provisions of this Plan, but which need not be identical from Grant to Grant.
7.
Form of Grants
(a) The exercise price per share of Common Stock purchasable under an Option shall be set forth in the Option, and shall not be less than the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock on the date of Grant. However, the exercise price of an Incentive Stock Option issued to a Ten Percent Stockholder shall be no less than one hundred ten percent (110%) of the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock on the date of the Grant. Similarly, the base price of a Stock Appreciation Right shall not be less than the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock on the date of the Grant. However, the preceding three sentences shall apply in the case of Substitute Grants issued under this Plan. Similar pricing rules shall apply in the case of Other Awards.
not
 
(b) A Grant shall be exercisable at such time or times and be subject to such terms and conditions as may be set forth in its provisions. However, no Grant shall be exercisable prior to the Effective Date.
(c) Except in the case of Substitute Grants, the aggregate Fair Market Value (determined as of the date of Grant) of the number of shares of Common Stock with respect to which Incentive Stock Options are exercisable for the first time by a Participant during any calendar year shall not exceed one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000). To the extent that a Participant's Options exceed that limit, they will be treated as Non-Qualified Stock Options, with the first Options that were awarded to the Participant to be treated as Incentive Stock Options.
(d) Except as provided in Section 10 or in the case of Substitute Grants, the term of a Grant shall not exceed five (5) years from the date of its issuance.
.
8.
Exercise of Grants
(a) Grants that are settled in stock shall only be exercisable for whole numbers of shares.
(b) Options are exercised by payment of the full amount of the purchase price to the Company as follows:
 
 
For purposes of determining the amount of income that is recognized by a Participant pursuant to a "same-day sale" transaction described in Subparagraph (ii) above, the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock shall be the price at which the Common Stock was sold.
(c) Stock Appreciation Rights may be exercised by providing notice to the Committee on such terms and conditions as are set forth in the Grant.
(d) Except as otherwise provided in the terms of the Grant, the Participant may exercise the Grant following his or her Severance only to the extent that the Grant could have been exercised on the date of the Severance, so that no events that occur following Severance will increase the vested portion of the Grant.
 
(e) The Committee may provide for the acceleration of the vesting of Grants upon a change of control or similar circumstances, under such conditions as may be set forth in the Grants.
.
9.
Modification of Grants
(a) After due consideration to the possible tax, securities, and accounting consequences, the Committee may modify an existing Grant, including by:
 
 
(b) In no event will the exercise price of any outstanding Grant be reduced or repriced, including any repricing effected by issuing replacement stock options for outstanding stock options that have an exercise price greater than the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock, without first obtaining stockholder approval. This same prohibition will apply to Stock Appreciation Rights and Other Awards.
(c) In the event that the Board amends the terms of an Option so that it no longer qualifies as an Incentive Stock Option, the limitations imposed upon the Option under the Code and the Plan solely by virtue of its (formerly) qualifying as an Incentive Stock Option shall no longer apply, to the extent specified in the amendment.
(d) Whether a modification of an existing Incentive Stock Option will be treated as the issuance of a new Incentive Stock Option will be determined in accordance with the rules of Code Section 424(h).
(e) Whether a modification of an existing Grant previously awarded to an Insider will be treated as a new Grant for purposes of Section 16 of the Exchange Act will be determined in accordance with Rule 16b-3.
.
10.
Termination of Grants
(a) Except to the extent provided otherwise in the terms of the Grant, each Grant shall terminate on the of the following dates:
earliest
 
 
(b) , in no event shall an Option or Stock Appreciation Right be exercisable more than five (5) years after the date on which it was issued.
Except in the case of a Severance caused by death or Disability
 
(c) The nonvested portion of the Option or Stock Appreciation Right shall terminate immediately upon Severance, and the vested portion at the time the balance of the Option or Stock Appreciation Right terminates, as determined pursuant to the above rules.
(d) The nonvested portion of a Grant of Restricted Stock shall terminate immediately upon Severance.
. Except as may be expressly provided in the terms of a specific Grant, (a) during the lifetime of the Participant, Grants are exercisable only by the Participant, and (b) Grants are not assignable or transferable except by will or the laws of descent and distribution.
11.
Non-Transferability of Grants
.
12.
Adjustments
(a) In the event of any change in the capitalization of the Company affecting its Common Stock (, a stock split, reverse stock split, stock dividend, recapitalization, combination, reclassification, or other similar transaction), the Committee shall make such adjustments as it may deem appropriate with respect to:
e.g.
 
 
(b) The Committee may also make such adjustments in the event of a spin-off or other distribution of Company assets to stockholders ( normal cash dividends).
other than
. A Participant must notify the Company within fifteen (15) days if the Participant disposes of stock acquired pursuant to the exercise of an Incentive Stock Option issued under the Plan or a Predecessor Plan prior to the expiration of the holding periods required to qualify for long-term capital gains treatment on the disposition.
13.
Notice of Disqualifying Disposition
. Subject to the limitations of applicable law and any stock exchange on which the Common Stock is listed or traded, the Board may at any time amend or terminate this Plan. The Plan may not be amended other than by a written document executed by the Company. Furthermore, no Participant may rely upon any statement (oral or written) that is inconsistent with the terms of the Plan or the Grant. To insure that Options can qualify as Incentive Stock Options, within twelve (12) months after the adoption of the amendment by the Board of Directors, the stockholders must approve any amendment that changes:
14.
Amendments and Termination
(a) The class of Employees who are eligible to receive Incentive Stock Options; and/or
(b) The maximum number of shares of Common Stock that may be issued as Incentive Stock Options under the Plan, except as adjusted pursuant to Section 12 of this Plan.
 
.
15.
Tax Withholding
(a) The Company shall have the right to take such actions as may be necessary to satisfy its tax withholding obligations relating to the operation of this Plan.
(b) To the extent authorized by the Committee, Participants may (i) surrender previously acquired shares of Common Stock or (ii) have shares withheld in satisfaction of the tax withholding obligations. To the extent necessary to avoid adverse accounting treatment, the number of shares that may be withheld for this purpose shall not exceed the number needed to satisfy the applicable income and employment tax withholding rules. Similarly, the shares surrendered must have been owned by the Participant for the minimum period of time necessary to avoid adverse accounting treatment (if applicable).
minimum
(c) If Common Stock is used to satisfy the Company's tax withholding obligations, the stock shall be valued at its Fair Market Value when the tax withholding is required to be made.
.
16.
No Additional Rights
(a) Neither the adoption of this Plan nor the awarding of any Grant shall:
 
 
(b) No Participant shall have any rights as a stockholder with respect to any shares awarded to the Participant under this Plan until the date a certificate for such shares has been issued to the Participant.
.
17.
Securities Law Restrictions
(a) No shares of Common Stock shall be issued under this Plan unless the Committee shall be satisfied that the issuance will be in compliance with applicable federal and state securities laws and the requirements of any stock exchange or other securities market on which the Company's securities may then be traded. Similarly, a Participant will not be permitted to exercise a Grant if such exercise would violate the Company's internal policies.
(b) The Committee may require certain investment (or other) representations and undertakings by the person exercising a Grant if necessary to comply with applicable law.
(c) Certificates for shares of Common Stock delivered under this Plan may be subject to such restrictions as the Committee may deem advisable. The Committee may cause a legend to be placed on the certificates to refer to those restrictions.
 
(d) The inability of the Company to obtain registration, qualification, or other necessary authorization, or the unavailability of an exemption from any registration or qualification obligation deemed by the Company's counsel to be necessary for the lawful issuance and sale of any shares of its Common Stock under this Plan shall:
 
 
.
18.
Indemnification
(a) To the maximum extent permitted by law, the Company shall indemnify each member of the Committee and of the Board, as well as any other Employee of the Company with duties under the Plan, against expenses and liabilities (including any amount paid in settlement) reasonably incurred by the individual in connection with any claims against the individual by reason of the performance of the individual's duties under this Plan, unless the losses are due to the individual's gross negligence or lack of good faith.
(b) The Company will have the right to select counsel and to control the prosecution or defense of the suit.
(c) In the event that more than one person who is entitled to indemnification is subject to the same claim, all such persons shall be represented by a single counsel, unless such counsel advises the Company in writing that he or she cannot represent all such persons under the applicable rules of professional responsibility.
(d) The Company will not be required to indemnify any person for any amount incurred through any settlement unless the Company consents in writing to the settlement.
. This Plan and all actions taken pursuant to it shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware, without regard to its conflicts of laws provisions.
19.
Governing Law
 


