FILE:DVA/DVA-8K-20060602163008.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
On May 29, 2006, DaVita Inc. (the "Company") notified Gambro Renal Products Inc., a Colorado corporation ("Gambro Renal Products"), that the Company was terminating the Alliance and Product Supply Agreement, dated as of October 5, 2005 (the "Supply Agreement"), among the Company, Gambro Renal Products and Gambro AB, a Swedish company and the parent of Gambro Renal Products. The Company entered into the Supply Agreement in conjunction with the closing of its acquisition of Gambro Healthcare, Inc. (now DVA Renal Healthcare, Inc.) from Gambro, Inc, a Colorado corporation, a subsidiary of Gambro AB and an affiliate of Gambro Renal Products. Gambro Renal Products and Gambro AB do not have any other material relationship with the Company or its affiliates.
Under the Supply Agreement, the Company is obligated to purchase, subject to specified transition periods, a significant majority of its requirements for hemodialysis products, supplies and equipment from Gambro Renal Products at the fixed prices set forth in the Supply Agreement. In addition, the parties to the Supply Agreement agreed to cooperate with each other in the development of dialysis products. Other material terms of the Supply Agreement were described in the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on October 11, 2005, which is incorporated herein by reference.
The termination notice claims a material breach by Gambro Renal Products in the performance of its obligations under the Supply Agreement. Pursuant to the terms of the Supply Agreement, termination will be effective 90 days after notice of the breach, or August 27, 2006, (i) Gambro Renal Products has not cured such breach within such 90-day period, or (ii) if a cure is not possible within such 90-day period, Gambro Renal Products has failed to commence or diligently continue steps the parties agreed would result in a cure or prevent a similar subsequent breach. In the event of the termination of the Supply Agreement, the Company does not expect it will have a material adverse impact on its overall financial condition.
provided that
The Company does not believe that it will incur any material early termination penalties in connection with its termination of the Supply Agreement.
The foregoing description of the Supply Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Supply Agreement which was filed with the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2005. A copy of the press release announcing the notice of termination of the Supply Agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
The information included in this Current Report on Form 8-K contains forward-looking statements. All statements that do not concern historical facts are forward-looking statements. These statements involve substantial known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause the actual results to differ materially from those described herein, including those risks described in the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2006. The Company's forward-looking statements are based on information currently available to it, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise these statements, whether as a result of changes in underlying factors, new information, future events or otherwise.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
EL SEGUNDO, Calif., May 30, 2006  DaVita Inc. (NYSE: DVA) announced that on May 29, 2006, it notified Gambro Renal Products, Inc., a subsidiary of Gambro AB, that it is terminating the Alliance and Product Supply Agreement, dated as of October 5, 2005, among DaVita, Gambro AB and Gambro Renal Products, Inc. (the "Supply Agreement"). DaVita entered into the Supply Agreement in conjunction with the closing of its acquisition of Gambro Healthcare, Inc., a Tennessee corporation, from Gambro, Inc., a Colorado corporation, a subsidiary of Gambro AB and an affiliate of Gambro Renal Products. The termination notice claims a material breach by Gambro Renal Products in the performance of its obligations under the Supply Agreement. The Supply Agreement provides for a cure period of ninety days following notice of the breach. In the event of a termination of the Supply Agreement, DaVita does not expect it will have a material adverse impact on its overall financial condition.
DaVita is a leading provider of dialysis services for patients suffering from chronic kidney failure. The Company provides services at kidney dialysis centers and home peritoneal dialysis programs domestically in 41 states, as well as Washington, D.C. As of March 31, 2006, DaVita operated or managed over 1,200 outpatient facilities serving approximately 98,000 patients.


