FILE:DVA/DVA-8K-20060706153938.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
Approval of the Form of Stock Appreciation Rights Agreement
On June 29, 2006, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of DaVita Inc. (the "Company") approved the form of Stock Appreciation Rights Agreement (the "SAR Agreement") for grants of stock appreciation rights to employees under the DaVita Inc. 2002 Equity Compensation Plan (the "Plan"). Under the SAR Agreement, the Company may award an employee ("Grantee") an individual grant of a stock appreciation right ("SAR"). The shares of the Company's common stock subject to the SAR will have the base price set forth in the applicable SAR Agreement, but shall not be less than the fair market value on the date of grant and will vest in accordance with the schedule set forth in the applicable SAR Agreement. Upon the exercise of all or a portion of the SAR, the Grantee will receive a number of shares of the Company's common stock with a fair market value equal to the amount by which the fair market value of a share of the Company's common stock on the exercise date exceeds the SAR base price, multiplied by the number of shares of common stock with respect to which the SAR is exercised.
The SAR awarded to a Grantee will be effective from the grant date and will expire on the fifth anniversary thereafter. However, if the Grantee's employment with the Company is terminated (the "Severance"), the SAR will terminate (i) one year from the date of the Severance, if the Grantee dies while employed by the Company (or during the three month period immediately subsequent to the Severance) or was disabled at the time of the Severance and (ii) three months from the date of the Severance in all other cases. The SAR is also subject to termination if at any time within the later of (i) the term of the SAR or (ii) one year after termination of employment for any reason, the Grantee, among other things, breaches the non-competition, non-solicitation or non-disclosure provisions of the SAR Agreement. The SAR will terminate effective on the date on which the Grantee commits such a breach, and the Grantee must pay the Company any gain realized from exercising the shares of common stock subject to the SAR. In addition, some or all of any unvested portion of the SAR may be subject to revocation in the event of a meaningful reduction, determined in the Company's sole discretion, in both the Grantee's duties and responsibilities and the level of the Grantee's regular cash compensation for an extended or indefinite period of time. In such event, the Company reserves the right to unilaterally revoke some or all of the unvested portion of the Grantee's SAR.
The SAR Agreement also provides that, in the event of a Change of Control (as that term is defined in the SAR Agreement), the SAR will automatically vest and become immediately exercisable in its entirety, and such vesting will be effective as of the effective date of the Change of Control transaction.
The foregoing description of the SAR Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the SAR Agreement which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1.
Approval of an Amendment to the Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement and the Form of Restricted Stock Units Agreement
On June 29, 2006, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company also approved an amendment to each of (i) the form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement (the "Stock Option Agreement") for non-qualified stock option grants to employees under the Plan and (ii) the form of Restricted Stock Units Agreement (the "RSU Agreement") for restricted stock unit awards to employees under the Plan. The amendment to each of the Stock Option Agreement and the RSU Agreement provides that, in the event of a meaningful reduction, determined in the Company's sole discretion, in both a participant's duties and responsibilities and the level of such participant's regular cash compensation for an extended or indefinite period of time, the Company reserves the right to unilaterally revoke some or all of the unvested portion of such participant's option or award.
Entry into an Employment Agreement with the Chief Financial Officer of the Company
The Company entered into an employment agreement (the "Employment Agreement") effective September 1, 2006 (the "Effective Date") with Mark G. Harrison pursuant to which Mr. Harrison agreed to serve
as the Company's Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Harrison will receive an annual base salary of $500,000 and is eligible to receive a performance bonus in an amount to be determined by the Chief Executive Officer and/or the Board of Directors or the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors. On the Effective Date, Mr. Harrison also is entitled to receive a starting bonus in the amount of $52,000. The Company will also pay Mr. Harrison an additional $75,000 per year, less withholdings, for the first three years after he relocates to California to assist him with the cost of housing in California. Under the Employment Agreement, Mr. Harrison will receive a grant of an option to purchase 125,000 shares of the Company's common stock on the Effective Date at an exercise price equal to the closing price of the stock on such date. The option has a five-year term, with 25% vesting on the first anniversary of the grant date, 8.33% vesting on the twentieth month after the grant date, and 8.33% every four months thereafter. In addition, on the Effective Date, Mr. Harrison will receive 31,250 shares of restricted stock units which shall vest over a five-year period, one-third vesting on each of the third, fourth and fifth anniversary of the grant date.
Under the terms of the Employment Agreement, Mr. Harrison is an "at will" employee, which means that either Mr. Harrison or the Company may terminate his employment at any time. In the event that Mr. Harrison's employment is terminated for reasons other than death, Material Cause or Disability (as each term is defined in the Employment Agreement) or if Mr. Harrison resigns within sixty (60) days following a Constructive Discharge following a Change of Control (as each term is defined in the Employment Agreement), Mr. Harrison is entitled to receive his base salary and health benefits for a period of one year following termination. If within six (6) years of the Effective Date, (i) the Chief Executive Officer as of the Effective Date is no longer the Chief Executive Officer for reasons other than as a result of a Change of Control, (ii) the new Chief Executive Officer has worked for the Company for less than two years at the time he/she becomes the Chief Executive Officer, and (iii) within one year of this person becoming the new Chief Executive Officer, that person either hires someone else to be Company's Chief Financial Officer or has commenced a search for a new Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Harrison will continue to receive his base salary for a two (2) year period and health benefits for an eighteen-month period following termination and will receive a lump-sum severance of $150,000, less withholdings.
The Employment Agreement provides further that Mr. Harrison is (1) prohibited from soliciting employees of the Company and (2) prohibited from soliciting any patient or customer of the Company to patronize any competing dialysis facility or from soliciting any patient, customer, supplier or physician to terminate their business relationship with the Company, for a period of one year (or for a period of two years if Mr. Harrison is receiving a severance) following the termination of his employment for any reason.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
Primary Terms
 
The terms set forth above, together with the terms and Conditions attached, constitute one agreement.
Note: Please mark and initial any correction to the Name, SSN and/or Address shown on this page before returning a signed copy of this stock appreciation rights agreement to the Stock Plan Administrator.
This is dated as of ("Grant Date") by and between DaVita Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Company") and ("Grantee") pursuant to the Company's ("Plan"). Capitalized terms that are used but not defined in this document shall have the meanings set forth in the Plan.
Stock Appreciation Rights Agreement
July 1, 2006
Sample Example
2002 Equity Compensation Plan
 
The Company hereby grants to the Grantee the right ("SAR") to receive with respect to all or any portion of shares (" Base Shares") of the common stock of the Company ("Common Stock") a number of shares ("Gain Shares") of Common Stock with a Fair Market Value equal to the amount by which the Fair Market Value of one share of Common Stock on the date on which the SAR is exercised exceeds a base price of per share ("Base Price").
5,000
$50.0000
 
(a) This SAR shall be effective for the period ("Term") from the Grant Date shown above through July 1, 2011 ("Expiration Date").
(b) In the case of the termination of the Grantee's employment with the Company ("Severance"), the following rules shall apply in determining the date on which the SAR shall terminate.
(i) If the Grantee dies while employed by the Company or during the three (3) month period immediately subsequent to his or her Severance, the SAR shall terminate one (1) year from the date of the Severance.
(ii) If the Grantee was disabled (within the meaning of Section 22(e)(3) of the Code) at the time of his or her Severance, the SAR shall terminate one (1) year following the Severance.
(iii) In all other cases, the SAR shall terminate three (3) months following the Severance.
(c) If the Grantee is transferred between the Company and a subsidiary thereof, or vice versa, or between subsidiaries, Severance shall not be deemed to have occurred.
(d) If there is a meaningful reduction, determined in the Company's sole discretion, in both the Grantee's duties and responsibilities and the level of the Grantee's regular cash compensation for an extended or indefinite period of time, the Company reserves the right to unilaterally revoke some or all of the unvested portion of the SAR.
 
(a) The Base Shares subject to this SAR shall become exerciseable ("vest") on the dates indicated under the Vesting Schedule table above such that this SAR shall be fully exerciseable on the last date listed on such table; provided, however, that such vesting shall cease at the time of Grantee s Severance.
(b) These installments shall be cumulative, so that this SAR may be exercised as to any or all of the Base Shares covered by an installment at any time or times after the installment becomes vested and until this SAR terminates.
(c) The foregoing notwithstanding, in the event of a "Change of Control", defined herein as (i) any transaction or series of transactions in which any person or group (within the meaning of Rule 13d-5 under the Exchange Act and Sections 13(d) and 14(d) under the Exchange Act) becomes the direct or indirect "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act), by way of a stock issuance, tender offer, merger, consolidation, other business combination or otherwise, of greater than 50% of the total voting power (on a fully diluted basis as if all convertible securities had been converted and all warrants and options had been exercised) entitled to vote in the election of directors of the Company (including any transaction in which the Company becomes a wholly-owned or majority-owned subsidiary of another corporation), or (ii) any merger or consolidation or reorganization in which the Company does not survive, or (iii) any merger or consolidation in which the Company survives, but the shares of the Company's Common Stock outstanding immediately prior to such merger or consolidation represent 50% or less of the voting power of the Company after such merger or consolidation, or (iv) any transaction in which more than 50% of the Company's assets are sold, then, in any such case, this SAR shall automatically vest and become immediately exerciseable in its entirety, such vesting to be effective as of the effective date of such
transaction or series of transactions; provided, however, that no transaction contemplated by clauses (i) through (iv) above shall constitute a Change of Control if both (x) the person acting as the Chief Executive Officer of the Company for the 6 months prior to such transaction becomes the Chief Executive Officer or Executive Chairman of the Board of Directors of the entity that has acquired control of the Company as a result of such transaction (the "Acquiror") immediately after such transaction and remains the Chief Executive Officer or Executive Chairman of the Board of Directors for not less than one year following the transaction and (y) a majority of the Acquiror's board of directors immediately after such transaction consist of persons who were directors of the Company immediately prior to such transaction.
(d) The Grantee s Severance (whether by reason of death or otherwise) shall not accelerate the number of Base Shares with respect to which an SAR may be exercised.
 
This SAR may be exercised by the Grantee upon delivery of the following documents to the Company at its principal executive offices, or as otherwise required in accordance with a broker-assisted cashless exercise program:
(a) Written notice, in the form of a completed exercise election form, specifying the number of full Shares with respect to which the SAR is being exercised;
(b) Such agreements or undertakings that are required by the Committee pursuant to the Plan; and
(c) Provision for the payment of any taxes (including withholding taxes) which may be required by the Committee.
 
Upon exercise of the SAR, in whole or in part, the Company shall:
(1) provide for the registration in book-entry form for the Grantee's benefit of the Gain Shares (rounded down to the nearest whole number, and which may be reduced by any Gain Shares required to be withheld or sold on behalf of the Grantee to satisfy tax withholding requirements), or
(2) deliver to the Grantee a stock certificate representing the Gain Shares (rounded down to the nearest whole number, and which may be reduced by any Gain Shares required to be withheld or sold on behalf of the Grantee to satisfy tax withholding requirements).
 
(a) This SAR shall be exerciseable only by the Grantee during the Grantee s lifetime.
(b) The rights of the Grantee under this SAR may not be assigned or transferred except by will or by the laws of descent and distribution.
 
The Grantee shall have no rights as a stockholder of any Base Shares or Gain Shares unless and until Gain Shares are issued to Grantee upon the exercise of the SAR.
 
(a) This SAR is granted under the provisions of the Plan and shall be interpreted in a manner consistent with it.
(b) Any provision in this SAR inconsistent with the Plan shall be superseded and governed by the Plan
.
(c) For all purposes under this SAR, employment by the Company shall include employment by the Company or any subsidiary thereof.
The Grantee acknowledges that the certificates representing any Gain Shares issued upon exercise of this SAR may bear such legends and be subject to such restrictions on transfer as the Company may deem necessary to comply with all applicable state and federal securities laws and regulations.
 
This SAR may be amended at any time with the consent of the Company and the Grantee.
 
(a) The Grantee acknowledges and recognizes the highly competitive nature of the business of the Company and accordingly agrees that while Grantee is an employee of the Company and for the one-year period following termination of such relationship, the Grantee will not (i) engage in or become an employee, director, principal or shareholder of, consultant to or equity participant in, any person, firm, partnership, joint venture, association, corporation or other business organization, entity or enterprise other than the Company that engages in activities that are in competition with the Company in the United States (the "Territory"); (ii) (x) directly or indirectly induce any employee of the Company, its affiliates or its subsidiaries or any physician with privileges at a dialysis facility owned by the Company, its affiliates or its subsidiaries to (A) engage in any activity that Grantee has agreed to refrain from pursuant to (i) above or (B) terminate his or her relationship with the Company or any of its affiliates or subsidiaries or (y) directly or indirectly employ, or offer employment to or other similar arrangement with, any person who is or was during the period of the Grantee s employment or consulting or advisory relationship with the Company, or was beforehand, employed or engaged by the Company, its affiliates or subsidiaries, including but not limited to a medical director of a dialysis facility owned or operated by the Company, its subsidiaries or affiliates, or a physician with admitting privileges at a dialysis facility owned, operated or managed by Company, or one of its affiliates or subsidiaries, or (iii) take any action that results, or might reasonably result in any of the foregoing.
(b) In addition, Grantee agrees not to disclose or use for his or her own benefit or purposes or for the benefit or purposes of any person, firm, partnership, joint venture, association, corporation or other business organization, entity or enterprise other than the Company and any of its subsidiaries or affiliates, any trade secrets, information, data, or other confidential information relating to customers, development, programs, costs, marketing, trading, investment, sales activities, promotion, credit and financial data, financing methods, plans, or the business and affairs of the Company ("Information"); provided, however, the foregoing shall not apply to (i) Information which is not unique to the Company, or (ii) Information which is generally known to the industry or the public other than as a result of the Grantee's breach of his covenant, or (iii) disclosure that is required by any applicable law, rule or regulation. If Grantee receives such a request to produce Information in his or her possession, Grantee shall provide Company reasonable advance notice, in writing, prior to producing said Information, so as to give Company reasonable time to object to Grantee producing said Information.
(c) If, at any time within (a) the Term of this SAR, or (b) one (1) year after termination of employment for any reason, whichever is the latest, Grantee (i) breaches the non-competition provision of Section 10(a), (ii) breaches the non-solicitation provision of Section 10(a), (iii) breaches the non-disclosure provision of Section 10(b), (iv) is convicted of a felony, (v) has been adjudicated by a court of competent jurisdiction of having committed an act of fraud or dishonesty resulting or intending to result directly or indirectly in personal enrichment at the expense of the Company, or (vi) is excluded from participating in any federal health care program, then (1) this SAR shall terminate effective on the date on which Grantee enters into such activity and (2) any gain realized by Grantee from exercising all or a portion of this SAR shall be paid by Grantee to the Company.
This agreement may be considered null and void at the discretion of the Company if a signed copy is not returned to the Stock Plan Administrator
NO LATER THAN October 1, 2006.
, the Company and the Grantee have executed this SAR effective as of the date first written above.
In Witness Whereof
 

Exhibit 10.2
Primary Terms
 
The terms set forth above, together with the terms and Conditions attached, constitute one agreement.
Note: Please mark and initial any correction to the Name, SSN and/or Address shown on this page before returning a signed copy of this stock option agreement to the Stock Plan Administrator.
This is dated as of ("Grant Date") by and between DaVita Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Company") and Sample Example ("Optionee") pursuant to the Company's
Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement
March 30, 2005
2002 Equity
("Plan"). Capitalized terms that are used but not defined in this document shall have the meanings set forth in the Plan.
Compensation Plan
 
(a) The Company hereby grants to the Optionee the right ("Option") to purchase all or any portion of shares ("Shares") of the common stock of the Company ("Common Stock") at a purchase price of per share ("Option Price").
5,000
$41.8500
(b) It is intended that this Option will not qualify for treatment as an incentive stock option under Internal Revenue Code ("Code") Section 422.
 
(a) This Option shall be effective for the period ("Term") from the Grant Date shown above through March 30, 2010 ("Expiration Date").
(b) In the case of the termination of the Optionee's employment with the Company ("Severance"), the following rules shall apply in determining the date on which the Option shall terminate.
(i) If the Optionee dies while employed by the Company or during the three (3) month period immediately subsequent to his or her Severance, the Option shall terminate one (1) year from the date of the Severance.
(ii) If the Optionee was disabled (within the meaning of Section 22(e)(3) of the Code) at the time of his or her Severance, the Option shall terminate one (1) year following the Severance.
(iii) In all other cases, the Option shall terminate three (3) months following the Severance.
(c) If the Optionee is transferred between the Company and a subsidiary thereof, or vice versa, or between subsidiaries, Severance shall not be deemed to have occurred.
(d) If there is a meaningful reduction, determined in the Company's sole discretion, in both the Optionee's duties and responsibilities and the level of the Optionee's regular cash compensation for an extended or indefinite period of time, the Company reserves the right to unilaterally revoke some or all of the unvested portion of the Option.
 
(a) The shares subject to this Option shall become exerciseable ("vest") on the dates indicated under the Vesting Schedule table above such that this Option shall be fully exerciseable on the last date listed on such table; provided, however, that such vesting shall cease at the time of Optionee's Severance.
(b) These installments shall be cumulative, so that this Option may be exercised as to any or all of the Shares covered by an installment at any time or times after the installment becomes vested and until this Option terminates.
(c) The foregoing notwithstanding, in the event of a "Change of Control", defined herein as (i) any transaction or series of transactions in which any person or group (within the meaning of Rule 13d-5 under the Exchange Act and Sections 13(d) and 14(d) under the Exchange Act) becomes the direct or indirect "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act), by way of a stock issuance, tender offer, merger, consolidation, other business combination or otherwise, of greater than 50% of the total voting power (on a fully diluted basis as if all convertible securities had been converted and all warrants and options had been exercised) entitled to vote in the election of directors of the Company (including any transaction in which the Company becomes a wholly-owned or majority-owned subsidiary of another corporation), or (ii) any merger or consolidation or reorganization in which the Company does not survive, or (iii) any merger or consolidation in which the Company survives, but the shares of the Company's Common Stock outstanding immediately prior to such merger or consolidation represent 50% or less of the voting power of the Company after such merger or consolidation, or (iv) any transaction in which more than 50% of the Company's assets are sold, then, in any such case, this Option shall automatically vest and become immediately exerciseable in its entirety, such vesting to be effective as of the effective date of such
transaction or series of transactions; provided, however, that no transaction contemplated by clauses (i) through (iv) above shall constitute a Change of Control if both (x) the person acting as the Chief Executive Officer of the Company for the 6 months prior to such transaction becomes the Chief Executive Officer or Executive Chairman of the Board of Directors of the entity that has acquired control of the Company as a result of such transaction (the "Acquiror") immediately after such transaction and remains the Chief Executive Officer or Executive Chairman of the Board of Directors for not less than one year following the transaction and (y) a majority of the Acquiror's board of directors immediately after such transaction consist of persons who were directors of the Company immediately prior to such transaction.
(d) The Optionee's Severance (whether by reason of death or otherwise) shall not accelerate the number of shares with respect to which an Option may be exercised.
 
This Option may be exercised by the Optionee upon delivery of the following documents to the Company at its principal executive offices:
(a) Written notice, in the form of a completed exercise election form, specifying the number of full Shares to be purchased;
(b) Payment of the full purchase price therefor in cash, by check, or in such other form of lawful consideration as the Committee may approve from time to time;
(c) Such agreements or undertakings that are required by the Committee pursuant to the Plan; and
(d) Payment of any taxes (including withholding taxes) which may be required by the Committee.
 
(a) This Option shall be exerciseable only by the Optionee during the Optionee's lifetime.
(b) The rights of the Optionee under this Option may not be assigned or transferred except by will or by the laws of descent and distribution.
 
The Optionee shall have no rights as a stockholder of any Shares covered by this Option until the date a certificate for such Shares has been issued to him or her following the exercise of the Option.
 
(a) This Option is made under the provisions of the Plan and shall be interpreted in a manner consistent with it.
(b) Any provision in this Option inconsistent with the Plan shall be superseded and governed by the Plan
.
(c) For all purposes under this Agreement, employment by the Company shall include employment by the Company or any subsidiary thereof.
 
The Optionee acknowledges that the certificates representing the Shares issued upon exercise of this Option may bear such legends and be subject to such restrictions on transfer as the Company may deem necessary to comply with all applicable state and federal securities laws and regulations.
This Option may be amended at any time with the consent of the Company and the Optionee.
 
(a) The Optionee acknowledges and recognizes the highly competitive nature of the business of the Company and accordingly agrees that while Optionee is an employee of the Company and for the one-year period following termination of such relationship, the Optionee will not (i) engage in or become an employee, director, principal or shareholder of, consultant to or equity participant in, any person, firm, partnership, joint venture, association, corporation or other business organization, entity or enterprise other than the Company that engages in activities that are in competition with the Company in the United States (the "Territory"); (ii) (x) directly or indirectly induce any employee of the Company, its affiliates or its subsidiaries or any physician with privileges at a dialysis facility owned by the Company, its affiliates or its subsidiaries to (A) engage in any activity that Optionee has agreed to refrain from pursuant to (i) above or (B) terminate his or her relationship with the Company or any of its affiliates or subsidiaries or (y) directly or indirectly employ, or offer employment to or other similar arrangement with, any person who is or was during the period of the Optionee's employment or consulting or advisory relationship with the Company, or was beforehand, employed or engaged by the Company, its affiliates or subsidiaries, including but not limited to a medical director of a dialysis facility owned or operated by the Company, its subsidiaries or affiliates, or a physician with admitting privileges at a dialysis facility owned, operated or managed by Company, or one of its affiliates or subsidiaries, or (iii) take any action that results, or might reasonably result in any of the foregoing.
(b) In addition, Optionee agrees not to disclose or use for his or her own benefit or purposes or for the benefit or purposes of any person, firm, partnership, joint venture, association, corporation or other business organization, entity or enterprise other than the Company and any of its subsidiaries or affiliates, any trade secrets, information, data, or other confidential information relating to customers, development, programs, costs, marketing, trading, investment, sales activities, promotion, credit and financial data, financing methods, plans, or the business and affairs of the Company ("Information"); provided, however, the foregoing shall not apply to (i) Information which is not unique to the Company, or (ii) Information which is generally known to the industry or the public other than as a result of the Optionee's breach of his covenant, or (iii) disclosure that is required by any applicable law, rule or regulation. If Optionee receives such a request to produce Information in his or her possession, Optionee shall provide Company reasonable advance notice, in writing, prior to producing said Information, so as to give Company reasonable time to object to Optionee producing said Information.
(c) If, at any time within (a) the Term of this Option, or (b) one (1) year after termination of employment for any reason, whichever is the latest, Optionee (i) breaches the non-competition provision of Section 10(a), (ii) breaches the non-solicitation provision of Section 10(a), (iii) breaches the non-disclosure provision of Section 10(b), (iv) is convicted of a felony, (v) has been adjudicated by a court of competent jurisdiction of having committed an act of fraud or dishonesty resulting or intending to result directly or indirectly in personal enrichment at the expense of the Company, or (vi) is excluded from participating in any federal health care program, then (1) this Option shall terminate effective on the date on which Optionee enters into such activity and (2) any gain realized by Optionee from exercising all or a portion of this Option shall be paid by Optionee to the Company.
This agreement may be considered null and void at the discretion of the Company if a signed copy is not returned to the Stock Plan Administrator
NO LATER THAN July 31, 2005.
, the Company and the Optionee have executed this Option as of the date first written above.
In Witness Whereof
 

Exhibit 10.3
Sample Example
1234 Any Street
Apt. # A
Any Town, US 12345
SSN: 123-45-6789
In recognition of your continuing contributions toward making DaVita the Greatest Dialysis Company the World has ever seen, and as a reward for your hard work and commitment to living our Mission and our Values, you have been granted this award (the "Award") of restricted stock units ("Restricted Stock Units" or "Units") under This award represents your right to receive shares of common stock of DaVita Inc. (the "Company"), subject to your fulfillment of the vesting conditions set forth in this agreement (the "Agreement").
DaVita's 2002 Equity Compensation Plan (the "Plan").
The terms of your Award are as set forth in this Agreement and in the Plan. The Plan is incorporated into this Agreement by reference, which means that this Agreement is limited by and subject to the terms of the Plan. In the event of a conflict between the terms of this Agreement and the terms of the Plan, the terms of the Plan will control. Capitalized terms that are used here but that are not defined in this Agreement have the meanings given to them in the Plan. The most important terms of the Award are summarized as follows:
 
Upon each vesting date of the Award (each, a "Vesting Date"), one share of Common Stock will become issuable to you for each Restricted Stock Unit that vests on such Vesting Date (the "Shares"). After the Vesting Date, the Company will issue the Shares to you, after reducing the Shares by a number of shares (if any) that are sold to satisfy your tax withholding obligations. No fractional shares will be issued under this Agreement, even though such fractions may result if a portion of a share must be sold to pay your withholding taxes.
4. Conversion of Restricted Stock Units and Stock Issuance.
You must be an employee of the Company on a Vesting Date in order to receive the Shares then vesting. Thus, Restricted Stock Units will not continue to vest if your employment terminates for any reason, including in the event you die, become disabled, retire, or change status to that of an independent contractor. In those circumstances, you will forfeit your right to any Restricted Stock Units that would otherwise vest after the date on which your employment is terminated.
5. Termination of Employment.
You will not have any right to the Shares subject to your Award until they are actually issued to you.
6. Right to Shares.
7. Taxes.
You are ultimately liable and responsible for all taxes owed in connection with the Award, regardless of any action the Company or any of its Subsidiaries takes with respect to any tax withholding obligations that arise in connection with the Award. Neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries makes any representation or undertaking regarding the treatment of any tax withholding in connection with the grant or vesting of the Award or the subsequent sale of Shares issuable pursuant to the Award. The Company and its Subsidiaries do not commit and are under no obligation to structure the Award to reduce or eliminate your tax liability. As a condition and term of this Award, no election under 83(b) of the United States Internal Revenue Code may be made by you or any other person with respect to all or any portion of the Award.
(a) Generally.
Prior to any event in connection with the Award (e.g., vesting) that the Company determines may result in any domestic or foreign tax withholding obligation, whether national, federal, state or local, including any social tax obligation (the "Tax Withholding Obligation"), you must arrange for the satisfaction of the minimum amount of such Tax Withholding Obligation in a manner acceptable to the Company. You may choose to satisfy your tax obligation in either of the following manners:
(b) Payment of Withholding Taxes.
(i)  Such Shares will be sold on the day the tax Withholding Obligation arises (e.g., a Vesting Date) or as soon thereafter as practicable. You will be responsible for all broker's fees and other costs of sale, and you agree to indemnify and hold the Company harmless from any losses, costs, damages, or expenses relating to any such sale. To the extent the proceeds of such sale exceed your Tax Withholding Obligation, the Company agrees to pay such excess in cash to you through payroll or otherwise as soon as practicable. You acknowledge that the Company or its designee is under no obligation to arrange for such sale at any particular price, and that the proceeds of any such sale may not be sufficient to satisfy your Tax Withholding Obligation. Accordingly, you agree to pay to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries as soon as practicable, including through additional payroll withholding, any amount of Tax Withholding Obligation that is not satisfied by the sale of Shares described above.
By Sale of Shares.
Unless you choose to satisfy the Tax Withholding Obligation by some other means in accordance with clause (ii) below, your acceptance of this Award constitutes your instruction and authorization to the Company and any brokerage firm determined acceptable to the Company for such purpose to withhold or sell on your behalf a whole number of Shares from those Shares issuable to you as the Company determines to be appropriate to generate cash proceeds sufficient to satisfy the Tax Withholding Obligation.
(ii)  At any time not less than ten (10) business days before any Tax Withholding Obligation arises (e.g., a Vesting Date), you may notify the Company of your intent to make a separate cash payment to satisfy your Tax Withholding Obligation. If you elect to satisfy your Tax Withholding Obligation in this manner, you will be asked to remit to the Company an amount that the Company determines is sufficient to satisfy the Tax Withholding Obligation within ten (10) business days after the Vesting Date by (a) delivery of a certified check payable to the Company, attn: Dan Chandler, Stock Plan Administrator, P.O Box 2076, Tacoma, Washington 98401-2076, or such other address as the Company may from time to time direct, (b) wire transfer to such account as the Company may direct, or (c) such other means as the Company may establish or permit. If you do not remit this amount to the Company within twenty (20) business days after the Vesting Date, the Company reserves the right to satisfy your Tax Withholding Obligation in the manner set out under paragraph (i) above in its sole discretion.
By Check, Wire Transfer or Other Means.
The Company will not be able to issue any Shares to you until you satisfy the Tax Withholding Obligation.
(c) Right to Retain Shares.
Your interest in this Award may not be assigned or alienated, whether voluntarily or involuntarily.
8. Assignment.
This Award may be amended only by means of a written document signed by both you and the Company. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if there is a meaningful reduction, determined in the Company's sole discretion, in you're your duties and responsibilities and the level of your regular cash compensation for an extended or indefinite period of time, the Company reserves the right to unilaterally revoke some or all of the unvested portion of the Award.
9. Amendments.
Under certain circumstances, if the Company is sold, your entire Award will vest immediately. The specific rules regarding the circumstances in which full vesting would occur are contained in an exhibit to this Agreement.
10. Change of Control of the Company.
11. Non-Competition/Non-Solicitation/Non-Disclosure
(a) You acknowledge and recognize the highly competitive nature of the business of the Company and accordingly agree that while you are an employee of the Company and for the one-year period following termination of such relationship, you will not (i) engage in or become an employee, director, principal or shareholder of, consultant to or equity participant in, any person, firm, partnership in, any person, firm, partnership, joint venture, association, corporation or other business organization, entity, or enterprise other than the Company that engages in activities that are in competition with the Company in the United States; (ii) (x) directly or indirectly induce any employee of the Company, its affiliates or its subsidiaries or any physician with privileges at a dialysis facility owned by the Company, its affiliates or its subsidiaries to (A) engage in any activity that you have agreed to refrain from pursuant to (i) above or (B) terminate his or her relationship with the Company or any of its affiliates or subsidiaries or (y) directly or indirectly employ, or offer employment to or other similar arrangement with, any person who is or was during the period of your employment or consulting or advisory relationship with the Company, or was beforehand, employed or engaged by the Company, its affiliates or subsidiaries, including but not limited to a medical director of a dialysis facility owned or operated by the Company, its subsidiaries or affiliates, or a physician with admitting privileges at a dialysis facility owned, operated or managed by Company, or one of its affiliates or subsidiaries, or (iii) take any action that results, or might reasonably result in any of the foregoing.
(b) In addition, you agree not to disclose or use for your own benefit or purposes or for the benefit or purposes of any person, firm, partnership, joint venture, association, corporation or other business organization, entity or enterprise other than the Company and any of its subsidiaries or affiliates, any trade secrets, information, data, or other confidential information relating to customers, development, programs, costs, marketing, trading, investment, sales activities, promotion, credit and financial data, financing methods, plans, or the business and affairs of the Company ("Information"); provided, however, the foregoing shall not apply to (i) Information which is not unique to the Company, or (ii) Information which is generally known to the industry or the public other than as a result of your breach of his covenant, or (iii) disclosure that is required by any applicable law, rule or regulation. If you receive such a request to produce Information in your possession, you shall provide Company reasonable advance notice, in writing, prior to producing said Information, so as to give Company reasonable time to object to your producing said Information.
(c) If, at any time within (a) the Term of this Agreement, or (b) one (1) year after termination of employment for any reason, whichever is the latest, you (i) breach the non-competition provision of Section 11(a), (ii) breach the non-solicitation provision of Section 11(a), (iii) breach the non-disclosure provision of Section 11(b), (iv) are convicted of a felony, (v) have been adjudicated by a court of competent jurisdiction of having committed an act of fraud or dishonesty resulting or intending to result directly or indirectly in personal enrichment at the expense of the Company, or (vi) are excluded from participating in any federal health care program, then (1) this Agreement shall terminate effective on the date on which you enter into such activity, and (2) any consideration received by you as a result of this Award under this Agreement shall be paid by you to the Company.
In order for this Award to be effective, you must sign one copy of it and return the signed original to Daniel Chandler,
12. Execution of Award Agreement.
NO LATER THAN July 31, 2005.
I, a resident of (state), accept and agree to the terms of the Restricted Stock Units Award described in this Agreement, acknowledge receipt of a copy of this Agreement, the Plan, and the applicable Plan Summary, and acknowledge that I have read them carefully and that I fully understand their contents.
                                                          
 
The shares subject to your Restricted Stock Units Award will become fully vested upon the Company experiencing a "Change
of Control," as that term is defined below:
Change of Control will mean:
(i) any transaction or series of transactions in which any person or group (within the meaning of Rule 13d-5 under the Exchange Act and Sections 13(d) and 14(d) under the Exchange Act) becomes the direct or indirect "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act), by way of a stock issuance, tender offer, merger, consolidation, other business combination or otherwise, of greater than 50% of the total voting power (on a fully diluted basis as if all convertible securities had been converted and all warrants and options had been exercised) entitled to vote in the election of directors of the Company (including any transaction in which the Company becomes a wholly-owned or majority-owned subsidiary of another corporation), or
(ii) any merger or consolidation or reorganization in which the Company does not survive, or
(iii) any merger or consolidation in which the Company survives, but the shares of the Company's Common Stock outstanding immediately prior to such merger or consolidation represent 50% or less of the voting power of the Company after such merger or consolidation, or
(iv) any transaction in which more than 50% of the Company's assets are sold.
However, no transaction contemplated by clauses (i) through (iv) above shall constitute a Change of Control if both (x) the person acting as the Chief Executive Officer of the Company for the six months prior to such transaction becomes the Chief Executive Officer of the entity that has acquired control of the Company as a result of such transaction (the "Acquiror") immediately after such transaction and remains the Chief Executive Officer for not less than one year following the transaction and (y) a majority of the Acquiror's board of directors immediately after such transaction consist of persons who were directors of the Company immediately prior to such transaction.

Exhibit 10.4
This Employment Agreement (this "Agreement") is entered into effective September 1, 2006 (the "Effective Date"), by and between DaVita Inc. ("Employer") and Mark G. Harrison ("Employee").
In consideration of the mutual covenants and agreements hereinafter set forth and for other good and valuable consideration, the parties hereto, intending to be legally bound hereby, agree as follows:
Section 1. . Employer hereby employs Employee to serve initially as Chief Financial Officer. Employee shall work out of Employer's El Segundo, California headquarters. He shall report to the Chief Executive Officer. Employee accepts such employment on the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement. Employee shall perform the duties of Chief Financial Officer, as well as other initial responsibilies as determined by Employer's Chief Executive Officer, as well any additional or different duties or jobs as Employer deems appropriate. Employee agrees to devote substantially all of his time, energy, and ability to the business of Employer on a full-time basis and shall not engage in any other business activities during the term of this Agreement, , Employee may only serve on one Board of Directors for one other company with Employer's express permission, which it may withhold at its discretion, and may pursue normal charitable activities so long as such activities do not require a substantial amount of time and do not interfere with his ability to perform his duties, as determined by the Employer in its discretion. If Employee wants to serve on the Board of Directors of one other company, he shall notify Employer's Chief Executive Officer and the Employer's Board of Directors so that they can determine whether it is appropriate for him to serve on the Board of Directors of that other company. Employee shall at all times observe and abide by the Employer's policies and procedures as in effect from time to time.
Employment and Duties
provided
however
Section 2. . In consideration of the services to be performed by Employee hereunder, Employee shall receive the following compensation and benefits:
Compensation
2.1 . Employer shall pay Employee a base salary of $500,000 per annum, less standard withholdings and authorized deductions. Employee shall be paid consistent with Employer's payroll schedule. The Base Salary will be reviewed each year during Employer's annual review. Employer, in its sole discretion, may increase the Base Salary as a result of any such review.
Base Salary
2.2 . Employee and/or his family, as the case may be, shall be eligible for participation in and shall receive all benefits under Employer's health and welfare benefit plans (including, without limitation, medical, prescription, dental, disability, and life insurance) under the same terms and conditions applicable to most executives at similar levels of compensation and responsibility.
Benefits
2.3 .
Performance Bonuses
(a) Employee shall be eligible to receive an annual discretionary performance bonus (the "Bonus") between zero and $500,000, payable in a manner consistent with Employer's practices and procedures, with consideration that Employee has neither requested nor received a signing bonus to compensate him for forfeited 2006 incentive bonus in his current position. The amount of the Bonus, if any, will be decided by the Chief Executive Officer and/or the Board of Directors or the Compensation Committee of the Board in his/its sole discretion. The bonus that is paid in 2006 shall be pro-rated based on Employee's time in his position during 2006.
(b) Employee must be employed by Employer (or an affiliate) on the date any Bonus is paid to be eligible to receive such Bonus and, if Employee is not employed by Employer (or an affiliate) on the date any Bonus is paid for any reason whatsoever, Employee shall not be entitled to receive such Bonus.
2.4 . On the Effective Date, Employer shall pay Employee a starting bonus of $52,000, less standard withholdings and authorized deductions.
Starting Bonus
2.5 . Employee shall have vacation, pursuant to Employer's standard executive vacation practice, subject to the approval of the Chief Executive Officer.
Vacation
2.6 . Employee shall receive options to purchase 125,000 shares of Employer stock. Such options shall have a five-year term and vest 25% on the first anniversary date of the grant, 8.33% on the 20
Stock Options
th
month of the grant, and 8.33% every 4 months thereafter. The exercise price shall be the closing price as reported on the New York Stock Exchange on the start date of this Agreement or on the date that appropriate approval has been given, whichever is later. The options will be reflected in a separate Stock Option Agreement.
2.7 . On the Effective Date or on the date appropriate approval has been given, whichever date is later, Employee will receive 31,250 shares of Employer's restricted stock units, entitling Employee to the same number of full shares of DaVita common stock, subject to the following vesting conditions: such restricted units shall vest over a five-year period, one-third vesting on the third, fourth, and fifth anniversary date of Employee's date of hire. The terms of the restricted stock units will be reflected in a separate Restricted Stock Units Agreement.
Restricted Stock Units
2.8 .
Relocation
(a) Employer shall pay certain of Employee's reasonable relocation costs pursuant to its policies and practices, so long as those expenses have been previously approved by the Employer's Chief Executive Officer. Employer shall provide Employee with information concerning its policies and practices. Employer shall gross up any relocation reimbursement paid to Employee to off-set any and all applicable taxes.
 
(b) To assist Employee with the cost of housing in California, Employer shall pay Employee $75,000 per year, less withholdings, for the first 3 years after he relocates. This payment shall be paid quarterly, in arrears.
(c) From the Effective Date of this Agreement through the date Employee relocates to California, but not later than June 30, 2007, unless extended by the Chief Executive Officer, Employer shall reimburse Employee for his car rental costs while in California and shall pay for the rental of an apartment in Southern California (the Employer's General Counsel and Employee shall mutually agree on the place where Employee shall live), as well as reasonable travel back to Minnesota as agreed between Employee and Employer's Chief Executive Officer. In addition, Employer shall provide Employee with reasonable access to the corporate apartment when Employee's family comes to Los Angeles.
2.9 . Employer agrees to indemnify Employee against and in respect of any and all claims, actions, or demands, in accordance with all applicable laws.
Indemnification
2.10 . If Employee hires an attorney to review this Agreement, Employer agrees to reimburse Employee for his reasonable attorneys' fees and costs up to $3,000.
Legal Fees
2.11 . Employer also agrees to reimburse Employee in accordance with Employer's reimbursement policies for travel and entertainment expenses, as well as other business-related expenses, incurred in the performance of his duties hereunder.
Reimbursement
2.12 . Employer reserves the right to modify, suspend, or discontinue any and all of its health and welfare benefit plans, practices, policies, and programs at any time without recourse by Employee so long as such action is taken generally with respect to all other similarly-situated peer executives and does not single out Employee.
Changes to Benefit Plans
Section 3. .
Provisions Relating to Termination of Employment
3.1 . Employee's employment with Employer is "at will" and is terminable by Employer or by Employee at any time and for any reason or no reason, subject to the notice requirements set forth below.
Employment Is At-Will
3.2 . Employer may terminate Employee's employment for Material Cause (as defined below) upon at least thirty (30) days' advance written notice specifying in detail the cause for the termination and the intended termination date. Upon termination for Material Cause, Employee shall (i) be entitled to receive the Base Salary and benefits as set forth in and , respectively, through the effective date of such termination and (ii) not be entitled to receive any other compensation, benefits, or payments of any kind, except as otherwise required by law or by the terms of any benefit or retirement plan or other arrangement that would, by its terms, apply.
Termination for Material Cause
Section 2.1
Section 2.2
 
3.3 .
Other Termination
(a) Employer may terminate the employment of Employee for any reason or for no reason at any time upon at least thirty (30) days' advance written notice. If Employer terminates the employment of Employee for reasons other than for Material Cause, death, or Disability, or if Employee resigns within sixty (60) days following a Constructive Discharge (as that term is defined below), Employee shall (i) be entitled to receive the Base Salary and benefits as set forth in and , respectively, through the effective date of such termination or resignation, (ii) continue to receive his salary for the one-year period ("Severance Period") following the termination of his employment, (iii) be entitled to continue to receive during the twelve (12)-month period following the effective date of such termination (the "COBRA Period") the employee health insurance benefits set forth in that he was receiving immediately before his termination at the same cost to him as he paid prior to his termination; and (iv) not be entitled to receive any other compensation, benefits, or payments of any kind, except as otherwise required by law or by the terms of any benefit or retirement plan or other arrangement that would, by its terms, apply.
Section 2.1
Section 2.2
Section 2.2
(b) If within six (6) years of the Effective Date of this Agreement, (i) Kent Thiry is no longer the Chief Executive Officer for reasons other than as a result of a Change of Control, (ii) the new Chief Executive Officer has worked for Employer for less than two years at the time he/she becomes the Chief Executive Officer, and (iii) within one year of this person becoming the new Chief Executive Officer, that person either hires someone else to be Employer's Chief Financial Officer or has commenced a search for a new Chief Financial Officer, Employee shall be entitled to receive all of the benefits set forth in , above, except that he shall continue to receive his salary for the two-year period following the termination of his employment (the "Severance Period"), be entitled to continue to receive during the eighteen (18)-month period following the effective date of such termination (the "COBRA Period") the employee health insurance benefits set forth in that he was receiving immediately before his termination at the same cost to him as he paid prior to his termination, and shall receive a lump-sum severance of $150,000, less withholdings.
Section 3.3(a)
Section 2.2
(c) The foregoing notwithstanding, in the event Employee accepts employment (as an employee or as an independent contractor) with another employer during the COBRA Period, (x) Employee shall immediately notify Employer of such employment and (y) Employer's obligation to continue to provide certain health insurance benefits pursuant to the provisions set forth above shall terminate once Employee becomes eligible to participate in his new employer's health benefit plan.
(d) Once Employee accepts employment (as an employee or as an independent contractor), Employer may reduce its obligation under clause (ii) of and/or dollar-for-dollar for every dollar Employee earns in base salary or other compensation (including fees earned as a consultant, fees earned as a director, signing bonus, performance bonus, special or other bonus) during the Severance Period from his new employer. Employee may not defer compensation with his new employer (including, but not limited to, performing non-compensated work during the Severance Period, only to start being compensated
Section 3.3(a)
Section 3.3(b)
 
at the conclusion of the Severance Period) or take any other action in an effort to avoid the dollar-for-dollar reduction required by this of the Agreement, and that if Employee does take such action, the Company's obligations under this Section may be reduced accordingly by the Company it its discretion. Employee agrees to use reasonable efforts to find employment during the Severance Period.
Section 3.3
(e) During the Severance Period, Employee agrees (1) to make himself available to answer questions and to cooperate in the transition of his duties, (2) to respond to any inquiries from the Compliance Department, including making himself available for interviews, and (3) to cooperate with Employer in the prosecution and/or defense of any claim, including making himself available for any interviews, appearing at depositions, and producing requested documents. Employer shall reimburse Employee for any out-of-pocket expenses he may incur, including travel costs, provided that Employee used the Employer's travel department to arrange and purchase all travel-related expenses.
(f) Employee must execute the Employer's standard Severance and General Release Agreement before being eligible to receive the severance benefits set forth above. All severance arrangements shall comply with the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, all related regulations, and all other laws and regulations governing the payment of severances, including all waiting periods, as well as Employer's severance policy.
3.4. . Employee may resign from Employer at any time upon at least ninety (90) days' advance written notice. If Employee resigns from Employer, Employee shall (i) be entitled to receive the Base Salary and benefits as set forth in and , respectively, through the effective date of such termination and (ii) not be entitled to receive any other compensation, benefits, or payments of any kind, except as otherwise required by law or by the terms of any benefit or retirement plan or other arrangement that would, by its terms, apply. In the event Employee resigns from Employer at any time, Employer shall have the right to make such resignation effective as of any date before the expiration of the required notice period.
Voluntary Resignation
Section 2.1
Section 2.2
3.5 . Upon thirty (30) days' advance notice (which notice may be given before the completion of the periods described herein), Employer may terminate Employee's employment for Disability (as defined below), provided that either (i) immediately upon the effective date of such termination, Employee shall be eligible to receive full disability benefits under the disability insurance, if any, provided to Employee by Employer or (ii) Employer shall continue to pay the Base Salary to Employee until the first to occur of (A) full disability benefits are received or (B) one (1) year from the effective date of such termination.
Disability
3.6 . For the purposes of this Agreement, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated:
Definitions
(a) "Change of Control" shall mean (i) any transaction or series of transactions in which any person or group (within the meaning of Rule 13d-5 under the
 
Exchange Act and Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act) becomes the direct or indirect "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act), by way of a stock issuance, tender offer, merger, consolidation, other business combination or otherwise, of greater than 40% of the total voting power (on a fully diluted basis as if all convertible securities had been converted and all warrants and options had been exercised) entitled to vote in the election of directors of Employer (including any transaction in which Employer becomes a wholly-owned or majority-owned subsidiary of another corporation), (ii) any merger or consolidation or reorganization in which Employer does not survive, (iii) any merger or consolidation in which Employer survives, but the shares of Employer's Common Stock outstanding immediately prior to such merger or consolidation represent 40% or less of the voting power of Employer after such merger or consolidation, and (iv) any transaction in which more than 40% of Employer's assets are sold. , despite the occurrence of any of the above-described events, a Change of Control will have occurred if Kent Thiry remains the Chief Executive Officer or Executive Chair of Employer for at least one (1) year after the Change of Control or becomes the Chief Executive Officer or Executive Chair of the surviving company with which Employer merged or consolidated and remains in that position for at least one (1) year after the Change of Control.
However
not
(b) "Constructive Discharge" shall mean the occurrence of any of the following events after the date of a Change of Control without Employee's express written consent: (i) the scope of Employee's authority, duties and responsibilities are materially diminished or are not (A) in the same general level of seniority or (B) of the same general nature as Employee's authority, duties, and responsibilities with Employer immediately before such Change of Control; (ii) the failure by Employer to provide Employee with office accommodations and assistance substantially equivalent to the accommodations and assistance provided to Employee immediately before such Change of Control; (iii) the principal office to which Employee is required to report is changed to a location that is more than twenty (20) miles from the principal office to which Employee is required to report immediately before such Change of Control; or (iv) a reduction by Employer in Employee's Base Salary, bonus arrangement, or other material benefits as in effect on the date of such Change of Control.
(c) "Disability" shall mean the inability, for a period of six (6) months, to adequately perform Employee's regular duties, with or without reasonable accommodation, due to a physical or mental illness, condition, or disability.
(d) "Material Cause" shall mean any of the following: (i) conviction of a felony; (ii) the adjudication by a court of competent jurisdiction that Employee has committed any act of fraud or dishonesty resulting or intended to result directly or indirectly in personal enrichment at the expense of Employer; (iii) repeated failure or refusal by Employee to follow policies or directives reasonably established by the Chief Executive Officer of Employer or his designee that goes uncorrected for a period of thirty (30) consecutive days after written notice has been provided to Employee; (iv) a material breach of this Agreement that goes uncorrected for a period of thirty (30) consecutive days after written notice has been provided to Employee; (v) an act of unlawful discrimination, including sexual harassment; (vi) any gross or willful misconduct or gross negligence by Employee in the performance of his duties; (vii) egregious conduct by Employee that brings Employer or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates into public
 
disgrace or disrepute, (viii) a violation of the duty of loyalty or of any fiduciary duty; or (ix) exclusion or notice of exclusion of Employee from participating in any federal health care program.
3.7 . Any purported termination of Employee's employment by Employer or by Employee shall be communicated by a written Notice of Termination to the other party hereto in accordance with hereof. A "Notice of Termination" shall mean a written notice that indicates the specific termination provision in this Agreement relied upon and sets forth in reasonable detail the facts and circumstances claimed to provide a basis for termination of Employee's employment.
Notice of Termination
Section 6
3.8 . Upon termination, this Agreement shall be of no further force and effect and neither party shall have any further right or obligation hereunder; provided, however, that no termination shall modify or affect the rights and obligations of the parties that have accrued prior to termination; and , that the rights and obligations of the parties under , , and shall survive termination of this Agreement.
Effect of Termination
provided
further
Section 3
Section 4
Section 5
Section 4. .
Certain Covenants of Executive
4.1 .
Confidential Information
(a) Employee acknowledges and agrees that: (i) in the course of his employment by Employer, it will or may be necessary for Employee to create, use, or have access to (A) technical, business, or customer information, materials, or data relating to Employer's present or planned business that has not been released to the public with Employer's authorization, including, but not limited to, confidential information, materials, or proprietary data belonging to Employer or relating to Employer's affairs (collectively, "Confidential Information") and (B) information and materials that concern Employer's business that come into Employer's possession by reason of employment with Employer (collectively, "Business Related Information"); (ii) all Confidential Information and Business Related Information are the property of Employer; (iii) the use, misappropriation, or disclosure of any Confidential Information or Business Related Information would constitute a breach of trust and could cause serious and irreparable injury to Employer; and (iv) it is essential to the protection of Employer's goodwill and maintenance of Employer's competitive position that all Confidential Information and Business Related Information be kept confidential and that Employee not disclose any Confidential Information or Business Related Information to others or use Confidential Information or Business Related Information to Employee's own advantage or the advantage of others.
(b) In recognition of the acknowledgment contained in above, Employee agrees that, during the term of this Agreement and thereafter until the Confidential Information and/or Business Related Information becomes publicly available (other than through a breach by Employee), Employee shall: (i) hold and safeguard all Confidential Information and Business Related Information in trust for Employer, its successors, and assigns;
Section 4.1(a)
 
(ii) not appropriate or disclose or make available to anyone for use outside of Employer's organization at any time, either during employment with Employer or subsequent to the termination of employment with Employer for any reason, any Confidential Information and Business Related Information, whether or not developed by Employee, except as required in the performance of Employee's duties to Employer; (iii) keep in strictest confidence any Confidential Information or Business Related Information; and (iv) not disclose or divulge, or allow to be disclosed or divulged by any person within Employee's control, to any person, firm, or corporation, or use directly or indirectly, for Employee's own benefit or the benefit of others, any Confidential Information or Business Related Information.
(c) Employee agrees that all lists, materials, records, books, data, plans, files, reports, correspondence, and other documents ("Employer material") used or prepared by, or made available to, Employee shall be and remain property of Employer. Upon termination of employment, Employee shall immediately return all Employer material to Employer, and Employee shall not make or retain any copies or extracts thereof.
(d) Employee also agrees that he will not become employed by any Person (as defined in below), as an employee or independent contractor, in which he will be obligated to disclose or use Confidential Information or Business Related Information or where such disclosure would be inevitable because of the nature of his position. He also agrees that, for a period of two years after the termination of his employment (for any reason), he will not provide advice to any Person concerning the negotiation of any agreements with Employer. Similarly, he will not negotiate any agreements on behalf of any Person with Employer during this two-year period. Employee shall confirm, in writing, that he is complying with the terms of this provision upon the reasonable request of the Employer.
Section 4.2
4.2. . Employee agrees that during the term of this Agreement and for a period of one (1) year after the termination of his employment with Employer for any reason (or for a period of two years if Employee is receiving a severance pursuant to ), he shall not: (i) be an officer, director, consultant, partner, owner, stockholder, employee, creditor, agent, trustee, independent contractor, director, or advisor on a paid or unpaid basis of any individual, partnership, limited liability company, corporation, independent practice association, management services organization, or any other entity (collectively, "Person") that either is in the business of or, directly or indirectly, derives any economic benefit from providing, arranging, offering, managing, or subcontracting dialysis services or renal care services; (ii) directly or indirectly, own, manage, control, operate, invest in, acquire an interest in, or otherwise engage in, act for, or act on behalf of any Person (other than Employer and its subsidiaries and affiliates) engaged in any activity in the United States or in those countries outside the United States in which Employer or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates had conducted any business during Employee's employment hereunder, where such activity is similar to or competitive with the activities carried on by Employer or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates; (iii) be an officer, director, consultant, partner, owner, stockholder, employee, creditor, agent, trustee, independent contractor, director, or advisor on a paid or unpaid basis of and Person that has been or may currently be a supplier to or client of Employer; or (iv) be an officer, director, consultant, partner, owner, stockholder, employee, creditor, agent, trustee, independent contractor, director,
Competition
Section 3.3(b)
 
or advisor on a paid or unpaid basis for any physician group, affiliated physician group, or physician partners who provide nephrology-related services. As used herein, the term "dialysis services" or "renal care services" includes, but shall not be limited to, all dialysis services and nephrology-related services provided by Employer at any time during the period of Employee's employment, including, but not limited to, hemodialysis, acute dialysis, apheresis services, peritoneal dialysis of any type, staff-assisted hemodialysis, home hemodialysis, dialysis-related laboratory and pharmacy services, access-related services, drug purchasing, drug distribution, Method II dialysis supplies and services, nephrology practice management, vascular access services, disease management services, pre-dialysis education, ckd services, or renal physician/center network management, and any other services or treatment for persons diagnosed as having end stage renal disease ("ESRD") or pre-end stage renal disease, including any dialysis services provided in an acute hospital. The term "ESRD" shall have the same meaning as set forth in Title 42, Code of Federal Regulations 405.2101 or any successor thereto. Employee acknowledges that the nature of Employer's activities is such that competitive activities could be conducted effectively regardless of the geographic distance between Employer's place of business and the place of any competitive business. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, such activities shall not include the ownership of 1% or less of the issued and outstanding stock, which is purchased in the open market, of a public company that conducts business that is similar to or competitive with the business carried on by the Employer or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates.
et seq.
Notwithstanding anything set forth herein, Employee shall not be prohibited from being employed (as an employee or independent contractor) by any Person that provides dialysis services and/or renal care services, as those terms as defined above, so long as such services constitutes no more than 5% of that Person's total business operations and so long as Employee complies with the other terms of this Agreement. .
Employee acknowledges and agrees that the geographical limitations and duration of this covenant not to compete is reasonable. In particular, Employee agrees that his position is national in scope and that he will have an impact on every location where Employer currently conducts and will conduct business. Therefore, Employee acknowledges and agrees that, like his position, this covenant cannot be limited to any particular geographic region.
4.3 . Employee promises and agrees that he will not, for a period of one (1) year after the termination of his employment (for any reason) (or for a period of two years if Employee is receiving a severance pursuant to ),, directly or indirectly, (a) solicit any of Employer's employees to work for any Person, (b) hire any of Employer's employees to work (as an employee or an independent contractor) for any Person, or (c) take any action that may reasonably result in any of Employer's employees going to work (as an employee or an independent contractor) for any Person.
Solicitation of Employees
Section 3.3(b)
4.4 . Employee promises and agrees that during the term of this Agreement and for a period of one (1) year after the termination of his employment for any reason (or for a period of two years if Employee is receiving a severance pursuant to ),, he shall not, directly or indirectly: (i) induce any patient or customer of Employer, either
Other solicitation
Section 3.3(b)
 
individually or collectively, to patronize any competing dialysis facility; (ii) request or advise any patient, customer, or supplier of Employer to withdraw, curtail, or cancel such person's business with Employer; (iii) enter into any contract the purpose or result of which would benefit Employee if any patient or customer of Employer were to withdraw, curtail, or cancel such person's business with Employer; (iv) solicit, induce, or encourage any physician (or former physician) affiliated with Employer or induce or encourage any other person under contract with Employer to curtail or terminated such person's affiliation or contractual relationship with Employer; (v) disclose to any Person the names or addresses of any patient or customer of Employer or of any physician (or former physician) affiliated with Employer; or (vi) disparage Employer or any of its agents, employees, or affiliated physicians in any fashion.
4.5 . In the event that any part of this shall be held unenforceable or invalid, the remaining parts hereof shall nevertheless continue to be valid and enforceable as though the invalid portions had not been a part hereof. In the event that the area, period of restriction, activity, or subject established in accordance with this shall be deemed to exceed the maximum area, period of restriction, activity, or subject that a court of competent jurisdiction deems enforceable, such area, period of restriction, activity, or subject shall, for the purpose of , be reduced to the extent necessary to render them enforceable.
Enforcement
Section 4
Section 4
Section 4
4.6 . Employee agrees that any violation by Employee of any covenant in will or would cause Employer to suffer irreparable injury, the exact amount of which will be difficult to ascertain. For that reason, Employee agrees that Employer (or any of its subsidiaries) shall be entitled, as a matter of right, to a temporary, preliminary, and/or permanent injunction and/or other injunctive relief, ex parte or otherwise, from any court of competent jurisdiction, restraining any further violations by Employee. Such injunctive relief shall be in addition to and in no way limit any and all other remedies Employer shall have in law and equity for the enforcement of such covenants and provisions. Employee consents and stipulates to the entry of such injunctive relief in such a court prohibiting him from any further violation of the covenants and provisions of .
Equitable Relief
Section 4
Section 4
Section 5. .
Miscellaneous
5.1 . This Agreement and the separate Stock Option and Restricted Stock Unit Agreements represents the entire understanding of the parties hereto with respect to the employment of Employee and supersedes all prior agreements with respect thereto. This Agreement may not be altered or amended except in writing executed by both parties hereto.
Entire Agreement; Amendment
5.2 . This Agreement is personal and may not be assigned by Employee. This Agreement may be assigned by Employer and shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the successors and assigns of Employer.
Assignment; Benefit
5.3 . Notices and all other communications provided for in this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given when delivered or mailed by United States registered mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, addressed to
Notice
 
Employer at its principal office and to Employee at Employee's principal residence as shown in Employer's personnel records, provided that all notices to Employer shall be directed to the attention of the Chief Executive Officer with a copy to the General Counsel of Employer, or to such other address as either party may have furnished to the other in writing in accordance herewith, except that notice of change of address shall be effective only upon receipt.
5.4 . Each party has cooperated in the drafting and preparation of this Agreement. Hence, in any construction to be made of this Agreement, the same shall not be construed against any party on the basis that the party was the drafter. The captions of this Agreement are not part of the provisions hereof and shall have no force or effect.
Construction
5.5 . This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument. Photographic or facsimile copies of such signed counterparts may be used in lieu of the originals for any purpose.
Execution
5.6 . Employee and Employer recognize that this is a legally binding contract and acknowledge and agree that they have had the opportunity to consult with legal counsel of their choice.
Legal Counsel
5.7 . The waiver by any party of a breach of any provision of this Agreement by the other shall not operate or be construed as a waiver of any other or subsequent breach of such or any provision.
Waiver
5.8 . This Agreement shall be governed by the same state laws that govern the Chief Executive Officer's employment agreement, without regard to the principles of conflicts of laws.
Applicable Law
5.9 . Upon approval by the Employer's Board of Directors of an excess parachute payment plan or program, Employer shall provide Employee with excess parachute payment protection that is consistent with his position as one of the top officers of the Company and that is consistent with what his peers (as determined by the Chief Executive Officer) are receiving pursuant to the Board-approved execess parachute payment plan or program.
Excess Parachute Payment
 
5.10 . In the event that any provision of this Agreement is determined to be illegal, invalid, or void for any reason, the remaining provisions hereof shall continue in full force and effect.
Invalidity of Provision
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement effective as of the date and year first written above.
 
 
 


