FILE:DVA/DVA-8K-20060703141808.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
On June 27, 2006, the Board of Directors (the "Board") of DaVita Inc. (the "Company") elected Roger Valine as a member of the Board of Directors. The Board has not yet made any determination concerning the committees of the Board to which Mr. Valine may be appointed. A copy of the press release announcing the election of Mr. Valine is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
No arrangement or understanding exists between Mr. Valine and any other person or persons pursuant to which he was selected as a director. The Company has had no transactions since the beginning of its last fiscal year, and has no transactions proposed, in which Mr. Valine, or any member of his immediate family, has a direct or indirect material interest.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
El Segundo, CA, June, 28, 2006, DaVita Inc. (NYSE: DVA) announced today that Roger J. Valine, 57, has joined its Board of Directors.
Roger J. Valine is the Chief Executive Officer of Vision Service Plan (VSP), the nation's largest provider of eyecare wellness benefits, where he has worked for the last 33 years. From 1993 to February 2006 he served as both the VSP President and CEO. Mr. Valine plans to retire as CEO effective July 1, 2006, he will continue to provide consulting services to the company. VSP is the largest provider of vision care in the nation and provides coverage to over 46,000,000 members with annual revenue over $2.2 billion.
"We are excited that Roger is joining our Board of Directors. He brings an extensive healthcare background which is directly applicable to the challenges and opportunities faced by our Company." stated Peter Grauer, Lead Independent Director.
Mr. Valine serves on the boards of Linking Education and Economic Development (LEED), American Specialty Health, Inc., SureWest Communications, and is co-chairman of Partnership for Prosperity for seven California counties and the Sacramento Region. He is also a member of the UC Davis Graduate School of Management Dean's Advisory Committee.
DaVita is a leading provider of dialysis services for patients suffering from chronic kidney failure. The Company provides services at kidney dialysis centers and home peritoneal dialysis programs domestically in 41 states, as well as Washington, D.C. As of March 31, 2006, DaVita operated or managed over 1,200 outpatient facilities serving approximately 98,000 patients.


