FILE:DVA/DVA-8K-20061220163047.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
On December 14, 2006, the Board of Directors of DaVita Inc. (the "Company") approved a new form of Indemnity Agreement (the "Indemnity Agreement"), and the Company entered into the Indemnity Agreement, effective as of December 14, 2006, with each of its directors and certain executive officers. The Indemnity Agreement provides that the Company shall indemnify the indemnitee if the indemnitee is a party to or threatened to be made a party to or otherwise involved in any proceeding by reason of the fact that the indemnitee is or was an agent of the Company, or by reason of any act or inaction by indemnitee in any such capacity, against any and all expenses and liabilities, actually and reasonably incurred by indemnitee in connection with the investigation, defense, settlement or appeal of such proceeding, but only if the indemnitee acted in good faith and in a manner indemnitee reasonably believed to be in, or not opposed to, the best interests of the Company, and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, had no reasonable cause to believe indemnitee's conduct was unlawful. In any proceeding by or in the name of the Company to procure a judgment in its favor, subject to certain exceptions, the Company will not be obligated to indemnify the indemnitee if the indemnitee shall have been finally adjudged to be liable to the Company by a court of competent jurisdiction due to willful misconduct of a culpable nature in the performance of the indemnitee's duty to the Company. In addition, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law and to the extent that the indemnitee is, by reason of indemnitee's status as an agent, a witness in any proceeding to which the indemnitee is not a party, indemnitee shall be indemnified against all expenses actually and reasonably incurred by indemnitee or on indemnitee's behalf in connection therewith.
The indemnitee shall be presumed to have acted in good faith and in a manner the indemnitee reasonably believed to be in, or not opposed to, the best interests of the Company, and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, to have had no reasonable cause to believe indemnitee's conduct was unlawful, unless a determination is made pursuant to the procedures set forth in the Indemnity Agreement that the indemnitee has not acted in accordance with such standards. For purposes of any determination of good faith, the indemnitee shall be deemed to have acted in good faith if the indemnitee's action is based on the records or books of account of the Company or a subsidiary, including financial statements, or on information supplied to the indemnitee by the officers of the Company or a subsidiary in the course of their duties, or on the advice of legal counsel for the Company or a subsidiary or on information or records given or reports made to the Company or a subsidiary by an independent certified public accountant or by an appraiser or other expert selected with the reasonable care by the Company or a subsidiary.
The Company shall advance, to the fullest extent not prohibited by law, all expenses incurred by the indemnitee in connection with any proceeding to which the Indemnitee is a party or is threatened to be made a party by reason of the fact that the indemnitee is or was an agent of the Company. The Company shall not be obligated to indemnify the indemnitee for expenses, judgments, fines or penalties which have been paid directly to the indemnitee by directors' and officers' liability insurance.
If the Company shall be obligated to pay the expenses of any proceeding against the indemnitee, the Company, if appropriate, shall be entitled to assume the defense of such proceeding, with counsel reasonably acceptable to the indemnitee, upon the delivery to the indemnitee of written notice of its election to do so. After such an election by the Company, approval of such counsel by the indemnitee and the retention of such counsel by the Company, the Company shall not be liable for any fees of counsel subsequently incurred by the indemnitee with respect to the same proceeding. However, the indemnitee shall have the right to employ counsel in such proceeding at the indemnitee's expense, and, under certain circumstances set forth in the Indemnity Agreement, the fees and expenses of indemnitee's counsel shall be payable by the Company.
The Indemnity Agreement provides that the determination of an indemnitee's entitlement to indemnification (the "Determination") is based upon whether a Change of Control (as defined in the Indemnity Agreement) has or has not occurred. If a Change of Control has occurred, Independent Counsel (as defined in the Indemnity Agreement) will make such Determination in a written opinion to the Board of Directors of the Company (the "Board"). If a Change of Control has not occurred, such Determination will be made (i) by a majority vote of the directors of the Company who are not and were not a party to the proceeding in respect of which indemnification is sought by the indemnitee (the "Disinterested Directors"), even though less than a
quorum of the Board, (ii) by a committee of Disinterested Directors designated by a majority vote of the Disinterested Directors, even though less than a quorum of the Board, (iii) if there are no such Disinterested Directors or, if such Disinterested Directors so direct, by Independent Counsel in a written opinion to the Board or (iv) if so directed by the Board, by the stockholders of the Company. Subject to certain exceptions, if the persons making the Determination have not made such Determination within 60 days after receipt by the Company of the indemnitee's request, the requisite Determination will, to the fullest extent not prohibited by law, be deemed to have been made and the indemnitee will be entitled to indemnification, absent (i) a misstatement by the indemnitee of a material fact, or an omission of a material fact necessary to make the indemnitee's statement not materially misleading, in connection with the request for indemnification, or (ii) a prohibition of such indemnification under applicable law.
The Company will not be obligated to indemnify the indemnitee on account of any proceeding relating to (i) remuneration paid to the indemnitee if it is determined by final judgment or other final adjudication that such remuneration was in violation of law; (ii) which final judgment is rendered against the indemnitee for an accounting of profits made from the purchase or sale by the indemnitee of securities of the Company pursuant to the provisions of Section 16(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or similar provisions of any federal, state or local statute; (iii) any reimbursement of the Company by the indemnitee of any bonuses or other incentive-based or equity-based compensation, and the reimbursement of the Company of profits realized from the sale of securities of the Company by indemnitee, to the extent that such reimbursements directly arise from an accounting restatement of the Company pursuant to Section 304 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the "Sarbanes-Oxley Act"); (iv) the payment to the Company of profits arising from the purchase and sale by indemnitee of securities in violation of Section 306 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act; or (v) which (but only to the extent that) it is determined by final judgment or other final adjudication that the indemnitee's conduct was in bad faith, knowingly fraudulent or deliberately dishonest. In addition, the Company will not be obligated to indemnify the indemnitee for any amounts paid in settlement of a proceeding effected without the Company's written consent. The Company also will not be obligated to indemnify the indemnitee or otherwise act in violation of any undertaking appearing in and required by the rules and regulations promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Act") in any registration statement filed with the SEC under the Act.
If indemnification is unavailable to the indemnitee for any reason, the Indemnity Agreement provides that, to the fullest extent permissible under applicable law, the Company will contribute to the amount incurred by the indemnitee in connection with any claim relating to an indemnifiable event in such proportion as is deemed fair and reasonable in light of all of the circumstances of such proceeding to reflect (i) the relative benefits received by the Company and the indemnitee as a result of such event, and/or (ii) the relative fault of the Company and the indemnitee in connection with such event.
No amendment, alteration or repeal of the Indemnity Agreement or of any provision thereof will limit or restrict any right of the indemnitee under the Indemnity Agreement in respect of any action taken or omitted by such indemnitee in indemnitee's status as an agent prior to such amendment, alteration or repeal. To the extent that a change in Delaware law, whether by statute or judicial decision, permits greater indemnification or advancement of expenses than would be afforded currently under the Company's bylaws and the Indemnity Agreement, the indemnitee will receive under the Indemnity Agreement the greater benefits so afforded by such change.
The amended Indemnity Agreement will terminate upon the later of (i) 10 years after the date that the indemnitee ceases to serve as a director or officer of the Company or, at the request of the Company, as a director or officer of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise; or (ii) one year after the final termination of any proceeding then pending in respect of which the indemnitee is granted rights of indemnification or advancement of expenses and of any proceeding commenced by the indemnitee relating thereto.
Under certain circumstances, the indemnitee will be entitled to an adjudication by a court of indemnitee's entitlement to indemnification or advancement of expenses. Alternatively, under the Indemnity Agreement, the indemnitee, at indemnitee's option, may seek an award in arbitration.
The foregoing description of the form of Indemnity Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the form of Indemnity Agreement which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1.
 
On December 14, 2006, Richard B. Fontaine, a director of the Company, informed the Company that he will be retiring at the end of his term and therefore will not stand for re-election to the Company's Board.
 
On December 14, 2006, the Board approved the amended and restated bylaws of the Company (the "Amended and Restated Bylaws"), effective as of December 14, 2006, which change the voting standard for uncontested elections of directors from a plurality to a majority of votes cast. A majority of the votes cast means that the number of shares voted "for" a director must exceed 50% of the number of votes cast with respect to that director's election. Votes cast will include votes to withhold authority and exclude abstentions with respect to that director's election. However, in contested director elections where the number of nominees for director exceeds the number of directors to be elected, the vote standard will continue to be a plurality, whereby stockholders will be permitted to withhold votes but not vote against a nominee for director.
If a nominee for director who was in office prior to the applicable election is not elected and no successor has been elected, the director shall promptly tender his or her offer of resignation to the Board. The Nominating and Governance Committee (the "Committee") shall make a recommendation to the Board as to whether to accept or reject the tendered offer of resignation, or whether other action should be taken. The Board shall act on the tendered offers of resignation, taking into account the Committee's recommendation, and shall publicly disclose its decision and the rationale behind such decision within 90 days from the date of the certification of the election results.
In the event the Board does not accept an offer of resignation from any director who was in office prior to the applicable election, such director shall continue to serve until the next annual meeting or until his or her successor is duly elected and qualified, subject to such director's earlier death, resignation, disqualification or removal. If the Board accepts a director's offer of resignation or if a nominee for director who was not already serving on the Board is not elected, then the Board, in its sole discretion, may fill any resulting vacancy or may decrease the size of the Board.
The foregoing description of the Amended and Restated Bylaws is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Amended and Restated Bylaws which are attached hereto as Exhibit 3.1.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 3.1
 
 
 
Section 1. . The purpose of the Corporation is to engage in any lawful act or activity for which a corporation may be organized under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.
General Purpose
Section 1. . The principal office of the Corporation is hereby fixed and located at: 601 Hawaii Street, El Segundo, California 90245. The Board of Directors of the Corporation (the "Board") is hereby granted full power and authority to change said principal office from one location to another.
Principal Office
Section 2. . Regional, branch or subordinate offices may be established at any time by the Board at any other place or places, within or outside of the United States of America.
Other Offices
Section 1. . Meetings of the stockholders of this Corporation may be held at such place, if any, either within or without the State of Delaware, as may be designated by resolution of the Board from time to time.
Place of Meetings
Section 2. . The annual meeting of stockholders shall be held for the election of directors on such date and at such time as may be designated by resolution of the Board from time to time.
Annual Meeting
 
Section 3. . Meetings of stockholders, annual or special, shall be presided over by the Chairman of the Board, if any, or in his absence by the President, or in his or her absence, by a Vice President, or in the absence of the foregoing persons, by a chairman designated by the Board, or in the absence of such designation, by a chairman chosen at the meeting. The Secretary shall act as secretary of the meeting, but in his or her absence the chairman of the meeting may appoint any person to act as secretary of the meeting.
Organization
Section 4. . Special meetings of stockholders for any purpose or purposes may be called at any time by the Board, the Chairman of the Board or the President. Special meetings may not be called by any other person or persons. Business transacted at any special meeting of stockholders shall be limited to the purpose or purposes stated in the notice.
Special Meetings
Section 5. . No action required to be taken or which may be taken at any annual or special meeting of stockholders of the Corporation may be taken without a meeting, and the power of stockholders to consent in writing, without a meeting, to the taking of any action is specifically denied.
Action Without a Meeting
Section 6. . Any meeting of stockholders, annual or special, may adjourn from time to time to reconvene at the same or some other place (if any) and notice need not be given of any such adjourned meeting if the time and place (if any) thereof are announced at the meeting at which the adjournment is taken. At the adjourned meeting, the Corporation may transact any business which might have been transacted at the original meeting. If the adjournment is for more than thirty (30) days, or if after the adjournment a new record date is fixed for the adjourned meeting, a notice of the adjourned meeting shall be given to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at the meeting.
Adjournments
Section 7. . The holders of a majority in voting power of the shares of capital stock of the Corporation entitled to vote, present in person or represented by proxy, shall constitute a quorum at meetings of stockholders except as otherwise provided by law, these Bylaws or by the Certificate of Incorporation. In the absence of a quorum, the stockholders so present may, by the holders of a majority of the shares of capital stock of the Corporation present in person or represented by proxy and entitled to vote, adjourn the meeting from time to time in the manner provided in Section 6 of this Article III of these Bylaws until a quorum shall attend. At such adjourned meeting at which a quorum shall be present or represented, any business may be transacted that might have been transacted at the meeting as originally called.
Quorum of Stockholders
Section 8. . All elections and questions presented to the stockholders at a meeting at which a quorum is present, other than the election of directors, shall, unless otherwise provided by law, these Bylaws or the Certificate of Incorporation, or the rules and regulations of any stock exchange applicable to the Corporation, or pursuant to any regulation applicable to the Corporation or its securities, be decided by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority in voting power of the shares of capital stock of the Corporation which are present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote thereon.
Majority Vote Requirements
Section 9. . Each outstanding share, regardless of class or series, shall be entitled to one vote on each matter submitted to a vote at a meeting of stockholders,
Voting Rights; Proxies
 
except to the extent that the voting rights of the shares of any class or series are limited or denied by the Certificate of Incorporation and except as the Certificate of Incorporation may confer on holders of shares of any particular class or series the right to more than one vote per share, either generally or on particular matters. Each stockholder entitled to vote at a meeting of stockholders may authorize another person or persons to act for such stockholder by proxy, but no such proxy shall be voted or acted upon after three (3) years from its date, unless the proxy provides for a longer period. A proxy shall be irrevocable if it states that it is irrevocable and if, and only so long as, it is coupled with an interest sufficient in law to support an irrevocable power. A stockholder may revoke any proxy which is not irrevocable by attending the meeting in person or by delivering to the Secretary of the Corporation a revocation of the proxy or a new proxy bearing a later date.
Section 10. . The Corporation shall, in advance of any meeting of stockholders, appoint one or more inspectors of election, who may be employees of the Corporation, to act at the meeting or any adjournment thereof and to make a written report thereof. The Corporation may designate one or more persons as alternate inspectors to replace any inspector who fails to act. In the event that no inspector so appointed or designated is able to act at a meeting of stockholders, the person presiding at the meeting shall appoint one or more inspectors to act at the meeting. Each inspector, before entering upon the discharge of his or her duties, shall take and sign an oath to execute faithfully the duties of inspector with strict impartiality and according to the best of his or her ability. These inspectors shall:
Inspectors of Election
(a) Determine the number of shares of capital stock of the Corporation outstanding and the voting power of such shares, the shares of capital stock of the Corporation represented at the meeting, and the validity and effect of proxies and ballots;
(b) Count all votes and ballots;
(c) Determine and retain for a reasonable period a record of the disposition of all challenges made to any determination by the inspectors; and
(d) Certify their determination of the number of shares of capital stock of the Corporation represented at the meeting and such inspectors' count of all votes and ballots. Such certification and report shall specify such other information as may be required by law.
In determining the validity and counting of proxies and ballots cast at any meeting of stockholders of the Corporation, the inspectors may consider such information as is permitted by applicable law. No person who is a candidate for an office at an election may serve as an inspector at such election.
Section 11. . In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to notice of, or to vote, at any meeting of stockholders or any adjournment thereof, or entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights, or entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of stock or for the purpose of any other lawful action, the Board may fix, in advance, a record date, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution
Fixing Date for Determination of Stockholders of Record
 
fixing the record date is adopted by the Board, and which record date shall not, unless otherwise required by law, be more than sixty (60) nor less than ten (10) days before the date of such meeting, in the case of a determination of the stockholders entitled to vote at any meeting or an adjournment thereof, nor more than sixty (60) days prior to any other action, in the case of any other action. If no record date is fixed: (a) the record date for determining stockholders entitled to notice of, or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall be at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which notice is given, or, if notice is waived, at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which the meeting is held; and (b) the record date for determining stockholders for any other purpose shall be at the close of business on the day on which the Board adopts the resolution relating thereto. A determination of stockholders of record entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall apply to any adjournment of the meeting; provided, however, that the Board may fix a new record date for the adjourned meeting.
Section 12. . The officer who has charge of the stock ledger shall prepare and make, at least ten (10) days before every meeting of stockholders, a complete list of stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting, arranged in alphabetical order, and showing the address of each stockholder and the number of shares registered in the name of each stockholder. Such list shall be open to the examination of any stockholder, for any purpose germane to the meeting, for a period of at least ten (10) days prior to the meeting, (i) on a reasonably accessible electronic network, provided that the information required to gain access to such list is provided with the notice of the meeting, or (ii) during ordinary business hours at the principal place of business of the Corporation. If the meeting is to be held at a place, the list shall also be produced and kept at the time and place of the meeting during the whole time thereof and may be inspected by any stockholder who is present. If the meeting is to be held solely by means of remote communication, the list must also be open to examination at the meeting as required by applicable law. Except as otherwise provided by law, the stock ledger shall be the only evidence as to who are the stockholders entitled to examine the stock ledger, the list of stockholders or the books of the Corporation, or to vote in person by proxy at any meeting of stockholders.
List of Stockholders Entitled to Vote
Section 13. .
Advance Notice of Stockholder Business and Nominations
(a) Annual Meetings of Stockholders.
(1) Nominations of persons for election to the Board and the proposal of business to be considered by the stockholders may be made at an annual meeting of stockholders only (a) pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting (or any supplement thereto), (b) by or at the direction of the Board or (c) by any stockholder of the Corporation who was a stockholder of record of the Corporation at the time the notice provided for in this Section 13 is delivered to the Secretary, who is entitled to vote at the meeting and who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 13.
(2) For nominations or other business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a stockholder pursuant to clause (c) of paragraph (a)(1) of this Section 13, the stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary of the Corporation and any such proposed business other than the nominations of persons for election to the Board
 
must constitute a proper matter for stockholder action. To be timely, a stockholder's notice shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the ninetieth (90th) day nor earlier than the close of business on the one hundred twentieth (120th) day prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting (provided, however, that in the event that the date of the annual meeting is more than thirty (30) days before or more than seventy (70) days after such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder must be so delivered not earlier than the close of business on the one hundred twentieth (120th) day prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the ninetieth (90th) day prior to such annual meeting or the tenth (10th) day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made by the Corporation). In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment or postponement of an annual meeting commence a new time period (or extend any time period) for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above. Such stockholder's notice shall set forth: (a) as to each person whom the stockholder proposes to nominate for election as a director (i) all information relating to such person that is required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for election of directors in an election contest, or is otherwise required, in each case pursuant to and in accordance with Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") and (ii) such person's written consent to being named in the proxy statement as a nominee and to serving as a director if elected; (b) as to any other business that the stockholder proposes to bring before the meeting, a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the meeting, the text of the proposal or business (including the text of any resolutions proposed for consideration and in the event that such business includes a proposal to amend the Bylaws, the language of the proposed amendment), the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting and any material interest in such business of such stockholder and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made; (c) as to the stockholder giving the notice and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination or proposal is made (i) the name and address of such stockholder, as they appear on the Corporation's books, and of such beneficial owner, (ii) the class and number of shares of capital stock of the Corporation which are owned beneficially and of record by such stockholder and such beneficial owner, (iii) a representation that the stockholder is a holder of record of stock of the Corporation entitled to vote at such meeting and intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to propose such business or nomination, and (iv) a representation whether the stockholder or the beneficial owner, if any, intends or is part of a group which intends (x) to deliver a proxy statement and/or form of proxy to holders of at least the percentage of the Corporation's outstanding capital stock required to approve or adopt the proposal or elect the nominee and/or (y) otherwise to solicit proxies from stockholders in support of such proposal or nomination; and (d) with respect to each nominee for election or reelection to the Board, include a signed acknowledgment and agreement as required by Article IV, Section 2 below . The foregoing notice requirements shall be deemed satisfied by a stockholder if the stockholder has notified the Corporation of his or her intention to present a proposal at an annual meeting in compliance with Rule 14a-8 (or any successor thereof) promulgated under the Exchange Act and such stockholder's proposal has been included in a proxy statement that has been prepared by the Corporation to solicit proxies for such annual meeting. The Corporation may require any proposed nominee to furnish such other information as it may reasonably require to determine the eligibility of such proposed nominee to serve as a director of the Corporation.
 
(3) Notwithstanding anything in the second sentence of paragraph (a)(2) of this Section 13 to the contrary, in the event that the number of directors to be elected to the Board at an annual meeting is increased and there is no public announcement by the Corporation naming the nominees for the additional directorships at least one hundred (100) days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting, a stockholder's notice required by this Section 13 shall also be considered timely, but only with respect to nominees for the additional directorships, if it shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the tenth (10th) day following the day on which such public announcement is first made by the Corporation.
(b) . Only such business shall be conducted at a special meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting. Nominations of persons for election to the Board may be made at a special meeting of stockholders at which directors are to be elected pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting (1) by or at the direction of the Board or (2) provided that the Board has determined that directors shall be elected at such meeting, by any stockholder of the Corporation who is a stockholder of record at the time the notice provided for in this Section 13 is delivered to the Secretary, who is entitled to vote at the meeting and upon such election and who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 13. In the event the Corporation calls a special meeting of stockholders for the purpose of electing one or more directors to the Board, any such stockholder entitled to vote in such election of directors may nominate a person or persons (as the case may be) for election to such position(s) as specified in the Corporation's notice of meeting, if the stockholder's notice required by paragraph (a)(2) of this Section 13 shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not earlier than the close of business on the one hundred twentieth (120th) day prior to such special meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the ninetieth (90th) day prior to such special meeting or the tenth (10th) day following the day on which public announcement is first made of the date of the special meeting and of the nominees proposed by the Board to be elected at such meeting. In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment or postponement of a special meeting commence a new time period (or extend any time period) for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above.
Special Meetings of Stockholders
(c) .
General
(1) Only such persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 13 shall be eligible to be elected at an annual or special meeting of stockholders of the Corporation to serve as directors and only such business shall be conducted at a meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 13. Except as otherwise provided by law, the chairman of the meeting shall have the power and duty (a) to determine whether a nomination or any business proposed to be brought before the meeting was made or proposed, as the case may be, in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 13 (including whether the stockholder or beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination or proposal is made solicited (or is part of a group which solicited) or did not so solicit, as the case may be, proxies in support of such stockholder's nominee or proposal in compliance with such stockholder's representation as required by clause (a)(2)(c)(iv) of this Section 13) and (b) if any proposed nomination or
 
business was not made or proposed in compliance with this Section 13, to declare that such nomination shall be disregarded or that such proposed business shall not be transacted. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 13, if the stockholder (or a qualified representative of the stockholder) does not appear at the annual or special meeting of stockholders of the Corporation to present a nomination or business, such nomination shall be disregarded and such proposed business shall not be transacted, notwithstanding that proxies in respect of such vote may have been received by the Corporation. For purposes of this Section 13, to be considered a qualified representative of the stockholder, a person must be authorized by a writing executed by such stockholder or an electronic transmission delivered by such stockholder to act for such stockholder as proxy at the meeting of stockholders and such person must produce such writing or electronic transmission, or a reliable reproduction of the writing or electronic transmission, at the meeting of stockholders.
(2) For purposes of this Section 13, "public announcement" shall include disclosure in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Associated Press or comparable national news service or in a document publicly filed by the Corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act.
(3) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 13, a stockholder shall also comply with all applicable requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder with respect to the matters set forth in this Section 13. Nothing in this Section 13 shall be deemed to affect any rights (a) of stockholders to request inclusion of proposals or nominations in the Corporation's proxy statement pursuant to applicable rules and regulations promulgated under the Exchange Act or (b) of the holders of any series of preferred stock of the Corporation to elect directors pursuant to any applicable provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation.
Section 14. . The date and time of the opening and the closing of the polls for each matter upon which the stockholders will vote at a meeting shall be announced at the meeting by the person presiding over the meeting. The Board may adopt by resolution such rules and regulations for the conduct of the meeting of stockholders as it shall deem appropriate. Except to the extent inconsistent with such rules and regulations as adopted by the Board, the person presiding over any meeting of stockholders shall have the right and authority to convene and to adjourn the meeting, to prescribe such rules, regulations and procedures and to do all such acts as, in the judgment of such presiding person, are appropriate for the proper conduct of the meeting. Such rules, regulations or procedures, whether adopted by the Board or prescribed by the presiding person of the meeting, may include, without limitation, the following: (i) the establishment of an agenda or order of business for the meeting; (ii) rules and procedures for maintaining order at the meeting and the safety of those present; (iii) limitations on attendance at or participation in the meeting to stockholders of record of the Corporation, their duly authorized and constituted proxies or such other persons as the presiding person of the meeting shall determine; (iv) restrictions on entry to the meeting after the time fixed for the commencement thereof; and (v) limitations on the time allotted to questions or comments by participants. The presiding person at any meeting of stockholders, in addition to making any other determinations that may be appropriate to the conduct of the meeting, shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare to the meeting that a matter or business was not properly brought before the meeting and
Conduct of Meetings
 
if such presiding person should so determine, such presiding person shall so declare to the meeting and any such matter or business not properly brought before the meeting shall not be transacted or considered. Unless and to the extent determined by the Board or the person presiding over the meeting, meetings of stockholders shall not be required to be held in accordance with the rules of parliamentary procedure.
Section 1. . Subject to limitations of the Certificate of Incorporation, these Bylaws, and the laws of the State of Delaware as to action required to be approved by the stockholders, the business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed and all corporate powers shall be exercised by or under the direction of the Board.
Powers
Section 2. . The Board shall consist of one or more members, the number thereof to be determined from time to time by resolution of the Board. To be eligible to be a nominee for election or reelection as a director of the Corporation or to be considered by the Board to fill any vacancies pursuant to Section 7 below, a person must deliver to the Secretary of the Corporation at the principal executive offices of the Corporation a signed acknowledgment and agreement (in the form provided by the Secretary upon written request) that such person will abide by the requirements of Section 3 below.
Number and Qualification
Section 3. . At each annual meeting of stockholders, the stockholders shall elect directors each of whom shall hold office for a term of one year or until his or her successor is duly elected and qualified, subject to such director's earlier death, resignation, disqualification or removal.
Election
Each director shall be elected by the vote of the majority of the votes cast with respect to the director at any meeting for the election of directors at which a quorum is present by the holders of shares present in person or represented by proxy and entitled to vote on the election of directors; provided that if the number of nominees for director exceeds the number of directors to be elected, the directors shall be elected by the vote of a plurality of the shares represented in person or by proxy at any such meeting and entitled to vote on the election of directors. For purposes of this Section, a majority of the votes cast means that the number of shares voted "for" a director must exceed 50% of the number of votes cast with respect to that director's election. Votes cast shall include votes to withhold authority and exclude abstentions with respect to that director's election. If directors are to be elected by a plurality, stockholders shall be permitted to withhold votes from a nominee but shall not be permitted to vote against a nominee.
Any director may resign at any time upon notice to the Board. If at any meeting for the election of directors a nominee for director who is an incumbent director is not elected and no successor has been elected at such meeting, the director shall promptly tender his or her offer of resignation to the Board. The Nominating and Governance Committee shall make a recommendation to the Board as to whether to accept or reject the tendered offer of resignation, or whether other action should be taken. In determining whether to accept or reject the tendered offer of resignation, the Nominating and Governance Committee shall be entitled to consider all
 
factors believed relevant by the members of such Committee, including without limitation: (1) any stated reason for the director not receiving the required vote and whether the underlying cause or causes are curable, (2) the factors, if any, set forth in the guidelines or other policies that are to be considered by the Nominating and Governance Committee in evaluating potential candidates for the Board as such factors relate to each director who has offered his or her resignation, (3) the length of service of such director, (4) the effect of such resignation on the Corporation's compliance with any law, rule, regulation, stock exchange listing standards or contractual obligations, (5) such director's contributions to the Corporation, and (6) any other factors that the Nominating and Governance Committee deems to be in the best interests of the Corporation. No director who has tendered his or her offer of resignation may participate in the Committee's recommendation. If all of the members of the Nominating and Governance Committee have tendered their offers of resignations, then the Board shall act on the offers of resignation.
The Board shall act on the tendered offers of resignation, taking into account the recommendation of the Nominating and Governance Committee, and shall publicly disclose (by press release, a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission or other broadly disseminated means of communication) its decision regarding the tendered offers of resignation and the rationale behind the decision within 90 days from the date of the certification of the election results. In determining whether to accept or reject any offer of resignation, the Board shall be entitled to consider all of the factors considered by the Nominating and Governance Committee and any additional information and factors that the Board believes to be relevant. No director who has tendered his or her offer of resignation may participate in the Board's decision. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the acceptance by the Board of all of the then pending offers of resignation would result in the Corporation having fewer than three (3) directors who were in office prior to the applicable election, the Board may elect to extend such 90-day period by an additional 90 days if the Board shall determine that such an extension is in the best interests of the Corporation.
If any incumbent director's offer of resignation is not accepted by the Board, such director shall continue to serve until the next annual meeting or until his or her successor is duly elected and qualified, subject to such director's earlier death, resignation, disqualification or removal. If a director's offer of resignation is accepted by the Board pursuant to this Section 3, or if a nominee for director is not elected and the nominee is not an incumbent director, then the Board, in its sole discretion, may fill any resulting vacancy pursuant to the provisions of Section 7 below or may decrease the size of the Board pursuant to the provisions of Section 2 above.
Section 4. . Regular meetings of the Board may be held at such places within or without the State of Delaware and at such times as the Board may from time to time determine and, if so determined, notice thereof need not be given.
Regular Meetings
Section 5. . Special meetings of the Board may be held at any time or place within or without the State of Delaware whenever called by the Chairman of the Board, if any, by the President, or by any director. Notice of a special meeting of the Board shall be given by the person or persons calling the meeting at least twelve (12) hours before the special meeting.
Special Meetings
 
Section 6. . Members of the Board, or any committee thereof, as the case may be, may participate in a meeting of the Board or such committee by means of conference telephone or communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and participation in a meeting pursuant to this Bylaw shall constitute presence in person at such meeting.
Telephonic Meetings Permitted
Section 7. . Unless otherwise provided by law or the Certificate of Incorporation, any newly created directorship or any vacancy occurring in the Board of Directors for any cause shall be filled exclusively by a majority vote of the remaining members of the Board, although such majority is less than a quorum, or by the sole remaining director, and shall not be filled by the stockholders (unless there shall be no directors then in office), and each director so elected shall hold office until the expiration of the term of office of the director whom he or she has replaced or until his or her successor is duly elected and qualified, subject to such director's earlier death, resignation, disqualification or removal.
Vacancies
Section 8. . Any action(s) required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board, or of any committee thereof, may be taken without a meeting if all of the members of the Board, or such committee, as the case may be, consent thereto in writing or by electronic transmission and the writing or writings or electronic transmissions are filed with the minutes of the proceedings of the Board, or committee thereof, as the case may be, in accordance with applicable law.
Action by Directors Without a Meeting
Section 9. . Unless otherwise provided in these Bylaws, at all meetings of the Board, a majority of the total number of Directors shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. The vote of the majority of the Directors present at a meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the Board unless the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws shall require the vote of a greater number. If a quorum shall not be present at any meeting of the Board, the Directors present thereat may adjourn the meeting from time to time, without notice other than announcement at the meeting, until a quorum shall be present.
Quorum
Section 10. . Meetings of the Board shall be presided over by the Chairman of the Board, if any, or in his or her absence by the President, or in their absence by a chairman chosen at the meeting. The Secretary shall act as secretary of the meeting, but in his or her absence the chairman of the meeting may appoint any person to act as secretary of the meeting.
Organization
Section 11. . Any Director may be removed, with or without cause, at any time by the majority vote of the stockholders.
Resignations and Removal
Section 12. . The Directors may be paid their expenses, if any, for attendance at each meeting of the Board and may be paid a fixed sum for attendance at each meeting of the Board or a stated salary as Director. No such payment shall preclude any Director from serving the Corporation or any company controlling or controlled by the Corporation in any other capacity and receiving compensation therefor. Members of special or standing committees may be allowed like compensation for attending committee meetings.
Compensation of Directors of Meetings
 
Section 1. . The Board may, by resolution passed by a majority of the whole Board, designate one or more committees, each committee to consist of one or more Directors. The Board may designate one or more Directors as alternate members of any committee, who may replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of the committee. In the absence or disqualification of a member of the committee, the member or members thereof present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not he, she or they constitute a quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the Board to act at the meeting in place of any such absent or disqualified member. Any such committee, to the extent permitted by law and to the extent provided in the resolution of the Board, may exercise all the powers and authority of the Board in the management of the business and affairs of the Corporation, and may authorize the seal of the Corporation to be affixed to all papers which may require it.
Committee of Directors
Section 2. . Unless the Board otherwise provides, each committee designated by the Board may make, alter and repeal rules for the conduct of its business. In the absence of such rules each committee shall conduct its business in the same manner as the Board conducts its business pursuant to Article II of these Bylaws.
Meetings and Action of Committees
Section 1. . Whenever stockholders are required or permitted to take any action at a meeting, a notice of the meeting shall be given that shall state the place, if any, date and hour of the meeting, and, in case of a special meeting, the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called. Unless otherwise provided by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, the notice of any meeting of stockholders shall be given not less than ten (10) nor more than sixty (60) days before date of the meeting to each stockholder entitled to vote at such meeting. If mailed, such notice shall be deemed to be given when deposited in United States mail, postage pre-paid, directed to the stockholder at such stockholder's address as it appears on the records of the Corporation.
Notices of Stockholder Meetings
Section 2. . Except as otherwise provided in this Section 2 or these Bylaws, notice to Directors and stockholders shall be in writing and delivered personally or mailed to the Directors or stockholders at their addresses appearing on the books of the Corporation. Notice to Directors may be given by telecopier, telephone or other means of electronic transmission.
Manner of Notice
Section 3. . Whenever notice is required to be given to any stockholder or Director under the provisions of the General Corporation Law or the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, a written waiver thereof, signed by the person entitled to notice, or a waiver by electronic transmission by the person entitled to notice, whether before or after the time stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent to the giving of such notice. Attendance of a person at a meeting shall constitute a waiver of notice of such meeting, except when the person attends a
Waiver of Notice
 
meeting for the express purpose of objecting, at the beginning of the meeting, to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened. Neither the business to be transacted at nor the purpose of any regular or special meeting of the stockholders, Directors or members of a committee of Directors need be specified in a waiver of notice.
Section 1. . The officers of the Corporation shall be selected and removed by the Board in its discretion and shall consist of a President, a Secretary, and a Treasurer and may include, at the discretion of the Board, without limitation, a Chairman of the Board, any number of Vice Presidents, Assistant Secretaries and Assistant Treasurers and such other officers as the Corporation may require. Each such officer shall have such powers and duties in the management of the Corporation as the Board may by resolution determine, and, to the extent not provided in such resolutions or these Bylaws, as generally pertain to their respective offices, subject to the control of the Board.
Officers
Section 2. . Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, the following described officers shall have the authority set forth after their respective designation:
Authority of Certain Officers
(a) Chairman of the Board. The Chairman of the Board shall preside at all meetings of the stockholders and the Board. Except where, by law, the signature of the President is required, the Chairman shall possess the same power as the President to sign all certificates, contracts and other instruments of this Corporation that may be authorized hereby or by the Board.
(b) President. Except as otherwise provided by resolution of the Board, the President shall be the general manager and chief executive officer of the Corporation and shall have responsibility for, subject to the control of the Board, general supervision, direction, and control of the business and affairs of the Corporation. The President shall preside at all meetings of the stockholders and at all meetings of the Board. The President shall have the general powers and duties of management usually vested in the office of president and general manager of a corporation and such other powers and duties as may be prescribed by the Board.
(c) Vice President. In the absence or disability of the President, any Vice President so designated by the Board shall perform all the duties of the President and, when so acting, shall have all the powers of and be subject to all the restrictions upon the President. All Vice Presidents, if any, shall have such powers and perform such duties as from time to time may be prescribed by the Board.
(d) Secretary. The Secretary shall keep or cause to be kept, at the principal executive office or such other place as the Board may order, (i) a book containing minutes of all meetings of the stockholders and the Board, and (ii) a share register or a duplicate share register. The Secretary shall give, or cause to be given, notice of all the meetings of the stockholders and of the Board required by these Bylaws or by law to be given, shall keep the seal of the Corporation
 
in safe custody, and shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the Board.
(e) Treasurer. The Treasurer shall keep and maintain, or cause to be kept and maintained, adequate and correct accounts of the properties and business transactions of the Corporation. Such officer shall send or cause to be sent to the stockholders such financial statements and reports as are by law or these Bylaws required to be sent to said stockholders. The books of account shall at all times be open to inspection by any Director for any purpose permitted under applicable law. Such officer shall cause all moneys and other valuables to be deposited in the name and to the credit of the Corporation. Such officer shall (i) disburse or cause to be disbursed the funds of the Corporation as may be ordered by the Board, (ii) render to the President and the Directors, whenever they request it, an account of all transactions and of the financial condition of the Corporation, and (iii) have such other powers and perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the Board.
Section 3. . Except as otherwise provided in a resolution of the Board electing any officer, each officer shall hold office until the first meeting of the Board after the annual meeting of stockholders next succeeding his election, and until his successor is elected and qualified or until his earlier death, resignation or removal. Any officer may resign at any time upon written notice to the Corporation. Such resignation shall take effect at the time specified therein, and unless otherwise specified therein no acceptance of such resignation shall be necessary to make it effective. The Board of Directors may remove any officer with or without cause at any time. Any such removal shall be without prejudice to the contractual rights of such officer, if any, with the Corporation, but the election of an officer shall not of itself create contractual rights. Any vacancy occurring in any office of the Corporation by death, resignation, removal or otherwise may be filled for the unexpired portion of the term by the Board at any regular or special meeting. Any number of offices may be held by the same person.
Term of Office; Resignation; Removal; Vacancies
Section 4. . Unless otherwise provided by resolution adopted by the Board, the Chairman of the Board, the President or any Vice President may from time to time appoint an attorney or attorneys or agent or agents of the Corporation, in the name and on behalf of the Corporation, to cast votes which the Corporation may be entitled to cast as the holder of stock or other securities in any other corporation or other entity, any of whose stock or other securities may be held by the Corporation, at meetings of the holders of the stock or other securities of such other corporation or other entity, or to consent in writing, in the name of the Corporation as such holder, to any action by such other corporation or other entity, and may instruct the person or persons so appointed as to the manner of casting such votes or giving such consents, and may execute or cause to be executed in the name of and on behalf of the Corporation and under its corporate seal or otherwise, all such written proxies or other instruments as he or she may deem necessary or proper. Any of the rights set forth in this Section 4 which may be delegated to an attorney or agent may also be exercised directly by the Chairman of the Board, the President or any Vice President.
Appointing Attorneys and Agents; Voting Securities of Other Entities
 
Section 1. . All checks, drafts or other orders for payment of money, notes or other evidences of indebtedness, issued in the name of or payable to the Corporation, shall be signed or endorsed by such person or persons and in such manner as shall be determined from time to time by resolution of the Board.
Checks and Drafts
Section 2. . The Board may authorize any officers or agent or agents to enter into any contract or execute any instrument in the name and on behalf of the Corporation. Such authority may be general or confined to specific instances. Unless so authorized by the Board, no officers, agent, employee or other person shall have any power or authority to bind the Corporation by any contract or engagement or to pledge its credit, or to render it liable for any purpose or amount.
Execution of Contracts
Section 3. . The fiscal year of the Corporation shall be the calendar year, unless otherwise determined by resolution of the Board.
Fiscal Year
Section 4. . The corporate seal shall have the name of the Corporation inscribed thereon and shall be in such form as may be approved from time to time by the Board.
Seal
Section 5. . Any records maintained by the Corporation in the regular course of its business, including its stock ledger, books of account, and minute books, may be kept on, or by means of, or be in the form of, any information storage device or method, provided that the records so kept can be converted into clearly legible paper form within a reasonable time.
Form of Records
Section 1. . Each person (a "Covered Person") who was or made or is threatened to be made a party to or is otherwise involved in any action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (hereinafter a "proceeding"), by reason of the fact that he or she, or a person of whom he or she is the legal representative, is or was a Director or officer of the Corporation or while a Director or officer of the Corporation is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a Director, officer, employee, or agent of another corporation or of a partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise or non-profit entity, including service with respect to employee benefit plans, shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Corporation to the fullest extent permitted by the law, as the same exists or may hereafter be amended, against all liability and loss suffered and expenses (including attorneys' fees) reasonably incurred by such Covered Person. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, except as otherwise provided in this Article IX, the Corporation shall indemnify a Covered Person in connection with a proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such Covered Person only if the commencement of such proceeding (or part thereof) by the Covered Person was authorized in the specific case by the Board.
Indemnification of Officers and Directors
 
Section 2. . The Corporation shall to the fullest extent not prohibited by applicable law pay the expenses (including attorneys' fees) incurred by a Covered Person in defending any proceeding in advance of its final disposition, , , that, to the extent required by law, such payment of expenses in advance of the final disposition of the proceeding shall be made only upon receipt of an undertaking by the Covered Person to repay all amounts advanced if it should be ultimately determined that the Covered Person is not entitled to be indemnified under this Article IX or otherwise.
Prepayment of Expenses
provided
however
Section 3. . If a claim for indemnification (following the final disposition of such action, suit or proceeding) or advancement of expenses under this Article IX is not paid in full within thirty (30) days after a written claim therefor by the Covered Person has been received by the Corporation, the Covered Person may file suit to recover the unpaid amount of such claim and, if successful in whole or in part, shall be entitled to be paid the expense of prosecuting such claim. In any such action the Corporation shall have the burden of proving that the Covered Person is not entitled to the requested indemnification or advancement of expenses under applicable law.
Claims
Section 4. . The rights conferred on any Covered Person by this Article IX shall not be exclusive of any other rights which such Covered Person may have or hereafter acquire under any statute, provision of the Certificate of Incorporation, these Bylaws, agreement, vote of stockholders or disinterested directors or otherwise.
Nonexclusivity of Rights
Section 5. . The Corporation's obligation, if any, to indemnify or to advance expenses to any Covered Person who was or is serving at its request as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, enterprise or nonprofit entity shall be reduced by any amount such Covered Person may collect as indemnification or advancement of expenses from such other corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, enterprise or non-profit enterprise.
Other Sources
Section 6. . Any repeal or modification of the foregoing provisions of this Article IX all not adversely affect any right or protection hereunder of any Covered Person in respect of any act or omission occurring prior to the time of such repeal or modification.
Amendment or Repeal
Section 7. . This Article IX shall not limit the right of the Corporation, to the extent and in the manner permitted by law, to indemnify and to advance expenses to persons other than Covered Persons when and as authorized by appropriate corporate action.
Other Indemnification and Prepayment of Expenses
Section 1. . Every holder of stock of the Corporation shall be entitled to have a certificate signed by or in the name of the Corporation by the Chairman of the Board, or the President, or a Vice President, and by the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer, or the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, of the Corporation, certifying the number of shares owned by such holder in the Corporation. Any or all signatures on the certificate may be a facsimile. In case any
Certificates
 
officer, transfer agent or registrar who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon a certificate shall have ceased to be such officer, transfer agent or registrar before such certificate is issued, it may be issued by the Corporation with the same effect as if he were such officer, transfer agent or registrar at the date of issue.
Section 2. . The Corporation may issue a new certificate of stock in the place of any certificate theretofore issued by it, alleged to have been lost, stolen or destroyed, and the Corporation may require the owner of the lost, stolen or destroyed certificate, or such owner's legal representative, to give the Corporation a bond sufficient to indemnify it against any claim that may be made against it on account of the alleged loss, theft or destruction of any such certificate or the issuance of such new certificate.
Lost, Stolen or Destroyed Stock Certificates; Issuance of New Certificates
These Bylaws may be altered, amended or repealed, and new bylaws made, as authorized under applicable law.
 

Exhibit 10.1
THIS INDEMNITY AGREEMENT (this "Agreement") dated as of is made by and between DaVita Inc., a Delaware corporation, (the "Company"), and (the "Indemnitee").
(INSERT DATE)
(INSERT NAME)
A. The Company recognizes that competent and experienced persons are increasingly reluctant to serve as directors and officers of corporations unless they are protected by comprehensive liability insurance or indemnification, or both, due to increased exposure to litigation costs and risks resulting from their service to such corporations, and due to the fact that the exposure frequently bears no reasonable relationship to the compensation of such directors.
B. The Company and the Indemnitee recognize that plaintiffs often seek damages in such large amounts and the costs of litigation may be so substantial (whether or not the case is meritorious), that the defense and/or settlement of such litigation is often beyond the personal resources of directors and officers.
C. The Company believes that it is unfair for its directors and officers to assume the risk of substantial judgments and other expenses which may occur in cases in which the director and/or officer, as the case may be, received no personal profit and in cases where such person acted in good faith.
D. Section 145 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware ("Section 145"), under which the Company is organized, and the Bylaws of the Company (the "Bylaws") empower the Company to indemnify its directors and officers by agreement and to indemnify persons who serve, at the request of the Company, as the directors and officers of other corporations or enterprises, and expressly provides that the indemnification provided by Section 145 and the Bylaws are not exclusive.
E. The Board of Directors of the Company (the "Board") has determined that contractual indemnification as set forth herein is not only reasonable and prudent but necessary to promote the best interests of the Company and its stockholders.
F. The Company desires and has requested the Indemnitee to serve or continue to serve as a director and/or officer of the Company.
G. This Agreement is a supplement to and in furtherance of the Bylaws and any resolutions adopted pursuant thereto, and shall not be deemed a substitute therefore, nor to diminish or abrogate any rights of the Indemnitee thereunder.
H. The Indemnitee is only willing to serve, or to continue to serve, as a director and/or officer of the Company if the Indemnitee is furnished the indemnity provided for herein by the Company.
NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants and agreements set forth below, the parties hereto, intending to be legally bound, hereby agree as follows:
1. .
Definitions
(a) . For purposes of this Agreement, "agent" of the Company means any person who: (i) is or was a director and/or officer of the Company or a subsidiary of the Company; or (ii) is or was serving at the request of, for the convenience of, or to represent the interest of the Company or a subsidiary of the Company as a director and/or officer of another foreign or domestic corporation, partnership or joint venture.
Agent
(b) . For purposes of this Agreement, a "Change in Control" shall be deemed to occur upon the earliest to occur after the date of this Agreement of any of the following events:
Change in Control
i. Acquisition of Stock by Third Party. Any Person (as defined below) is or becomes the Beneficial Owner (as defined below), directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing fifteen percent (15%) or more of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding securities, other than such acquisition of securities as shall have been previously approved by the Board;
ii. Change in Board of Directors. During any twelve (12) month period (not including any period prior to the execution of this Agreement), individuals who at the beginning of such period constitute the Board, and any new director (other than a director designated by a person who has entered into an agreement with the Company to effect a transaction described in Sections 1(b)(i), 1(b)(iii) or 1(b)(iv)) whose election by the Board or nomination for election by the Company's stockholders was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds of the directors then still in office who either were directors at the beginning of the period or whose election or nomination for election was previously so approved, cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the members of the Board;
iii. Corporate Transactions. The effective date of a merger or consolidation of the Company with any other entity, other than a merger or consolidation which would result in the voting securities of the Company outstanding immediately prior to such merger or consolidation continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the surviving entity) more than 51% of the combined voting power of the voting securities of the surviving entity outstanding immediately after such merger or consolidation and with the power to elect at least a majority of the Board or other governing body of such surviving entity;
iv. Liquidation. The approval by the stockholders of the Company of a complete liquidation of the Company or an agreement for the sale or disposition by the Company of all or substantially all of the Company's assets; and
 
v. Other Events. There occurs any other event of a nature that would be required to be reported in response to Item 6(e) of Schedule 14A of Regulation 14A (or a response to any similar item on any similar schedule or form) promulgated under the Exchange Act (as defined below), whether or not the Company is then subject to such reporting requirement.
For purposes of this Section 1(b), the following terms shall have the following meanings:
(A) "Exchange Act" shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
(B) "Person" shall have the meaning as set forth in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act; provided, however, that Person shall exclude (i) the Company, (ii) any trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of the Company, and (iii) any corporation owned, directly or indirectly, by the stockholders of the Company in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of stock of the Company.
(C) "Beneficial Owner" shall have the meaning given to such term in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act; provided, however, that Beneficial Owner shall exclude any Person otherwise becoming a Beneficial Owner by reason of the stockholders of the Company approving a merger of the Company with another entity.
(c) . For purposes of this Agreement, "expenses" includes all direct and indirect costs of any type or nature whatsoever (including, without limitation, all attorneys' fees and related disbursements, other out-of-pocket costs and reasonable compensation for time spent by the Indemnitee for which he is not otherwise compensated by the Company or any third party, provided that the rate of compensation and estimated time involved is approved in advance by the Board), actually and reasonably incurred by the Indemnitee in connection with either the investigation, defense or appeal of a proceeding or establishing or enforcing a right to indemnification under this Agreement, Section 145 or otherwise, and amounts paid in settlement by or on behalf of the Indemnitee, but shall not include any judgments, fines or penalties actually levied against the Indemnitee.
Expenses
(d) . For purposes of this Agreement, "Disinterested Director" means a director of the Company who is not and was not a party to the proceeding in respect of which indemnification is sought by the Indemnitee.
Disinterested Director
(e) . For purposes of this Agreement, "Independent Counsel" means a law firm, or a member of a law firm, that is experienced in matters of corporation law and neither presently is, nor in the past five years has been, retained to represent: (i) the Company or Indemnitee in any matter material to either such party (other than with respect to matters concerning the Indemnitee under this Agreement, or of other indemnitees under similar indemnification agreements), or (ii) any other party to the proceeding giving rise to a claim for indemnification hereunder. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the term "Independent Counsel" shall not
Independent Counsel
 
include any person who, under the applicable standards of professional conduct then prevailing, would have a conflict of interest in representing either the Company or Indemnitee in an action to determine Indemnitee's rights under this Agreement. The Company agrees to pay the reasonable fees and expenses of the Independent Counsel referred to above and to fully indemnify such counsel against any and all expenses, claims, liabilities and damages arising out of or relating to this Agreement or its engagement pursuant hereto.
(f) . For the purposes of this Agreement, "proceeding" shall include any threatened, pending or completed action, suit, arbitration, alternate dispute resolution mechanism, investigation, inquiry, administrative hearing or any other actual, threatened or completed proceeding, whether brought in the right of the Company or otherwise and whether of a civil, criminal, administrative legislative, or investigative nature, including any appeal therefrom, in which Indemnitee was, is or will be involved as a party, potential party, non-party witness or otherwise by reason of the fact that Indemnitee is or was a director or officer of the Company, by reason of any action taken by him or of any action on his part while acting as director or officer of the Company, or by reason of the fact that he is or was serving at the request of the Company as a director or officer of another corporation, limited liability company, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, in each case whether or not serving in such capacity at the time any liability or expense is incurred for which indemnification, reimbursement, or advancement of expenses can be provided under this Agreement; except one initiated by an Indemnitee to enforce his rights under this Agreement.
Proceedings
(g) . For purposes of this Agreement, "subsidiary" means any corporation (or other entity) of which more than 50% of the outstanding voting securities are owned directly or indirectly by the Company, by the Company and one or more other subsidiaries, or by one or more other subsidiaries.
Subsidiary
2. . The Indemnitee agrees to serve and/or continue to serve as an agent of the Company, at the will of such corporation (or under separate agreement, if such agreement exists), in the capacity the Indemnitee currently serves as an agent of such corporation, so long as the Indemnitee is duly appointed or elected and qualified in accordance with the applicable provisions of the bylaws of such corporation or of any subsidiary thereof, or until such time as the Indemnitee tenders his resignation in writing; provided, however, that nothing contained in this Agreement is intended to create any right to continued employment of the Indemnitee in any capacity.
Agreement to Serve
3. .
Indemnification
(a) . Subject to Section 15 below, the Company shall indemnify the Indemnitee if the Indemnitee is a party to or threatened to be made a party to or otherwise involved in any proceeding (other than a proceeding by or in the name of the Company to procure a judgment in its favor) by reason of the fact that the Indemnitee is or was an agent of the Company, or by reason of any act or inaction by him in any such capacity (including, but not limited to, any written statement of the Indemnitee that (i) is required to be, and is, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") regarding the adequacy of the Company's internal controls or the accuracy of reports or statements filed by the Company with the
Indemnification in Third Party Proceedings
 
SEC pursuant to federal laws and/or administrative regulations (each, a "Required Statement") or (ii) is made to another officer or employee of the Company to support a Required Statement), against any and all expenses and liabilities of any type whatsoever (including, but not limited to, judgments, fines and penalties)), actually and reasonably incurred by him in connection with the investigation, defense, settlement or appeal of such proceeding, but only if the Indemnitee acted in good faith and in a manner he reasonably believed to be in, or not opposed to, the best interests of the Company, and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, had no reasonable cause to believe Indemnitee's conduct was unlawful, pursuant to the presumption set forth in subsection (c) below, as applicable.
(b) . Subject to Section 15 below, the Company shall indemnify the Indemnitee if the Indemnitee is a party to or threatened to be made a party to or otherwise involved in any proceeding by or in the name of the Company to procure a judgment in its favor by reason of the fact that the Indemnitee is or was an agent of the Company, or by reason of any act or inaction by him in any such capacity (including, but not limited to, any written statement of the Indemnitee that (i) is a Required Statement or (ii) is made to another officer or employee of the Company to support a Required Statement), against all expenses actually and reasonably incurred by the Indemnitee in connection with the investigation, defense, settlement, or appeal of such proceedings, but only if the Indemnitee acted in good faith and in a manner he reasonably believed to be in, or not opposed to, the best interests of the Company, pursuant to the presumption set forth in subsection (c) below; provided, however, that no indemnification under this subsection (b) shall be made in respect of any claim, issue or matter as to which the Indemnitee shall have been finally adjudged to be liable to the Company by a court of competent jurisdiction due to willful misconduct of a culpable nature in the performance of the Indemnitee's duty to the Company, unless and only to the extent that any court in which such proceeding was brought shall determine upon application that, despite the adjudication of liability but in view of all the circumstances of the case, such person is fairly and reasonably entitled to indemnity for such expenses as such court shall deem proper.
Indemnification in Derivative Actions
(c) . With respect to Sections 3(a) and 3(b) above, the Indemnitee shall be conclusively presumed to have acted in good faith and in a manner Indemnitee reasonably believed to be in, or not opposed to, the best interests of the Company, and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, to have had no reasonable cause to believe Indemnitee's conduct was unlawful, unless a determination is made pursuant to the procedures set forth in Section 11 below that the Indemnitee has not acted in accordance with the standards set forth above.
Conclusive Presumption Regarding Indemnitee Conduct
4. . Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Agreement, to the extent that the Indemnitee has been successful on the merits or otherwise in defense of any proceeding or in defense of any claim, issue or matter therein, including the dismissal of any action without prejudice, the Company shall indemnify the Indemnitee against all expenses actually and reasonably incurred in connection with the investigation, defense or appeal of such proceeding.
Indemnification of Expenses of Successful Party
5. . If the Indemnitee is entitled under any provision of this Agreement to indemnification by the Company for some or a portion of any expenses or liabilities of
Partial Indemnification
 
any type whatsoever (including, but not limited to, judgments, fines or penalties) actually and reasonably incurred by him in the investigation, defense, settlement or appeal of a proceeding but is not entitled, however, to indemnification for the total amount thereof, the Company shall nevertheless indemnify the Indemnitee for the portion thereof to which the Indemnitee is entitled.
6. . Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law and to the extent that Indemnitee is, by reason of his status as an agent, a witness in any proceeding to which Indemnitee is not a party, he shall be indemnified against all expenses actually and reasonably incurred by him or on his behalf in connection therewith.
Indemnification For Expenses of a Witness
7. . Subject to Section 15(b) below, the Company shall advance, to the fullest extent not prohibited by law, all expenses incurred by the Indemnitee in connection with the investigation, defense, settlement or appeal of any proceeding to which the Indemnitee is a party or is threatened to be made a party by reason of the fact that the Indemnitee is or was an agent of the Company. Advances shall be unsecured and interest free. Advances shall be made without regard to Indemnitee's ability to repay the expenses and without regard to Indemnitee's ultimate entitlement to indemnification under other provisions of this Agreement. Advances shall include all reasonable expenses incurred pursuing an action to enforce this right of advancement, including expenses incurred preparing and forwarding statements to the Company to support the advances claimed. By signing this Agreement, the Indemnitee hereby undertakes to repay such amounts advanced only if, and to the extent that, it shall ultimately be determined that the Indemnitee is not entitled to be indemnified by the Company as authorized by this Agreement. The advances to be made hereunder shall be paid by the Company to or on behalf of the Indemnitee within thirty (30) days following delivery of a written request therefor by the Indemnitee to the Company.
Advancement of Expenses
8. .
Notice and Other Indemnification Procedures
(a) . Promptly after receipt by the Indemnitee of notice of the commencement of or the threat of commencement of any proceeding, the Indemnitee shall, if the Indemnitee believes that indemnification with respect thereto may be sought from the Company under this Agreement, notify the Company of the commencement or threat of commencement thereof. The failure of Indemnitee to so notify the Company or comply with any other provision of this Section 8 shall not itself relieve the Company of any obligation which it may have to the Indemnitee under this Agreement or otherwise.
Notification of Proceeding
(b) . Any indemnification requested by the Indemnitee under Section 3 hereof shall be made no later than sixty (60) days after receipt of the written request of the Indemnitee, unless a good faith determination is made within said 60-day period in accordance with one of the methods set forth in Section 3(c) above that the Indemnitee is not or (subject to final judgment or other final adjudication as provided in Section 15(a) below) ultimately will not be entitled to indemnification hereunder.
Request for Indemnification
9. . In the event the Company shall be obligated to pay the expenses of any proceeding against the Indemnitee, the Company, if appropriate, shall be entitled to assume the defense of such proceeding, with counsel reasonably acceptable to the Indemnitee, upon
Assumption of Defense
 
the delivery to the Indemnitee of written notice of its election to do so. After delivery of such notice, approval of such counsel by the Indemnitee and the retention of such counsel by the Company, the Company shall not be liable to the Indemnitee under this Agreement for any fees of counsel subsequently incurred by the Indemnitee with respect to the same proceeding, provided that (a) the Indemnitee shall have the right to employ his counsel in such proceeding at the Indemnitee's expense; and (b) if (i) the employment of counsel by the Indemnitee has been previously authorized in writing by the Company, (ii) the Indemnitee's counsel delivers a written notice to the Company stating that such counsel has reasonably concluded that there may be a conflict of interest between the Company and the Indemnitee in the conduct of any such defense, (iii) a Change of Control shall have occurred or (iv) the Company shall not, in fact, have employed counsel to assume the defense of such proceeding within a reasonable time, then in any such event the fees and expenses of the Indemnitee's counsel shall be at the expense of the Company.
10. . The Company may, but is not obligated to, obtain directors' and officers' liability insurance ("D&O Insurance") as may be or become available with respect to which the Indemnitee is named as an insured. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, the Company shall not be obligated to indemnify the Indemnitee for expenses, judgments, fines or penalties which have been paid directly to the Indemnitee by D&O Insurance. If the Company has D&O Insurance in effect at the time the Company receives from the Indemnitee any notice of the commencement of a proceeding, the Company shall give prompt notice of the commencement of such proceeding to the insurers in accordance with the procedures set forth in the policy. The Company shall thereafter take all necessary or desirable action to cause such insurers to pay, on behalf of the Indemnitee, all amounts payable as a result of such proceeding in accordance with the terms of such policy.
Insurance
11. .
Procedure Upon Application for Indemnification
(a) Upon written request by Indemnitee for indemnification pursuant to Section 8, a determination, if required by applicable law, with respect to Indemnitee's entitlement thereto shall be made in the specific case: (i) if a Change in Control shall have occurred, by Independent Counsel in a written opinion to the Board, a copy of which shall be delivered to Indemnitee; or (ii) if a Change in Control shall not have occurred, (A) by a majority vote of the Disinterested Directors, even though less than a quorum of the Board, (B) by a committee of Disinterested Directors designated by a majority vote of the Disinterested Directors, even though less than a quorum of the Board, (C) if there are no such Disinterested Directors or, if such Disinterested Directors so direct, by Independent Counsel in a written opinion to the Board, a copy of which shall be delivered to Indemnitee or (D) if so directed by the Board, by the stockholders of the Company; and, if it is so determined that Indemnitee is entitled to indemnification, payment to Indemnitee shall be made within ten (10) days after such determination. Indemnitee shall cooperate with the person, persons or entity making such determination with respect to Indemnitee's entitlement to indemnification, including providing to such person, persons or entity upon reasonable advance request any documentation or information which is not privileged or otherwise protected from disclosure and which is reasonably available to Indemnitee and reasonably necessary to such determination. Any costs or expenses (including attorneys' fees and disbursements) incurred by Indemnitee in so cooperating with the person, persons or entity making such determination shall be borne by the Company (irrespective of the determination as to Indemnitee's entitlement to
 
indemnification) and the Company hereby indemnifies and agrees to hold Indemnitee harmless therefrom.
(b) In the event the determination of entitlement to indemnification is to be made by Independent Counsel pursuant to Section 11(a) hereof, the Independent Counsel shall be selected as provided in this Section 11(b). If a Change in Control shall not have occurred, the Independent Counsel shall be selected by the Board, and the Company shall give written notice to Indemnitee advising him of the identity of the Independent Counsel so selected. If a Change in Control shall have occurred, the Independent Counsel shall be selected by Indemnitee (unless Indemnitee shall request that such selection be made by the Board, in which event the preceding sentence shall apply), and Indemnitee shall give written notice to the Company advising it of the identity of the Independent Counsel so selected. In either event, Indemnitee or the Company, as the case may be, may, within ten (10) days after such written notice of selection shall have been given, deliver to the Company or to Indemnitee, as the case may be, a written objection to such selection; , , that such objection may be asserted only on the grounds that (1) the Independent Counsel so selected does not meet the requirements of "Independent Counsel" as defined in Section 1 of this Agreement, and the objection shall set forth with particularity the factual basis of such assertion or (2) in the case of an Independent Counsel selected by the Indemnitee, the Independent Counsel is not reasonably acceptable to the Company. Absent a proper and timely objection, the person so selected shall act as Independent Counsel. If such written objection is so made and substantiated, the Independent Counsel so selected may not serve as Independent Counsel unless and until such objection is withdrawn or a court has determined that such objection is without merit. If, within twenty (20) days after the later of submission by Indemnitee of a written request for indemnification pursuant to Section 8 hereof and the final disposition of the proceeding, no Independent Counsel shall have been selected and not objected to, either the Company or Indemnitee may petition a court of competent jurisdiction for resolution of any objection which shall have been made by the Company or Indemnitee to the other's selection of Independent Counsel and/or for the appointment as Independent Counsel of a person selected by the Court or by such other person as the Court shall designate, and the person with respect to whom all objections are so resolved or the person so appointed shall act as Independent Counsel under Section 11(a) hereof. Upon the due commencement of any judicial proceeding or arbitration pursuant to Section 13(a) of this Agreement, Independent Counsel shall be discharged and relieved of any further responsibility in such capacity (subject to the applicable standards of professional conduct then prevailing).
provided
however
12. .
Presumptions and Effect of Certain Proceedings
(a) In making a determination with respect to entitlement to indemnification hereunder, the person or persons or entity making such determination shall, to the fullest extent not prohibited by law, presume that Indemnitee is entitled to indemnification under this Agreement if Indemnitee has submitted a request for indemnification in accordance with Section 8(b) of this Agreement, and the Company shall, to the fullest extent not prohibited by law, have the burden of proof to overcome that presumption in connection with the making by any person, persons or entity of any determination contrary to that presumption. Neither the failure of the Company (including by its directors or Independent Counsel) to have made a determination prior to the commencement of any action pursuant to this Agreement that indemnification is proper in the circumstances because Indemnitee has met the applicable standard of conduct, nor an actual
 
determination by the Company (including by its directors or Independent Counsel) that Indemnitee has not met such applicable standard of conduct, shall be a defense to the action or create a presumption that Indemnitee has not met the applicable standard of conduct.
(b) Subject to Section 13(e), if the person, persons or entity empowered or selected under Section 11 of this Agreement to determine whether Indemnitee is entitled to indemnification shall not have made a determination within sixty (60) days after receipt by the Company of the request therefor, the requisite determination of entitlement to indemnification shall, to the fullest extent not prohibited by law, be deemed to have been made and Indemnitee shall be entitled to such indemnification, absent (i) a misstatement by Indemnitee of a material fact, or an omission of a material fact necessary to make Indemnitee's statement not materially misleading, in connection with the request for indemnification, or (ii) a prohibition of such indemnification under applicable law; provided, however, that such 60-day period may be extended for a reasonable time, not to exceed an additional thirty (30) days, if the person, persons or entity making the determination with respect to entitlement to indemnification in good faith requires such additional time for the obtaining or evaluating of documentation and/or information relating thereto; and provided, further, that the foregoing provisions of this Section 12(b) shall not apply (i) if the determination of entitlement to indemnification is to be made by the stockholders pursuant to Section 11(a) of this Agreement and if (A) within fifteen (15) days after receipt by the Company of the request for such determination the Board has resolved to submit such determination to the stockholders for their consideration at an annual meeting thereof to be held within seventy-five (75) days after such receipt and such determination is made thereat, or (B) a special meeting of stockholders is called within twenty (20) days after such receipt for the purpose of making such determination, such meeting is held for such purpose within sixty (60) days after having been so called and such determination is made thereat, or (ii) if the determination of entitlement to indemnification is to be made by Independent Counsel pursuant to Section 11(a) of this Agreement.
(c) The termination of any proceeding or of any claim, issue or matter therein, by judgment, order, settlement or conviction, or upon a plea of or its equivalent, shall not of itself adversely affect the right of Indemnitee to indemnification or create a presumption that Indemnitee did not act in good faith and in a manner which he reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Company or, with respect to any criminal proceeding, that Indemnitee had reasonable cause to believe that his conduct was unlawful.
nolo
contendere
(d) . For purposes of any determination of good faith, Indemnitee shall be deemed to have acted in good faith if Indemnitee's action is based on the records or books of account of the Company or a subsidiary, including financial statements, or on information supplied to Indemnitee by the officers of the Company or a subsidiary in the course of their duties, or on the advice of legal counsel for the Company or a subsidiary or on information or records given or reports made to the Company or a subsidiary by an independent certified public accountant or by an appraiser or other expert selected with the reasonable care by the Company or a subsidiary. The provisions of this Section 12(d) shall not be deemed to be exclusive or to limit in any way the other circumstances in which the Indemnitee may be deemed to have met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in this Agreement.
Reliance as Safe Harbor
 
13. .
Remedies of Indemnitee
(a) Subject to Section 13(e), in the event that (i) a determination is made pursuant to Section 11 of this Agreement that Indemnitee is not entitled to indemnification under this Agreement, (ii) advancement of expenses is not timely made pursuant to Section 7 of this Agreement, (iii) no determination of entitlement to indemnification shall have been made pursuant to Section 11(a) of this Agreement within ninety (90) days after receipt by the Company of the request for indemnification, (iv) payment of indemnification is not made pursuant to Section 4, 5, 6 or the last sentence of Section 11(a) of this Agreement within ten (10) days after receipt by the Company of a written request therefor, (v) payment of indemnification pursuant to Section 3, 4, 8 or 15(c) of this Agreement is not made within ten (10) days after a determination has been made that Indemnitee is entitled to indemnification, or (vi) in the event that the Company or any other person takes or threatens to take any action to declare this Agreement void or unenforceable, or institutes any litigation or other action or proceeding designed to deny, or to recover from, the Indemnitee the benefits provided or intended to be provided to the Indemnitee hereunder, Indemnitee shall be entitled to an adjudication by a court of his entitlement to such indemnification or advancement of expenses. Alternatively, Indemnitee, at his option, may seek an award in arbitration to be conducted by a single arbitrator pursuant to the Commercial Arbitration Rules of the American Arbitration Association. Indemnitee shall commence such proceeding seeking an adjudication or an award in arbitration within 180 days following the date on which Indemnitee first has the right to commence such proceeding pursuant to this Section 13(a); , , that the foregoing clause shall not apply in respect of a proceeding brought by Indemnitee to enforce his rights under Section 5 of this Agreement. The Company shall not oppose Indemnitee's right to seek any such adjudication or award in arbitration.
provided
however
(b) In the event that a determination shall have been made pursuant to Section 11(a) of this Agreement that Indemnitee is not entitled to indemnification, any judicial proceeding or arbitration commenced pursuant to this Section 13 shall be conducted in all respects as a trial, or arbitration, on the merits and Indemnitee shall not be prejudiced by reason of that adverse determination. In any judicial proceeding or arbitration commenced pursuant to this Section 13 the Company shall have the burden of proving Indemnitee is not entitled to indemnification or advancement of expenses, as the case may be.
de
novo
(c) If a determination shall have been made pursuant to Section 11(a) of this Agreement that Indemnitee is entitled to indemnification, the Company shall be bound by such determination in any judicial proceeding or arbitration commenced pursuant to this Section 13, absent (i) a misstatement by Indemnitee of a material fact, or an omission of a material fact necessary to make Indemnitee's statement not materially misleading, in connection with the request for indemnification, or (ii) a prohibition of such indemnification under applicable law.
(d) The Company shall, to the fullest extent not prohibited by law, be precluded from asserting in any judicial proceeding or arbitration commenced pursuant to this Section 13 that the procedures and presumptions of this Agreement are not valid, binding and enforceable and shall stipulate in any such court or before any such arbitrator that the Company is bound by all the provisions of this Agreement. The Company shall indemnify Indemnitee against any and all expenses which are incurred by Indemnitee in connection with any action brought by Indemnitee for indemnification or advancement of expenses from the Company under this Agreement unless the Company prevails in any such action. If a Change of Control shall have
 
occurred, the Company shall advance, to the fullest extent not prohibited by law, all expenses which are incurred by Indemnitee in connection with any action brought by Indemnitee for indemnification or advancement of expenses from the Company under this Agreement.
(e) Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, the Indemnitee shall not be entitled to seek a judicial determination as his or her entitlement to indemnification under this Agreement prior to the final disposition of the proceeding, provided however, that the Company may seek a judicial determination as to Indemnitee's entitlement to indemnification at any time.
14. . The knowledge and/or actions, or failure to act, of any director, officer, agent or employee of the Company or a subsidiary shall not be imputed to Indemnitee for purposes of determining the right to indemnification under this Agreement.
Actions of Others
15. .
Exceptions
(a) . Any provision herein to the contrary notwithstanding, the Company shall not be obligated pursuant to the terms of this Agreement to indemnify the Indemnitee on account of any proceeding with respect to (i) remuneration paid to the Indemnitee if it is determined by final judgment or other final adjudication that such remuneration was in violation of law; (ii) which final judgment is rendered against the Indemnitee for an accounting of profits made from the purchase or sale by the Indemnitee of securities of the Company pursuant to the provisions of Section 16(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or similar provisions of any federal, state or local statute; (iii) any reimbursement of the Company by the Indemnitee of any bonuses or other incentive-based or equity-based compensation, and the reimbursement of the Company of profits realized from the sale of securities of the Company by Indemnitee, to the extent that such reimbursements directly arise from an accounting restatement of the Company pursuant to Section 304 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the "Sarbanes-Oxley Act"); (iv) the payment to the Company of profits arising from the purchase and sale by Indemnitee of securities in violation of Section 306 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act; or (v) which (but only to the extent that) it is determined by final judgment or other final adjudication that the Indemnitee's conduct was in bad faith, knowingly fraudulent or deliberately dishonest. For purposes of the foregoing sentence, a final judgment or other adjudication may be reached in either the underlying proceeding or action in connection with which indemnification is sought or a separate proceeding or action to establish rights and liabilities under this Agreement.
Certain Matters
(b) . Any provision herein to the contrary notwithstanding, the Company shall not be obligated pursuant to the terms of this Agreement to indemnify or advance expenses to the Indemnitee with respect to proceedings or claims initiated or brought voluntarily by the Indemnitee and not by way of defense, except with respect to proceedings brought to establish or enforce a right to indemnification under this Agreement or any other statute or law or otherwise as required under Section 145, but such indemnification or advancement of expenses may be provided by the Company in specific cases if the Board finds it to be appropriate.
Claims Initiated by the Indemnitee
 
(c) . Any provision herein to the contrary notwithstanding, the Company shall be obligated pursuant to the terms of this Agreement to indemnify the Indemnitee for any expenses incurred by the Indemnitee with respect to any proceeding instituted by the Indemnitee to enforce or interpret this Agreement unless the Company, which shall bear the burden of proof, prevails in such proceeding.
Action for Indemnification
(d) . Any provision herein to the contrary notwithstanding, the Company shall not be obligated pursuant to the terms of this Agreement to indemnify the Indemnitee under this Agreement for any amounts paid in settlement of a proceeding effected without the Company's written consent. Neither the Company nor the Indemnitee shall unreasonably withhold consent to any proposed settlement; provided, however, that the Company may in any event decline to consent to (or to otherwise admit or agree to any liability for indemnification hereunder in respect of) any proposed settlement if the Company determines in good faith (pursuant to Section 8(b) above) that the Indemnitee is not entitled to indemnification hereunder.
Unauthorized Settlements
(e) . Any provision herein to the contrary notwithstanding, the Company shall not be obligated pursuant to the terms of this Agreement to indemnify the Indemnitee or otherwise act in violation of any undertaking appearing in and required by the rules and regulations promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Act") in any registration statement filed with the SEC under the Act. The Indemnitee acknowledges that paragraph (h) of Item 512 of Regulation S-K currently generally requires the Company to undertake in connection with any registration statement filed under the Act to submit the issue of the enforceability of the Indemnitee's rights under this Agreement in connection with any liability under the Act on public policy grounds to a court of appropriate jurisdiction and to be governed by any final adjudication of such issue. The Indemnitee specifically agrees that any such undertaking shall supersede the provisions of this Agreement and to be bound by any such undertaking.
Securities Act Liabilities
16. .
Nonexclusivity
(a) The provisions for indemnification and advancement of expenses set forth in this Agreement shall not be deemed exclusive of any other rights which the Indemnitee may have under any provision of law, the Company's Certificate of Incorporation or the Bylaws, in any court in which a proceeding is brought, the vote of the Company's stockholders or Disinterested Directors, other agreements or otherwise, both as to action in the Indemnitee's official capacity and to action in another capacity while occupying his position as an agent of the Company, and the Indemnitee's rights hereunder shall continue after the Indemnitee has ceased acting as an agent of the Company and shall inure to the benefit of the heirs, executors and administrators of the Indemnitee. No amendment, alteration or repeal of this Agreement or of any provision hereof shall limit or restrict any right of Indemnitee under this Agreement in respect of any action taken or omitted by such Indemnitee in his status as an agent prior to such amendment, alteration or repeal. To the extent that a change in Delaware law, whether by statute or judicial decision, permits greater indemnification or advancement of expenses than would be afforded currently under the Bylaws and this Agreement, it is the intent of the parties hereto that the Indemnitee shall enjoy by this Agreement the greater benefits so afforded by such change. Any provision herein to the contrary
 
notwithstanding, the Company may provide, in specific cases, the Indemnitee with full or partial indemnification if the Board determines that such indemnification is appropriate.
(b) The Company shall not be liable under this Agreement to make any payment of amounts otherwise indemnifiable (or for which advancement is provided hereunder) hereunder if and to the extent that Indemnitee has otherwise actually received such payment under any insurance policy, contract, agreement or otherwise.
(c) The Company's obligation to indemnify or advance expenses hereunder to Indemnitee who is or was serving at the request of the Company as a director or officer of any other corporation, limited liability company, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise shall be reduced by any amount Indemnitee has actually received as indemnification or advancement of expenses from such other corporation, limited liability company, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise.
17. . In the event of payment under this Agreement, the Company shall be subrogated to the extent of such payment to all of the rights of recovery of the Indemnitee, who, at the request and expense of the Company, shall execute all papers required and shall do everything that may be reasonably necessary to secure such rights, including the execution of such documents necessary to enable the Company effectively to bring suit to enforce such rights.
Subrogation
18. . It is understood that the parties hereto intend this Agreement to be interpreted and enforced so as to provide indemnification to the Indemnitee to the fullest extent now or hereafter permitted by law.
Interpretation of Agreement
19. . If any provision or provisions of this Agreement shall be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable for any reason whatsoever, (a) the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions of the Agreement (including without limitation, all portions of any paragraphs of this Agreement containing any such provision held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, that are not themselves invalid, illegal or unenforceable) shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby; and (b) to the fullest extent possible, the provisions of this Agreement (including, without limitation, all portions of any paragraph of this Agreement containing any such provision held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, that are not themselves invalid, illegal or unenforceable) shall be construed so as to give effect to the intent manifested by the provision held invalid, illegal or unenforceable and to give effect to Section 18 hereof.
Severability
20. . No supplement, modification or amendment of this Agreement shall be binding unless executed in writing by the parties hereto. No waiver of any of the provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed or shall constitute a waiver of any other provision hereof (whether or not similar) nor shall such waiver constitute a continuing waiver. The indemnification rights afforded to the Indemnitee hereby are contract rights and may not be diminished, eliminated or otherwise affected by amendments to the Certificate of Incorporation of the Company, the Bylaws or by other agreements.
Modification and Waiver
21. . The terms of this Agreement shall bind, and shall inure to the benefit of, the successors and assigns of the parties hereto.
Successors and Assigns
 
22. . Except as otherwise provided herein, any notice or demand which, by the provisions hereof, is required or which may be given to or served upon the parties hereto shall be in writing and, if by telegram, telecopy or telex, shall be deemed to have been validly served, given or delivered when sent, if by personal delivery, shall be deemed to have been validly served, given or delivered upon actual delivery and, if mailed, shall be deemed to have been validly served, given or delivered three business days after deposit in the United States mails, as registered or certified mail, with proper postage prepaid and addressed to the party or parties to be notified at the addresses set forth on the signature page of this Agreement (or such other address(es) as a party may designate for itself by like notice).
Notice
23. . This Agreement and the legal relations among the parties shall be governed by, and construed and enforced in accordance with, the laws of the State of Delaware, without regard to its conflict of laws rules. Except with respect to any arbitration commenced by Indemnitee pursuant to Section 13(a) of this Agreement, the Company and Indemnitee hereby irrevocably and unconditionally (i) agree that any action or proceeding arising out of or in connection with this Agreement shall be brought only in the Chancery Court of the State of Delaware (the "Delaware Court"), and not in any other state or federal court in the United States of America or any court in any other country, (ii) consent to submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of the Delaware Court for purposes of any action or proceeding arising out of or in connection with this Agreement, (iii) appoint, to the extent such party is not otherwise subject to service of process in the State of Delaware, irrevocably RL&F Service Corp., One Rodney Square, 10th Floor, 10th and King Streets, Wilmington, Delaware 19801 as its agent in the State of Delaware as such party's agent for acceptance of legal process in connection with any such action or proceeding against such party with the same legal force and validity as if served upon such party personally within the State of Delaware, (iv) waive any objection to the laying of venue of any such action or proceeding in the Delaware Court, and (v) waive, and agree not to plead or to make, any claim that any such action or proceeding brought in the Delaware Court has been brought in an improper or inconvenient forum.
Applicable Law and Consent to Jurisdiction
24. . This Agreement shall continue until and terminate upon the later of: (a) 10 years after the date that Indemnitee shall have ceased to serve [as a [director] [officer] of the Company] [,at the request of the Company, as a [director] [officer] of [another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust employee benefit plan or other enterprise] or (b) 1 year after the final termination of any proceeding then pending in respect of which Indemnitee is granted rights of indemnification or advancement of expenses hereunder and of any proceeding commenced by Indemnitee pursuant to Section 13 of this Agreement relating thereto
Duration of Agreement
25. . To the fullest extent permissible under applicable law, if the indemnification provided for in this Agreement is unavailable to Indemnitee for any reason whatsoever, the Company, in lieu of indemnifying Indemnitee, shall contribute to the amount incurred by Indemnitee, whether for judgments, fines, penalties, excise taxes, amounts paid or to be paid in settlement and/or for expenses, in connection with any claim relating to an indemnifiable event under this Agreement, in such proportion as is deemed fair and reasonable in light of all of the circumstances of such proceeding in order to reflect (i) the relative benefits received by the Company and Indemnitee as a result of the event(s) and/or transaction(s) giving cause to such proceeding; and/or (ii) the relative fault of the Company (and its directors, officers, employees and agents) and Indemnitee in connection with such event(s) and/or transaction(s).
Contribution
 
26. . This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersedes all prior agreements, understandings and negotiations, written and oral, between the parties with respect to the subject matter of this Agreement.
Entire Agreement
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have entered into this Agreement effective as of the date first above written.
 
 


