FILE:DVA/DVA-8K-20060830144025.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
On August 25, 2006, DaVita Inc. (the "Company") entered into an Amended and Restated Alliance and Product Supply Agreement (the "Amended Supply Agreement") with Gambro Renal Products Inc., a Colorado corporation ("Gambro Renal Products") and Gambro AB, a Swedish company and the parent of Gambro Renal Products ("Gambro AB"). Gambro Renal Products and Gambro AB do not have any other material relationship with the Company or its affiliates. The Company entered into the original Alliance and Product Supply Agreement on October 5, 2005 (the "Original Supply Agreement"), in conjunction with the closing of its acquisition of Gambro Healthcare, Inc. (now DVA Renal Healthcare, Inc.) from Gambro, Inc., a Colorado corporation, a subsidiary of Gambro AB and an affiliate of Gambro Renal Products.
On May 29, 2006, the Company delivered a notice of termination of the Original Supply Agreement to Gambro Renal Products. The termination notice was based on an assertion of a material breach by Gambro Renal Products in the performance of its obligations under the Original Supply Agreement as a result of, among other things, Gambro Renal Products' inability to supply certain products to the Company due to an import ban by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (the "FDA"). The Amended Supply Agreement effectively revokes the Company's May 29, 2006 termination notice and, during the import ban and for a period thereafter, permits the Company to secure alternate sources of supply for the products affected by the import ban. In addition, under the Original Supply Agreement, the Company was obligated to purchase, subject to specified transition periods, a significant majority of its requirements for hemodialysis products, supplies and equipment from Gambro Renal Products. The Amended Supply Agreement reduces the Company's purchase obligations with respect to its requirements for such products, supplies and equipment.
The Amended Supply Agreement further provides that in the event of a material breach by Gambro Renal Products in the performance of its obligations under the Amended Supply Agreement, the Company may, as an alternative to terminating the entire agreement, terminate its obligation to purchase any products which gave rise to such breach. In addition, if the FDA's current import ban is not lifted by June 30, 2007, the Company may terminate its obligations under the Amended Supply Agreement to purchase the products affected by the import ban.
The foregoing description of the Amended Supply Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Amended Supply Agreement which will be filed as an exhibit to the Company's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2006. A copy of the press release announcing the Company's entry into the Amended Supply Agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
The information included in this Current Report on Form 8-K contains forward-looking statements. All statements that do not concern historical facts are forward-looking statements. These statements involve substantial known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause the actual results to differ materially from those described herein, including those risks described in the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2006. The Company's forward-looking statements are based on information currently available to it, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise these statements, whether as a result of changes in underlying factors, new information, future events or otherwise.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
El Segundo, CA, August 28, 2006, DaVita Inc. (NYSE: DVA) announced today that it has entered into an amended and restated Alliance and Product Supply Agreement (the "Supply Agreement") with Gambro Renal Products, Inc. ("GRP") and Gambro AB. DaVita entered into the original Supply Agreement in conjunction with the closing of its acquisition of Gambro Healthcare, Inc. from a subsidiary of Gambro AB. DaVita had previously delivered to GRP a notice of termination of the Supply Agreement based in part upon GRP's inability to supply certain products as a result of an import ban by the US Food and Drug Administration. The amendment and restatement of the Supply Agreement effectively revokes the termination notice, permits DaVita to obtain alternate supplies of the affected products during the import ban and for a period thereafter and, among other things, reduces DaVita's purchase obligations under the Supply Agreement.
DaVita is a leading provider of dialysis services for patients suffering from chronic kidney failure. The Company provides services at kidney dialysis centers and home peritoneal dialysis programs domestically in 42 states, as well as Washington, D.C. As of June 30, 2006, DaVita operated or provided administrative services to over 1,250 outpatient facilities serving approximately 100,000 patients.


