FILE:DVA/DVA-8K-20070212133955.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
On February 9, 2007, DaVita Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing that it is seeking an amendment and restatement to its existing Senior Secured Credit Facilities and discussing its operating income guidance for 2006. Furnished hereto as Exhibit 99.1 is a copy of the press release issued by the Company.
The information contained in this Item 7.01 of this Form 8-K (including Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto) is being furnished and shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (The "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section and shall not be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
On February 9, 2007, the Company issued a press release pursuant to Rule 135c of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended ("Rule 135c") announcing the offering of $400 million aggregate principal amount of senior notes due 2013 (the "Notes") in a private placement. The Notes are part of the same series of debt securities as the $500 million aggregate principal amount of 6-5/8% senior notes that were issued in March 2005. On February 9, 2007, the Company also issued a press release pursuant to Rule 135c announcing that it had priced the offering of the Notes. Attached hereto as Exhibits 99.2 and 99.3 are copies of the press releases issued by the Company.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
EL SEGUNDO, California, February 9, 2007  DaVita Inc. (NYSE: DVA), today announced that it is seeking an amendment and restatement to its existing Senior Secured Credit Facilities primarily to reduce the margin over LIBOR that the Company pays as interest under the existing Term Loan B. The outstanding balances on the Senior Secured Term Loan A and Senior Secured Term Loan B are approximately $279 million and $2,106 million, respectively.
The Company also reaffirms its operating income guidance for 2006 of $690-$700 million, excluding the valuation gain on the Alliance and Product Supply Agreement with Gambro Renal Products Inc.
This release contains forward-looking statements, including statements related to the proposed refinancing of the Company's senior secured credit facilities and the Company's 2006 operating results. Factors which could impact these statements include the uncertainties associated with governmental regulations, general economic and other market conditions, accounting estimates and the risk factors set forth in the Company's SEC filings, including its Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2006. The forward-looking statements should be considered in light of these risks and uncertainties.
These risks and uncertainties include those relating to:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
We undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of changes in underlying factors, new information, future events or otherwise.

Exhibit 99.2
 
EL SEGUNDO, California, February 9, 2007  DaVita Inc. (NYSE: DVA), today announced that it intends to offer $400 million aggregate principal amount of senior notes due in 2013. The senior notes are part of the same series of debt securities as the $500 million aggregate principal amount of 6-5/8% senior notes that were issued in March 2005. The private offering, which is subject to market and other conditions, will be made within the United States only to qualified institutional buyers, and outside the United States only to non-U.S. investors under regulation S of the Securities Act of 1933.
The Company intends to use the net proceeds of the offering to repay a portion of outstanding amounts under the term loan portion of its senior secured credit facilities.
The securities to be offered will not be registered under the Securities Act or applicable state securities laws or blue sky laws, and may not be offered or sold in the United States absent registration under the Securities Act and applicable state securities laws or available exemptions from the registration requirements. This announcement shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy the notes.
This release contains forward-looking statements. Factors which could impact future results include the risk factors set forth in the Company's SEC filings, including its Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2006. The forward-looking statements should be considered in light of these risks and uncertainties. This Company undertakes no obligation to update any forward- looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.

Exhibit 99.3
 
El Segundo, California, February 9, 2007  DaVita Inc. (NYSE: DVA), today announced that it has priced $400 million aggregate principal amount of 6-5/8% senior notes due in 2013. The senior notes are part of the same series of debt securities as the $500 million aggregate principal amount of 6-5/8% senior notes that were issued in March 2005. The offering is expected to close on or about February 23, 2007, subject to customary closing conditions.
The Company intends to use the net proceeds of the offering to repay a portion of outstanding amounts under the term loan portion of its senior secured credit facilities.
The notes will be offered and sold only to qualified institutional buyers pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933 and non-U.S. persons purchasing in offshore transactions pursuant to Regulation S under the Securities Act. The securities to be offered will not be registered under the Securities Act or applicable state securities laws or blue sky laws, and may not be offered or sold in the United States absent registration under the Securities Act and applicable state securities laws or available exemptions from the registration requirements. This announcement shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy the notes.
This release contains forwardlooking statements. Factors which could impact future results include the risk factors set forth in the Company's SEC filings, including its Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2006. The forward-looking statements should be considered in light of these risks and uncertainties. This Company undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.


