FILE:DVA/DVA-8K-20070214112419.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
On February 14, 2007, DaVita Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2006. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
The information contained in this Form 8-K (including Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto) is being furnished and shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (The "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section and shall not be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
El Segundo, California, February 14, 2007  DaVita Inc. (NYSE: DVA), today announced results for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2006. Income from continuing operations for the three months ended December 31, 2006 was $74.1 million, or $0.70 per share, as compared with $56.4 million, or $0.54 per share, for the same period of 2005. Income from continuing operations for the three months ended December 31, 2006 included incremental after-tax stock-based compensation expense of $4.5 million, or $0.04 per share, related to SFAS No. 123(R).
Income from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2006, excluding the valuation gain on the Company's Product Supply Agreement with Gambro Renal Products was $266.1 million, or $2.52 per share, as compared to income from continuing operations of $207.4 million, or $1.99 per share, for the same period of 2005. Income from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2006 included incremental after-tax stock-based compensation expense of $14.2 million or $0.12 per share, related to SFAS No. 123(R).
Income from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2006, including the valuation gain on the Product Supply Agreement was $289.3 million, or $2.73 per share.
Financial and operating highlights include:
 
 
 
 
 
Outlook
We are revising our 2007 operating income guidance: Operating income is now projected to be in the range of $700-$760 million. Our previous guidance was for operating income to be in the range of $680-$750 million. These projections and the underlying assumptions involve significant risks and uncertainties, including those described below and actual results may vary significantly from these current projections.
DaVita will be holding a conference call to discuss its results for the fourth quarter and year ended December 31, 2006 on February 14, 2007 at noon Eastern Time. The dial in number is (800)-399-4406. A replay of the conference call will be available on DaVita's official web page, , for the following 30 days.
www.davita.com
This release contains forwardlooking statements, including statements related to our 2007 operating results. Factors which could impact future results include the uncertainties associated with governmental regulations, general economic and other market conditions, accounting estimates and the risk factors set forth in the Company's SEC filings, including its Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2006. The forward-looking statements should be considered in light of these risks and uncertainties.
These risks and uncertainties include those relating to:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
We undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of changes in underlying factors, new information, future events or otherwise.
This release contains non-GAAP financial measures. For reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to their most comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP, see the attached reconciliation schedules.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 1: Calculation of the Leverage Ratio
Under the Company's current Senior Secured Credit Facilities (Credit Agreement), the leverage ratio is defined as all funded debt plus the face amount of all letters of credit issued, minus cash and cash equivalents, divided by "Consolidated EBITDA". The leverage ratio determines the interest rate margin payable by the Company under the Credit Agreement by establishing the margin over the base interest rate (LIBOR) that is applicable. The following leverage ratio was calculated using "Consolidated EBITDA" as defined in the Credit Agreement. The calculation below is based on the last twelve-months of "Consolidated EBITDA", pro forma for the routine acquisitions that occurred during the period. The Company's management believes that the presentation of "Consolidated EBITDA" is useful to investors to enhance their understanding of the Company's leverage ratio under its Credit Agreement.
 
 
In accordance with the Company's Credit Agreement, the Company's leverage ratio cannot exceed 6.0 to 1.0 as of December 31, 2006. At that date, the Company's leverage ratio did not exceed 6.0 to 1.0.
 
1. Income from continuing operations and net income excluding the valuation gain on the Product Supply Agreement:
We believe that income from continuing operations and net income excluding the valuation gain on the Product Supply Agreement enhances a user's understanding of our normal income from continuing operations and net income for these periods by providing a measure that is more meaningful because it excludes a non-recurring non-cash item that resulted from an amendment of the Product Supply Agreement and accordingly is more comparable to prior periods and indicative of consistent income from continuing operations and net income items. This measure is not a measure of financial performance under United States generally accepted accounting principles and should not be considered as an alternative to income from continuing operations and net income.
 
2. Operating income excluding the pre-tax valuation gain on the Product Supply Agreement:
We believe that operating income excluding the valuation gain on the Product Supply Agreement enhances a user's understanding of our normal operating income for these periods by providing a measure that is more meaningful because it excludes a non-recurring non-cash item that resulted from an amendment of the Product Supply Agreement and accordingly is more comparable to prior periods and indicative of consistent operating income items. This measure is not a measure of financial performance under United States generally accepted accounting principles and should not be considered as an alternative to operating income.
 
 
3. Operating cash flow, excluding the income tax payment on divested centers:
We believe that operating cash flow excluding the income tax payment on divested centers enhances a user's understanding of our normal operating cash flows for these periods by providing a measure that is more meaningful because it excludes non-recurring transactions that can cause unusual fluctuations in our operating cash flows and accordingly is more comparable to prior periods and indicative of consistent operating cash flow items. This measure is not a measure of financial performance under United States generally accepted accounting principles and should not be considered as an alternative to cash flows from operating, investing or financing activities, as an indicator of cash flows or as a measure of liquidity.
 
 
 
4. Free cash flow and free cash flow, excluding the income tax payment on divested centers:
Free cash flow represents net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures for routine maintenance and information technology. We believe free cash flow and free cash flow excluding the income tax payment on divested centers are useful adjuncts to cash flow from operating activities and other measurements under United States generally accepted accounting principles, since free cash flow is a meaningful measure of our ability to fund acquisition and development activities and meet our debt service requirements and because free cash flow excluding the income payment on divested centers excludes a non-recurring transaction that can cause unusual fluctuations in our free cash flows and accordingly is more comparable to prior periods and indicative of consistent free cash items. Free cash flow and free cash flow excluding the income tax payment on divested centers are not measures of financial performance under United States generally accepted accounting principles and should not be considered as an alternative to cash flows from operating, investing or financing activities, as an indicator of cash flows or as a measure of liquidity.
 
 
 


