FILE:DVA/DVA-8K-20070130161559.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01. Other Events.
On January 30, 2007, DaVita Inc. (the "Company") announced that the Civil Division of the United States Attorney's Office (the "U.S. Attorney's Office") for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania has informed the Company that it has decided to close its investigation of DaVita. The Company continues to cooperate in the remaining ongoing investigations by the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Eastern District of Missouri in St. Louis and the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Eastern District of New York in Brooklyn. A copy of the press release announcing the close of the investigation by the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
El Segundo, CA, January 30, 2007, DaVita Inc. (NYSE: DVA) announced that the Civil Division of the United States Attorney's Office for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania has informed the company that it has decided to close its investigation of DaVita. The company was first notified of the investigation in February 2001 and was issued a formal subpoena in May 2002. The company fully cooperated with the investigation.
"We are pleased that the government, after a lengthy and thorough review, has decided to close this broad investigation into our business practices. We are proud of our culture of regulatory compliance at DaVita," said Chairman and CEO Kent Thiry.
DaVita is a leading provider of dialysis services for patients suffering from chronic kidney failure. The Company provides services at kidney dialysis centers and home peritoneal dialysis programs domestically in 42 states, as well as Washington, D.C. As of December 31, 2006, DaVita operated or managed 1,300 outpatient facilities serving approximately 103,000 patients.


