FILE:DVA/DVA-8K-20070323153734.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
.
Election of Director
On March 22, 2007, the Board of Directors (the "Board") of DaVita Inc. (the "Company") elected Willard Brittain, Jr. as a member of the Board. The Board has not yet determined the committees of the Board to which Mr. Brittain may be appointed. A copy of the press release announcing the election of Mr. Brittain is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Mr. Brittain is the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Professional Resources on Demand, a flexible staffing and executive search company. Previously, Mr. Brittain held various positions with PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP for 28 years until his retirement in 2002, including serving as Chief Operating Officer from 1995 to 2002. In connection with Mr. Brittain's election to the Board, Mr. Brittain has agreed to resign as a director of the Company if the Audit Committee of the Board should decide to retain PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as the Company's independent registered public accounting firm and if PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP would not otherwise be considered "independent" under the rules of the Securities Exchange Commission.
Pursuant to the Company's Director Compensation Philosophy and Plan (the "Plan"), Mr. Brittain will receive an initial grant of options to purchase 15,000 shares of the Company's stock in connection with his election to the Board. Mr. Brittain will receive the standard compensation amounts payable to non-employee directors of the Company as set forth in the Plan. The foregoing description of the Plan is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Plan which was filed with the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K on July 31, 2006.
No arrangement or understanding exists between Mr. Brittain and any other person or persons pursuant to which he was selected as a director. The Company has not been a participant in any transaction since the beginning of its last fiscal year, and is not a participant in any currently proposed transaction, in which Mr. Brittain, or any member of his immediate family, has a direct or indirect material interest.
.
Resignation of Director
On March 19, 2007, C. Raymond Larkin, a director of the Company, informed the Company that he will be retiring from the Board at the end of his term, which expires at this year's annual meeting of stockholders, and therefore will not stand for re-election to the Company's Board.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
El Segundo, CA, March 23, 2007, DaVita Inc. (NYSE: DVA) announced today that Willard W. Brittain, 59, has been elected to the Company's Board of Directors.
Mr. Brittain is Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Professional Resources on Demand (Preod Corporation), which provides executive search and business advisory services. Mr. Brittain also serves on the boards of Perini Corporation and Analysts International. He is a member of the board and Treasurer of the National Urban League, a member of the board of LEAD, a national teen business exposure organization and a member of the national board nominating committee of the YMCA. Mr. Brittain also serves on the Dean's Advisory Board of the Harvard Business School.
Mr. Brittain was with PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, for 28 years, joining in 1974 as a Senior Consultant and becoming a Partner in 1983. Prior to his retirement in 2002, he served as Chief Operating Officer of PwC Consulting and prior to that of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. He is a graduate of Yale and the Harvard Business School.
"We are excited that Woody is joining our Board of Directors. His depth and breadth of experience is a welcome addition to our Board," stated Peter Grauer, Lead Independent Director, and Kent Thiry, Chairman and CEO.
DaVita is a leading provider of dialysis services for patients suffering from chronic kidney failure. The Company provides services at kidney dialysis centers and home peritoneal dialysis programs domestically in 42 states, as well as Washington, D.C. As of December 31, 2006, DaVita operated or managed 1,300 outpatient facilities serving approximately 100,000 patients.


