FILE:DVA/DVA-8K-20081103112523.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On November 3, 2008, DaVita Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter and nine months ended September 30, 2008. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
The information contained in this Form 8-K (including Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto) is being furnished and shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (The "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section and shall not be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
El Segundo, California, November 3, 2008  DaVita Inc. (NYSE: DVA) today announced results for the quarter ended September 30, 2008. Net income for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2008 was $93.9 million and $275.8 million, or $0.89 per share and $2.59 per share, respectively.
Net income for the three months ended September 30, 2007 was $89.3 million, or $0.83 per share excluding after-tax gains from insurance settlements and after-tax gains on the sale of investment securities, and was $94.5 million, or $0.88 per share including these items.
Net income for the nine months ended September 30, 2007 was $254.6 million, or $2.38 per share excluding after-tax gains from insurance settlements, after-tax gains on the sale of investment securities and the valuation gain on the Company's alliance and product supply agreement with Gambro Renal Products, and was $296.1 million, or $2.76 per share including these items.
Financial and operating highlights include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Outlook
We expect our operating income results for 2008 to be near the middle of the range of our previously provided guidance of $800-$840 million. We still expect to generate approximately $480 million to $530 million of operating cash flow in 2008. Our operating income guidance for 2009 remains unchanged at a range of $820-$880 million. These projections and the underlying assumptions involve significant risks and uncertainties, including those described below and actual results may vary significantly from these current projections.
DaVita will be holding a conference call to discuss its results for the third quarter ended September 30, 2008 on November 3, 2008 at 12:00 p.m. Eastern Time. The dial in number is (800) 399-4406. A replay of the conference call will be available on DaVita's official web page, , for the following 30 days.
www.davita.com
This release contains forward-looking statements, including statements related to our 2008 and 2009 operating results and our 2009 expected effective tax rate. Factors which could impact future results include the uncertainties associated with governmental regulations, general economic and other market conditions, competition, accounting estimates and the risk factors set forth in the Company's SEC filings, including its Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2008. The forward-looking statements should be considered in light of these risks and uncertainties.
These risks and uncertainties include those relating to:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
We undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of changes in underlying factors, new information, future events or otherwise.
This release contains non-GAAP financial measures. For reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to their most comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP, see the attached reconciliation schedules.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 1: Calculation of the Leverage Ratio
Under the Company's current Senior Secured Credit Facilities (Credit Agreement), the leverage ratio is defined as all funded debt plus the face amount of all letters of credit issued, minus cash and cash equivalents, divided by "Consolidated EBITDA". The leverage ratio determines the interest rate margin payable by the Company for its term loan A and revolving line of credit under the Credit Agreement by establishing the margin over the base interest rate (LIBOR) that is applicable. The following leverage ratio was calculated using "Consolidated EBITDA" as defined in the Credit Agreement. The calculation below is based on the last twelve months of "Consolidated EBITDA", pro forma for the routine acquisitions that occurred during the period. The Company's management believes that the presentation of "Consolidated EBITDA" is useful to investors to enhance their understanding of the Company's leverage ratio under its Credit Agreement.
 
In accordance with the Company's Credit Agreement, the Company's leverage ratio cannot exceed 4.75 to 1.0 as of September 30, 2008. At that date, the Company's leverage ratio did not exceed 4.75 to 1.0.
 
1. Net income excluding gains from insurance settlements, gains on the sale of investment securities and the valuation gain on the alliance and product supply agreement (the Product Supply Agreement):
We believe that net income excluding gains from insurance settlements, gains on the sale of investment securities and the valuation gain on the Product Supply Agreement enhances a user's understanding of our normal net income for these periods by providing a measure that is more meaningful because it excludes insurance settlement gains related to insurance proceeds from Hurricane Katrina and from a fire that destroyed one of our centers, as well as non-recurring gains on the sale of investment securities and a non-recurring non-cash item that resulted from the termination of our purchase obligation for dialysis machines from Gambro Renal Products Inc. under the Product Supply Agreement, and accordingly is more comparable to current and prior periods and indicative of consistent net income. This measure is not a measure of financial performance under United States generally accepted accounting principles and should not be considered as an alternative to net income.
 
2. Operating income excluding pre-tax gains from insurance settlements and the pre-tax valuation gain on the Product Supply Agreement:
We believe that operating income excluding gains from insurance settlements and the valuation gain on the Product Supply Agreement enhances a user's understanding of our normal operating income for these periods by providing a measure that is more meaningful because it excludes insurance settlements gains related to insurance proceeds from Hurricane Katrina and from a fire that destroyed one of our centers and a non-recurring non-cash item that resulted from the termination of our purchase obligation for dialysis machines from Gambro Renal Products Inc. under the Product Supply Agreement and accordingly is more comparable to current and prior periods and indicative of consistent operating income items. This measure is not a measure of financial performance under United States generally accepted accounting principles and should not be considered as an alternative to operating income.
 
 
3. Free cash flow
Free cash flow represents net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures for routine maintenance and information technology. We believe free cash flow is a useful adjunct to cash flow from operating activities and other measurements under United States generally accepted accounting principles, since free cash flow is a meaningful measure of our ability to fund acquisition and development activities and meet our debt service requirements. Free cash flow is not a measure of financial performance under United States generally accepted accounting principles and should not be considered as an alternative to cash flows from operating, investing or financing activities, as an indicator of cash flows or as a measure of liquidity.
 
 
 


