FILE:DVA/DVA-8K-20080213162356.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On February 13, 2008, DaVita Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2007. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
The information contained in this Form 8-K (including Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto) is being furnished and shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (The "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section and shall not be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
El Segundo, California, February 13, 2008  DaVita Inc. (NYSE: DVA) today announced results for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2007. Net income for the three months ended December 31, 2007 was $85.7 million, or $0.79 per share, as compared to $74.1 million, or $0.70 per share, for the same period of 2006.
Net income for the year ended December 31, 2007 excluding after-tax gains from insurance settlements, the after-tax valuation gain on the Company's product supply agreement with Gambro Renal Products and after-tax gains on the sale of investment securities was $340.3 million, or $3.17 per share, as compared with $266.5 million or $2.52 per share for the same period of 2006.
Financial and operating highlights include:
 
 
 
 
 
Outlook
Our operating income guidance for 2008, excluding the impact of any potential Medicare legislation, is still projected to be in the range of $790-850 million; however, we continue to believe that operating income is more likely to be in the lower end of the range for 2008. We are entering into a period of unusual earnings uncertainty. Therefore, the guidance range for 2008 does not capture as high a percentage of the potential outcomes as usual. These projections and the underlying assumptions involve significant risks and uncertainties, including those described below and actual results may vary significantly from these current projections.
DaVita will be holding a conference call to discuss its results for the fourth quarter ended December 31, 2007 on February 13, 2008 at 5PM Eastern Time. The dial in number is (800) 399-4406. A replay of the conference call will be available on DaVita's official web page, , for the following 30 days.
www.davita.com
This release contains forwardlooking statements, including statements related to our 2008 operating results. Factors which could impact future results include the uncertainties associated with governmental regulations, general economic and other market conditions, accounting estimates and the risk factors set forth in the Company's SEC filings, including its Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2007. The forward-looking statements should be considered in light of these risks and uncertainties.
These risks and uncertainties include those relating to:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
We undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of changes in underlying factors, new information, future events or otherwise.
This release contains non-GAAP financial measures. For reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to their most comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP, see the attached reconciliation schedules.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 1: Calculation of the Leverage Ratio
Under the Company's current Senior Secured Credit Facilities (Credit Agreement), the leverage ratio is defined as all funded debt plus the face amount of all letters of credit issued, minus cash and cash equivalents, divided by "Consolidated EBITDA". The leverage ratio determines the interest rate margin payable by the Company for its term loan A and revolving line of credit under the Credit Agreement by establishing the margin over the base interest rate (LIBOR) that is applicable. The following leverage ratio was calculated using "Consolidated EBITDA" as defined in the Credit Agreement. The calculation below is based on the last twelve months of "Consolidated EBITDA", pro forma for the routine acquisitions that occurred during the period. The Company's management believes that the presentation of "Consolidated EBITDA" is useful to investors to enhance their understanding of the Company's leverage ratio under its Credit Agreement.
 
In accordance with the Company's Credit Agreement, the Company's leverage ratio cannot exceed 5.25 to 1.0 as of December 31, 2007. At that date, the Company's leverage ratio did not exceed 5.25 to 1.0.
 
1. Net income excluding gains from insurance settlements, the valuation gain on the product supply agreement and gains on the sale of investment securities
Net income excluding gains from insurance settlements, the valuation gain on the product supply agreement and gains on the sale of investment securities held by us, excludes certain unusual or non-recurring items in order to present a measure of net income that is more reflective of the normal day-to-day operations of our business. Gains from insurance settlements relates to insurance proceeds from Hurricane Katrina and from a fire that destroyed one of our centers. The valuation gains on the product supply agreement with Gambro Renal Products reflect non-cash items. In 2006, the valuation gain resulted from the modification of the product supply agreement, that reduced our required purchase obligations, and in 2007, the valuation gain resulted from an additional modification of the product supply agreement, which resulted in the termination of our obligation to purchase dialysis machines from Gambro Renal Products Inc. under that agreement. Gains on the sale of investment securities related to the sale of our common stock in NxStage. We believe that the exclusion of each of these items enhances a user's understanding of our normal operations and performance and that the adjusted amount of net income is more comparable to prior periods and therefore more indicative of our performance for purposes of period over period comparison. Our management eliminates these items when evaluating our operating performance. This measure is not a measure of financial performance under United States generally accepted accounting principles and should not be considered as an alternative to net income.
 
 
2. Operating income excluding pre-tax gains from insurance settlements, and the pre-tax valuation gain on the product supply agreement
Operating income excluding gains from insurance settlements, and the valuation gain on the product supply agreement, excludes certain unusual or non-recurring items in order to present a measure of operating income that is more reflective of the normal day-to-day operations of our business. Gains from insurance settlements relates to insurance proceeds from Hurricane Katrina and from a fire that destroyed one of our centers. The valuation gains on the product supply agreement with Gambro Renal Products reflect non-cash items. In 2006, the valuation gain resulted from the modification of the product supply agreement, that reduced our required purchase obligations, and in 2007, the valuation gain resulted from an additional modification of the product supply agreement, which resulted in the termination of our obligation to purchase dialysis machines from Gambro Renal Products Inc. under that agreement. We believe that the exclusion of each of these items enhances a user's understanding of our normal operations and performance and that the adjusted amount of operating income is more comparable to prior periods and therefore more indicative of our performance for purposes of period over period comparison. Our management eliminates these items when evaluating our operating performance. This measure is not a measure of financial performance under United States generally accepted accounting principles and should not be considered as an alternative operating income.
 
3. Free cash flow
Free cash flow represents net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures for routine maintenance and information technology. We believe free cash flow is a useful adjunct to cash flow from operating activities and other measurements under United States generally accepted accounting principles, since free cash flow is a meaningful measure of our ability to fund acquisition and development activities and meet our debt service requirements. Free cash flow is not a measure of financial performance under United States generally accepted accounting principles and should not be considered as an alternative to cash flows from operating, investing or financing activities, as an indicator of cash flows or as a measure of liquidity.
 
 


