FILE:DVA/DVA-8K-20081215172109.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 is a press release issued by DaVita Inc. on December 15, 2008.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: December 15, 2008
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
EL SEGUNDO, Calif., December 15, 2008, DaVita Inc. (NYSE: DVA), today announced that it is working with the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Office of Inspector General ("OIG") to respond to a subpoena request for documents issued in connection with the civil investigation by the Department of Justice and the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Northern District of Georgia previously reported in the Company's Quarterly Report on 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2008. The subpoena was sent from the OIG's office in Atlanta, Georgia and was received by the Company on December 12, 2008. The subpoena applies to the Company and its subsidiaries and covers a time period from January 1, 2003 to the present. In response to the subpoena, DaVita will produce a wide range of documents relating to the pharmaceutical products Zemplar, Hectorol, Venofer, Ferrlicit, and Epogen. The Company intends to meet with representatives of the government to discuss the scope of the subpoena and the production of responsive documents.
To the Company's knowledge, no proceedings have been initiated against the Company at this time, although the Company cannot predict whether or when proceedings might be initiated. The Company intends to cooperate with the government's investigation.
"DaVita has been involved in several investigations over the last 9 years, including some covering issues that are repeated in this subpoena. We respect the government's need to ensure the appropriateness of healthcare provider practices, especially during times when pharmaceutical issues involve significant expense for Medicare. We look forward to meeting with government representatives on this new investigation and once again demonstrating the strength of our clinical outcomes and the integrity and comprehensiveness of DaVita's Compliance programs," said LeAnne Zumwalt, spokesperson for DaVita.
DaVita is a leading provider of kidney care in the United States, providing dialysis services and education for patients with chronic kidney failure and end stage renal disease. DaVita manages more than 1,400 outpatient facilities and acute units in more than 700 hospitals located in 43 states and the District of Columbia, serving approximately 110,000 patients.


