FILE:DVA/DVA-8K-20090427214812.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On April 27, 2009, DaVita Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2009. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
The information contained in this Form 8-K (including Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto) is being furnished and shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (The "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section and shall not be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
El Segundo, California, April 27, 2009  DaVita Inc. (NYSE: DVA) today announced results for the quarter ended March 31, 2009. Net income attributable to DaVita Inc. for the three months ended March 31, 2009 was $96.2 million, or $0.92 per share, as compared to $86.9 million, or $0.80 per share, for the same period of 2008.
Financial and operating highlights include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Outlook
Our operating income guidance attributable to DaVita Inc. for 2009 remains unchanged at a range of $820-$880 million. However, as a result of adopting SFAS No. 160, the classification of noncontrolling interests was changed to no longer be deducted from our operating income as previously reported. Therefore, our operating income guidance based on the current presentation under SFAS No. 160 is projected to be in the range of $870-$930 million, even though the underlying fundamental economics of our business have not changed. In addition, our operating cash flow guidance is now projected to be in the range of $550-$600 million. See supplemental financial data on page 8 for further details. These projections and the underlying assumptions involve significant risks and uncertainties, including those described below and actual results may vary significantly from these current projections.
DaVita will be holding a conference call to discuss its results for the three months ended March 31, 2009 on April 28, 2009 at 8:30 a.m. Eastern Time. The dial in number is (800) 399-4406. A replay of the conference call will be available on DaVita's official web page, , for the following 30 days.
www.davita.com
This release contains forward-looking statements, including statements related to our 2009 operating results and 2009 expected effective tax rate and the expected effective tax rate attributable to DaVita Inc. Factors which could impact future results include the uncertainties associated with governmental regulations, general economic and other market conditions, competition, accounting estimates and the risk factors set forth in our SEC filings, including our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008. The forward-looking statements should be considered in light of these risks and uncertainties.
These risks and uncertainties include those relating to:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
We undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of changes in underlying factors, new information, future events or otherwise.
This release contains non-GAAP financial measures. For reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to their most comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP, see the attached reconciliation schedules.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. Reconciliations of operating income guidance and operating cash flow guidance to our previous reported amounts:
 
 
Note 1: Calculation of the Leverage Ratio
Under the Company's current Senior Secured Credit Facilities (Credit Agreement), the leverage ratio is defined as all funded debt plus the face amount of all letters of credit issued, minus cash and cash equivalents, divided by "Consolidated EBITDA". The leverage ratio determines the interest rate margin payable by the Company for its term loan A and revolving line of credit under the Credit Agreement by establishing the margin over the base interest rate (LIBOR) that is applicable. The following leverage ratio was calculated using "Consolidated EBITDA" as defined in the Credit Agreement. The calculation below is based on the last twelve months of "Consolidated EBITDA", pro forma for the routine acquisitions that occurred during the period. The Company's management believes the presentation of "Consolidated EBITDA" is useful to investors to enhance their understanding of the Company's leverage ratio under its Credit Agreement.
 
 
In accordance with the Company's Credit Agreement, the Company's leverage ratio cannot exceed 4.50 to 1.0 as of March 31, 2009. At that date the Company's leverage ratio did not exceed 4.50 to 1.0.
 
On January 1, 2009 we adopted SFAS No. 160 and implemented the classification and measurement of minority interests (noncontrolling interests) according to SEC Topic No. D-98 . Under the provisions of SFAS No. 160 we are required to separately report the amount of consolidated net income attributable to the parent and to the noncontrolling interests on the face of the consolidated statement of income instead of reporting noncontrolling interests as a reduction to operating income as we previously had reported. In addition, we are also required to treat noncontrolling interests as a separate component of equity; however, in accordance with SEC Topic No. D-98, we are required to classify securities with redemption features that are not solely within our control, such as our noncontrolling interests that are subject to put provisions outside of permanent equity and to measure these noncontrolling interests at fair value. The provisions of these standards have been applied retrospectively for all prior periods presented.
Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements
Classification and Measurement of Redeemable Securities
The following tables reflect the adjustments made to our previously reported financial statement amounts as a result of implementing SFAS No. 160 and SEC Topic No. D-98.
1. Consolidated Statements of Income:
We believe that this reconciliation of reported operating income to operating income as previously reported enables a user of our financial statements to more fully understand the impact on our previously reported operating results of implementing SFAS No. 160. Operating income as previously reported is no longer a measure of financial performance under United States generally accepted accounting principles and should not be considered as an alternative to operating income.
 
2. Consolidated Balance Sheet:
We believe that this reconciliation of certain reported balance sheets accounts to the same balance sheet accounts as previously reported enables a user of our financial statements to more fully understand the impact on our previously reported balance sheet of implementing SFAS No. 160 and SEC Topic D-98. The balance sheet as previously reported is no longer a measure of financial position under United States generally accepted accounting principles and should not be considered as an alternative to financial position.
 
 
 
3. Effective Income Tax Rates
We believe that reporting the effective income tax rate attributable to DaVita Inc. enhances a user understanding of DaVita's effective income tax rate for the periods presented because it excludes noncontrolling owners' income that primarily relates to non-tax paying entities and accordingly is more comparable to prior periods presentations regarding DaVita's effective income tax rate and is more meaningful to a user to fully understand the related income tax effects on DaVita Inc. operating results. This measure is not a measure of financial performance under United States generally accepted accounting principles and should not be considered as an alternative to the effective income tax rate.
Effective income tax rate as compared to the effective income tax rate attributable to DaVita Inc. is as follows:
 
 
 
 
4. Operating Cash Flow Net of Income Distributions to Noncontrolling Interests:
We believe that operating cash flow net of income distributions to noncontrolling interests enhances a user's understanding of the impact to our cash flow statements of implementing SFAS No. 160 which requires us to report operating cash flows at an enterprise level. Operating cash flow net of income distributions to noncontrolling interests also provides a measure that is more meaningful because it relates to operating cash flows that are attributable to DaVita Inc. This measure is not a measure of financial performance under United States generally accepted accounting principles and should not be considered as an alternative to cash flows from operating, investing or financing activities, as an indicator of cash flows or as a measure of liquidity.
 
 
 
 
5. Free cash flow
Free cash flow represents net cash provided by operating activities less income distributions to noncontrolling interests and capital expenditures for routine maintenance and information technology. We believe free cash flow is a useful adjunct to cash flow from operating activities and other measurements under United States generally accepted accounting principles, since free cash flow is a meaningful measure of our ability to fund acquisition and development activities and meet our debt service requirements. In addition, free cash flow excluding income distributions to noncontrolling interests also provides a user with an understanding of free cash flows that are attributable to DaVita Inc. Free cash flow is not a measure of financial performance under United States generally accepted accounting principles and should not be considered as an alternative to cash flows from operating, investing or financing activities, as an indicator of cash flows or as a measure of liquidity.
 
 
 


