FILE:DVA/DVA-8K-20090602151526.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On May 27, 2009, the Board of Directors (the "Board") of DaVita Inc. (the "Company") elected Pamela M. Arway, as a member of the Board. The Board has not yet determined the committees of the Board to which Ms. Arway may be appointed. A copy of the press release announcing the election of Ms. Arway is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Pursuant to the Company's Non-Management Director Compensation Philosophy and Plan (the "Plan"), Ms. Arway will receive an initial grant of stock-settled stock appreciation rights on a base number of 15,000 shares of the common stock of the Company in connection with her election to the Board. Ms. Arway will receive the standard compensation amounts payable to non-management directors of the Company as set forth in the Plan. The foregoing description of the Plan is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Plan filed on May 8, 2008 as an exhibit to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the first quarter ended March 31, 2008.
No arrangement or understanding exists between Ms. Arway and any other person or persons pursuant to which she was selected as a director. The Company has not been a participant in any transaction since the beginning of its last fiscal year, and is not a participant in any currently proposed transaction, in which Ms. Arway, or any member of her immediate family, has a direct or indirect material interest.
 
(d) Exhibits
.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Denver, Colorado, May 28, 2009, DaVita Inc. (NYSE: DVA) announced today that Pamela M. Arway has been elected to the Company's Board of Directors.
Ms. Arway, 55, now retired, is the former President of American Express International, Japan, Asia-Pacific, Australia region. Based in Singapore, she ran the Consumer Card business across 12 countries, heading the Regional Executive Team, employee, external and government affairs. Prior to leading the Asian business, she was Chief Executive of American Express Australia Ltd. Before moving to Asia, she served as Executive Vice President, Global Corporate Travel, based in New York. Ms. Arway joined American Express in 1987 in Toronto, Canada. Her work experience also included positions with Procter and Gamble and Bank of Montreal.
"We are excited that Pamela is joining our Board of Directors. Her depth of operating and strategic experience is a welcome addition to our Board," stated Kent Thiry, Chairman and CEO.
Ms. Arway has served on a number of for-profit and not-for- profit boards including Singapore International Chamber of Commerce; the Institute of Business Travel Management; Starcite LLC; and the Canadian Marketing Association, where she served as Chair of the Board. "I am really pleased to join DaVita's strong and admired Board of Directors and to become part of this outstanding organization," said Ms. Arway.
.
DaVita Inc. is a leading provider of kidney care in the United States, providing dialysis services and education for patients with chronic kidney failure and end stage renal disease. DaVita manages more than 1,475 outpatient facilities and acute units in more than 700 hospitals located in 43 states and the District of Columbia, serving approximately 114,000 patients


