FILE:DVA/DVA-8K-20101206175126.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On December 2, 2010, the Board of Directors (the "Board") of DaVita Inc. (the "Company") appointed Carol Anthony (John) Davidson, as a member of the Board. The Board also appointed Mr. Davidson as a member of each of the Audit Committee and the Nominating and Governance Committee of the Board. A copy of the press release announcing the appointment of Mr. Davidson is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Pursuant to the Company's Non-Management Director Compensation Philosophy and Plan (the "Plan"), Mr. Davidson will receive an initial grant of stock-settled stock appreciation rights on a base number of 15,000 shares of the common stock of the Company in connection with his election to the Board. In addition, Mr. Davidson will receive the standard compensation amounts payable to non-management directors of the Company as set forth in the Plan. The foregoing description of the Plan is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Plan filed on May 8, 2008 as an exhibit to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the first quarter ended March 31, 2008.
No arrangement or understanding exists between Mr. Davidson and any other person or persons pursuant to which he was selected as a director. The Company has not been a participant in any transaction since the beginning of its last fiscal year, and is not a participant in any currently proposed transaction, in which Mr. Davidson, or any member of his immediate family, had or will have a direct or indirect material interest.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
DaVita Appoints Carol Anthony (John) Davidson to Board of Directors
DENVER(BUSINESS WIRE)December 6, 2010  DaVita Inc. (NYSE: DVA), a leading provider of kidney care services for those diagnosed with chronic kidney disease (CKD), announced today that John Davidson has been appointed to the company's Board of Directors.
Mr. Davidson, 55, is Senior Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer of Tyco International Ltd., a diversified global provider of security products and services, fire protection and detection products and services, and valves and controls.
Mr. Davidson is a CPA with more than 30 years of leadership experience across multiple industries. Prior to joining Tyco in January 2004, he spent six years at Dell where he held various leadership roles, including Vice President, Audit, Risk and Compliance, and Vice President, Corporate Controller. In addition, he previously spent 16 years at Eastman Kodak Company in a variety of accounting and financial leadership roles.
Mr. Davidson holds a master's degree in business administration from the University of Rochester, and a bachelor's degree in accounting from St. John Fisher College in Rochester, NY. His professional and civic affiliations include memberships on the boards of the Financial Accounting Foundation, St. John Fisher College and the National 4-H Council.
"We are excited that John is joining our Board of Directors. His strong track record of building and leading global teams and implementing governance and controls processes will further strengthen our Board," stated Peter Grauer, Lead Independent Director.
Mr. Davidson said "I am delighted to be joining the DaVita board and look forward to drawing upon my broad range of experience at leading companies to help DaVita address the challenges and opportunities ahead."
About DaVita
DaVita Inc., a Fortune 500 company, is a leading provider of kidney care in the United States, delivering dialysis services and education to patients with chronic kidney failure and end stage renal disease. As of September 30, 2010, DaVita operated or provided administrative services at 1,598 dialysis facilities, serving approximately 124,000 patients. DaVita develops, participates in and donates to numerous programs dedicated to transforming communities and creating positive, sustainable change for children, families and our environment. The company's leadership development initiatives and corporate social responsibility efforts have been recognized by Fortune, Modern Healthcare, Newsweek and WorldBlu, among others. For more information, please visit www.davita.com.


