FILE:DVA/DVA-8K-20101104161601.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On November 4, 2010, DaVita Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter and nine months ended September 30, 2010. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
The information contained in this Form 8-K (including Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto) is being furnished and shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (The "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section and shall not be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
Contact: Jim Gustafson
Investor Relations
DaVita Inc.
(310) 536-2585
Denver, Colorado, November 4, 2010  DaVita Inc. (NYSE: DVA) today announced results for the quarter ended September 30, 2010. Net income attributable to DaVita Inc. for the three months ended September 30, 2010 was $119.4 million, or $1.15 per share. This compares to net income attributable to DaVita Inc. for the three months ended September 30, 2009 of $110.9 million, or $1.06 per share.
Net income attributable to DaVita Inc. for the nine months ended September 30, 2010, excluding after-tax debt redemption charges of $2.5 million, was $339.2 million, or $3.25 per share as compared with $313.0 million, or $3.00 per share, respectively, for the same period of 2009. Net income attributable to DaVita Inc. for the nine months ended September 30, 2010, including this item, was $336.7 million, or $3.22 per share.
Financial and operating highlights include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Outlook
We are narrowing our operating income guidance for 2010 to be in the range of $995 million to $1,015 million. We are also revising our operating cash flow guidance for 2010. Our operating cash flow is now projected to be in the range of $800 million to $875 million. Our previous operating cash flow guidance for 2010 was in the range of $725 million to $825 million. The increase in our operating cash flow guidance was primarily due to reduced tax payments resulting from accelerated tax deductions. Because of the uncertainties of operating under the new Medicare bundled payment system and the ongoing uncertainties associated with our payor mix, we will not be providing a specific guidance range for 2011 operating income at this time. These projections and the underlying assumptions involve significant risks and uncertainties, including those described below, and actual results may vary significantly from these current projections.
DaVita will be holding a conference call to discuss its results for the third quarter ended September 30, 2010 on November 4, 2010 at 5:00 p.m. Eastern Time. The dial in number is (800) 399-4406. A replay of the conference call will be available on DaVita's official web page, , for the following 30 days.
www.davita.com
This release contains forward-looking statements, within the meaning of the federal securities laws, including statements related to our 2010 operating income, operating cash flow, our expected effective tax rate and the expected effective tax rate attributable to DaVita Inc. Factors which could impact future results include the uncertainties associated with governmental regulations, general economic and other market conditions, competition, accounting estimates, the variability of our cash flows and the risk factors set forth in our SEC filings, including our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009, our quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the second quarter ended June 30, 2010 and subsequent quarterly reports filed on Form 10-Q. The forward-looking statements should be considered in light of these risks and uncertainties.
These risks and uncertainties include those relating to:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
We base our forward-looking statements on information currently available to us at the time of this release, and we undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of changes in underlying factors, new information, future events or otherwise.
This release contains non-GAAP financial measures. For reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to their most comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP, see the attached reconciliation schedules. For the reasons stated in the reconciliation schedules, we believe our presentation of non-GAAP financial measures provides useful supplemental information for investors.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 1: Calculation of the Leverage Ratio
Under the Company's prior Senior Secured Credit Facilities (Credit Agreement), the leverage ratio is defined as all funded debt plus the face amount of all letters of credit issued, minus cash and cash equivalents, divided by "Consolidated EBITDA". The leverage ratio determines the interest rate margin payable by the Company for its term loan A and revolving line of credit under the Credit Agreement by establishing the margin over the base interest rate (LIBOR) that is applicable. The following leverage ratio was calculated using "Consolidated EBITDA" as defined in the Credit Agreement. The calculation below is based on the last twelve months of "Consolidated EBITDA", pro forma for the routine acquisitions that occurred during the period. The Company's management believes the presentation of "Consolidated EBITDA" is useful to investors to enhance their understanding of the Company's leverage ratio under its Credit Agreement.
 
In accordance with the Company's Credit Agreement, the Company's leverage ratio cannot exceed 3.75 to 1.0 as of September 30, 2010. At that date the Company's leverage ratio did not exceed 3.75 to 1.0.
 
 
Note 2: Debt Refinancing
On October 20, 2010, we entered into a new $3,000 million Senior Secured Credit Agreement consisting of a five year $250 million revolving line of credit, a five year $1,000 million Term Loan A and a six year $1,750 million Term Loan B.
On October 20, 2010, the Company also issued $775 million aggregate principal amount of 6 
 3
/
8
% senior notes due 2018 and $775 million aggregate principal amount of 6 
 5
/
8
% senior notes due 2020 (the "New Senior Notes").
We received total proceeds of $4,300 million from these transactions and used a portion of the proceeds to pay-off the outstanding principal balances of our existing Senior Secured Credit Facility plus accrued interest totaling $1,795 million and to purchase pursuant to a cash tender offer a portion of the outstanding principal balances of our existing 6 
 5
/
8
% senior notes due 2013 and 7 
 1
/
4
% senior subordinated notes due 2015 (the "Existing Notes") plus accrued interest totaling $1,297 million. We also paid fees, discounts and other expenses as well as cash tender premiums totaling approximately $109 million.
On November 19, 2010, we will redeem the remaining outstanding principal balances of the Existing Notes that were not tendered pursuant to the cash tender offer along with accrued interest for $265 million. In addition, we will pay call premiums totaling $7 million.
As a result of these transactions we received approximately $827 million in excess cash which we intend to use for general purposes and other opportunities, including share repurchases, potential acquisitions and other growth investments.
In connection with these transactions we expect to expense one time refinancing charges ranging from $65 million to $75 million which includes the write off of existing deferred financing costs, the cash tender and call premiums, and other expenses.
The following table illustrates the sources and uses of funds for these transactions.
 
 
Long-term debt as of September 30, 2010, assuming we had completed the above transactions would have been comprised of the following:
 
 
 
1.  Net income attributable to DaVita Inc. excluding debt redemption charges and diluted earnings per share attributable to DaVita Inc. excluding debt redemption charges.
We believe that net income attributable to DaVita Inc. excluding debt redemption charges and diluted earnings per share attributable to DaVita Inc. excluding debt redemption charges enhances a user's understanding of our normal net income attributable to DaVita Inc. and diluted earnings per share attributable to DaVita Inc. for these periods by providing a measure that is more meaningful because it excludes a charge that resulted from the redemption of $200 million aggregate principal amount of our outstanding 6
 5
/
8
% senior notes due 2013 and accordingly, is more comparable to prior periods and indicative of consistent net income attributable to DaVita Inc. and diluted earnings per share attributable to DaVita Inc. These measures are not measures of financial performance under United States generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and should not be considered as an alternative to net income attributable to DaVita Inc. and diluted earnings per share attributable to DaVita Inc.
 
 
 
2. Effective Income Tax Rates
We believe that reporting the effective income tax rate attributable to DaVita Inc. enhances an investor's understanding of DaVita's effective income tax rate for the periods presented because it excludes noncontrolling owners' income that primarily relates to non-tax paying entities and accordingly is more comparable to prior periods presentations regarding DaVita's effective income tax rate and is more meaningful to an investor to fully understand the related income tax effects on DaVita Inc.'s operating results. This is not a measure under GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to the effective income tax rate calculated in accordance with GAAP.
Effective income tax rate as compared to the effective income tax rate attributable to DaVita Inc. is as follows:
 
 
 
3.  Free cash flow
Free cash flow represents net cash provided by operating activities less income distributions to noncontrolling interests and capital expenditures for routine maintenance and information technology. We believe free cash flow is a useful adjunct to cash flow from operating activities and other measurements under GAAP, since free cash flow is a meaningful measure of our ability to fund acquisition and development activities and meet our debt service requirements. In addition, free cash flow excluding income distributions to noncontrolling interests provides an investor with an understanding of free cash flows that are attributable to DaVita Inc. Free cash flow is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to cash flows from operating, investing or financing activities, as an indicator of cash flows or as a measure of liquidity.
 
 


