FILE:DVA/DVA-8K-20111019171130.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On October 18, 2011, DaVita Inc. issued a press release titled "DaVita Announces Estimate of Third Quarter 2011 Results." A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K.
The information contained in this Form 8-K (including Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto) is being furnished and shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (The "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section and shall not be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 DaVita Inc. (NYSE: DVA), (the "Company") is announcing an estimate of certain third quarter 2011 operating results in advance of the announcement of its actual third quarter operating results, which is expected to occur after market close on November 3, 2011. Our estimate of operating results for the third quarter of 2011 includes:
DENVER (October 18, 2011)
 
 
 
 
 
Our estimate of third quarter operating performance is driven by strong treatment volume growth and by decreased operating cost from a decline in utilization of physician-prescribed pharmaceuticals due to continued evolution of clinical practices and physicians responding to the new FDA label for Epogen. These estimated results exclude any unidentified unusual or nonrecurring material charges.
We are also raising our operating income guidance for 2011 to now be in the range of $1,125 million to $1,155 million. This guidance excludes the non-cash goodwill impairment charge recorded in the second quarter of 2011. Our previous operating income guidance for 2011 was in the range of $1,080 million to $1,120 million. This 2011 full-year guidance reflects anticipated declines in rates from the Veterans Administration and higher general and administrative spending in the fourth quarter. The above expectations regarding our results for the third quarter and guidance for 2011 are solely management estimates and projections based on currently available information. The quarter ended September 30, 2011 has recently completed, and as a result, the Company's final results for the third quarter of 2011 are not yet available.
We are also reiterating our operating income guidance range for 2012 of $1,200 million to $1,300 million, as previously provided. This 2012 guidance reflects current and potential trends among a number of swing factors, including:
 
 
 
 
 
All these estimates and projections and the underlying assumptions capture a majority of probabilistic outcomes but involve significant risks and uncertainties. Actual results may vary significantly from these projections. We will discuss these results in further detail on our third quarter earnings call on November 3, 2011.
The Company is also announcing that, as anticipated, we recently received a subpoena for documents in the previously disclosed grand jury investigation. The subpoena was expected as part of the typical process in a healthcare investigation, and it is the first request for information that the Company has
 
received in this matter. Consistent with our discussion on our last quarterly earnings call, the scope of the document subpoena substantially overlaps with the OIG Dallas matter and appears to be limited to physician relationships. The investigation is still at an early stage. We always take these matters seriously and intend to continue cooperating with the government.
Our strong record of compliance has been well established in the healthcare industry where retroactive investigation as opposed to proactive clarification is an unfortunate feature of the oversight system. Over the last twelve years, our overall business practices have gone through extensive internal and external review. During that same time, we have dealt very successfully and openly with this highly public system.
We look forward to continuing to discuss these matters on our upcoming earnings call.
This release contains forward-looking statements, within the meaning of the federal securities laws, including statements related to anticipated third quarter 2011 and fiscal year 2011 and 2012 operating income, third quarter earnings per share from continuing operations and the third quarter normalized non-acquired treatment growth. Factors which could impact future results include the uncertainties associated with governmental regulations, general economic and other market conditions, competition, accounting estimates, the variability of our cash flows and the risk factors set forth in our SEC filings, including our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for the first quarter ended March 31, 2011 and the second quarter ended June 30, 2011 and subsequent quarterly reports filed on Form 10-Q. The forward-looking statements should be considered in light of these risks and uncertainties.
These risks and uncertainties include those relating to:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
We base our forward-looking statements on information currently available to us at the time of this release, and we undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of changes in underlying factors, new information, future events or otherwise.
 
About DaVita
DaVita Inc., a Fortune 500 company, is a leading provider of kidney care in the United States, delivering dialysis services and education to patients with chronic kidney failure and end stage renal disease. As of June 30, 2011, DaVita operated or provided administrative services at 1,669 dialysis facilities, serving approximately 131,000 patients. DaVita develops, participates in and donates to numerous programs dedicated to transforming communities and creating positive, sustainable change for children, families and our environment. The company's leadership development initiatives and corporate social responsibility efforts have been recognized by , , and , among others. For more information, please visit .
Fortune
Modern Healthcare
Newsweek
WorldBlu
www.davita.com
Investor Contact Information:
Jim Gustafson
310-536-2585
Jim.gustafson@davita.com
 


