FILE:DVA/DVA-8K-20111103163412.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On November 3, 2011, DaVita Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter and nine months ended September 30, 2011. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
The information contained in this Form 8-K (including Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto) is being furnished and shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (The "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section and shall not be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Contact: Jim Gustafson
Investor Relations
DaVita Inc.
(310) 536-2585
Denver, Colorado, November 3, 2011  DaVita Inc. (NYSE: DVA) today announced results for the quarter ended September 30, 2011. Income from continuing operations attributable to DaVita Inc. for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2011 was $138.2 million and $346.7 million, or $1.45 and $3.57 per share, respectively, which for the nine months ended September 30, 2011 excludes an after-tax non-cash goodwill impairment charge of approximately $14.4 million, or $0.14 per share, that was recorded in the second quarter of 2011 related to our infusion therapy business. Income from continuing operations attributable to DaVita Inc. for the nine months ended September 30, 2011 including this item was $332.3 million, or $3.43 per share.
Income from continuing operations attributable to DaVita Inc. for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2010 was $119.5 million and $339.0 million, or $1.15 and $3.25 per share, respectively, which for the nine months ended September 30, 2010 excludes after-tax debt redemption charges of $2.5 million, or $0.02 per share. Income from continuing operations attributable to DaVita Inc. for the nine months ended September 30, 2010 including this item was $336.5 million, or $3.22 per share.
On September 2, 2011, we completed our acquisition of DSI Renal, Inc. (DSI) for approximately $724 million in net cash, plus the assumption of certain liabilities, subject to certain post-close adjustments. The operating results of DSI are included in our operating results effective September 1, 2011.
The operating results of the historical DaVita divested centers are reflected as discontinued operations for all periods presented. In addition, the operating results for the DSI centers divested and to be divested are reflected as discontinued operations in our consolidated financial statements beginning September 1, 2011.
Financial and operating highlights include:
 
 
Operating income for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2010 was $257 million and $741 million, respectively.
 
 
 
 
 
Outlook
Our operating income guidance for 2011 is still expected to be in the range of $1,125 million to $1,155 million. This guidance excludes the non-cash goodwill impairment charge recorded in the second quarter of 2011. We are raising our operating cash flow guidance for 2011 to now be in the range of $1,020 million to $1,100 million. Our previous operating cash flow guidance for 2011 was in the range of $900 million to $980 million. We also expect our operating cash flows for 2012 to be flat or slightly down as compared to 2011, primarily due to the timing of certain working capital items. We are also confirming our operating income guidance range for 2012 of $1,200 million to $1,300 million, as previously provided. These projections and the underlying assumptions involve significant risks and uncertainties, including those described below and actual results may vary significantly from these current projections.
We will be holding a conference call to discuss our results for the third quarter ended September 30, 2011 on November 3, 2011 at 5:30 p.m. Eastern Time. The dial in number is (800) 399-4406. A replay of the conference call will be available on DaVita's official web page, , for the following 30 days.
www.davita.com
This release contains forward-looking statements, within the meaning of the federal securities laws, including statements related to our 2011 and 2012 operating income, our 2011 and 2012 operating cash flows and our 2011 expected effective tax rate attributable to DaVita Inc. Factors that could impact future results include the uncertainties associated with governmental regulations, general economic and other market conditions, competition, accounting estimates, the variability of our cash flows and the risk factors set forth in our SEC filings, including our quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the second quarter ended June 30, 2011 and subsequent quarterly reports to be filed on Form 10-Q. The forward-looking statements should be considered in light of these risks and uncertainties.
These risks and uncertainties include those relating to:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
We base our forward-looking statements on information currently available to us at the time of this release, and we undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of changes in underlying factors, new information, future events or otherwise.
This release contains non-GAAP financial measures. For reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to their most comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP, see the attached reconciliation schedules. For the reasons stated in the reconciliation schedules, we believe our presentation of non-GAAP financial measures provides useful supplemental information for investors.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 1: Calculation of the Leverage Ratio
Under the Company's Senior Secured Credit Facilities (Credit Agreement), the leverage ratio is defined as all funded debt plus the face amount of all letters of credit issued, minus cash and cash equivalents, divided by "Consolidated EBITDA". The leverage ratio determines the interest rate margin payable by the Company for its Term Loan A and revolving line of credit under the Credit Agreement by establishing the margin over the base interest rate (LIBOR) that is applicable. The following leverage ratio was calculated using "Consolidated EBITDA" as defined in the Credit Agreement. The calculation below is based on the last twelve months of "Consolidated EBITDA", pro forma for routine acquisitions that occurred during the period. The Company's management believes the presentation of "Consolidated EBITDA" is useful to investors to enhance their understanding of the Company's leverage ratio under its Credit Agreement.
 
In accordance with the Credit Agreement, the Company's leverage ratio cannot exceed 4.25 to 1.0 as of September 30, 2011. At that date the Company's leverage ratio did not exceed 4.25 to 1.0.
 
1. Income from continuing operations attributable to DaVita Inc. excluding an after-tax non-cash goodwill impairment charge and debt redemption charges and diluted income from continuing operations per share attributable to DaVita Inc. excluding an after-tax non-cash goodwill impairment charge and debt redemption charges.
We believe that income from continuing operations attributable to DaVita Inc. excluding an after-tax non-cash goodwill impairment charge and debt redemption charges enhances a user's understanding of our normal income from continuing operations attributable to DaVita Inc. and diluted income from continuing operations per share attributable to DaVita Inc. for these periods by providing a measure that is more meaningful because it excludes a non-cash goodwill impairment charge that resulted from a decrease in the implied fair value of goodwill below its carrying amount associated with our infusion therapy business during the second quarter of 2011 and also from the redemption of $200 million aggregate principal amount of our outstanding 6
 5
/
8
% senior notes due 2013 that occurred in the second quarter of 2010 and accordingly, is more comparable to prior periods and indicative of consistent income from continuing operations attributable to DaVita Inc. and diluted income from continuing operations per share attributable to DaVita Inc. These measures are not measures of financial performance under United States generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and should not be considered as an alternative to income from continuing operations attributable to DaVita Inc. and diluted income from continuing operations per share attributable to DaVita Inc.
 
 
2. Operating income excluding a pre-tax non-cash goodwill impairment charge.
We believe that operating income excluding a pre-tax non-cash goodwill impairment charge enhances a user's understanding of our normal operating income for these periods by providing a measure that is more meaningful because it excludes a non-cash goodwill impairment charge that resulted from a decrease in the implied fair value of goodwill below its carrying amount associated with our infusion therapy business during the second quarter of 2011 and accordingly, is more comparable to prior periods and indicative of consistent operating income. This measure is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to operating income.
 
 
3. Effective Income Tax Rates.
We believe that reporting the effective income tax rate attributable to DaVita Inc. enhances an investor's understanding of DaVita's effective income tax rate for the periods presented because it excludes noncontrolling owners' income that primarily relates to non-tax paying entities and accordingly is more comparable to prior periods presentations regarding DaVita's effective income tax rate and is more meaningful to an investor to fully understand the related income tax effects on DaVita Inc.'s operating results. This is not a measure under GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to the effective income tax rate calculated in accordance with GAAP.
Effective income tax rate as compared to the effective income tax rate attributable to DaVita Inc. is as follows:
 
 
 
4. Free cash flow.
Free cash flow represents net cash provided by operating activities less income distributions to noncontrolling interests and capital expenditures for routine maintenance and information technology. We believe free cash flow is a useful adjunct to cash flow from operating activities and other measurements under GAAP, since free cash flow is a meaningful measure of our ability to fund acquisition and development activities and meet our debt service requirements. In addition, free cash flow excluding income distributions to noncontrolling interests provides an investor with an understanding of free cash flows that are attributable to DaVita Inc. Free cash flow is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to cash flows from operating, investing or financing activities, as an indicator of cash flows or as a measure of liquidity.
 
 
 


