FILE:DVA/DVA-8K-20111025060155.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DaVita Inc. (the "Company") has been advised that it will be receiving a request for documents, which could include an administrative subpoena from the Office of Inspector General for the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. The request is in connection with an inquiry by the United States Attorney's office for the Eastern District of New York regarding payment for infusion drugs covered by the New York Medicaid composite payment system for dialysis. We believe this inquiry is civil in nature. We do not know the time period covered by the inquiry.
We understand that certain other providers that operate dialysis clinics in New York and provide services to New York Medicaid patients also may be receiving or have received a similar request for documents. We intend to cooperate with the government to provide responsive documents. To the Company's knowledge, no proceedings have been initiated against it at this time, although the Company cannot predict whether proceedings might be initiated. Any negative findings could result in substantial financial penalties against the Company, exclusion from future participation in the Medicare and Medicaid programs, and criminal penalties.
 
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
This Form 8-K and the attached Exhibit are furnished to comply with Item 7.01 of Form 8-K. Neither this Form 8-K nor the attached Exhibit are to be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall this Form 8-K nor the attached Exhibit be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 (except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing).
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 . (NYSE: DVA), (the "Company"), a leading provider of kidney care services for those diagnosed with chronic kidney disease (CKD), announced today that it has been advised that it will be receiving a request for documents, which could include an administrative subpoena from the Office of Inspector General for the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. The request is in connection with an inquiry by the United States Attorney's office for the Eastern District of New York regarding payment for infusion drugs covered by the New York Medicaid composite payment system for dialysis. We believe this inquiry is civil in nature. We do not know the time period covered by the inquiry.
DENVER (October 25, 2011)
DaVita Inc
We understand that certain other providers that operate dialysis clinics in New York and provide services to New York Medicaid patients also may be receiving or have received a similar request for documents. We intend to cooperate with the government to provide responsive documents.
To the Company's knowledge, no proceedings have been initiated against it at this time, although the Company cannot predict whether proceedings might be initiated.
Over the last twelve years, our strong record of compliance has been well established in the healthcare industry. The Company has worked hard to create and sustain a culture of compliance at DaVita, as well as the policies and systems to support that culture. We respect the government's responsibility to ensure the appropriateness of provider practices. We intend to work cooperatively in response to this inquiry and look forward to resolving the matter.
About DaVita
DaVita Inc., a Fortune 500 company, is a leading provider of kidney care in the United States, delivering dialysis services and education to patients with chronic kidney failure and end stage renal disease. As of June 30, 2011, DaVita operated or provided administrative services at 1,669 dialysis facilities, serving approximately 131,000 patients. DaVita develops, participates in and donates to numerous programs dedicated to transforming communities and creating positive, sustainable change for children, families and our environment. The company's leadership development initiatives and corporate social responsibility efforts have been recognized by , , and , among others. For more information, please visit .
Fortune
Modern Healthcare
Newsweek
WorldBlu
www.davita.com
Investor Contact Information:
Jim Gustafson
310-536-2585
Jim.gustafson@davita.com


