FILE:DVA/DVA-8K-20110317092604.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement	Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Explanatory Note
This Form 8-K/A amends and restates in its entirety the Current Report on Form 8-K filed previously on April 16, 2011 (the "Form 8-K"). Specifically, the text following the first bullet point of Item 5.03 of the Form 8-K has been amended to correct an erroneous statement of a numerical percentage.
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On March 10, 2011, DaVita Inc., a Delaware corporation ("DaVita") and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as rights agent, entered into an amendment (the "Amendment") to the Rights Agreement, dated November 14, 2002 (the "Rights Plan"). The Amendment accelerates the expiration of the rights issued under the Rights Plan from close of business on November 14, 2012 to the close of business on March 10, 2011. Accordingly, as of the close of business on March 10, 2011, the rights issued under the Rights Plan expired and are no longer outstanding.
Item 1.02. Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement.
The information set forth under Item 1.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 3.03. Material Modification to Rights of Security Holders.
The information set forth under Item 1.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 5.03. Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; changes in Fiscal Year.
On March 10, 2011, the Board of Directors (the "Board") of DaVita amended and restated DaVita's Amended and Restated Bylaws to, among other things,
 
 
 
In addition, the Board amended DaVita's Corporate Governance Guidelines to, among other things, (a) provide for a mandatory retirement age, such that any director who has reached the age of 75 will not be nominated for reelection to the Board; (b) limit the number of public company boards that a director or director nominee may serve on, such that no director or director nominee may serve on more than four other public company boards; (c) require the completion of a written questionnaire with respect to the background and qualification of such director or director nominee in order to be eligible for election or reelection to DaVita's Board and a written representation and agreement to (i) provide the information required by Article III, Section 12(a)(2) of DaVita's bylaws, (ii) comply with DaVita's share ownership policy, (iii) comply with DaVita's corporate governance, conflicts, confidentiality and trading policies, and (iv) abide by the provision set forth in Article IV Section 3 of DaVita's bylaws.
 
The foregoing description is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Amended and Restated Bylaws, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 3.1 and incorporated herein by reference. An updated version of DaVita's Corporate Governance Guidelines will be available on DaVita's website at www.davita.com/about/governance.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 3.1
 
 
 
Section 1. . The purpose of the Corporation is to engage in any lawful act or activity for which a corporation may be organized under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.
General Purpose
Section 1. . The principal office of the Corporation is hereby fixed and located at: 1551 Wewatta Street, Denver, CO 80202. The Board of Directors of the Corporation (the "Board") is hereby granted full power and authority to change said principal office from one location to another.
Principal Office
Section 2. . Regional, branch or subordinate offices may be established at any time by the Board at any other place or places, within or outside of the United States of America.
Other Offices
Section 1. . Meetings of the stockholders of this Corporation may be held at such place, if any, either within or without the State of Delaware, as may be designated by resolution of the Board from time to time.
Place of Meetings
Section 2. . The annual meeting of stockholders shall be held for the election of directors on such date and at such time as may be designated by resolution of the Board from time to time.
Annual Meeting
Section 3. . Meetings of stockholders, annual or special, shall be presided over by the Chairman of the Board, if any, or in his absence by the President, or in his or her absence, by a Vice President, or in the absence of the foregoing persons, by a chairman designated by the Board, or in the absence of such designation, by a chairman chosen at the meeting. The Secretary shall act as secretary of the meeting, but in his or her absence the chairman of the meeting may appoint any person to act as secretary of the meeting.
Organization
Section 4. . No action required to be taken or which may be taken at any annual or special meeting of stockholders of the Corporation may be taken without a meeting, and the power of stockholders to consent in writing, without a meeting, to the taking of any action is specifically denied.
Action Without a Meeting
Section 5. . Any meeting of stockholders, annual or special, may adjourn from time to time to reconvene at the same or some other place (if any) and notice need not be given of any such adjourned meeting if the time and place (if any) thereof are announced at the meeting at which the adjournment is taken. At the adjourned meeting, the Corporation may transact any business which might have been transacted at the original meeting. If the adjournment is for more than thirty (30) days, or if after the adjournment a new record date is fixed for the adjourned meeting, a notice of the adjourned meeting shall be given to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at the meeting.
Adjournments
Section 6. . The holders of a majority in voting power of the shares of capital stock of the Corporation entitled to vote, present in person or represented by proxy, shall constitute a quorum at meetings of stockholders except as otherwise provided by law, these Bylaws or by the Certificate of Incorporation. In the absence of a quorum, the stockholders so present may, by the holders of a majority of the shares of capital stock of the Corporation present in person or represented by proxy and entitled to vote, adjourn the meeting from time to time in the manner provided in Section 5 of this Article III of these Bylaws until a quorum shall attend. At such adjourned meeting at which a quorum shall be present or represented, any business may be transacted that might have been transacted at the meeting as originally called.
Quorum of Stockholders
Section 7. . All elections and questions presented to the stockholders at a meeting at which a quorum is present, other than the election of directors, shall, unless otherwise provided by law, these Bylaws or the Certificate of Incorporation, or the rules and regulations of any stock exchange applicable to the Corporation, or pursuant to any regulation applicable to the Corporation or its securities, be decided by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority in voting power of the shares of capital stock of the Corporation which are present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote thereon.
Majority Vote Requirements
Section 8. . Each outstanding share, regardless of class or series, shall be entitled to one vote on each matter submitted to a vote at a meeting of stockholders, except to the extent that the voting rights of the shares of any class or series are limited or denied by the Certificate of Incorporation and except as the Certificate of Incorporation may confer on holders of shares of any particular class or series the right to more than one vote per share, either generally or on particular matters. Each stockholder entitled to vote at a meeting of stockholders may authorize another person or persons to act for such stockholder by proxy, but no such proxy shall be voted or acted upon after three (3) years from its date, unless the proxy provides for a longer period. A proxy shall be irrevocable if it states that it is irrevocable and if, and only so long as, it is coupled with an interest sufficient in law to support an irrevocable power. A stockholder may revoke any proxy which is not irrevocable by attending the meeting in person or by delivering to the Secretary of the Corporation a revocation of the proxy or a new proxy bearing a later date.
Voting Rights; Proxies
Section 9. . The Corporation shall, in advance of any meeting of stockholders, appoint one or more inspectors of election, who may be employees of the Corporation, to act at the meeting or any adjournment thereof and to make a written report thereof. The Corporation may designate one or more persons as alternate inspectors to replace any inspector who fails to act. In the event that no inspector so appointed or designated is able to
Inspectors of Election
 
act at a meeting of stockholders, the person presiding at the meeting shall appoint one or more inspectors to act at the meeting. Each inspector, before entering upon the discharge of his or her duties, shall take and sign an oath to execute faithfully the duties of inspector with strict impartiality and according to the best of his or her ability. These inspectors shall:
(a) Determine the number of shares of capital stock of the Corporation outstanding and the voting power of such shares, the shares of capital stock of the Corporation represented at the meeting, and the validity and effect of proxies and ballots;
(b) Count all votes and ballots;
(c) Determine and retain for a reasonable period a record of the disposition of all challenges made to any determination by the inspectors; and
(d) Certify their determination of the number of shares of capital stock of the Corporation represented at the meeting and such inspectors' count of all votes and ballots. Such certification and report shall specify such other information as may be required by law.
In determining the validity and counting of proxies and ballots cast at any meeting of stockholders of the Corporation, the inspectors may consider such information as is permitted by applicable law. No person who is a candidate for an office at an election may serve as an inspector at such election.
Section 10. . In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to notice of, or to vote, at any meeting of stockholders or any adjournment thereof, or entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights, or entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of stock or for the purpose of any other lawful action, the Board may fix, in advance, a record date, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board, and which record date shall not, unless otherwise required by law, be more than sixty (60) nor less than ten (10) days before the date of such meeting, in the case of a determination of the stockholders entitled to vote at any meeting or an adjournment thereof, nor more than sixty (60) days prior to any other action, in the case of any other action. If no record date is fixed: (a) the record date for determining stockholders entitled to notice of, or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall be at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which notice is given, or, if notice is waived, at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which the meeting is held; and (b) the record date for determining stockholders for any other purpose shall be at the close of business on the day on which the Board adopts the resolution relating thereto. A determination of stockholders of record entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall apply to any adjournment of the meeting; provided, however, that the Board may fix a new record date for the adjourned meeting.
Fixing Date for Determination of Stockholders of Record
Section 11. . The officer who has charge of the stock ledger shall prepare and make, at least ten (10) days before every meeting of stockholders, a complete list of stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting, arranged in alphabetical order, and showing the address of each stockholder and the number of shares registered in the name of each
List of Stockholders Entitled to Vote
 
stockholder. Such list shall be open to the examination of any stockholder, for any purpose germane to the meeting, for a period of at least ten (10) days prior to the meeting, (i) on a reasonably accessible electronic network, provided that the information required to gain access to such list is provided with the notice of the meeting, or (ii) during ordinary business hours at the principal place of business of the Corporation. If the meeting is to be held at a place, the list shall also be produced and kept at the time and place of the meeting during the whole time thereof and may be inspected by any stockholder who is present. If the meeting is to be held solely by means of remote communication, the list must also be open to examination at the meeting as required by applicable law. Except as otherwise provided by law, the stock ledger shall be the only evidence as to who are the stockholders entitled to examine the stock ledger, the list of stockholders or the books of the Corporation, or to vote in person by proxy at any meeting of stockholders.
Section 12. .
Advance Notice of Stockholder Business and Nominations
(a) .
Annual Meetings of Stockholders
(1) Nominations of persons for election to the Board and the proposal of business to be considered by the stockholders may be made at an annual meeting of stockholders only (a) pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting (or any supplement thereto), (b) by or at the direction of the Board or (c) by any stockholder of the Corporation who was a stockholder of record of the Corporation at the time the notice provided for in this Section 12 is delivered to the Secretary, who is entitled to vote at the meeting and who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 12.
(2) For nominations or other business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a stockholder pursuant to clause (c) of paragraph (a)(1) of this Section 12, the stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary of the Corporation and any such proposed business other than the nominations of persons for election to the Board must constitute a proper matter for stockholder action. To be timely, a stockholder's notice shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the ninetieth (90th) day nor earlier than the close of business on the one hundred twentieth (120th) day prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting (provided, however, that in the event that the date of the annual meeting is more than thirty (30) days before or more than seventy (70) days after such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder must be so delivered not earlier than the close of business on the one hundred twentieth (120th) day prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the ninetieth (90th) day prior to such annual meeting or the tenth (10th) day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made by the Corporation). In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment or postponement of an annual meeting commence a new time period (or extend any time period) for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above. Such stockholder's notice shall set forth: (a) as to each person whom the stockholder proposes to nominate for election as a director (i) all information relating to such person that is required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for election of directors in an election contest, or is otherwise required, in each case pursuant to and in accordance with Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") and (ii) such person's written consent to being named in the proxy statement as
 
a nominee and to serving as a director if elected; (b) as to any other business that the stockholder proposes to bring before the meeting, a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the meeting, the text of the proposal or business (including the text of any resolutions proposed for consideration and in the event that such business includes a proposal to amend the Bylaws, the language of the proposed amendment), the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting and any material interest in such business of such stockholder and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made; (c) as to the stockholder giving the notice and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination or proposal is made (i) the name and address of such stockholder, as they appear on the Corporation's books, and of such beneficial owner, (ii) the class and number of shares of capital stock of the Corporation which are owned beneficially and of record by such stockholder and such beneficial owner, (iii) a description of any agreement, arrangement or understanding between or among such stockholder and any such beneficial owner, any of their respective affiliates or associates, and any other person or persons (including their names) in connection with the proposal of such nomination or other business, (iv) a description of any agreement, arrangement or understanding (including, regardless of the form of settlement, any derivative, long or short positions, profit interests, forwards, futures, swaps, options, warrants, convertible securities, stock appreciation or similar rights, hedging transactions and borrowed or loaned shares) that has been entered into by or on behalf of, or any other agreement, arrangement or understanding that has been made, the effect or intent of which is to create or mitigate loss to, manage risk or benefit of share price changes for, or increase or decrease the voting power of, such stockholder of any such beneficial owner or any such nominee with respect to the Corporation's securities, (v) a representation that the stockholder is a holder of record of stock of the Corporation entitled to vote at such meeting and intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to propose such business or nomination, and (vi) a representation whether the stockholder or the beneficial owner, if any, intends or is part of a group which intends (x) to deliver a proxy statement and/or form of proxy to holders of at least the percentage of the Corporation's outstanding capital stock required to approve or adopt the proposal or elect the nominee and/or (y) otherwise to solicit proxies from stockholders in support of such proposal or nomination; and (d) with respect to each nominee for election or reelection to the Board, include a signed written questionnaire and agreement as required by Article IV, Section 2 below. The foregoing notice requirements shall be deemed satisfied by a stockholder if the stockholder has notified the Corporation of his or her intention to present a proposal at an annual meeting in compliance with Rule 14a-8 (or any successor thereof) promulgated under the Exchange Act and such stockholder's proposal has been included in a proxy statement that has been prepared by the Corporation to solicit proxies for such annual meeting. The Corporation may require any proposed nominee to furnish such other information as it may reasonably require to determine the eligibility of such proposed nominee to serve as a director of the Corporation.
(3) Notwithstanding anything in the second sentence of paragraph (a)(2) of this Section 12 to the contrary, in the event that the number of directors to be elected to the Board at an annual meeting is increased and there is no public announcement by the Corporation naming the nominees for the additional directorships at least one hundred (100) days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting, a stockholder's notice required by this Section 12 shall also be considered timely, but only with respect to nominees for the additional directorships, if it shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive
 
offices of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the tenth (10th) day following the day on which such public announcement is first made by the Corporation.
(b) . (1) Special meetings of stockholders for any purpose or purposes may be called at any time by the Board, the Chairman of the Board, the President or by the Secretary of the Corporation upon the written request for a special meeting of stockholders (in accordance with the requirements of this Article III Section 12(b)) of the holders of record of not less than ten percent (10%) (the "Requisite Percent") of the voting power of all outstanding shares of capital stock of the Corporation, such voting power to be calculated and determined in a manner specified, and with any limitations as may be set forth herein. Special meetings may not be called by any other person or persons.
Special Meetings of Stockholders
(2) In order for a special meeting upon stockholder request (a "Stockholder Requested Special Meeting") to be called by the Secretary, one or more written requests for a special meeting (each, a "Special Meeting Request," and collectively, the "Special Meeting Requests") stating the purpose of the special meeting and the matters proposed to be acted upon thereat must be signed and dated by the Requisite Percent of record holders of capital stock of the Corporation (or their duly authorized agents), must be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation and must set forth: (i) the information that is required for a stockholder notice provided for an annual meeting under Article III Section 12(a)(2) of these Bylaws; and (ii) an agreement by the requesting stockholder(s) to notify the Corporation immediately in the case of any disposition prior to the record date for the Stockholder Requested Special Meeting of shares of capital stock of the Corporation owned of record and an acknowledgement that any such disposition shall be deemed a revocation of such Special Meeting Request to the extent of such disposition, such that the number of shares disposed of shall not be included in determining whether the Requisite Percent has been reached.
(3) The Corporation will provide the requesting stockholder(s) with notice of the record date for the determination of stockholders entitled to vote at the Stockholder Requested Special Meeting. Each requesting stockholder is required to update the notice delivered pursuant to this Section not later than ten (10) business days after such record date to provide any material changes in the foregoing information as of such record date.
(4) In determining whether a special meeting of stockholders has been requested by the record holders of shares representing in the aggregate at least the Requisite Percent, multiple Special Meeting Requests delivered to the Secretary will be considered together only if each such Special Meeting Request (x) identifies substantially the same purpose or purposes of the special meeting and substantially the same matters proposed to be acted on at the special meeting (in each case as determined in good faith by the Board of Directors), and (y) has been dated and delivered to the Secretary within sixty (60) days of the earliest date of such Special Meeting Requests. If the record holder is not the signatory to the Special Meeting Request, such Special Meeting Request will not be valid unless documentary evidence is supplied to the Secretary at the time of delivery of such Special Meeting Request (or within ten (10) business days thereafter) of such signatory's authority to execute the Special Meeting Request on behalf of the record holder. Any requesting stockholder may revoke his, her or its Special Meeting Request at any time by written revocation delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation; provided, however, that if following such
 
revocation (or any deemed revocation pursuant to clause (iii) in the second paragraph of this Section 12(b)), the unrevoked valid Special Meeting Requests represent in the aggregate less than the Requisite Percent, there shall be no requirement to hold a special meeting. The first date on which unrevoked valid Special Meeting Requests constituting not less than the Requisite Percent shall have been delivered to the Corporation is referred to herein as the "Request Receipt Date."
(5) A Special Meeting Request shall not be valid if: (i) the Special Meeting Request relates to an item of business that is not a proper subject for stockholder action under applicable law; (ii) the Request Receipt Date is during the period commencing ninety (90) days prior to the first anniversary of the date of the immediately preceding annual meeting and ending on the date of the next annual meeting; (iii) the purpose specified in the Special Meeting Request is not the election of directors and an identical or substantially similar item (as determined in good faith by the Board of Directors, a "Similar Item") was presented at any meeting of stockholders held within the twelve (12) months prior to the Request Receipt Date; or (iv) a Similar Item is included in the Corporation's notice as an item of business to be brought before a stockholder meeting that has been called but not yet held or that is called for a date within ninety (90) days of the Request Receipt Date.
(6) A Stockholder Requested Special Meeting shall be held at such date and time as may be fixed by the Board of Directors; provided, however, that the Stockholder Requested Special Meeting shall be called for a date not more than ninety (90) days after the Request Receipt Date. If the Corporation receives more than one Stockholder Requested Special Meeting, the Corporation may, at its election, hold one Stockholder Requested Special Meeting that addresses all matters proposed in such Stockholder Requested Meetings; provided, however, that the Stockholder Requested Special Meeting will be on a date that is not more than ninety (90) days after the Request Receipt Date for each such Stockholder Requested Special Meetings being combined.
(7) Business transacted at any Stockholder Requested Special Meeting shall be limited to (i) the purpose(s) stated in the valid Special Meeting Request(s) received from the Requisite Percent of record holders and (ii) any additional matters that the Board of Directors determines to include in the Corporation's notice of the meeting. If none of the stockholders who submitted the Special Meeting Request appears or sends a qualified representative to present the matters to be presented for consideration that were specified in the Stockholder Meeting Request, the Corporation need not present such matters for a vote at such meeting, notwithstanding that proxies in respect of such matter may have been received by the Corporation.
(8) Business transacted at any special meeting of stockholders (other than a Stockholder Requested Special Meeting which shall be governed by Section 12(b)(7)) shall be limited to the purpose(s) stated in the notice. Nominations of persons for election to the Board may be made at a special meeting of stockholders (other than a Stockholder Requested Special Meeting) at which directors are to be elected pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting (1) by or at the direction of the Board or (2) provided that the Board has determined that directors shall be elected at such meeting, by any stockholder of the Corporation who is a stockholder of record at the time the notice provided for in this Section 12(b) is delivered to the Secretary, who is entitled to vote at the meeting and upon such election and who complies with
 
the notice procedures set forth in this Section 12(b). In the event the Corporation calls a special meeting of stockholders for the purpose of electing one or more directors to the Board, any such stockholder entitled to vote in such election of directors may nominate a person or persons (as the case may be) for election to such position(s) as specified in the Corporation's notice of meeting, if the stockholder's notice required by Section12(b) shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the tenth (10th) day following the day on which notice of the date of the special meeting was mailed or public announcement of the date of the special meeting was made, whichever occurs first. In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment or postponement of a special meeting commence a new time period (or extend any time period) for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above.
(c) .
General
(1) Only such persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 12 shall be eligible to be elected at an annual or special meeting of stockholders of the Corporation to serve as directors and only such business shall be conducted at a meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 12. Except as otherwise provided by law, the chairman of the meeting shall have the power and duty (a) to determine whether a nomination or any business proposed to be brought before the meeting was made or proposed, as the case may be, in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 12 (including whether the stockholder or beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination or proposal is made solicited (or is part of a group which solicited) or did not so solicit, as the case may be, proxies in support of such stockholder's nominee or proposal in compliance with such stockholder's representation required under Section 12(b), the substance of which representation is set forth in Section 12(a)(2)(c)(vi)) and (b) if any proposed nomination or business was not made or proposed in compliance with this Section 12, to declare that such nomination shall be disregarded or that such proposed business shall not be transacted. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 12, if the stockholder who submitted a nomination or proposed business (or a qualified representative of the stockholder) does not appear at the annual or special meeting of stockholders of the Corporation to present a nomination or proposed business, such nomination shall be disregarded and such proposed business shall not be transacted, notwithstanding that proxies in respect of such matter may have been received by the Corporation. For purposes of this Section 12, to be considered a qualified representative of the stockholder, a person must be authorized by a writing executed by such stockholder or an electronic transmission delivered by such stockholder to act for such stockholder as proxy at the meeting of stockholders and such person must produce such writing or electronic transmission, or a reliable reproduction of the writing or electronic transmission, at the meeting of stockholders.
(2) For purposes of this Section 12, "public announcement" shall include disclosure in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Associated Press or comparable national news service or in a document publicly filed by the Corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act.
 
(3) Nothing in this Section 12 shall be deemed to apply to or otherwise affect any rights (a) of stockholders to request inclusion of proposals or nominations in the Corporation's proxy statement pursuant to applicable rules and regulations promulgated under the Exchange Act or (b) of the holders of any series of preferred stock of the Corporation to elect directors pursuant to any applicable provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation.
Section 13. . The date and time of the opening and the closing of the polls for each matter upon which the stockholders will vote at a meeting shall be announced at the meeting by the person presiding over the meeting. The Board may adopt by resolution such rules and regulations for the conduct of the meeting of stockholders as it shall deem appropriate. Except to the extent inconsistent with such rules and regulations as adopted by the Board, the person presiding over any meeting of stockholders shall have the right and authority to convene and to adjourn the meeting, to prescribe such rules, regulations and procedures and to do all such acts as, in the judgment of such presiding person, are appropriate for the proper conduct of the meeting. Such rules, regulations or procedures, whether adopted by the Board or prescribed by the presiding person of the meeting, may include, without limitation, the following: (i) the establishment of an agenda or order of business for the meeting; (ii) rules and procedures for maintaining order at the meeting and the safety of those present; (iii) limitations on attendance at or participation in the meeting to stockholders of record of the Corporation, their duly authorized and constituted proxies or such other persons as the presiding person of the meeting shall determine; (iv) restrictions on entry to the meeting after the time fixed for the commencement thereof; and (v) limitations on the time allotted to questions or comments by participants. The presiding person at any meeting of stockholders, in addition to making any other determinations that may be appropriate to the conduct of the meeting, shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare to the meeting that a matter or business was not properly brought before the meeting and if such presiding person should so determine, such presiding person shall so declare to the meeting and any such matter or business not properly brought before the meeting shall not be transacted or considered. Unless and to the extent determined by the Board or the person presiding over the meeting, meetings of stockholders shall not be required to be held in accordance with the rules of parliamentary procedure.
Conduct of Meetings
Section 1. . Subject to limitations of the Certificate of Incorporation, these Bylaws, and the laws of the State of Delaware as to action required to be approved by the stockholders, the business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed and all corporate powers shall be exercised by or under the direction of the Board.
Powers
Section 2. . The Board shall consist of one or more members, the number thereof to be determined from time to time by resolution of the Board. To be eligible to be a nominee for election or reelection as a director of the Corporation or to be considered by the Board to fill any vacancies pursuant to Section 7 below, a person must deliver (in accordance with the time periods prescribed for delivery of notice under Article III Section 12(a) or Section 12(b), as applicable of these Bylaws) to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation a written questionnaire with respect to the background and qualification of such person and the background of any other person or entity on whose behalf
Number and Qualification
 
the nomination is being made (the form of which questionnaire shall be provided by the Secretary upon written request), and a written representation and agreement (in the form provided by the Secretary upon written request) that such person (A) is not and will not become a party to (1) any agreement, arrangement or understanding with, and has not given any commitment or assurance to, any person or entity as to how such person, if elected as a director of the Corporation, will act or vote on any issue or question (a "Voting Commitment") that has not been disclosed to the Corporation or (2) any Voting Commitment that could limit or interfere with such person's ability to comply, if elected as a director of the Corporation, with such person's fiduciary duties under applicable law, (B) is not and will not become a party to any agreement, arrangement or understanding with any person or entity other than the Corporation with respect to any direct or indirect compensation, reimbursement or indemnification in connection with service or action as a director that has not been disclosed therein, (C) owns the required amount of shares of the Corporation's common stock in accordance with the Share Ownership Policy set forth in Section IX of the Corporation's Corporate Governance Guidelines (as publicly disclosed and as may be amended from time to time) and will not dispose of the shares so long as such person is a director, and (D) in such person's individual capacity and on behalf of any person or entity on whose behalf the nomination is being made, would be in compliance, if elected as a director of the Corporation, and will comply with all applicable corporate governance, conflict of interest, confidentiality and stock ownership and trading policies, and the Corporate Governance Guidelines of the Corporation (as publicly disclosed and as may be amended from time to time), and (E) will abide by the requirements of Article IV Section 3 of these Bylaws.
Section 3. . At each annual meeting of stockholders, the stockholders shall elect directors each of whom shall hold office for a term of one year or until his or her successor is duly elected and qualified, subject to such director's earlier death, resignation, disqualification or removal.
Election
Each director shall be elected by the vote of the majority of the votes cast with respect to the director at any meeting for the election of directors at which a quorum is present by the holders of shares present in person or represented by proxy and entitled to vote on the election of directors; provided that if the number of nominees for director, exceeds the number of directors to be elected, the directors shall be elected by the vote of a plurality of the shares represented in person or by proxy at any such meeting and entitled to vote on the election of directors. For purposes of this Section, a majority of the votes cast means that the number of shares voted "for" a director must exceed 50% of the number of votes cast with respect to that director's election. Votes cast shall include votes to withhold authority and exclude abstentions with respect to that director's election. If directors are to be elected by a plurality, stockholders shall be permitted to withhold votes from a nominee but shall not be permitted to vote against a nominee.
Any director may resign at any time upon notice to the Board. If at any meeting for the election of directors a nominee for director who is an incumbent director is not elected and no successor has been elected at such meeting, the director shall promptly tender his or her offer of resignation to the Board. The Nominating and Governance Committee shall make a recommendation to the Board as to whether to accept or reject the tendered offer of resignation, or whether other action should be taken. In determining whether to accept or reject the tendered offer of resignation, the Nominating and Governance Committee shall be entitled to consider all
 
factors believed relevant by the members of such Committee, including without limitation: (1) any stated reason for the director not receiving the required vote and whether the underlying cause or causes are curable, (2) the factors, if any, set forth in the guidelines or other policies that are to be considered by the Nominating and Governance Committee in evaluating potential candidates for the Board as such factors relate to each director who has offered his or her resignation, (3) the length of service of such director, (4) the effect of such resignation on the Corporation's compliance with any law, rule, regulation, stock exchange listing standards or contractual obligations, (5) such director's contributions to the Corporation, and (6) any other factors that the Nominating and Governance Committee deems to be in the best interests of the Corporation. No director who has tendered his or her offer of resignation may participate in the Committee's recommendation. If all of the members of the Nominating and Governance Committee have tendered their offers of resignations, then the Board shall act on the offers of resignation.
The Board shall act on the tendered offers of resignation, taking into account the recommendation of the Nominating and Governance Committee, and shall publicly disclose (by press release, a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission or other broadly disseminated means of communication) its decision regarding the tendered offers of resignation and the rationale behind the decision within 90 days from the date of the certification of the election results. In determining whether to accept or reject any offer of resignation, the Board shall be entitled to consider all of the factors considered by the Nominating and Governance Committee and any additional information and factors that the Board believes to be relevant. No director who has tendered his or her offer of resignation may participate in the Board's decision. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the acceptance by the Board of all of the then pending offers of resignation would result in the Corporation having fewer than three (3) directors who were in office prior to the applicable election, the Board may elect to extend such 90-day period by an additional 90 days if the Board shall determine that such an extension is in the best interests of the Corporation.
If any incumbent director's offer of resignation is not accepted by the Board, such director shall continue to serve until the next annual meeting or until his or her successor is duly elected and qualified, subject to such director's earlier death, resignation, disqualification or removal. If a director's offer of resignation is accepted by the Board pursuant to this Section 3, or if a nominee for director is not elected and the nominee is not an incumbent director, then the Board, in its sole discretion, may fill any resulting vacancy pursuant to the provisions of Section 7 below or may decrease the size of the Board pursuant to the provisions of Section 2 above.
Section 4. . Regular meetings of the Board may be held at such places within or without the State of Delaware and at such times as the Board may from time to time determine and, if so determined, notice thereof need not be given.
Regular Meetings
Section 5. . Special meetings of the Board may be held at any time or place within or without the State of Delaware whenever called by the Chairman of the Board, if any, by the President, or by any director. Notice of a special meeting of the Board shall be given by the person or persons calling the meeting at least twelve (12) hours before the special meeting.
Special Meetings
 
Section 6. . Members of the Board, or any committee thereof, as the case may be, may participate in a meeting of the Board or such committee by means of conference telephone or communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and participation in a meeting pursuant to this Bylaw shall constitute presence in person at such meeting.
Telephonic Meetings Permitted
Section 7. . Unless otherwise provided by law or the Certificate of Incorporation, any newly created directorship or any vacancy occurring in the Board of Directors for any cause shall be filled exclusively by a majority vote of the remaining members of the Board, although such majority is less than a quorum, or by the sole remaining director, and shall not be filled by the stockholders (unless there shall be no directors then in office), and each director so elected shall hold office until the expiration of the term of office of the director whom he or she has replaced or until his or her successor is duly elected and qualified, subject to such director's earlier death, resignation, disqualification or removal.
Vacancies
Section 8. . Any action(s) required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board, or of any committee thereof, may be taken without a meeting if all of the members of the Board, or such committee, as the case may be, consent thereto in writing or by electronic transmission and the writing or writings or electronic transmissions are filed with the minutes of the proceedings of the Board, or committee thereof, as the case may be, in accordance with applicable law.
Action by Directors Without a Meeting
Section 9. . Unless otherwise provided in these Bylaws, at all meetings of the Board, a majority of the total number of Directors shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. The vote of the majority of the Directors present at a meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the Board unless the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws shall require the vote of a greater number. If a quorum shall not be present at any meeting of the Board, the Directors present thereat may adjourn the meeting from time to time, without notice other than announcement at the meeting, until a quorum shall be present.
Quorum
Section 10. . Meetings of the Board shall be presided over by the Chairman of the Board, if any, or in his or her absence by the President, or in their absence by a chairman chosen at the meeting. The Secretary shall act as secretary of the meeting, but in his or her absence the chairman of the meeting may appoint any person to act as secretary of the meeting.
Organization
Section 11. . Any Director may be removed, with or without cause, at any time by the majority vote of the stockholders.
Resignations and Removal
Section 12. . The Directors may be paid their expenses, if any, for attendance at each meeting of the Board and may be paid a fixed sum for attendance at each meeting of the Board or a stated salary as Director. No such payment shall preclude any Director from serving the Corporation or any company controlling or controlled by the Corporation in any other capacity and receiving compensation therefor. Members of special or standing committees may be allowed like compensation for attending committee meetings.
Compensation of Directors of Meetings
 
Section 1. . The Board may, by resolution passed by a majority of the whole Board, designate one or more committees, each committee to consist of one or more Directors. The Board may designate one or more Directors as alternate members of any committee, who may replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of the committee. In the absence or disqualification of a member of the committee, the member or members thereof present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not he, she or they constitute a quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the Board to act at the meeting in place of any such absent or disqualified member. Any such committee, to the extent permitted by law and to the extent provided in the resolution of the Board, may exercise all the powers and authority of the Board in the management of the business and affairs of the Corporation, and may authorize the seal of the Corporation to be affixed to all papers which may require it.
Committee of Directors
Section 2. . Unless the Board otherwise provides, each committee designated by the Board may make, alter and repeal rules for the conduct of its business. In the absence of such rules each committee shall conduct its business in the same manner as the Board conducts its business pursuant to Article II of these Bylaws.
Meetings and Action of Committees
Section 1. . Whenever stockholders are required or permitted to take any action at a meeting, a notice of the meeting shall be given that shall state the place, if any, date and hour of the meeting, and, in case of a special meeting, the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called. Unless otherwise provided by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, the notice of any meeting of stockholders shall be given not less than ten (10) nor more than sixty (60) days before date of the meeting to each stockholder entitled to vote at such meeting. If mailed, such notice shall be deemed to be given when deposited in United States mail, postage pre-paid, directed to the stockholder at such stockholder's address as it appears on the records of the Corporation.
Notices of Stockholder Meetings
Section 2. . Except as otherwise provided in this Section 2 or these Bylaws, notice to Directors and stockholders shall be in writing and delivered personally or mailed to the Directors or stockholders at their addresses appearing on the books of the Corporation. Notice to Directors may be given by telecopier, telephone or other means of electronic transmission.
Manner of Notice
Section 3. . Whenever notice is required to be given to any stockholder or Director under the provisions of the General Corporation Law or the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, a written waiver thereof, signed by the person entitled to notice, or a waiver by electronic transmission by the person entitled to notice, whether before or after the time stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent to the giving of such notice. Attendance of a person at a meeting shall constitute a waiver of notice of such meeting, except when the person attends a meeting for the express purpose of objecting, at the beginning of the meeting, to the
Waiver of Notice
 
transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened. Neither the business to be transacted at nor the purpose of any regular or special meeting of the stockholders, Directors or members of a committee of Directors need be specified in a waiver of notice.
Section 1. . The officers of the Corporation shall be selected and removed by the Board in its discretion and shall consist of a President, a Secretary, and a Treasurer and may include, at the discretion of the Board, without limitation, a Chairman of the Board, any number of Vice Presidents, Assistant Secretaries and Assistant Treasurers and such other officers as the Corporation may require. Each such officer shall have such powers and duties in the management of the Corporation as the Board may by resolution determine, and, to the extent not provided in such resolutions or these Bylaws, as generally pertain to their respective offices, subject to the control of the Board.
Officers
Section 2. . Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, the following described officers shall have the authority set forth after their respective designation:
Authority of Certain Officers
(a) . The Chairman of the Board shall preside at all meetings of the stockholders and the Board. Except where, by law, the signature of the President is required, the Chairman shall possess the same power as the President to sign all certificates, contracts and other instruments of this Corporation that may be authorized hereby or by the Board.
Chairman of the Board
(b) . Except as otherwise provided by resolution of the Board, the President shall be the general manager and chief executive officer of the Corporation and shall have responsibility for, subject to the control of the Board, general supervision, direction, and control of the business and affairs of the Corporation. The President shall preside at all meetings of the stockholders and at all meetings of the Board. The President shall have the general powers and duties of management usually vested in the office of president and general manager of a corporation and such other powers and duties as may be prescribed by the Board.
President
(c) . In the absence or disability of the President, any Vice President so designated by the Board shall perform all the duties of the President and, when so acting, shall have all the powers of and be subject to all the restrictions upon the President. All Vice Presidents, if any, shall have such powers and perform such duties as from time to time may be prescribed by the Board.
Vice President
(d) . The Secretary shall keep or cause to be kept, at the principal executive office or such other place as the Board may order, (i) a book containing minutes of all meetings of the stockholders and the Board, and (ii) a share register or a duplicate share register. The Secretary shall give, or cause to be given, notice of all the meetings of the stockholders and of the Board required by these Bylaws or by law to be given, shall keep the seal of the Corporation in safe custody, and shall have such other powers and perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the Board.
Secretary
 
(e) . The Treasurer shall keep and maintain, or cause to be kept and maintained, adequate and correct accounts of the properties and business transactions of the Corporation. Such officer shall send or cause to be sent to the stockholders such financial statements and reports as are by law or these Bylaws required to be sent to said stockholders. The books of account shall at all times be open to inspection by any Director for any purpose permitted under applicable law. Such officer shall cause all moneys and other valuables to be deposited in the name and to the credit of the Corporation. Such officer shall (i) disburse or cause to be disbursed the funds of the Corporation as may be ordered by the Board, (ii) render to the President and the Directors, whenever they request it, an account of all transactions and of the financial condition of the Corporation, and (iii) have such other powers and perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the Board.
Treasurer
Section 3. . Except as otherwise provided in a resolution of the Board electing any officer, each officer shall hold office until the first meeting of the Board after the annual meeting of stockholders next succeeding his election, and until his successor is elected and qualified or until his earlier death, resignation or removal. Any officer may resign at any time upon written notice to the Corporation. Such resignation shall take effect at the time specified therein, and unless otherwise specified therein no acceptance of such resignation shall be necessary to make it effective. The Board of Directors may remove any officer with or without cause at any time. Any such removal shall be without prejudice to the contractual rights of such officer, if any, with the Corporation, but the election of an officer shall not of itself create contractual rights. Any vacancy occurring in any office of the Corporation by death, resignation, removal or otherwise may be filled for the unexpired portion of the term by the Board at any regular or special meeting. Any number of offices may be held by the same person.
Term of Office; Resignation; Removal; Vacancies
Section 4. . Unless otherwise provided by resolution adopted by the Board, the Chairman of the Board, the President or any Vice President may from time to time appoint an attorney or attorneys or agent or agents of the Corporation, in the name and on behalf of the Corporation, to cast votes which the Corporation may be entitled to cast as the holder of stock or other securities in any other corporation or other entity, any of whose stock or other securities may be held by the Corporation, at meetings of the holders of the stock or other securities of such other corporation or other entity, or to consent in writing, in the name of the Corporation as such holder, to any action by such other corporation or other entity, and may instruct the person or persons so appointed as to the manner of casting such votes or giving such consents, and may execute or cause to be executed in the name of and on behalf of the Corporation and under its corporate seal or otherwise, all such written proxies or other instruments as he or she may deem necessary or proper. Any of the rights set forth in this Section 4 which may be delegated to an attorney or agent may also be exercised directly by the Chairman of the Board, the President or any Vice President.
Appointing Attorneys and Agents; Voting Securities of Other Entities
Section 1. . All checks, drafts or other orders for payment of money, notes or other evidences of indebtedness, issued in the name of or payable to the
Checks and Drafts
 
Corporation, shall be signed or endorsed by such person or persons and in such manner as shall be determined from time to time by resolution of the Board.
Section 2. . The Board may authorize any officers or agent or agents to enter into any contract or execute any instrument in the name and on behalf of the Corporation. Such authority may be general or confined to specific instances. Unless so authorized by the Board, no officers, agent, employee or other person shall have any power or authority to bind the Corporation by any contract or engagement or to pledge its credit, or to render it liable for any purpose or amount.
Execution of Contracts
Section 3. . The fiscal year of the Corporation shall be the calendar year, unless otherwise determined by resolution of the Board.
Fiscal Year
Section 4. . The corporate seal shall have the name of the Corporation inscribed thereon and shall be in such form as may be approved from time to time by the Board.
Seal
Section 5. . Any records maintained by the Corporation in the regular course of its business, including its stock ledger, books of account, and minute books, may be kept on, or by means of, or be in the form of, any information storage device or method, provided that the records so kept can be converted into clearly legible paper form within a reasonable time.
Form of Records
Section 1. . Each person (a "Covered Person") who was or made or is threatened to be made a party to or is otherwise involved in any action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (hereinafter a "proceeding"), by reason of the fact that he or she, or a person of whom he or she is the legal representative, is or was a Director or officer of the Corporation or while a Director or officer of the Corporation is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a Director, officer, employee, or agent of another corporation or of a partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise or non-profit entity, including service with respect to employee benefit plans, shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Corporation to the fullest extent permitted by the law, as the same exists or may hereafter be amended, against all liability and loss suffered and expenses (including attorneys' fees) reasonably incurred by such Covered Person. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, except as otherwise provided in this Article IX, the Corporation shall indemnify a Covered Person in connection with a proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such Covered Person only if the commencement of such proceeding (or part thereof) by the Covered Person was authorized in the specific case by the Board.
Indemnification of Officers and Directors
Section 2. . The Corporation shall to the fullest extent not prohibited by applicable law pay the expenses (including attorneys' fees) incurred by a Covered Person in defending any proceeding in advance of its final disposition, , , that, to the extent required by law, such payment of expenses in advance of the final disposition of the proceeding shall be made only upon receipt of an undertaking by the Covered Person to repay all
Prepayment of Expenses
provided
however
 
amounts advanced if it should be ultimately determined that the Covered Person is not entitled to be indemnified under this Article IX or otherwise.
Section 3. . If a claim for indemnification (following the final disposition of such action, suit or proceeding) or advancement of expenses under this Article IX is not paid in full within thirty (30) days after a written claim therefor by the Covered Person has been received by the Corporation, the Covered Person may file suit to recover the unpaid amount of such claim and, if successful in whole or in part, shall be entitled to be paid the expense of prosecuting such claim. In any such action the Corporation shall have the burden of proving that the Covered Person is not entitled to the requested indemnification or advancement of expenses under applicable law.
Claims
Section 4. . The rights conferred on any Covered Person by this Article IX shall not be exclusive of any other rights which such Covered Person may have or hereafter acquire under any statute, provision of the Certificate of Incorporation, these Bylaws, agreement, vote of stockholders or disinterested directors or otherwise.
Nonexclusivity of Rights
Section 5. . The Corporation's obligation, if any, to indemnify or to advance expenses to any Covered Person who was or is serving at its request as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, enterprise or nonprofit entity shall be reduced by any amount such Covered Person may collect as indemnification or advancement of expenses from such other corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, enterprise or non-profit enterprise.
Other Sources
Section 6. . Any repeal or modification of the foregoing provisions of this Article IX all not adversely affect any right or protection hereunder of any Covered Person in respect of any act or omission occurring prior to the time of such repeal or modification.
Amendment or Repeal
Section 7. . This Article IX shall not limit the right of the Corporation, to the extent and in the manner permitted by law, to indemnify and to advance expenses to persons other than Covered Persons when and as authorized by appropriate corporate action.
Other Indemnification and Prepayment of Expenses
Section 1. . Shares of stock of the Corporation may be certificated or uncertificated as determined by the Corporation in its discretion. Holders of stock represented by certificate shall be entitled to have such certificate signed by or in the name of the Corporation by the Chairman of the Board, or the President, or a Vice President, and by the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer, or the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, of the Corporation, certifying the number of shares owned by such holder in the Corporation. Any or all signatures on the certificate may be a facsimile. In case any officer, transfer agent or registrar who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon a certificate shall have ceased to be such officer, transfer agent or registrar before such certificate is issued, it may be issued by
Certificates
 
the Corporation with the same effect as if he were such officer, transfer agent or registrar at the date of issue.
Section 2. . The Corporation may issue a new certificate of stock, or in lieu of issuing a new certificate, reflect stock shares as uncertificated in the place of any certificate theretofore issued by it, alleged to have been lost, stolen or destroyed, and the Corporation may require the owner of the lost, stolen or destroyed certificate, or such owner's legal representative, to give the Corporation a bond sufficient to indemnify it against any claim that may be made against it on account of the alleged loss, theft or destruction of any such certificate or the issuance of such new certificate.
Lost, Stolen or Destroyed Stock Certificates
These Bylaws may be altered, amended or repealed, and new bylaws made, as authorized under applicable law.
 


