FILE:DVA/DVA-8K-20110607170401.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On June 6, 2011 at the annual meeting of stockholders, the stockholders of DaVita Inc. ("DaVita") approved the DaVita Inc. 2011 Incentive Award Plan (the "2011 Plan"). The 2011 Plan constitutes an amendment and restatement of the DaVita Inc. 2002 Equity Compensation Plan, as amended (the "2002 Plan"). The 2011 Plan was approved by DaVita's Board of Directors on April 13, 2011, subject to stockholder approval. If the stockholders had not approved the 2011 Plan, the 2002 Plan would have continued in effect only until February 8, 2012, when it would have expired, and DaVita would no longer have been able to grant equity-based compensation to its employees, consultants and directors.
The 2011 Plan does not increase the number of shares authorized under the 2002 Plan. As of December 31, 2010, there were 11,012,487 stock-settled stock appreciation rights and 501,564 restricted stock units outstanding, and 10,908,787 shares available for future grants, under the 2002 Plan. Since its inception in 2002, a cumulative aggregate of 34,178,338 shares have been reserved under the 2002 Plan, as amended and restated by the 2011 Plan, including shares directly authorized under the plan, shares inherited from predecessor plans, and shares reserved under the plan from repurchases under a prior replenishment provision that was terminated in 2007.
The 2011 Plan authorizes the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (or, if the Board of Directors determines, another committee of the Board of Directors) to provide equity-based compensation in the form of stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock units, restricted stock, performance-based awards, dividend equivalents, stock payments, deferred stock unit awards and deferred stock awards structured by the Compensation Committee within parameters set forth in the 2011 Plan, for the purpose of providing DaVita's directors, employees and consultants with equity compensation, incentives and rewards for performance. The 2011 Plan reflects a broad range of compensation and governance best practices, with some of the key features of the 2011 Plan as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
If any shares subject to an award under the 2011 Plan that is not a Full Value Award are forfeited or expire or such award is settled for cash, then any shares subject to such award may, to the extent of such forfeiture, expiration or cash settlement, be used again for new grants under the 2011 Plan. To the extent that a Full Value Award is forfeited or expires or such award is settled for cash, the shares available under the 2011 Plan will be increased by 3.0 shares subject to such Full Value Award. However, any shares tendered or withheld to satisfy the grant or exercise price or tax withholding obligation pursuant to any award and any shares subject to a stock appreciation right that are not issued in connection with the stock settlement of the stock appreciation right on its exercise may not be used again for new grants.
The Board of Directors may terminate, amend or modify the 2011 Plan at any time; however, except to the extent permitted by the 2011 Plan in connection with certain changes in capital structure, stockholder approval must be obtained for any amendment to (i) increase the number of shares available under the 2011 Plan, (ii) reduce the per share exercise price of the shares subject to any option or stock appreciation right below the per share exercise price as of the date the option or stock appreciation right was granted, and (iii) cancel any option or stock appreciation right in exchange for cash or another award when the option or stock appreciation right price per share exceeds the fair market value of the underlying shares, except with respect to any Substitute Award.
The foregoing summary description of the 2011 Plan is qualified in its entirety by reference to the actual terms of the 2011 Plan attached as Appendix A to DaVita's Definitive Proxy Statement on Schedule 14A, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 27, 2011.
 
On June 6, 2011, DaVita held its annual meeting of stockholders in Lakewood, Colorado. Represented in person or by proxy at the annual meeting were 85,344,392 shares of DaVita's common stock, or 89.01% of its outstanding shares of common stock. The results of matters submitted to a stockholder vote at the annual meeting are as follows:
 
Ten board nominees for director were elected by a majority of the votes cast for a term of one year or until their successors are duly elected and qualified. The voting results are as follows:
 
 
A proposal to approve the DaVita Inc. 2011 Incentive Award Plan received the vote of a majority of the shares represented and entitled to vote at the meeting. The voting results are as follows:
 
 
The stockholders ratified the appointment of KPMG LLP as our independent registered public accounting firm for 2011. The voting results are as follows:
 
The proposal received the vote of a majority of the shares represented and entitled to vote at the meeting. The voting results are as follows:
 
 
The proposal received the vote of a majority of the shares represented and entitled to vote at the meeting. The voting results are as follows:
 
In accordance with the voting results on this proposal, DaVita has determined to hold an annual advisory vote on executive compensation until the next stockholder vote on the frequency of future advisory votes on executive compensation, or the Board otherwise determines that a different frequency for such advisory votes is in the best interests of the stockholders. A stockholder vote on the frequency of stockholder votes on executive compensation is required to be held at least once every six years.
 
The proposal received the vote of less than a majority of the shares represented and entitled to vote at the meeting. The voting results are as follows:
 
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 


