FILE:DVA/DVA-8K-20120703090140.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Company has reached an agreement in principle to settle all allegations relating to claims arising out of the previously disclosed litigation filed in 2002 in the U.S. District Court in the Eastern District of Texas ("Settlement"). In connection with the Settlement, the Company will pay $55 million plus attorneys' fees. The Company's second quarter results will include a charge of approximately $78M for this Settlement and related expenses. DaVita expects that the Settlement will resolve federal program claims regarding Epogen that were or could have been raised in the complaint relating to historical Epogen practices dating back to 1997. The Settlement is subject to certain conditions, such as court approval. Until the conditions and documentation are completed, there can be no assurance that this matter will in fact be resolved pursuant to the terms of the Settlement.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
DENVER, (July 3, 2012) (NYSE: DVA), today announced that it has reached an agreement in principle to settle all claims arising out of the previously disclosed litigation filed in 2002 in the U.S. District Court in the Eastern District of Texas. DaVita anticipates making repayments in the amount of $55 million plus attorneys fees as part of the settlement.
DaVita Inc.
The government thoroughly investigated allegations raised by a sole individual regarding the company's Epogen practices over a 10 year period and the government never intervened or filed any claims against DaVita. However, the individual was able to pursue the claims on his own.
DaVita and its affiliated physicians did nothing wrong and stand by their anemia management practices, which were always consistent with their mission of providing the best possible care for each individual patient. As a result, the agreement contains no finding of wrongdoing or admission of liability by DaVita or its affiliated physicians. Nonetheless, agreements such as this one are sometimes in the best interest of shareholders.
DaVita is a registered trademark of DaVita Inc. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
About DaVita
DaVita Inc., a Fortune 500 company, is a leading provider of kidney care in the United States, delivering dialysis services to patients with chronic kidney failure and end stage renal disease. DaVita strives to improve patients' quality of life by innovating clinical care, and by offering integrated treatment plans, personalized care teams and convenient health-management services. As of March 31, 2012, DaVita operated or provided administrative services at 1,841 outpatient dialysis centers located in the United States serving approximately 145,000 patients. The company also operated 15 outpatient dialysis centers located in three countries outside the United States. DaVita supports numerous programs dedicated to creating positive, sustainable change in communities around the world. The company's leadership development initiatives and social responsibility efforts have been recognized by Fortune, Modern Healthcare, Newsweek and WorldBlu. For more information, please visit .
www.davita.com
Contact Information
Media: Skip Thurman
303-405-2296
Skip.Thurman@davita.com


