FILE:DVA/DVA-8K-20120709143512.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Amendment to the Merger Agreement
As previously disclosed by the Registrant in a prior Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 21, 2012, DaVita Inc., a Delaware corporation (""), Seismic Acquisition LLC, a California limited liability company and a wholly owned subsidiary of DaVita (""), HealthCare Partners Holdings, LLC, a California limited liability company (""), and Robert D. Mosher, as the member representative (the ""), entered into that certain Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of May 20, 2012 (the ""), by and among DaVita, Merger Sub, HCP, and the Member Representative. Pursuant to the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Merger Agreement, DaVita has agreed to acquire HCP through a merger of Merger Sub with and into HCP (the ""), with HCP to be the surviving entity in the Merger.
DaVita
Merger Sub
HCP
Member Representative
Merger Agreement
Merger
On July 6, 2012, the parties to the Merger Agreement entered into an Amendment to the Agreement and Plan of Merger (the "") to amend the Merger Agreement. Pursuant to the Amendment, certain changes have been made to the definition of "Stock-Based Award" and to the Member Representative's right to recover his expenses and compensation following the time that the MR Escrow Account (as defined in the Merger Agreement) has been fully exhausted.
Amendment
The foregoing description of the Amendment is not complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Amendment, which is filed as Exhibit 10.1 hereto and incorporated herein by reference. The foregoing description of the Merger Agreement is not complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Merger Agreement in the Current Report on Form 8-K filed by DaVita on May 21, 2012, which is filed as Exhibit 10.1 thereto.
Forward Looking Statements
This Current Report on Form 8-K contains "forward-looking" statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are typically preceded by words such as "believes," "expects," "anticipates," "intends," "will," "may," "should," or similar expressions. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual future experience and results to differ materially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. Important factors that might cause such a difference include, but are not limited to, costs related to the Merger; DaVita's or HCP's inability to satisfy the conditions of the Merger; the need for outside financing to pay the cash consideration in the Merger; DaVita's inability to amend the senior secured credit facilities or obtain the other financing described in the Current Report, filed May 21, 2012, necessary to pay the cash consideration in the Merger; and other events and factors disclosed previously and from time to time in DaVita's filings with the SEC, including DaVita's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2012 and, when filed with the SEC, the Registration Statement on Form S-4 described in the Current Report on Form 8-K filed May 21, 2012 (the ""). DaVita bases its forward-looking statements on information currently available to it at the time of this release and undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of changes in underlying factors, new information, future events, or otherwise.
S-4
Additional Information About the Proposed Transaction and Where to Find It
In connection with the Merger, DaVita intends to file with the SEC the S-4 to register the DaVita Common Stock issuable in the Merger. Investors and security holders are urged to read the S-4 and any other relevant documents to be filed with the SEC because they will contain important information about DaVita and HCP and the proposed transaction. Investors and security holders may obtain a free copy of the S-4 and other documents when filed by DaVita with the SEC at www.sec.gov or www.davita.com.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: July 9, 2012
 

Exhibit 10.1
This Amendment, dated as of July 6, 2012 (this ""), to the AGREEMENT AND PLAN OF MERGER is by and among DAVITA INC., a Delaware corporation (""), SEISMIC ACQUISITION LLC, a California limited liability company and a wholly owned subsidiary of Parent (""), HEALTHCARE PARTNERS HOLDINGS, LLC, a California limited liability company (the ""), and, with respect to the MR Provisions, ROBERT D. MOSHER, as the member representative (the ""). Capitalized terms used and not otherwise defined herein have the meanings ascribed to them in the Merger Agreement.
Amendment
Parent
Merger Sub
Company
Member Representative
WHEREAS, Parent, Merger Sub, the Company, and the Member Representative are each a party to that certain Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of May 20, 2012 (the "");
Merger Agreement
WHEREAS, Parent, Merger Sub, the Company, and the Member Representative desire to amend the Merger Agreement in the manner set forth herein; and
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual agreements set forth herein, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, Parent, Merger Sub, the Company, and the Member Representative agree as follows:
1. .
Amendments
(a) The definition of Stock-Based Awards in of the Merger Agreement is hereby amended and restated in its entirety to read as follows:
Section 1.01
""" means any issued and outstanding award to purchase or otherwise acquire Company Common Units (whether or not vested) held by any Person and granted in accordance with of this Agreement."
Stock-Based Award
Section 6.18(b)
(b) of the Merger Agreement is hereby amended and restated in its entirety to read as follows:
Section 8.08(b)
"Any and all costs and expenses of the Member Representative, including any costs and expenses of any Person retained by the Member Representative to provide assistance, counsel, or other advisory services, incurred in performing his obligations under this Agreement shall be paid or recovered from funds in the MR Escrow Account pursuant to , except as provided in the last two sentences of ."
Section 3.07
Section 8.08(c)
 
(c) of the Merger Agreement is hereby amended and restated in its entirety to read as follows:
Section 8.08(d)
"The Member Representative shall be compensated for his service as such based upon the amount of time devoted to such services at the normal hourly rate of the Member Representative as determined by Nossaman LLP. If the Member Representative is not a lawyer at Nossaman LLP, the Member Representative shall be compensated at a rate and on a basis established by the Majority Member. The Member Representative shall be paid such compensation from the funds in the MR Escrow Account and, if there are no remaining funds in the MR Escrow Account, the Member Representative may recover his compensation in the same way expenses may be recovered pursuant to the last two sentences of above."
Section 8.08(c)
2. . This Amendment shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York. All Actions arising out of or relating to this Amendment (including any Action involving the Financing Sources) shall be heard and determined exclusively in any federal court sitting in the Borough of Manhattan of the City of New York; , , that if such federal court does not have jurisdiction over such Action, such Action shall be heard and determined exclusively in any New York state court sitting in the Borough of Manhattan of the City of New York. Consistent with the preceding sentence, the parties hereto hereby (a) submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of any federal or state court sitting in the Borough of Manhattan of the City of New York for the purpose of any Action arising out of or relating to this Amendment brought by any party hereto (including any Action involving the Financing Sources); (b) consent to service of process in accordance with the procedure set forth in of the Merger Agreement; and (c) irrevocably waive, and agree not to assert by way of motion, defense, or otherwise, in any such Action, any claim that it is not subject personally to the jurisdiction of the above-named courts, that its property is exempt or immune from attachment or execution, that the Action is brought in an inconvenient forum, that the venue of the Action is improper, or that this Amendment or the Transactions may not be enforced in or by any of the above-named courts.
Governing Law
provided
however
Section 10.02
3. . If any term or other provision of this Amendment is invalid, illegal, or incapable of being enforced under any Law or public policy, all other terms and provisions of this Amendment shall nevertheless remain in full force and effect, provided, that the economic and legal substance of the actions set forth herein is not affected in any manner materially adverse to any party hereto. Upon such determination that any term or other provision is invalid, illegal, or incapable of being enforced, the parties hereto shall negotiate in good faith to modify this Amendment so as to effect the original intent of the parties hereto as closely as possible in a mutually acceptable manner in order that the Transactions are consummated as originally contemplated to the greatest extent possible.
Severability
 
4. . This Amendment may be executed and delivered (including by facsimile or other means of electronic transmission, such as by electronic mail in "pdf" form) in one or more counterparts, and by the different parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.
Counterparts
5. . Except to the extent expressly amended by this Amendment, all terms of the Merger Agreement shall remain in full force and effect without further amendment, change or modification.
No Other Amendment and Agreements
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the parties hereto has caused this Amendment to be executed as of the date first written above by its representative thereunto duly authorized.
 


