FILE:DVA/DVA-8K-20121030161805.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 30, 2012, DaVita Inc. issued a press release announcing its financial results for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2012. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
The information contained in this Form 8-K (including Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto) is being furnished and shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (The "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section and shall not be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Contact: Jim Gustafson
Investor Relations
DaVita Inc.
(310) 536-2585
Denver, Colorado, October 30, 2012  DaVita Inc. (NYSE: DVA) today announced results for the quarter ended September 30, 2012. Net income attributable to DaVita Inc. for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2012 was $144.7 million and $427.8 million, or $1.50 per share and $4.46 per share, respectively, excluding for the nine months ended September 30, 2012 an after-tax legal proceeding contingency accrual and related expense of $47.6 million, or $0.50 per share, that occurred in the second quarter of 2012. Net income attributable to DaVita Inc. for the nine months ended September 30, 2012 including this item was $380.2 million, or $3.96 per share.
Our operating results for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2012, include an additional $5.4 million of after-tax debt expense, or $0.06 per share, resulting from the proposed amendments under our senior secured credit facilities as well as issuing the New Senior Notes in advance of the potential acquisition of HCP.
Net income attributable to DaVita Inc. for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2011 was $135.4 million and $344.3 million, or $1.42 per share and $3.54 per share, respectively, excluding for the nine months ended September 30, 2011 an after-tax non-cash goodwill impairment charge of approximately $14.4 million, or $0.14 per share, that was recorded in the second quarter of 2011 related to our infusion therapy business. Net income attributable to DaVita Inc. for the nine months ended September 30, 2011 including this item was $329.9 million or $3.40 per share.
Financial and operating highlights include:
 
 
Operating income for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2011 was $319 million and $825 million, respectively, excluding for the nine months ended September 30, 2011 the pre-tax non-cash goodwill impairment charge of $24 million. Operating income for the nine months ended September 30, 2011 including this item was $801 million.
 
 
 
 
On August 28, 2012 we issued $1.25 billion aggregate principal amount of 5 
 3
/
4
% senior notes due 2022 (New Senior Notes). All of the proceeds from the issuance of the New Senior Notes along with related fees and interest through November 30, 2012 were deposited into escrow pending the consummation of the HCP acquisition. For further details regarding this transaction, see our SEC filings on Form 8-K dated August 28, 2012 and August 16, 2012.
 
Outlook
We are updating our operating income guidance for 2012 for our dialysis services and related ancillary businesses to now be in the range of $1,315 million to $1,330 million. Our previous operating income guidance for our dialysis services and related ancillary businesses was in the range of $1,275 million to $1,325 million. Following the expected close of the HCP acquisition in early November 2012, we expect the incremental operating income contribution from HCP to be in the range of $25 million to $30 million per month for the remainder of the year. Our operating income guidance for our dialysis services and related ancillary businesses for 2012 excludes the legal proceeding contingency accrual and related expenses of $78 million and transaction expenses related to the HCP acquisition.
Our consolidated operating income guidance for 2013 is expected to be in the range of $1,750 million to $1,900 million including the operating results of HCP. Our operating income guidance for 2013 for our dialysis services and related ancillary businesses is expected to be in the range of $1,350 million to $1,450 million and our operating income guidance for 2013 for HCP is expected to be in the range of $400 million to $450 million. We also expect our consolidated operating cash flows for 2013 to be in the range of $1,350 million to $1,500 million. These projections and the underlying assumptions involve significant risks and uncertainties, including those described below, and actual results may vary significantly from these current projections.
We will be holding a conference call to discuss our results for the third quarter ended September 30, 2012 on October 30, 2012 at 5:00 p.m. Eastern Time. The dial in number is (800) 399-4406. A replay of the conference call will be available on DaVita's official web page, , for the following 30 days.
www.davita.com
 
This release contains forward-looking statements, within the meaning of the federal securities laws, including statements related to our guidance and expectations for our 2012 and 2013 operating income, our 2013 operating cash flows and our 2012 effective tax rate attributable to DaVita Inc., and the anticipated timing and closing of the HCP transaction. Factors that could impact future results include the uncertainties associated with governmental regulations, general economic and other market conditions, competition, accounting estimates, the variability of our cash flows and the risk factors set forth in our SEC filings, including our quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2012 and subsequent quarterly reports to be filed on Form 10-Q or current reports on Form 8-K. The forward-looking statements should be considered in light of these risks and uncertainties.
These risks and uncertainties include those relating to:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In addition, upon closing of the HCP transaction, certain other risks and uncertainties related to HCP will also affect these forward-looking statements, including those relating to:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
We base our forward-looking statements on information currently available to us at the time of this release, and we undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of changes in underlying factors, new information, future events or otherwise.
This release contains non-GAAP financial measures. For reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to their most comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP, see the attached reconciliation schedules. For the reasons stated in the reconciliation schedules, we believe our presentation of non-GAAP financial measures provides useful supplemental information for investors.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 1: Calculation of the Leverage Ratio
Under the Company's Senior Secured Credit Facilities (Credit Agreement), the leverage ratio is defined as all funded debt plus the face amount of all letters of credit issued, minus cash and cash equivalents, divided by "Consolidated EBITDA". The leverage ratio determines the interest rate margin payable by the Company for its Term Loan A and revolving line of credit under the Credit Agreement by establishing the margin over the base interest rate (LIBOR) that is applicable. The following leverage ratio was calculated using "Consolidated EBITDA" as defined in the Credit Agreement. The calculation below is based on the last twelve months of "Consolidated EBITDA", pro forma for routine acquisitions that occurred during the period. The Company's management believes the presentation of "Consolidated EBITDA" is useful to investors to enhance their understanding of the Company's leverage ratio under its Credit Agreement.
 
In accordance with the Credit Agreement, the Company's leverage ratio cannot exceed 4.25 to 1.0 as of September 30, 2012. At that date the Company's leverage ratio did not exceed 4.25 to 1.0.
 
1. Net income attributable to DaVita Inc. excluding an after-tax legal proceeding contingency accrual and related expenses and an after-tax non-cash goodwill impairment charge and diluted earnings per share attributable to DaVita Inc. excluding an after-tax legal proceeding contingency accrual and related expenses and an after-tax non-cash goodwill impairment charge.
We believe that net income attributable to DaVita Inc. excluding an after-tax legal proceeding contingency accrual and related expenses and an after-tax non-cash goodwill impairment charge enhances a user's understanding of our normal net income attributable to DaVita Inc. and diluted earnings per share attributable to DaVita Inc. for these periods by providing a measure that is meaningful because it excludes an unusual charge for a legal proceeding contingency accrual that resulted from an agreement we reached in principle to settle federal program claims relating to our historical Epogen practices during the second quarter of 2012 and also excludes a non-cash goodwill impairment charge that resulted from a decrease in the implied fair value of goodwill below its carrying amount associated with our infusion therapy business during the second quarter of 2011 and accordingly, is more comparable to prior periods and indicative of consistent net income attributable to DaVita Inc. and diluted earnings per share to DaVita Inc. These measures are not measures of financial performance under United States generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and should not be considered as an alternative to net income attributable to DaVita Inc., and diluted earnings per share attributable to DaVita Inc.
Net income attributable to DaVita Inc. excluding an after-tax legal proceeding contingency accrual and related expenses and an after-tax non-cash goodwill impairment charge:
 
Diluted earnings per share attributable to DaVita Inc. excluding an after-tax legal proceeding contingency accrual and related expenses and an after-tax non-cash goodwill impairment charge:
 
 
2. Operating income excluding a pre-tax legal proceeding contingency accrual and related expenses and a pre-tax non-cash goodwill impairment charge.
We believe that operating income excluding a pre-tax legal proceeding contingency accrual and related expenses and a pre-tax non-cash goodwill impairment charge enhances a user's understanding of our normal operating income for these periods by providing a measure that is meaningful because it excludes an unusual charge for a legal proceeding contingency accrual that resulted from an agreement we reached in principle to settle federal program claims relating to our historical Epogen practices during the second quarter of 2012 and also excludes a non-cash goodwill impairment charge that resulted from a decrease in the implied fair value of goodwill below its carrying amount associated with our infusion therapy business during the second quarter of 2011 and accordingly, is more comparable to prior periods and indicative of consistent operating income. This measure is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to operating income.
Operating income excluding a pre-tax legal proceeding contingency accrual and related expenses and a pre-tax non-cash goodwill impairment charge:
 
 
3. Effective Income Tax Rates
We believe that reporting the effective income tax rate attributable to DaVita Inc. enhances an investor's understanding of DaVita's effective income tax rate for the periods presented because it excludes noncontrolling owners' income that primarily relates to non-tax paying entities and accordingly is more comparable to prior periods presentations regarding DaVita's effective income tax rate and is meaningful to an investor to fully understand the related income tax effects on DaVita Inc.'s operating results. This is not a measure under GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to the effective income tax rate calculated in accordance with GAAP.
Effective income tax rate as compared to the effective income tax rate attributable to DaVita Inc. is as follows:
 
 
 
4. Free cash flow
Free cash flow represents net cash provided by operating activities less distributions to noncontrolling interests and capital expenditures for routine maintenance and information technology. We believe free cash flow is a useful adjunct to cash flow from operating activities and other measurements under GAAP, since free cash flow is a meaningful measure of our ability to fund acquisition and development activities and meet our debt service requirements. In addition, free cash flow excluding distributions to noncontrolling interests provides an investor with an understanding of free cash flows that are attributable to DaVita Inc. Free cash flow is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to cash flows from operating, investing or financing activities, as an indicator of cash flows or as a measure of liquidity.
 
 
 


