FILE:DVA/DVA-8K-20120216161734.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b)
On February 14, 2012, Willard W. Brittain, Jr., a member of the Board of Directors (the "Board") of DaVita Inc. (the "Company"), notified the Board that, for personal reasons, he will not stand for re-election at the Company's 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. The Company thanks Mr. Brittain for his dedicated service to the Board and to the Company.
(c)
On February 12, 2012, the Board of Directors appointed Javier J. Rodriguez, age 41, to the position of President. He previously served as a Senior Vice President for the Company, a position he has occupied since 2006. From 2004 to 2006, Mr. Rodriguez served as the Company's Vice President of Operations. From 2000 to 2003, Mr. Rodriguez served as the Company's Vice President of Payor Contracting. From 1998 to 2000, Mr. Rodriguez served with the Company in various other director positions.
Mr. Rodriguez's base salary will continue at $700,000 which has been in effect since December 8, 2011.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
DENVER (Feb. 15, 2012) - (NYSE: DVA), a leading provider of kidney care services that is committed to improving the quality of life for those diagnosed with chronic kidney disease (CKD), announced today that it has promoted Javier Rodriguez to the position of president. He previously served as DaVita's senior vice president, a role he has occupied since 2006.
DaVita Inc.
Rodriguez, 41, has been with DaVita since 1998. During his tenure, he has held several different roles. Currently, his portfolio includes Payor Relations, Information Technology, Village Health and the operations of more than 400 dialysis clinics. Before joining DaVita, Rodriguez worked for Baxter Healthcare Corporation in finance from 1995 to 1996. He also served as director of operations for CBS Marketing Inc. in Mexico City.
Rodriguez earned a bachelor's degree from Boston College and an MBA from Harvard Business School.
"I have worked with Javier for years, and I am excited to continue the journey as peers going forward," stated Dennis Kogod, DaVita's COO.
"This promotion is a result of the strong performance and personal growth Javier has demonstrated," commented Kent Thiry, chairman and CEO of DaVita Inc. "Dennis and I are excited to work with Javier to help make DaVita the Greatest Healthcare Community the World has Ever Seen.'"
About DaVita
DaVita Inc., a Fortune 500 company, is a leading provider of kidney care in the United States, delivering dialysis services to patients with chronic kidney failure and end stage renal disease. DaVita strives to improve patients' quality of life by innovating clinical care, and by offering integrated treatment plans, personalized care teams and convenient health-management services. As of Sept..30, 2011, DaVita operated or provided administrative services at 1,777 dialysis facilities, serving approximately 138,000 patients. DaVita supports numerous programs dedicated to creating positive, sustainable change in communities around the world. The company's leadership development initiatives and social responsibility efforts have been recognized by Fortune, Modern Healthcare, Newsweek and WorldBlu. For more information, please visit www.davita.com.
Contacts:
DaVita
Skip Thurman, 303-405-2296
Skip.Thurman@davita.com


