Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 6. Market for Securities Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Stock and Related Stockholder Matters 7. Directors and Officers Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant 8. Additional Information Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant Item 11. Executive Compensation Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions 4 Parts I and II of this annual report on Form 10 K (the "Report") contain forward looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Accordingly, no assurances can be given that the actual events and results will not be materially different than the anticipated results described in the forward looking statements. See "Item 1. Business Competition, Markets and Regulation" and "Item 1. Business Risks Associated with Business Activities" for a description of various factors that could materially affect the ability of Pioneer Natural Resources Company to achieve the anticipated results described in the forward looking statements. Definitions of Oil and Gas Terms and Conventions Used Herein Within this Report, the following oil and gas terms and conventions have specific meanings: "Bbl" means a standard barrel containing 42 United States gallons; "Bcf" means one billion cubic feet; "Tcf" means one trillion cubic feet; "Bcfe" means a billion cubic feet equivalent and is a standard convention used to express oil and gas volumes on a comparable gas equivalent basis; "BOE" means a barrel of oil equivalent and is a standard convention used to express oil and gas volumes on a comparable oil equivalent basis; "Btu" means British thermal; "MMBtu" means one million Btus; "MBbl" means one thousand Bbls; "MBOE" means one thousand BOE; "MMBOE" means one million BOE; "Mcf" means one thousand cubic feet and is a measure of natural gas volume; "MMcf" means one million cubic feet; "NGL" means natural gas liquid; "NYMEX" means The New York Mercantile Exchange; "proved reserves" mean the estimated quantities of crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids which geological and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty to be recoverable in future years from known reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions, i.e., prices and costs as of the date the estimate is made. Prices include consideration of changes in existing prices provided only by contractual arrangements, but not on escalations based upon future conditions. (i) Reservoirs are considered proved if economic producibility is supported by either actual production or conclusive formation test. The area of a reservoir considered proved includes (A) that portion delineated by drilling and defined by gas oil and or oil water contacts, if any; and (B) the immediately adjoining portions not yet drilled, but which can be reasonably judged as economically productive on the basis of available geological and engineering data. In the absence of information on fluid contacts, the lowest known structural occurrence of hydrocarbons controls the lower proved limit of the reservoir. (ii) Reserves which can be produced economically through application of improved recovery techniques (such as fluid injection) are included in the "proved" classification when successful testing by a pilot project, or the operation of an installed program in the reservoir, provides support for the engineering analysis on which the project or program was based. (iii) Estimates of proved reserves do not include the following: (A) oil that may become available from known reservoirs but is classified separately as "indicated additional reserves"; (B) crude oil, natural gas, and natural gas liquids, the recovery of which is subject to reasonable doubt because of uncertainty as to geology, reservoir characteristics, or economic factors; (C) crude oil, natural gas, and natural gas liquids, that may occur in undrilled prospects; and (D) crude oil, natural gas, and natural gas liquids, that may be recovered from oil shales, coal, gilsonite and other such sources. "Standardized Measure" means the after tax present value of estimated future net revenues of proved reserves, determined in accordance with the rules and regulations of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"), using prices and costs in effect at the specified date and a 10 percent discount rate; "acquisition and finding cost per BOE" means total costs incurred divided by the summation of proved reserves attributable to revisions of previous estimates, purchases of minerals in place and new discoveries and extensions; "reserve replacement percentage" means, expressed as a percentage, the summation of annual proved reserves, on a BOE basis, attributable to revisions of previous estimates, purchases of minerals in place and new discoveries and extensions divided by annual production of oil, NGLs and gas, on a BOE basis; and "WTI" means West Texas Intermediate and is a benchmark grade of oil in the United States. Gas equivalents are determined under the relative energy content method by using the ratio of 6.0 Mcf of gas to 1.0 Bbl of oil or NGL. With respect to information on the working interest in wells, drilling locations and acreage, "net" wells, drilling locations and acres are determined by multiplying "gross" wells, drilling locations and acres by Pioneer Natural Resources Companys working interest in such wells, drilling locations or acres. Unless otherwise specified, wells, drilling locations and acreage statistics quoted herein represent gross wells, drilling locations or acres; and, all dollar amounts are expressed in U.S. dollars. 5 PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS General Pioneer Natural Resources Company ("Pioneer", or the "Company") is a Delaware corporation whose common stock is listed and traded on the New York Stock Exchange and Toronto Stock Exchange. Pioneer is an oil and gas exploration and production company with ownership interests in oil and gas properties located in the United States, Argentina, Canada, Gabon, South Africa and Tunisia. The Companys executive offices are located at 5205 N. OConnor Blvd., Suite 1400, Irving, Texas 75039; the Companys telephone number is (972) 444 9001. The Company maintains other offices in Midland, Texas; Buenos Aires, Argentina; Calgary, Canada; and Capetown, South Africa. At December 31, 2001, the Company had 926 employees, 469 of whom were employed in field and plant operations. Mission and Strategies The Companys mission is to provide shareholders with superior investment returns through strategies that maximize Pioneers long term profitability and net asset value. The strategies employed to achieve this mission are predicated on maintaining financial flexibility and capital allocation discipline. Historically, these strategies have been anchored by the Companys long lived Spraberry oil field and Hugoton and West Panhandle gas fields reserves and production. Underlying these fields are approximately 64 percent of the Companys proved oil and gas reserves which have a remaining productive life in excess of 40 years. The stable base of oil and gas production from these fields, together with the soon to be realized production growth from the Companys 1998 Sable oil field discovery in South Africa, the 1999 Aconcagua, 2000 Devils Tower and 2001 Falcon discoveries in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico (the "Big 4"), will generate the operating cash flows that will provide Pioneer with continued financial flexibility. The Big 4 exploration successes represent the results of the Companys ability to selectively reinvest capital from the long lived Spraberry, Hugoton and West Panhandle fields to areas offering superior investment returns. Similarly, the Company will continue to: (a) selectively explore for and develop proved reserve discoveries in areas that offer superior reserve growth and profitability potential; (b) invest in the personnel and technology necessary to maximize the Companys exploration and development successes, and (c) enhance liquidity, allowing the Company to take advantage of future exploration, development and acquisition opportunities. The Company is committed to continuing to enhance shareholder investment returns through adherence to these strategies. Business Activities The Company is an independent oil and gas exploration and development company. Pioneers purpose is to competitively and profitably explore for, develop and produce oil, NGL and gas reserves. In so doing, the Company sells homogenous oil, NGL and gas units which, except for geographic and relatively minor qualitative differentials, cannot be significantly differentiated from units offered for sale by the Companys competitors. Competitive advantage is gained in the oil and gas exploration and development industry through superior capital investment decisions, technological innovation and price and cost management. Petroleum industry. The petroleum industry has been characterized by volatile oil, NGL and gas commodity prices and relatively stable supplier costs during the three years ended December 31, 2001. During 1999 and 2000, the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and certain other oil exporting nations reduced their oil export volumes. Those reductions in oil export volumes had a positive impact on world oil prices, as did overall gas supply and demand fundamentals on North American gas prices. During 2001, world oil and North American gas supply and demand fundamentals shifted, primarily as a result of an economic recession curtailing demand, causing reductions in world oil and North American gas prices. To mitigate the impact of volatile commodity prices on the Companys net asset value, Pioneer periodically enters into commodity hedge contracts. See Note H of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in 6 "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for information regarding the impact to oil and gas revenues during 2001, 2000 and 1999 from the Companys hedging activities and the Companys open hedge positions at December 31, 2001 and related prices. The Company. The Companys asset base is anchored by the Spraberry oil field located in West Texas, the Hugoton gas field located in Southwest Kansas and the West Panhandle gas field located in the Texas Panhandle. Complementing these areas, the Company has exploration and development opportunities and oil and gas production activities in the United States Gulf of Mexico and onshore Gulf Coast areas, and internationally in Argentina, Canada, Gabon, South Africa and Tunisia. Combined, these assets create a portfolio of resources and opportunities that are well balanced among oil, NGLs and gas; and that are also well balanced between long lived, dependable production and exploration and development opportunities. Additionally, the Company has a team of dedicated employees that represent the professional disciplines and sciences that will allow Pioneer to maximize the long term profitability and net asset value inherent in its physical assets. The Company provides administrative, financial and management support to United States and foreign subsidiaries that explore for, develop and produce oil, NGL and gas reserves. Production operations are principally located domestically in Texas, Kansas, Louisiana and the Gulf of Mexico, and internationally in Argentina and Canada. Production. The Company focuses its efforts towards maximizing its average daily production of oil, NGL and gas through development drilling, production enhancement activities and acquisitions of producing properties while minimizing the controllable costs associated with the production activities. During 2001, 2000 and 1999, the Companys average daily oil, NGL and gas production decreased primarily as a result of oil and gas property divestitures that were supportive of the Companys debt reduction goal. Production, price and cost information with respect to the Companys properties for each of 2001, 2000 and 1999 is set forth under "Item 2. Properties Selected Oil and Gas Information Production, Price and Cost Data". Drilling activities. The Company seeks to increase its oil and gas reserves, production and cash flow through exploratory and development drilling and by conducting other production enhancement activities, such as well recompletions. During the five years ended December 31, 2001, the Company drilled 2,150 gross (1,510.2 net) wells, 90 percent of which were successfully completed as productive wells, at a total cost (net to the Companys interest) of $1.5 billion. During 2001, the Company drilled 390 gross (252.1 net) wells for a total cost (net to the Companys interest) of approximately $423.6 million, 60 percent of which was spent on development wells and related facilities. The Companys current 2002 capital expenditure budget is $375 million, which represents a spending decrease of approximately 42 percent from 2001 total costs incurred for oil and gas production activities. The Company has allocated the budgeted 2002 capital expenditures as follows: $285 million to development drilling and facility activities, and $90 million to exploration activities. The Company believes that its current property base provides a substantial inventory of prospects for future reserve, production and cash flow growth. The Companys proved reserves as of December 31, 2001 include proved undeveloped reserves and proved developed reserves that are behind pipe and that require future capital expenditures, of 104.4 million Bbls of oil and NGLs and 659 Bcf of gas. The timing of the development of these reserves will be dependent upon the commodity price environment, the Companys expected operating cash flows and the Companys financial condition. The Company believes that its current portfolio of undeveloped prospects provides attractive development and exploration opportunities for at least the next three to five years. Exploratory activities. Since 1998, the Company has devoted significant efforts and resources on hiring and developing a highly skilled exploration staff as well as acquiring and drilling a portfolio of exploration opportunities. The Companys commitment to exploration has resulted in significant discoveries during this time period, such as the 1998 Sable oil field discovery in South Africa and the 1999 Aconcagua, 2000 Devils Tower and 2001 Falcon discoveries in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico. During 2002, the Company plans to spend a higher percentage of its capital on the development of these high impact projects (see "Item 2. Properties Description of Properties"). Consequently, the Company currently anticipates that its 2002 exploration efforts will be reduced to approximately 23 percent of total budgeted 2002 expenditures and will be concentrated domestically in the Gulf of Mexico and the onshore Gulf Coast area, and internationally in Gabon, South Africa and Tunisia. Exploratory drilling involves greater risks of dry holes or 7 failure to find commercial quantities of hydrocarbons than development drilling or enhanced recovery activities. See "Item 1. Business Risks Associated with Business Activities Drilling activities" below. Asset divestitures. The Company regularly reviews its asset base for the purpose of identifying non core assets, the disposition of which would increase capital resources available for other activities and create organizational and operational efficiencies. While the Company generally does not dispose of assets solely for the purpose of reducing debt, such dispositions can have the result of furthering the Companys objective of financial flexibility through reduced debt levels. During 2001, 2000 and 1999, the Companys divestitures consisted of the sale of oil and gas properties and other assets for net proceeds of $113.5 million, $102.7 million and $420.5 million (of which $390.5 million in 1999 was cash proceeds), respectively, which resulted in 2001 and 2000 net divestiture gains of $7.7 million and $34.2 million, respectively, and a 1999 net divestiture loss of $24.2 million. The Companys 2001 net proceeds from asset divestitures were primarily derived from early termination of interest rate and commodity hedges, the sale of the Companys remaining investment in the common stock of a non affiliated entity and the sale of certain non strategic oil properties in Canada. The assets that the Company divested during 2000 were primarily comprised of an investment in a non affiliated entity and non core United States oil and gas properties located in Oklahoma, New Mexico and Louisiana. The Companys 1999 divestitures were comprised of non core United States and Canadian oil and gas properties, gas plants and other assets. The net cash proceeds from the 2001, 2000 and 1999 asset dispositions were primarily used to reduce the Companys outstanding bank indebtedness. See Note K of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for specific information regarding the Companys asset divestitures. The Company anticipates that it will continue to sell non strategic properties from time to time to increase capital resources available for other activities, to achieve operating and administrative efficiencies and to improve profitability. Acquisition activities. The Company regularly seeks to acquire properties that complement its operations, provide exploration and development opportunities and potentially provide superior returns on investment. In addition, the Company pursues strategic acquisitions that will allow the Company to expand into new geographical areas that feature producing properties and provide exploration/exploitation opportunities. During 2001, the Company expended $170.8 million of capital to acquire proved and unproved oil and gas properties. Excluding cash and other working capital acquired, the Company paid $92.9 million, through the issuance of common stock, to complete the agreement and plan of merger among Pioneer, Pioneer Natural Resources USA, Inc. and 42 Parker & Parsley limited partnerships (see Note E of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data"). Additionally, $77.9 million was spent during 2001 to acquire additional working interests in the United States Gulf of Mexico Aconcagua discovery, the related Canyon Express gathering system and the Devils Tower project; 21 deep water Gulf of Mexico blocks; 250,000 acres in the Anticlinal Campamento, Dos Hermanas and La Calera areas of the Neuquen Basin in Argentina; and a 30 percent interest in the Anaguid permit in the Ghadames basin onshore Southern Tunisia. During 2000, the Company expended $67.2 million to acquire proved and unproved oil and gas properties. Strategic acquisitions of proved properties during 2000 included incremental working interests in the United States Gulf of Mexico discovery at Devils Tower and the Companys Canadian Chinchaga gas field. The Company also acquired an interest in the Camden Hills Gulf of Mexico discovery and the related Canyon Express gathering system during 2000. During 1999, the Company acquired Argentine proved and unproved oil and gas properties that complement its existing operations in Argentina. The Company paid $38.8 million of cash for the Argentine assets during the fourth quarter of 1999. The Company periodically evaluates and pursues acquisition opportunities (including opportunities to acquire particular oil and gas properties or related assets; entities owning oil and gas properties or related assets; and, opportunities to engage in mergers, consolidations or other business combinations with such entities) and at any given time may be in various stages of evaluating such opportunities. Such stages may take the form of internal financial analysis, oil and gas reserve analysis, due diligence, the submission of an indication of interest, preliminary negotiations, negotiation of a letter of intent or negotiation of a definitive agreement. 8 Operations by Geographic Area The Company operates in one industry segment. During 2001, 2000 and 1999, the Company principally had oil and gas producing activities in the United States, Argentina and Canada; and, had exploration activities in the United States Gulf Coast area, the Gulf of Mexico, Argentina, Canada, Gabon, South Africa and Tunisia. See Note P of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for geographic operating segment information, including results of operations and segment assets. Marketing of Production General. Production from the Companys properties is marketed using methods that are consistent with industry practices. Sales prices for oil, NGL and gas production are negotiated based on factors normally considered in the industry, such as the spot price for gas or the posted price for oil, price regulations, distance from the well to the pipeline, well pressure, estimated reserves, commodity quality and prevailing supply conditions. Significant purchasers. During 2001, the Companys primary purchaser of oil was ExxonMobil Corporation ("ExxonMobil"), the Companys primary purchaser of NGLs was Williams Energy Services ("Williams") and the Companys primary purchaser of gas was Anadarko Petroleum Corporation ("Anadarko"). Approximately seven percent, 11 percent and 10 percent of the Companys 2001 combined oil, NGL and gas revenues were attributable to sales to ExxonMobil, Williams and Anadarko, respectively. The Company is of the opinion that the loss of any one purchaser would not have an adverse effect on its ability to sell its oil, NGL and gas production. Hedging activities. The Company periodically enters into commodity derivative contracts (swaps and collars) in order to (i) reduce the effect of the volatility of price changes on the commodities the Company produces and sells, (ii) support the Companys annual capital budgeting and expenditure plans and (iii) lock in prices to protect the economics related to certain capital projects. See "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for a description of the Companys hedging activities, "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" and Note H of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for information concerning the impact to oil and gas revenues during 2001, 2000 and 1999 from the Companys hedging activities and the Companys open hedge positions at December 31, 2001 and related prices. Competition, Markets and Regulation Competition. The oil and gas industry is highly competitive. A large number of companies and individuals engage in the exploration for and development of oil and gas properties, and there is a high degree of competition for oil and gas properties suitable for development or exploration. Acquisitions of oil and gas properties have been an important element of the Companys growth. The Company intends to continue to acquire oil and gas properties that complement its operations, provide exploration and development opportunities and potentially provide superior return on investment. The principal competitive factors in the acquisition of oil and gas properties include the staff and data necessary to identify, investigate and purchase such properties and the financial resources necessary to acquire and develop them. Many of the Companys competitors are substantially larger and have financial and other resources greater than those of the Company. Markets. The Companys ability to produce and market oil and gas profitably depends on numerous factors beyond the Companys control. The effect of these factors cannot be accurately predicted or anticipated. Although the Company cannot predict the occurrence of events that may affect oil and gas prices or the degree to which oil and gas prices will be affected, the prices for any oil or gas that the Company produces will generally approximate current market prices in the geographic region. Governmental regulation. Oil and gas exploration and production operations are subject to various types of regulation by local, state, federal and foreign agencies. The Companys operations are also subject to state conservation laws and regulations, including provisions for the unitization or pooling of oil and gas properties, the establishment of maximum rates of production from wells and the regulation of spacing, plugging and abandonment of wells. States and foreign governments generally impose a production or severance 9 tax with respect to production and sale of oil and gas within their respective jurisdictions. The regulatory burden on the oil and gas industry increases the Companys cost of doing business and, consequently, affects its profitability. Additional proposals and proceedings that might affect the oil and gas industry are considered from time to time by Congress, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, state regulatory bodies, the courts and foreign governments. The Company cannot predict when or if any such proposals might become effective or their effect, if any, on the Companys operations. Environmental and health controls. The Companys operations are subject to numerous federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations relating to environmental and health protection. These laws and regulations may require the acquisition of a permit before drilling commences, restrict the type, quantities and concentration of various substances that can be released into the environment in connection with drilling and production activities, limit or prohibit drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas and impose substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from oil and gas operations. These laws and regulations may also restrict air emissions or other discharges resulting from the operation of natural gas processing plants, pipeline systems and other facilities that the Company owns. Although the Company believes that compliance with environmental laws and regulations will not have a material adverse effect on its results of operations or financial condition, risks of substantial costs and liabilities are inherent in oil and gas operations, and there can be no assurance that significant costs and liabilities, including potential criminal penalties, will not be incurred. Moreover, it is possible that other developments, such as stricter environmental laws and regulations or claims for damages to property or persons resulting from the Companys operations, could result in substantial costs and liabilities. The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act ("CERCLA"), also known as the "Superfund" law, imposes liability, without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct, on certain classes of persons with respect to the release of a "hazardous substance" into the environment. These persons include the owner or operator of the disposal site or sites where the release occurred and companies that disposed or arranged for the disposal of hazardous substances released at the site. Persons who are or were responsible for releases of hazardous substances under CERCLA may be subject to joint and several liability for the costs of cleaning up the hazardous substances that have been released into the environment and for damages to natural resources, and it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the hazardous substances released into the environment. The Company generates wastes, including hazardous wastes, that are subject to the federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act ("RCRA") and comparable state statutes. The United States Environmental Protection Agency and various state agencies have limited the approved methods of disposal for certain hazardous and non hazardous wastes. Furthermore, certain wastes generated by the Companys oil and gas operations that are currently exempt from treatment as "hazardous wastes" may in the future be designated as "hazardous wastes," and therefore be subject to more rigorous and costly operating and disposal requirements. The Company currently owns or leases, and has in the past owned or leased, properties that for many years have been used for the exploration and production of oil and gas. Although the Company has used operating and disposal practices that were standard in the industry at the time, hydrocarbons or other wastes may have been disposed of or released on or under the properties owned or leased by the Company or on or under other locations where such wastes have been taken for disposal. In addition, some of these properties have been operated by third parties whose treatment and disposal or release of hydrocarbons or other wastes was not under the Companys control. These properties and the wastes disposed thereon may be subject to CERCLA, RCRA and analogous state laws. Under such laws, the Company could be required to remove or remediate previously disposed wastes or property contamination or to perform remedial plugging operations to prevent future contamination. Federal regulations require certain owners or operators of facilities that store or otherwise handle oil, such as the Company, to prepare and implement spill prevention control plans, countermeasure plans and facility response plans relating to the possible discharge of oil into surface waters. The Oil Pollution Prevention Act of 1990 ("OPA") amends certain provisions of the federal Water Pollution Control Act of 1972, commonly referred to as the Clean Water Act ("CWA"), and other statutes as they pertain to the prevention of 10 and response to oil spills into navigable waters. The OPA subjects owners of facilities to strict joint and several liability for all containment and cleanup costs and certain other damages arising from a spill, including, but not limited to, the costs of responding to a release of oil to surface waters. The CWA provides penalties for any discharges of petroleum products in reportable quantities and imposes substantial liability for the costs of removing a spill. OPA requires responsible parties to establish and maintain evidence of financial responsibility to cover removal costs and damages resulting from an oil spill. OPA calls for a financial responsibility of $35 million to cover pollution cleanup for offshore facilities. State laws for the control of water pollution also provide varying civil and criminal penalties and liabilities in the case of releases of petroleum or its derivatives into surface waters or into the ground. The Company does not believe that the OPA, CWA or related state laws are any more burdensome to it than they are to other similarly situated oil and gas companies. Many states in which the Company operates have recently begun to regulate naturally occurring radioactive materials ("NORM") and NORM wastes that are generated in connection with oil and gas exploration and production activities. NORM wastes typically consist of very low level radioactive substances that become concentrated in pipe scale and in production equipment. State regulations may require the testing of pipes and production equipment for the presence of NORM, the licensing of NORM contaminated facilities and the careful handling and disposal of NORM wastes. The Company believes that the growing regulation of NORM will have a minimal effect on the Companys operations because the Company generates only a very small quantity of NORM on an annual basis. The Company does not believe that its environmental risks are materially different from those of comparable companies in the oil and gas industry. Nevertheless, no assurance can be given that environmental laws will not, in the future, result in a curtailment of production or processing or a material increase in the costs of production, development, exploration or processing or otherwise adversely affect the Companys results of operations and financial condition. The Company employs an environmental manager and environmental specialists charged with monitoring environmental and regulatory compliance. The Company performs an environmental review as part of the due diligence work on potential acquisitions, including acquisitions of oil and gas properties. The Company is not aware of any material environmental legal proceedings pending against it or any material environmental liabilities to which it may be subject. Risks Associated with Business Activities The nature of the business activities conducted by the Company subjects it to certain hazards and risks. The following is a summary of some of the material risks relating to the Companys business activities. Commodity prices. The Companys revenues, profitability, cash flow and future rate of growth are highly dependent on prices of oil and gas, which are affected by numerous factors beyond the Companys control. Oil and gas prices historically have been very volatile. Commodity prices were favorable during 2000 and the first quarter of 2001, but have since trended downwards. A significant downward trend in commodity prices, comparable to the commodity prices experienced in 1998, would have a material adverse effect on the Companys revenues, profitability and cash flow and could, under certain circumstances, result in a reduction in the carrying value of the Companys oil and gas properties and an increase in the Companys deferred tax asset valuation allowance. Drilling activities. Drilling involves numerous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive oil or gas reservoirs will be encountered. The cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain and drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors, including unexpected drilling conditions, pressure or irregularities in formations, equipment failures or accidents, adverse weather conditions and shortages or delays in the delivery of equipment. The Companys future drilling activities may not be successful and, if unsuccessful, such failure could have an adverse effect on the Companys future results of operations and financial condition. While all drilling, whether developmental or exploratory, involves these risks, exploratory drilling involves greater risks of dry holes or failure to find commercial quantities of hydrocarbons. Because of the percentage of the Companys capital budget devoted to higher risk exploratory projects, it is likely that the Company will continue to experience exploration and abandonment expense. 11 Unproved properties. At December 31, 2001 and 2000, the Company carried unproved property costs of $187.8 million and $229.2 million, respectively. United States generally accepted accounting principles require periodic evaluation of these costs on a project by project basis in comparison to their estimated value. These evaluations will be affected by the results of exploration activities, commodity price outlooks, planned future sales or expiration of all or a portion of the leases, contracts and permits appurtenant to such projects. If the quantity of potential reserves determined by such evaluations is not sufficient to fully recover the cost invested in each project, the Company will recognize noncash charges in the earnings of future periods. During 1999 the Company recognized an impairment provision of $17.9 million to reduce the carrying value of certain of its East Texas unproved gas properties (see Note L of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data"). Acquisitions. Acquisitions of producing oil and gas properties have been a key element of the Companys growth. The Companys growth following the full development of its existing property base could be impeded if it is unable to acquire additional oil and gas properties on a profitable basis. The success of any acquisition will depend on a number of factors, including the ability to estimate accurately the recoverable volumes of reserves, rates of future production and future net revenues attainable from the reserves and to assess possible environmental liabilities. All of these factors affect whether an acquisition will ultimately generate cash flows sufficient to provide a suitable return on investment. Even though the Company performs a review of the properties it seeks to acquire that it believes is consistent with industry practices, such reviews are often limited in scope. Divestitures. The Company regularly reviews its property base for the purpose of identifying non strategic assets, the disposition of which would increase capital resources available for other activities and create organizational and operational efficiencies. Various factors could materially affect the ability of the Company to dispose of non strategic assets, including the availability of purchasers willing to purchase the non strategic assets at prices acceptable to the Company. Operation of natural gas processing plants. As of December 31, 2001, the Company owns interests in nine natural gas processing plants and four treating facilities. The Company operates six of the plants and all four treating facilities. There are significant risks associated with the operation of natural gas processing plants. Gas and NGLs are volatile and explosive and may include carcinogens. Damage to or misoperation of a natural gas processing plant or facility could result in an explosion or the discharge of toxic gases, which could result in significant damage claims in addition to interrupting a revenue source. Operating hazards and uninsured losses. The Companys operations are subject to all the risks normally incident to the oil and gas exploration and production business, including blowouts, cratering, explosions and pollution and other environmental damage, any of which could result in substantial losses to the Company due to injury or loss of life, damage to or destruction of wells, production facilities or other property, clean up responsibilities, regulatory investigations and penalties and suspension of operations. Although the Company currently maintains insurance coverage that it considers reasonable and that is similar to that maintained by comparable companies in the oil and gas industry, it is not fully insured against certain of these risks, either because such insurance is not available or because of high premium costs. Environmental. The oil and gas business is subject to environmental hazards, such as oil spills, gas leaks and ruptures and discharges of toxic substances or gases that could expose the Company to substantial liability due to pollution and other environmental damage. A variety of federal, state and foreign laws and regulations govern the environmental aspects of the oil and gas business. Noncompliance with these laws and regulations may subject the Company to penalties, damages or other liabilities, and compliance may increase the cost of the Companys operations. Such laws and regulations may also affect the costs of acquisitions. See "Item 1. Business Competition, Markets and Regulation Environmental and health controls". The Company does not believe that its environmental risks are materially different from those of comparable companies in the oil and gas industry. Nevertheless, no assurance can be given that future environmental laws will not result in a curtailment of production or processing or a material increase in the costs of production, development, exploration or processing or otherwise adversely affect the Companys operations and financial condition. Pollution and similar environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. 12 Debt restrictions and availability. The Company is a borrower under fixed term senior notes and a line of credit. The terms of the Companys borrowings under the senior notes and the line of credit specify scheduled debt repayments and require the Company to comply with certain associated covenants and restrictions. The Companys ability to comply with the debt repayment terms, associated covenants and restrictions is dependent on, among other things, factors outside the Companys direct control, such as commodity prices, interest rates and competition for available debt financing. See Note D of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for information regarding the Companys outstanding debt and the terms associated therewith. Competition. The oil and gas industry is highly competitive. The Company competes with other companies, producers and operators for acquisitions and in the exploration, development, production and marketing of oil and gas. Some of these competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources than the Company. See "Item 1. Business Competition, Markets and Regulation". Government regulation. The Companys business is regulated by a variety of federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations. There can be no assurance that present or future regulations will not adversely affect the Companys business and operations. See "Item 1. Business Competition, Markets and Regulation". International operations. At December 31, 2001, approximately 22 percent of the Companys proved reserves of oil, NGLs and gas were located outside the United States (17 percent in Argentina, four percent in Canada and one percent in South Africa). The success and profitability of international operations may be adversely affected by risks associated with international activities, including economic and labor conditions, political instability, tax laws (including host country export, excise and income taxes and United States taxes on foreign subsidiaries) and changes in the value of the U.S. dollar versus the local currencies in which oil and gas producing activities may be denominated. To the extent that the Company is involved in international activities, changes in exchange rates can adversely affect the Companys future consolidated financial position, results of operations and liquidity. See Critical Accounting Policies included in "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and Note B of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for information specific to Argentinas economic and political situation. Estimates of reserves and future net revenues. Numerous uncertainties exist in estimating quantities of proved reserves and future net revenues therefrom. The estimates of proved reserves and related future net revenues set forth in this Report are based on various assumptions, which may ultimately prove to be inaccurate. Therefore, such estimates should not be construed as accurate estimates of the current market value of the Companys proved reserves. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES The information included in this Report about the Companys oil, NGL and gas reserves as of December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999, including Standardized Measure, is based on proved reserves as determined by the Companys engineers. Numerous uncertainties exist in estimating quantities of proved reserves and in projecting future rates of production and timing of development expenditures, including many factors beyond the Companys control. This Report contains estimates of the Companys proved oil and gas reserves and the related future net revenues, which are based on various assumptions, including those prescribed by the SEC. Actual future production, oil and gas prices, revenues, taxes, capital expenditures, operating expenses, geologic success and quantities of recoverable oil and gas reserves may vary substantially from those assumed in the estimates and could materially affect the estimated quantities and related Standardized Measure of proved reserves set forth in this Report. In addition, the Companys reserves may be subject to downward or upward revisions based on production performance, purchases or sales of properties, results of future development, prevailing oil and gas prices and other factors. Therefore, estimates of the Standardized Measure of proved reserves should not be construed as accurate estimates of the current market value of the Companys proved reserves. Standardized Measure is a reporting convention that provides a common basis for comparing oil and gas companies subject to the rules and regulations of the SEC. It requires the use of oil and gas spot prices prevailing as of the 13 date of computation. Consequently, it may not reflect the prices ordinarily received or that will be received for oil and gas because of seasonal price fluctuations or other varying market conditions. Standardized Measures as of any date are not necessarily indicative of future results of operations. Accordingly, estimates included herein of future net revenues may be materially different from the net revenues that are ultimately received. The Company did not provide estimates of total proved oil and gas reserves during 2001, 2000 or 1999 to any federal authority or agency, other than the SEC. Proved Reserves The Companys proved reserves totaled 671.4 million BOE at December 31, 2001, 628.2 million BOE at December 31, 2000 and 605.5 million BOE at December 31, 1999, representing $2.5 billion, $5.6 billion and $2.9 billion, respectively, of Standardized Measure. The seven percent increase in proved reserve volumes during 2001 was primarily attributable to the Companys successful capital investments, while the 56 percent decrease in Standardized Measure during 2001 was primarily due to decreases in commodity prices. The four percent increase in proved reserve volumes in 2000 was primarily attributable to the Companys successful capital investments, while the 93 percent increase in Standardized Measure during 2000 was primarily due to increases in commodity prices. On a BOE basis, 70 percent of the Companys total proved reserves at December 31, 2001 are proved developed reserves. Based on reserve information as of December 31, 2001, and using the Companys reserve report production information for 2002, the reserve to production ratio associated with the Companys proved reserves is 14 years on a BOE basis. The following table provides information regarding the Companys proved reserves and average daily production by geographic area as of and for the year ended December 31, 2001. PROVED OIL AND GAS RESERVES AND AVERAGE DAILY PRODUCTION 2001 Average Proved Reserves as of December 31, 2001 Daily Production (a) Oil Standardized Oil & NGLs Gas Measure & NGLs Gas (MBbls) (MMcf) MBOE (000) (Bbls) (Mcf) BOE United States......... 279,146 1,474,090 524,829 $ 1,965,129 43,456 212,629 78,894 Argentina............. 35,669 471,150 114,193 391,151 10,316 87,204 24,850 Canada................ 2,659 132,061 24,669 129,585 1,839 50,481 10,253 South Africa.......... 7,685 7,685 14,461 Total................. 325,159 2,077,301 671,376 $ 2,500,326 55,611 350,314 113,997 (a) The 2001 average daily production is calculated using a 365 day year and without making pro forma adjustments for any acquisitions, divestitures or drilling activity that occurred during the year. Alternate Reserve Case In addition to the proved reserve table above, the Company calculated an alternative reserve case, as presented below, utilizing an assumed WTI Cushing, Oklahoma spot oil price of $22.00 per Bbl and an assumed Henry Hub, Louisiana spot gas price of $3.50 per Mcf as compared to the year end proved reserve calculation which used a WTI Cushing, Oklahoma spot oil price of $19.76 per Bbl and a Henry Hub, Louisiana spot gas price of $2.73 per Mcf. The alternative reserve case has all of the same assumptions as the proved reserve case at year end, other than pricing. 14 Alternative Reserve Case as of December 31, 2001 Alternate Oil Standardized & NGLs Gas Measure (MBbls) (MMcf) MBOE (000) United States......... 287,500 1,499,328 537,388 $ 2,616,332 Argentina............. 35,669 471,150 114,194 433,478 Canada................ 2,625 128,592 24,057 182,116 South Africa.......... 7,685 7,685 28,589 Total................. 333,479 2,099,070 683,324 $ 3,260,515 The alternative reserve case represents the minimum pricing assumptions that the Company used to make investment decisions during 2001. Such investment decisions required, among other items, a discounted return on investment greater than 150 percent prior to approval. In addition to the alternate reserve case above, the Company estimates that the potential incremental value from other exploration and extension opportunities on the Canyon Express, Devils Tower and Falcon deepwater Gulf of Mexico discoveries and Sable discovery in South Africa to be as much as $285 million using the same alternate reserve case assumptions. The Company also calculated an alternate discount rate for the Companys long lived Spraberry, Hugoton and West Panhandle fields. The Company estimates that the incremental value of these long lived reserves using an eight percent discount rate versus a ten percent discount rate under the same alternate reserve case parameters is approximately $165 million. No assurance can be given that future commodity prices will be similar to the prices utilized in the alternate reserve case since commodity prices have historically been very volatile. Furthermore, oil and gas reserve quantity estimates are subject to numerous uncertainties inherent in the estimation of quantities of reserves and in the projection of future rates of production and the timing of development expenditures. The accuracy of such estimates is a function of the quality of available data and of engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. Results of subsequent drilling, testing and production may cause either upward or downward revision of previous estimates. In addition, the volumes considered to be commercially recoverable fluctuate with changes in prices and operating costs. The Company emphasizes that reserve estimates are inherently imprecise and that estimates of undrilled prospects and new discoveries are significantly more imprecise than those of currently producing oil and gas properties. Accordingly, these estimates are expected to change as additional information becomes available in the future. The Companys stockholders and other users of this information should not assume that the Alternate Standardized Measure is the current market value of the Companys estimated reserves. The Company calculated the Alternate Standardized Measure based on estimated reserves calculated using the price and cost assumptions referred to above. Actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower than the prices and costs as of the date of the estimate. Additionally, the Alternate Standardized Measure does not include estimates of the Companys future administrative expense or borrowing costs, the incurrence of which are ordinary expenditures for the conduct of business. Finding Cost and Reserve Replacement The Companys acquisition and finding costs per BOE for 2001, 2000 and 1999 were $7.49, $4.66 and $2.21 per BOE, respectively. The average acquisition and finding cost for the three year period from 1999 to 2001 was $4.74 per BOE, representing a 32 percent decrease over the 2000 three year average rate of $6.94 per BOE. During 2001, the Company replaced 208 percent of its annual production on a BOE basis (169 percent for oil and NGLs and 245 percent for gas). During 2000, the Company replaced 167 percent of its annual production on a BOE basis (196 percent for oil and NGLs and 140 percent for gas). During 1999, the Company replaced 178 percent of its annual production on a BOE basis (262 percent for oil and NGLs and 99 percent for gas). The Companys 2001 reserve replacement 15 percentage was primarily impacted by asset purchases and new discoveries and field extensions while the 2000 and 1999 reserve replacement percentages were primarily impacted by changes in commodity prices. Description of Properties As of December 31, 2001, the Company has production, development and exploration operations in the United States, Argentina, Canada and South Africa, and exploration opportunities in Gabon and Tunisia. Domestic. The Companys domestic operations are located in the Permian Basin, Mid Continent, Gulf of Mexico and onshore Gulf Coast areas of the United States. Approximately 81 percent of the Companys domestic proved reserves are located in the Spraberry, Hugoton and West Panhandle fields. The mature Spraberry, Hugoton and West Panhandle fields generate substantial operating cash flow and have a portfolio of low risk infill drilling opportunities. The cash flows generated from these fields provide funding for the Companys other development and exploration activities both domestically and internationally. During 2001, the Company expended $334.2 million in domestic acquisition, exploration and development drilling activities. The Company has budgeted approximately $260 million for domestic acquisition, exploration and development drilling expenditures for 2002. Spraberry field. The Spraberry field was discovered in 1949 and encompasses eight counties in West Texas. The field is approximately 150 miles long and 75 miles wide at its widest point. The oil produced is West Texas Intermediate Sweet, and the gas produced is casinghead gas with an average energy content of 1,400 Btu per Mcf. The oil and gas are produced from three formations, the upper and lower Spraberry and the Dean, at depths ranging from 6,700 feet to 9,200 feet. The center of the Spraberry field was unitized in the late 1950s and early 1960s by the major oil companies; however, until the late 1980s there was very limited development activity in the field. Since 1989, the Company has focused its development drilling activities in the unitized portion of the Spraberry field due to the dormant condition of the properties. The Company believes the area offers excellent opportunities to enhance oil and gas reserves because of the hundreds of undeveloped infill drilling locations, all of which are reflected in the Companys proved undeveloped reserves, and the ability to reduce operating expenses through economies of scale. During 2001, the Company placed 131 Spraberry wells on production, drilled one developmental dry hole and, at December 31, 2001, had 17 wells in progress. The Company is continuing to evaluate its 2002 Spraberry drilling program and has postponed the program until drilling costs align more favorably with commodity prices. Hugoton field. The Hugoton field in southwest Kansas is one of the largest producing gas fields in the continental United States. The gas is produced from the Chase and Council Grove formations at depths ranging from 2,700 feet to 3,000 feet. The Companys Hugoton properties represent approximately 13 percent of the proved reserves in the field and are located on approximately 257,000 gross acres (237,000 net acres), covering approximately 400 square miles. The Company has working interests in approximately 1,200 wells in the Hugoton field, about 1,000 of which it operates, and partial royalty interests in approximately 500 wells. The Company owns substantially all of the gathering and processing facilities, primarily the Satanta plant, that service its production from the Hugoton field. Such ownership allows the Company to control the production, gathering, processing and sale of its gas and associated NGLs. Production in the Hugoton field is subject to allowables set by state regulators, but the Companys Hugoton operated wells are capable of producing approximately 106 MMcf of wet gas per day (i.e., gas production at the wellhead before processing and before reduction for royalties). The Company estimates that it and other major producers in the Hugoton field produced at or near capacity in 2001. During 2001, the Company completed 12 development wells in the Hugoton field. The Company does not plan to drill any Hugoton development wells in 2002 given the recent downturn in gas prices. The Company is evaluating the feasibility of infill drilling into the Council Grove Formation and may submit an application to the Kansas Corporation Commission to allow infill drilling. Such infill drilling may increase production from the Companys Hugoton properties. However, until an application has been approved, the Company will not reflect any of the infill drilling locations as proved undeveloped reserves. There can be no assurance that the application will be filed or approved, or as to the timing of such approval if granted. 16 West Panhandle field. The West Panhandle properties are located in the panhandle region of Texas where initial production commenced in 1918. These stable, long lived reserves are attributable to the Red Cave, Brown Dolomite, Granite Wash and fractured Granite formations at depths no greater than 3,500 feet. The Companys gas in the West Panhandle field has an average energy content of 1,300 Btu per Mcf and is produced from approximately 600 wells on more than 241,000 gross (185,000 net) acres covering over 375 square miles. The Companys wellhead gas produced from the West Panhandle field contains a high quantity of NGLs, yielding relatively greater NGL volumes than realized from the Companys 1,025 Btu per Mcf content wellhead gas in its Hugoton field. The Company operates the wells, production equipment and, since May 2001, the Colorado Interstate Gas Company (a subsidiary of El Paso Energy Corp.) owned gathering system. Production from the West Panhandle field is processed through the Company owned and operated Fain natural gas processing plant. During 2001, the Company placed 29 new wells on production and had one additional well in progress at December 31, 2001. The Company is evaluating its plans for 2002 given the recent declines in oil and gas prices and has not determined how many, if any, wells will be drilled in the West Panhandle field during 2002. Gulf of Mexico area. In the Gulf of Mexico, the Company is focused on reserve and production growth through a portfolio of shelf and deepwater development projects, high impact, higher risk deepwater exploration drilling, shelf exploration drilling and exploitation opportunities inherent in the properties the Company currently has producing on the shelf. To accomplish this, the Company has devoted most of its domestic exploration efforts to these two areas, as well as its investment in and utilization of 3 D seismic technology. During 2001, the Company successfully drilled one development and four exploratory wells in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico and four development and four exploration wells on the shelf. The Company also drilled two exploratory dry holes in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico and three exploratory dry holes on the shelf during 2001 and had one shelf and two deepwater development wells and one shelf and one deepwater exploration well in progress as of December 31, 2001. In the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, the Company has sanctioned three major development projects that are in progress at December 31, 2001: o Canyon Express The TotalFinaElf operated Aconcagua and the Marathon operated Camden Hills discoveries in Mississippi Canyon are being jointly developed as part of the Canyon Express gas project. Facilities construction and well completions are underway and installation is in progress for the TotalFinaElf operated Canyon Express subsea gathering system with production scheduled to begin during July 2002. Wells will be brought on sequentially and are expected to achieve a peak rate of approximately 110 MMcf of gas per day and 180 Bbls of condensate per day net to the Company. During the fourth quarter of 2001, the Company acquired an incremental 12.5 percent interest in the Aconcagua field and a 5.5 percent interest in the Canyon Express subsea gathering system for $25.5 million. The Companys ownership positions in this project are now comprised of a 23.5 percent equity interest in the Canyon Express subsea gathering system, a 37.5 percent working interest in Aconcagua and a 33 percent working interest in Camden Hills. o Devils Tower At the Dominion operated Devils Tower development project in Mississippi Canyon, the Company successfully drilled two wells to explore for new reserves in previously undrilled reservoirs and to further extend the previously tested zones. During 2001, the project was sanctioned as a spar development project with the owners leasing a spar from a third party for the life of the field. Construction of the spar is underway, two development wells and one extension well were in progress as of December 31, 2001, and production is anticipated to begin during the second quarter of 2003. One additional development well will be drilled during 2002. The wells will be brought on sequentially with peak production expected to reach 8,000 to 10,000 BOEs per day net to the Companys 25 percent working interest. o Falcon The Mariner operated Falcon project, which was recently sanctioned, was successfully drilled and sidetracked during 2001. The Company owns a 45 percent working interest in this discovery and was the successful bidder on 21 deepwater Gulf of Mexico blocks, 12 of which are near the Falcon discovery that the Company shares with its partner, Mariner. Two additional development wells are planned for Falcon during 2002. Initial production from Falcon is anticipated during the first quarter of 2003 at expected rates of 79 MMcf of gas per day and 220 Bbls of condensate per day net to the Companys interest. 17 In addition to the development projects described above in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, the Company drilled the Dominion operated Turnberry prospect during 2001. The well encountered hydrocarbon bearing sands; however, sidetrack operations on the Turnberry discovery were unsuccessful and evaluations of the initial wellbore using a 3 D seismic survey are in progress to determine if the discovery has commercial quantities of hydrocarbons. If commercial quantities of hydrocarbons cannot be confirmed during the first quarter of 2002, the Company will recognize a $9.3 million charge to exploration and abandonments for the costs of the initial exploratory well. The Company also drilled its Argo prospect during 2001 which was unsuccessful. During the fourth quarter of 2001, the Company participated in the drilling of the Marathon operated Ozona Deep prospect that was successfully drilled. The well encountered approximately 345 feet of net oil pay in two intervals and one or two appraisal wells are planned for Ozona Deep in the first half of 2002. In addition to the development projects discussed above and Ozona Deep, the Company plans to drill one or two additional exploratory wells in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico during 2002. On the Gulf of Mexico shelf, the Company participated in drilling five prospects during 2001 in addition to initiating an extensive production optimization program at the Companys Inland Bay fields in south Louisiana. First, the Texaco operated Cyrus prospect was sanctioned during 2001 and development plans are underway with production expected to commence during the fourth quarter of 2002 at expected initial rates of 2.3 MMcf of gas per day and 360 Bbls of condensate per day net to the Companys 5.7 percent working interest. Second, the Aviara operated Oneida prospect was successfully drilled and is currently being completed. Initial production is anticipated during the second quarter of 2002 at expected rates of 1.1 MMcf of gas per day and 30 Bbls of condensate per day net to the Companys 13.7 percent working interest. Third, the Company participated in the Spinnaker operated Stirrup prospect during 2001, in which the Company owns a 25 percent working interest. An initial discovery well was drilled and tested at gross rates over 21 MMcf of gas per day and 130 Bbls of condensate per day. A second and third well were successfully drilled and platform construction, as well as completion operations, have commenced. The Company anticipates first production in April 2002 at expected initial rates of 2.7 MMcf of gas per day and 20 Bbls of condensate per day net to the Companys interest. Finally, the Company drilled its Cruiser and Malta prospects during 2001 that were plugged and abandoned since commercial quantities of hydrocarbons were not present. The Company has also initiated an effort to reevaluate all of its current producing properties on the shelf to determine if there are additional recompletion opportunities or development or exploration drilling opportunities on those properties. The Company drilled an exploratory dry hole in one of its Inland Bay fields and has initiated workover and recompletion programs in these fields. The Company has been applying new technology to the fields in an attempt to identify untapped potential in the multiple pay zones of these fields that may have been missed over the years. Results in the program have been encouraging with a production increase of approximately 1,500 BOE per day having been achieved during 2001. The program will be continued during 2002, but to a lesser extent, given lower commodity prices. In addition to this project, the Company plans to drill a limited number of exploratory prospects on the shelf during 2002. Onshore Gulf Coast area. The Company has focused its drilling efforts in this area on the Pawnee field in the Edwards Reef trend in South Texas. The Company drilled eight development wells at Pawnee during 2001 and plans to drill three more in the first quarter of 2002. Since the Company began this successful program, net production has more than tripled, increasing from 11 MMcf per day at the end of 1999 to 37 MMcf per day at the end of 2001. The Company is also continuing its development drilling in East Texas and is drilling an exploration well in North Louisiana. Activities in these areas will be scaled back during 2002 given the lower commodity price environment. International. The Companys international operations are located in the Neuquen and Austral Basins areas of Argentina and the Chinchaga, Martin Creek and Lookout Butte areas of Canada. Additionally, the Companys fourth significant development project, the Sable oil field located in shallow water offshore South Africa, is scheduled for first production in early 2003. The Company has also entered into agreements to explore for oil and gas reserves in South Africa, Gabon and Tunisia. As of December 31, 2001, approximately 17 percent, four percent and one percent of the Companys proved reserves are located in Argentina, Canada and South Africa, respectively. 18 Argentina. The Companys share of Argentine production during 2001 averaged 24.9 MBOE per day, or approximately 22 percent of the Companys equivalent production. The Companys operated production in Argentina is concentrated in the Neuquen Basin which is located about 925 miles southwest of Buenos Aires and just to the east of the Andes Mountains. Oil and gas are produced primarily from the Loma Negra/NI Block, the Neuquen del Medio Block, the Al Sur de la Dorsal Block and the Estacion Fernandez Oro Block, in each of which the Company has a 100 percent working interest. During 2001, the Company acquired a 100 percent working interest in the Anticlinal Campamento producing field as well as two exploration blocks, Cerro Vagon and Dos Hermanas. The Company also increased its interest in the La Calera and Bajo Baguales exploration blocks during 2001. The production concession in the Austral Basin is located in Tierra del Fuego, which is an island in the extreme southern portion of Argentina, approximately 1,500 miles south of Buenos Aires. Oil, gas and NGLs are produced from six separate fields in which the Company has a 35 percent working interest. Currently, production is being sent to the mainland through oil tankers and gas pipelines and exported to Chile through pipelines. Also in the Austral Basin is the Company operated Lago Fuego Block, which started operations during 2001. Production from this block is mainly gas and NGLs which are sold to the city of Ushuaia and other local markets. The Company holds a 50 percent working interest in the Lago Fuego Block. During 2001, the Company expended $98.1 million on Argentine acquisition, exploration and development activities and drilled 20 development wells and 42 extension/exploratory wells in Argentina, of which 19 development wells and 26 extension/exploratory wells were successful. The Company plans to spend approximately $15 million in Argentina during 2002 to principally complete construction of its Loma Negra gas plant. Other significant capital projects have been suspended at this time due to the economic instability in Argentina and the resulting devaluation of the Argentine peso. Canada. The Companys Canadian producing properties are located primarily in Alberta and British Columbia, Canada. Production during 2001 averaged 10.3 MBOE per day, or approximately nine percent of the Companys equivalent production. The Company continues to focus its development, exploration and acquisition activities in the core areas of northeast British Columbia and southwest Alberta. The Canadian assets are geographically concentrated, predominantly shallow gas and more than 95 percent operated by the Company in the following areas: Chinchaga, Martin Creek and Lookout Butte. Production from the Chinchaga area in northeast British Columbia is relatively dry gas from formation depths averaging 3,400 feet. In the Martin Creek area of British Columbia, production is relatively dry gas from various reservoirs ranging from 3,700 feet to 4,300 feet. The Lookout Butte area in southwest Alberta produces gas and condensate from the Mississippian Turner Valley formation at approximately 12,000 feet. The Company sold its interest in the Rycroft/Spirit River area waterflood in northwest Alberta in December 2001 for approximately $12.0 million. During 2001, the Company expended $37.5 million on Canadian exploration and development activities and drilled 26 development wells and 25 exploratory wells primarily in the Chinchaga and Martin Creek areas, of which 24 development wells and 12 exploratory wells were successful. Most of these wells were drilled during the first quarter as these areas are only accessible for drilling during the winter months. The Company, as operator, plans to drill approximately 19 wells and expand facility and compressor capacity to 50 MMcf of gas per day at the Company owned Chinchaga plant during 2002. The Company expects to participate in an additional four wells operated by another company in the same area. The Company plans to spend approximately $25 million on oil and gas development and exploration opportunities in Canada during 2002. Africa. In Africa, the Company has entered into agreements to explore for oil and gas in South Africa, Gabon and Tunisia. The South African agreements cover over 13 million acres along the southern coast of South Africa, generally in water depths less than 650 feet. The Gabon agreement covers over 314,000 acres off the coast of Gabon, generally in water depths less than 100 feet. The Tunisian agreements can be separated into two categories. The first includes three permits covering 2.7 million acres onshore southern Tunisia which the Company operates with a 50 percent working interest. The second includes the Anadarko operated Anaguid permit covering 1.1 million acres onshore southern Tunisia in which the Company has a 30 percent working interest. During 2001, the Company expended $59.9 million of acquisition, development and exploration drilling and seismic capital in South Africa, Gabon and Tunisia. The Company 19 drilled four exploratory wells in South Africa during 2001, of which two were successful. In addition, a successful exploratory well was drilled off the coast of Gabon and a dry hole was drilled in Tunisia. South Africa. In South Africa, the Company spent $39.3 million of drilling and seismic capital to drill two wells on its Company operated Boomslang prospect, in which the Company has a 49 percent working interest, drill a gas appraisal well on the Soekor operated E BB tract, in which the Company has a 40 percent working interest, and acquire two 3 D seismic surveys. The initial Boomslang well was successful while the appraisal well was unsuccessful. One of the two seismic surveys was acquired over the Boomslang trend area where several other prospects have been identified. The Company will continue to evaluate the commercial feasibility of the Boomslang prospect using this new 3 D data. In addition, the Company drilled and tested the E BB2 gas well in the center of the Bredasdorp Basin. Results of this well and other wells drilled in this trend are being assessed as part of a larger gas development project that is currently being evaluated. The Company also acquired a 3 D seismic survey in the Port Elizabeth Trough Area of Block 14 during 2001. During 2002, the seismic data acquired in 2001 will be analyzed and the results from the aforementioned exploration activities will continue to be evaluated. The Company currently plans to drill two exploration wells during 2002. During 2002, the Company plans to complete its Sable development project in South Africa with production anticipated to begin in early 2003. Development drilling is underway, floating production facility upgrades are in progress and subsea trees are being manufactured. Production for the first year is expected to average approximately 11,600 Bbls of oil per day net to the Companys 40 percent working interest. Gabon. In Gabon, the Company spent $11.4 million of drilling and seismic capital to drill and test the initial exploratory well on its Bigorneau South prospect, located offshore in the Southern Gabon Basin on its Olowi permit. Pioneer is the operator of the permit with a 100 percent working interest. The Company has entered its application to enter the Second Exploration Period on the Olowi Permit, which requires two additional exploratory wells to be drilled over a two year period. Seismic evaluations continue on this discovery and the Company plans to drill two exploration wells and one appraisal well during 2002. Tunisia. Plans for Tunisia in 2002 include a 3 D seismic survey to be shot over the three operated permits as well as a seismic survey in the Anadarko operated Anaguid permit. Based on the results and interpretation of such seismic surveys, the Company expects to drill two to three wells in Tunisia during 2002. Selected Oil and Gas Information The following tables set forth selected oil and gas information for the Company as of and for each of the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999. Because of normal production declines, increased or decreased drilling activities and the effects of past and future acquisitions or divestitures, the historical information presented below should not be interpreted as indicative of future results. 20 Production, price and cost data. The following table sets forth production, price and cost data with respect to the Companys properties for the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999. PRODUCTION, PRICE AND COST DATA (a) Year Ended December 31, 2001 2000 1999 United United United States Argentina Canada Total States Argentina Canada Total States Argentina Canada Total Production information: Annual production: Oil (MBbls).... 8,629 3,566 303 12,498 8,989 3,238 308 12,535 11,448 2,352 1,654 15,454 NGLs (MBbls)... 7,232 200 368 7,800 7,883 193 303 8,379 8,714 217 306 9,237 Gas (MMcf)..... 77,609 31,830 18,426 127,865 83,930 35,695 16,219 135,844 106,094 34,477 17,886 158,457 Total (MBOE)... 28,796 9,071 3,742 41,609 30,861 9,380 3,314 43,555 37,845 8,315 4,941 51,101 Average daily production: Oil (Bbls)..... 23,641 9,769 831 34,241 24,561 8,847 841 34,249 31,366 6,443 4,530 42,339 NGLs (Bbls).... 19,815 547 1,008 21,370 21,538 527 829 22,894 23,875 594 839 25,308 Gas (Mcf)...... 212,629 87,204 50,481 350,314 229,316 97,526 44,315 371,157 290,670 94,457 49,003 434,130 Total (BOE).... 78,894 24,851 10,253 113,997 84,318 25,628 9,056 119,002 103,686 22,780 13,536 140,002 Average prices, including hedge results: Oil (per Bbl).. $ 24.34 $ 23.79 $21.87 $ 24.12 $ 22.07 $29.09 $ 27.50 $ 24.01 $ 15.03 $18.41 $13.28 $ 15.36 NGLs (per Bbl). $ 16.88 $ 19.29 $21.11 $ 17.14 $ 20.05 $22.91 $ 24.32 $ 20.27 $ 11.61 $11.30 $12.62 $ 11.64 Gas (per Mcf).. $ 4.10 $ 1.31 $ 2.86 $ 3.23 $ 3.50 $ 1.19 $ 2.88 $ 2.81 $ 2.17 $ 1.10 $ 1.82 $ 1.90 Revenue (per BOE)$ 22.56 $ 14.36 $17.94 $ 20.36 $ 21.04 $15.03 $ 18.85 $ 19.58 $ 13.28 $10.07 $11.81 $ 12.62 Average prices, excluding hedge results: Oil (per Bbl).. $ 24.56 $ 22.40 $21.87 $ 23.88 $ 28.76 $29.09 $ 27.50 $ 28.81 $ 16.20 $18.41 $13.28 $ 16.23 NGLs (per Bbl). $ 16.88 $ 19.29 $21.11 $ 17.14 $ 20.05 $22.91 $ 24.32 $ 20.27 $ 11.61 $11.30 $12.62 $ 11.64 Gas (per Mcf).. $ 3.96 $ 1.31 $ 3.27 $ 3.20 $ 3.73 $ 1.19 $ 3.45 $ 3.03 $ 2.07 $ 1.10 $ 1.84 $ 1.84 Revenue (per BOE)$ 22.26 $ 13.81 $19.95 $ 20.21 $ 23.63 $15.03 $ 21.65 $ 21.63 $ 13.37 $10.07 $11.90 $ 12.69 Average costs: Production costs (per BOE): Lease operating $ 2.76 $ 2.64 $ 3.01 $ 2.76 $ 2.45 $ 2.30 $ 2.53 $ 2.42 $ 2.02 $ 2.04 $ 3.02 $ 2.11 Taxes: Production... .98 .28 .74 .99 .30 .77 .49 .16 .39 Ad valorem... .71 .49 .41 .29 .41 .31 Field fuel..... 1.27 .88 1.01 .71 .28 .21 Workover....... .20 .01 .32 .17 .17 .42 .15 .09 .34 .10 Total....... $ 5.92 $ 2.93 $ 3.33 $ 5.04 $ 5.03 $ 2.60 $ 2.95 $ 4.34 $ 3.29 $ 2.20 $ 3.36 $ 3.12 Depletion expense (per BOE)..... $ 4.46 $ 5.67 $ 7.71 $ 5.02 $ 3.95 $ 5.56 $ 7.58 $ 4.57 $ 4.06 $ 4.68 $ 5.18 $ 4.27 (a) These amounts represent the Companys historical results from operations without making pro forma adjustments for any acquisitions, divestitures or drilling activity that occurred during the respective years. 21 Productive wells. The following table sets forth the number of productive oil and gas wells attributable to the Companys properties as of December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999. PRODUCTIVE WELLS (a) Gross Productive Wells Net Productive Wells Oil Gas Total Oil Gas Total As of December 31, 2001: United States............... 3,485 1,931 5,416 2,116 1,613 3,729 Argentina................... 669 162 831 454 132 586 Canada...................... 4 299 303 3 240 243 Total.................... 4,158 2,392 6,550 2,573 1,985 4,558 As of December 31, 2000: United States............... 3,577 1,847 5,424 2,166 1,550 3,716 Argentina................... 575 211 786 434 154 588 Canada...................... 95 234 329 45 175 220 Total.................... 4,247 2,292 6,539 2,645 1,879 4,524 As of December 31, 1999: United States............... 3,835 2,244 6,079 2,558 1,736 4,294 Argentina................... 514 199 713 376 142 518 Canada...................... 157 196 353 66 135 201 Total.................... 4,506 2,639 7,145 3,000 2,013 5,013 (a) Productive wells consist of producing wells and wells capable of production, including shut in wells. One or more completions in the same well bore are counted as one well. Any well in which one of the multiple completions is an oil completion is classified as an oil well. As of December 31, 2001, the Company owned interests in 76 gross wells containing multiple completions. Leasehold acreage. The following table sets forth information about the Companys developed, undeveloped and royalty leasehold acreage as of December 31, 2001. LEASEHOLD ACREAGE Developed Acreage Undeveloped Acreage Royalty Gross Acres Net Acres Gross Acres Net Acres Acreage As of December 31, 2001: United States................ 914,114 720,189 818,715 655,332 219,130 Argentina.................... 674,000 278,000 1,154,000 991,000 Canada....................... 153,000 110,000 350,000 252,000 South Africa................. 9,600 3,840 13,625,400 12,266,160 Gabon........................ 313,937 313,937 Tunisia...................... 4,083,072 1,806,013 Total..................... 1,750,714 1,112,029 20,345,124 16,284,442 219,130 Drilling activities. The following table sets forth the number of gross and net productive and dry wells in which the Company had an interest that were drilled during the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999. This information should not be considered indicative of future performance, nor should it be assumed that there is necessarily any correlation between the number of productive wells drilled and the oil and gas reserves generated thereby or the costs to the Company of productive wells compared to the costs of dry wells. 22 DRILLING ACTIVITIES Gross Wells Net Wells Year Ended December 31, Year Ended December 31, 2001 2000 1999 2001 2000 1999 United States: Productive wells: Development................... 228 159 199 114.6 91.3 131.3 Exploratory................... 20 11 7 11.0 4.7 4.6 Dry holes: Development................... 15 3 1 14.6 1.9 .8 Exploratory................... 8 3 7 5.1 1.6 2.7 271 176 214 145.3 99.5 139.4 Argentina: Productive wells: Development................... 19 28 19 17.7 26.7 16.6 Exploratory................... 26 38 25 25.5 37.6 24.1 Dry holes: Development................... 1 2 3 1.0 2.0 3.0 Exploratory................... 16 16 8 14.0 14.5 6.5 62 84 55 58.2 80.8 50.2 Canada: Productive wells: Development................... 24 17 34 20.3 17.9 18.8 Exploratory................... 12 12 10.2 9.9 Dry holes: Development................... 2 4 2.0 2.5 Exploratory................... 13 2 1 11.8 1.9 .3 51 35 35 44.3 32.2 19.1 Other foreign: Productive wells: Development................... Exploratory................... 3 2.4 Dry holes: Development................... Exploratory................... 3 1 1.9 1.0 6 1 4.3 1.0 Total......................... 390 296 304 252.1 213.5 208.7 Success ratio (a)................. 85% 90% 93% 80% 88% 94% (a) Represents those wells that were successfully completed as producing wells or wells capable of producing. The following table sets forth information about the Companys wells that were in progress at December 31, 2001. Gross Wells Net Wells United States: Development..................................... 21 1.6 Exploratory..................................... 3 1.2 24 2.8 Argentina: Development..................................... 1 1.0 Exploratory..................................... 3 3.0 4 4.0 Canada: Development..................................... 5 5.0 Exploratory..................................... 1 1.0 6 6.0 Total........................................ 34 12.8 23 ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS The Company is party to various legal proceedings, which are described under "Legal actions" in Note G of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data". The Company is also party to other litigation incidental to its business. The claims for damages from such other legal actions are not in excess of 10 percent of the Companys current assets and the Company believes none of these actions to be material. ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS The Company did not submit any matters to a vote of security holders during the fourth quarter of 2001. PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON STOCK AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS The Companys common stock is listed and traded on the New York Stock Exchange and the Toronto Stock Exchange under the symbol "PXD". The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the high and low sales prices for the Companys common stock, as reported in the New York Stock Exchange composite transactions. The Companys $575 million credit agreement restricts the Company from paying or declaring dividends on common stock and certain other payments in excess of an aggregate $50 million annually. The Companys Board of Directors did not declare dividends to the holders of the Companys common stock during 2001 or 2000. High Low 2001 Fourth quarter................................. $ 19.70 $ 13.22 Third quarter.................................. $ 19.38 $ 12.62 Second quarter................................. $ 23.05 $ 14.30 First quarter.................................. $ 20.24 $ 15.45 2000 Fourth quarter................................. $ 20.63 $ 12.44 Third quarter.................................. $ 16.06 $ 10.63 Second quarter................................. $ 15.63 $ 9.00 First quarter.................................. $ 10.75 $ 6.75 On February 25, 2002, the last reported sales price of the Companys common stock, as reported in the New York Stock Exchange composite transactions, was $19.49 per share. As of February 25, 2002, the Companys common stock was held by approximately 38,866 holders of record. 24 ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA The following selected consolidated financial data for the Company should be read in conjunction with "Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and "
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 2001 Performance The year ended December 31, 2001 was highlighted by a very successful drilling program which further complements the foundation for significant production growth established by the Companys drilling program in 2000; the continuation of the Companys financial and operating discipline that resulted in a further decline in the Companys ratio of debt to book capitalization from 64 percent as of December 31, 2000 to 55 percent as of December 31, 2001; a $45.5 million, or 11 percent, increase in net cash provided by operating activities as compared to that of the preceding year; the repurchase of an additional 830,400 shares of the Companys common stock at an average per share cost of $15.69; and a highly successful hedging program. During the years ended December 31, 2001 and 2000, the Company recorded net income of $100.0 and $152.2 million ($1.00 and $1.53 per diluted share), respectively, as compared to a net loss of $22.5 million ($.22 per share) during the year ended December 31, 1999. Compared to 2000, the Companys 2001 total revenues decreased by $36.2 million, or four percent, including a $5.7 million decrease in oil and gas revenues. The decrease in oil and gas revenues was due to a four percent decline in BOE sales volumes, partially offset by increases in average oil and gas prices. Compared to 2000, the Companys 2001 total costs and expenses increased by $14.5 million, or 1.9 percent. The modest increase in total costs and expenses included a $40.4 million increase in exploration and abandonments, which is primarily due to the Companys increased exploration program in 2001; a $30.0 million decrease in interest expense, primarily due to reductions in market interest rates and the interest savings associated with the early extinguishment of the remaining 11 5/8 percent and 10 5/8 percent senior subordinated notes and $38.7 million of the 9 5/8 percent senior notes; and a $27.6 million decrease in other expense, primarily due to declines in non hedge derivative mark to market charges. During the year ended December 31, 2001, the Company increased net cash provided by operating activities to $475.6 million, as compared to $430.1 million during 2000 and $255.2 million during 1999. The disciplined investment of net cash provided by operating activities, together with proceeds from the divestiture of non strategic assets of $113.5 million and $102.7 million during 2001 and 2000, respectively, have allowed the Company to reduce its outstanding indebtedness by $168.6 million during the two years ended December 31, 2001. During 2001, the Companys successful capital investment activities increased proved reserves to 671 MMBOE, reflecting the effects of strategic acquisitions of properties in the Companys core operating areas and a successful drilling program which resulted in the replacement of 208 percent of production at an acquisition and finding cost per BOE of $7.49. During the three years ended December 31, 2001, Pioneer has replaced 184 percent of production at an acquisition and finding cost per BOE of $4.74. Costs incurred for the year ended December 31, 2001 totaled $646.6 million, including $170.8 million of proved and unproved property acquisitions and $475.8 million of exploration and development drilling and seismic expenditures. During December 2001, the limited partners of 42 of the Companys 46 affiliated partnerships approved an agreement and plan of merger among Pioneer, Pioneer Natural Resources USA, Inc. ("Pioneer USA"), a wholly owned subsidiary of Pioneer, and the participating partnerships. As a result, those partnerships merged with and into Pioneer USA. This strategic acquisition was funded by the issuance of 5.7 million shares of common stock valued at $104.3 million and increased proved reserves in the Companys Spraberry oil field by approximately 29 MMBOE. During 2001, the Company participated in discoveries at Falcon, Stirrup, Oneida and Ozona Deep prospects in the Gulf of Mexico and in the Olowi Block offshore Gabon. Additionally, exploration drilling confirmed the presence of gas offshore South Africa. The Companys development activities are increasingly focused on its "Big 4" development projects: the Canyon Express, Devils Tower and Falcon projects in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico and the Sable project in the shallow waters offshore South Africa. The Company has budgeted approximately $180 million of 2002 development expenditures for the Big 4 projects. See "Item 2. Properties" for additional information regarding the Companys finding costs and reserve replacement, property descriptions and drilling activities. 26 See "Results of Operations", below, for more in depth discussions of the Companys oil and gas producing activities, including discussions pertaining to oil and gas production volumes, prices, hedging activities, costs and expenses, capital commitments, capital resources and liquidity. 2002 Outlook Commodity prices. During 2001, commodity prices declined from historically high levels at the beginning of the year to historically moderate levels by year end. The Companys outlook for 2002 commodity prices is uncertain. Significant factors that will impact 2002 commodity prices include the extent to which members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and other oil exporting nations are able to manage oil supply through export quotas and the overall North American gas supply and demand fundamentals. Pioneer will continue to moderate its debt levels, follow cost management measures and strategically hedge oil and gas price risk to mitigate the impact of price volatility on its oil, NGL and gas revenues. As of December 31, 2001, the Company had hedged 9,463 barrels per day ("Bblpd") of 2002 oil production under swap contracts with a weighted average fixed price to be received of $26.23 per Bbl and 6,000 Bblpd of first and second quarter 2002 oil production under collar contracts with a minimum or "floor" price to be received of $25.00 per Bbl and a maximum or "ceiling" price to be received of $28.61 per Bbl. The Company had also hedged 165,205 Mcf per day ("Mcfpd") of 2002 gas production under swap contracts with a weighted average fixed price to be received of $4.19 per MMBtu and 20,000 Mcfpd of 2002 gas production under collar contracts with a floor price of $4.50 per MMBtu and a ceiling price of $6.00 per MMBtu. During January and February 2002, the Company increased its 2002 commodity hedge positions by entering into 4,000 Bblpd of July through December oil swap contracts with average per Bbl fixed prices of $21.55, 50,000 Mcfpd of April through December costless collar contracts having floor prices of $2.40 per MMBtu and average ceiling prices of $3.08 per MMBtu and 50,000 Mcfpd of August through December costless collar contracts having floor prices of $2.50 per MMBtu and ceiling prices of $3.25 per MMBtu. Additionally, the Company has deferred oil hedge gains of $3.9 million that will be recognized as oil revenue during the first six months of 2002 and $46.2 million of deferred gas hedge losses that will be recognized as gas revenue during 2002. See Note H of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for additional information regarding the Companys open hedge positions at December 31, 2001 and their related prices. Also see "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" for additional disclosure about the Companys commodity related derivative financial instruments. First quarter 2002. Based on current estimates, the Company expects that its first quarter worldwide production will average 108,000 to 110,000 BOE per day. First quarter production costs are expected to average $4.60 to $4.90 per BOE based on recent NYMEX strip prices for oil and gas. Depreciation, depletion and amortization expense is expected to average $5.15 to $5.30 per BOE, and total exploration and abandonment expense is expected to be $15 million to $30 million. General and administrative expense is expected to be $11 million to $12 million during the first quarter of 2002, which is higher than in prior quarters due to a reduction in overhead reimbursements from the 42 affiliated limited partnerships that were acquired in December 2001. Interest expense is expected to be $30 million to $32 million during the first quarter of 2002. Cash taxes are expected to range from $1 million to $2 million, as the Company benefits from the carryforward of prior years net operating losses in the United States and Canada. For the first quarter of 2002, costs incurred for oil and gas producing activities is expected to range from $90 million to $100 million. Pioneer continues to monitor the political and economic environment in Argentina. The Companys production forecasts have been adjusted to reflect the postponement of drilling in the country. In addition, the devaluation of the Argentine peso is expected to result in a near term reduction in revenues, partially offset by a reduction in operating and administrative costs; and the recognition of remeasurement gains or losses, the impact of which cannot currently be accurately estimated. For the fourth quarter of 2001, Argentina represented 15 percent, or $18.9 million, of Pioneers net cash flow from oil and gas operations. Production growth. The Company expects that its annual 2002 worldwide production will be approximately 42 to 44 MMBOE, including approximately 3 MMBOE of initial production from Canyon Express facilities during the last half of the year. Worldwide production in 2003 and 2004 is expected to increase as production commences from the Companys deepwater Gulf of Mexico Falcon gas and 27 Devils Tower oil projects and the Sable oil project in South Africa, coupled with a full year of production from Canyon Express. The Company currently anticipates that daily production rates, on a BOE basis, will increase by 55 percent to 60 percent from the first quarter of 2002 to mid 2003, once these projects are all producing. Capital expenditures. During 2002, the Company plans to decrease costs incurred for oil and gas producing activities to approximately $375 million, of which approximately $90 million, or 24 percent, has been budgeted for exploration expenditures and $285 million, or 76 percent, has been budgeted for development drilling and facility costs. The Companys 2002 capital budget is allocated approximately 72 percent to the United States, four percent to Argentina, seven percent to Canada and 17 percent to Africa. The Companys 2002 capital budget for the United States includes $135 million of development capital for the Canyon Express, Falcon and Devils Tower deepwater Gulf of Mexico projects. During 2002, the Company has planned exploration drilling in the Gulf of Mexico, the onshore Gulf Coast area, Canada, Gabon, Tunisia and South Africa. During the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2004, the Company expects to expend approximately $130 million and $115 million, respectively, of capital for development drilling and facility costs related to its proved undeveloped reserves. Critical Accounting Policies The Company prepares its consolidated financial statements for inclusion in this Report in accordance with accounting principles that are generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP"). See Note B of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for a comprehensive discussion of the Companys significant accounting policies. GAAP represents a comprehensive set of accounting and disclosure rules and requirements, the application of which requires management judgements and estimates including, in certain circumstances, choices between acceptable GAAP alternatives. Following is a discussion of the Companys most critical accounting policies, judgements and uncertainties that are inherent in the Companys application of GAAP: Accounting for oil and gas producing activities. The accounting for and disclosure of oil and gas producing activities requires the Companys management to choose between GAAP alternatives and to make judgements about estimates of future uncertainties. Successful efforts method of accounting. The Company utilizes the successful efforts method of accounting for oil and gas producing activities as opposed to the alternate acceptable full cost method. In general, the Company believes that, during periods of active exploration, net assets and net income (loss) are more conservatively measured under the successful efforts method of accounting for oil and gas producing activities than under the full cost method. The critical difference between the successful efforts method of accounting and the full cost method is as follows: under the successful efforts method, exploratory dry holes and geological and geophysical exploration costs are charged against net income (loss) during the periods in which they occur; whereas, under the full cost method of accounting, such costs and expenses are capitalized as assets, pooled with the costs of successful wells and charged against the net income (loss) of future periods as a component of depletion expense. During 2001, the Company recognized exploration and abandonment expense of $127.9 million, $87.6 million and $66.0 million, respectively, under the successful efforts method. Proved reserve estimates. Estimates of the Companys proved reserves included in this Report are prepared in accordance with GAAP and SEC guidelines. The accuracy of a reserve estimate is a function of: o the quality and quantity of available data; o the interpretation of that data; o the accuracy of various mandated economic assumptions; and o the judgment of the persons preparing the estimate. The Companys proved reserve information included in this Report is based on estimates it prepared. Estimates prepared by others may be higher or lower than the Companys estimates. 28 Because these estimates depend on many assumptions, all of which may substantially differ from actual results, reserve estimates may be different from the quantities of oil and gas that are ultimately recovered. In addition, results of drilling, testing and production after the date of an estimate may justify material revisions to the estimate. The Companys stockholders should not assume that the present value of future net cash flows is the current market value of the Companys estimated proved reserves. In accordance with SEC requirements, the Company based the estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves on prices and costs on the date of the estimate. Actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower than the prices and costs as of the date of the estimate. The Companys estimates of proved reserves materially impact depletion expense. If the estimates of proved reserves decline, the rate at which the Company records depletion expense increases, reducing net income. Such a decline may result from lower market prices, which may make it uneconomic to drill for and produce higher cost fields. In addition, the decline in proved reserve estimates may impact the outcome of the Companys assessment of its oil and gas producing properties for impairment. Impairment of proved oil and gas properties. The Company reviews its long lived proved properties to be held and used whenever management judges that events or circumstances indicate that the recorded carrying value of the properties may not be recoverable. Management assesses whether or not an impairment provision is necessary based upon managements outlook of future commodity prices and net cash flows that may be generated by the properties. Proved oil and gas properties are reviewed for impairment by depletable pool, which is the lowest level at which depletion of proved properties is calculated. Impairment of unproved oil and gas properties. Management periodically assesses individually significant unproved oil and gas properties for impairment, on a project by project basis. Managements assessment of the results of exploration activities, commodity price outlooks, planned future sales or expiration of all or a portion of such projects impact the amount and timing of impairment provisions. Assessments of functional currencies. Management determines the functional currencies of the Companys subsidiaries based on an assessment of the currency of the economic environment in which a subsidiary primarily realizes and expends its operating revenues, costs and expenses. The U.S. dollar is the functional currency of all of the Companys international operations except Canada. The assessment of functional currencies can have a significant impact on periodic results of operations and financial position. Argentine economic and currency measures. The accounting for and remeasurement of the Companys Argentine balance sheet as of December 31, 2001 reflects managements assumptions regarding some uncertainties unique to Argentinas current economic situation. See Note B of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for a description of the assumptions utilized in the preparation of these financial statements. The Argentine economic and political situation continues to evolve and the Argentine government may enact future regulations or policies that, when finalized and adopted, may materially impact, among other items, (i) the realized prices the Company receives for the commodities it produces and sells as a result of new export taxes or higher production taxes; (ii) the timing of repatriations of excess cash flow to the Companys corporate headquarters in the United States; (iii) the Companys asset valuations; and (iv) peso denominated monetary assets and liabilities. Deferred tax asset valuations. Management periodically assesses the probability of recovery of recorded deferred tax assets based on its assessment of future earnings outlooks by tax jurisdiction. Such estimates are inherently imprecise since many assumptions are utilized in the assessments that may prove to be incorrect in the future. New Accounting Pronouncement The Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") periodically issues Statements of Financial Accounting Standards, which represent changes in or additions to GAAP. During the year ended December 31, 2001, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 143, "Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations" ("SFAS 143"). SFAS 143 amends Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 19, "Financial Accounting and Reporting by Oil and Gas Producing Companies" ("SFAS 19") to require that the fair value of a liability for an asset retirement obligation be recognized in the period in which it is 29 incurred if a reasonable estimate of fair value can be made. Under the provisions of SFAS 143, such asset retirement costs are capitalized as part of the carrying value of the long lived asset. Under the provisions of SFAS 19, asset retirement obligations are recognized using a cost accumulation approach. The Company currently records significant asset retirement obligations through the unit of production method, except for such liabilities assumed in business combinations, which are recorded at their estimated fair values. The provisions of SFAS 143 are effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2002. The Company plans to adopt the provisions of SFAS 143 no later than January 1, 2003. The Company does not expect that the adoption of SFAS 143 will have a significant impact on its future financial position or results of operations. Results of Operations Oil and gas revenues. Revenues from oil and gas operations totaled $847.0 million during 2001, as compared to $852.7 million during 2000 and $644.6 million during 1999, representing a .7 percent decrease from 2000 to 2001 and a 32 percent increase from 1999 to 2000. The revenue decrease from 2000 to 2001 is due to a four percent decline in BOE sales volumes and a 15 percent decline in NGL price, partially offset by a 15 percent increase in gas price, including the effects of gas hedges. The revenue increase from 1999 to 2000 reflects year to year increases in average reported commodity prices, including the effects of commodity hedges, of 56 percent, 74 percent and 48 percent for oil, NGL and gas, respectively, partially offset by a 15 percent decrease in BOE production. The declines in production were primarily attributable to normal well production declines and 1999 asset divestitures. Excluding the production associated with assets divested during 2000 and 1999, BOE production declined by approximately one percent during 2000 as compared to 1999. The following table provides production and price data relevant to the analysis of the Companys revenues from oil and gas operations: Year ended December 31, 2001 2000 1999 Production: Oil (MBbls)................................. 12,498 12,535 15,454 NGLs (MBbls)................................ 7,800 8,379 9,237 Gas (MMcf).................................. 127,865 135,843 158,457 Total (MBOE)................................ 41,609 43,555 51,101 Average daily production: Oil (Bbls).................................. 34,241 34,249 42,339 NGLs (Bbls)................................. 21,370 22,894 25,308 Gas (Mcf)................................... 350,314 371,157 434,130 Total (BOE)................................. 113,997 119,002 140,002 Average reported prices: Oil (per Bbl) United States............................. $ 24.34 $ 22.07 $ 15.03 Argentina................................. $ 23.79 $ 29.09 $ 18.41 Canada.................................... $ 21.87 $ 27.50 $ 13.28 Worldwide................................. $ 24.12 $ 24.01 $ 15.36 NGL (per Bbl) United States............................. $ 16.88 $ 20.05 $ 11.61 Argentina................................. $ 19.29 $ 22.91 $ 11.30 Canada.................................... $ 21.11 $ 24.32 $ 12.62 Worldwide................................. $ 17.14 $ 20.27 $ 11.64 Gas (per Mcf) United States............................. $ 4.10 $ 3.50 $ 2.17 Argentina................................. $ 1.31 $ 1.19 $ 1.10 Canada.................................... $ 2.86 $ 2.88 $ 1.82 Worldwide................................. $ 3.23 $ 2.81 $ 1.90 Percentage increase (decrease) in average worldwide reported prices: Oil....................................... 56 17 NGL....................................... (15) 74 31 Gas....................................... 15 48 4 30 Hedging activities. The oil and gas prices that the Company reports are based on the market price received for the commodities adjusted by the results of the Companys hedging activities. The Company utilizes commodity derivative contracts (swaps and collars) in order to (i) reduce the effect of price volatility on the commodities the Company produces and sells, (ii) support the Companys annual capital budgeting and expenditure plans and (iii) reduce price risk associated with certain capital projects. See Note H of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for information concerning the impact to oil and gas revenues during 2001, 2000 and 1999 from the Companys hedging activities, the Companys open hedge positions at December 31, 2001 and their related prices and descriptions of the Companys hedge and non hedge commodity derivatives. Also see "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" for additional disclosure about the Companys commodity related derivative financial instruments. Interest and other revenue. The Company recorded interest and other income totaling $21.8 million, $25.8 million and $89.7 during 2001, 2000 and 1999 respectively. The Companys interest and other income is comprised of revenue that is not directly attributable to oil and gas producing activities or oil and gas property divestitures. The significant decrease in interest and other income during 2000 is primarily attributable to a non recurring excise tax refund of $30.2 million and a non recurring option fee of $41.8 million recognized by the Company during 1999. See Note J of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for additional information regarding interest and other income. Gain (loss) on disposition of assets. During the year ended December 31, 2001, the Company realized $113.5 million of cash proceeds from asset divestitures and, associated therewith, recorded net gains of $7.7 million. The proceeds derived from asset divestitures during 2001 included $85.4 million from the early termination of hedge derivatives, $12.7 million from the sale of the Companys remaining holdings in the common stock of a non affiliated entity, $12.0 million from the sale of certain oil properties in Canada and $3.3 million from the sale of other corporate assets. The proceeds from the early termination of hedge derivatives represent deferred hedge gains that will be recognized as increases to oil and gas revenues in future periods (see Note H of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data"). The Company recorded a gain of $8.1 million from the sale of the remaining holdings in the common stock of the non affiliated entity and a loss of $1.1 million and a gain of $.7 million from the sales of oil and gas properties and other corporate assets, respectively. During 2000, the Company completed the divestiture of certain assets for proceeds of $102.7 million. Associated therewith, the Company recorded a net gain on disposition of assets of $34.2 million. The 2000 divestitures included the sale of common stock of a non affiliated entity for net proceeds of $59.7 million, from which the Company recognized a gain on disposition of assets of $34.3 million. The Company also sold certain oil and gas producing properties and other assets during 2000 for proceeds of $43.0 million, from which the Company recognized a loss on disposition of assets of $.1 million. During 1999, the Company realized proceeds from asset divestitures of $420.5 million and recognized a net loss on disposition of assets of $24.2 million. The net cash proceeds from asset divestitures during 2001, 2000 and 1999 were used, together with net cash flows provided by operating activities, to finance strategic additions to oil and gas properties, to reduce outstanding indebtedness and other for general corporate needs. See Note K of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for additional information regarding asset divestitures. Production costs. Total production costs per BOE increased in 2001 and 2000 by 16 percent and 39 percent, respectively. In general, lease operating expenses and workover expenses represent the components of production costs over which the Company has management control, while production taxes, ad valorem taxes and field fuel expenses are directly related to commodity price changes. The increase in production costs during 2001 is primarily due to increases in field fuel expense as a result of higher North American average gas prices, higher ad valorem taxes which are computed using prior year average annual commodity prices and to declines in the third party gas processing and treating margin component of lease operating expenses. The increase in per BOE production costs in 2000 as compared to 1999 is primarily due to significant increases in those expenses that are directly related to commodity prices and, to a lesser 31 extent, inflation in field service expenses. The following table provides the components of the Companys production costs during the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999: Year Ended December 31, 2001 2000 1999 (per BOE) Lease operating expenses.................... $ 2.76 $ 2.42 $ 2.11 Taxes: Production................................ .74 .77 .39 Ad valorem ............................... .49 .29 .31 Field fuel expenses......................... .88 .71 .21 Workover expenses........................... .17 .15 .10 Total production costs................ $ 5.04 $ 4.34 $ 3.12 Depletion, depreciation and amortization expense. The Companys total depletion, depreciation and amortization expense per BOE was $5.35, $4.93 and $4.62 for the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively. Depletion expense, the largest component of depletion, depreciation and amortization, was $5.02, $4.57 and $4.27 per BOE during the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively, and depreciation and amortization of other property and equipment was $.33, $.36 and $.35 per BOE during each of the respective years. During 2001, the increase in per BOE depletion expense is primarily associated with decreases in United States production, which has a lower cost basis relative to combined Argentine and Canadian per BOE cost basis, and to downward revisions to proved reserves as a result of lower commodity prices. The increase in per BOE depletion expense during 2000 is primarily due to an increase in the Companys Argentine and Canadian proved property basis as a result of reclassifying unproved property basis associated with the Companys exploration and extension drilling success to proved property and to a higher proportionate share of the Companys production being produced from Argentina. Impairment of oil and gas properties. The Company reviews its proved properties for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate a decline in the recoverability of the carrying value of the Companys assets may have occurred. The Company periodically assesses its unproved properties to determine whether they have been impaired. An unproved property may be impaired if the Company does not intend to drill the prospect as a result of downward revisions to potential reserves, if the results of exploration or the Companys outlook for future commodity prices indicate that the potential reserves are not sufficient to generate net cash flows to recover the investment required by the project, or if the Company intends to sell the property for less than its carrying value. The Company regularly assesses its unproved oil and gas properties for impairment and, during the year ended December 31, 1999, recognized a non cash impairment charge of $17.9 million to reduce the carrying value of its unproved East Texas gas properties. See Critical Accounting Policies above and Notes B and L of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for additional information pertaining to the Companys accounting policies regarding assessments of impairment and specific information about the 1999 impairment of unproved properties. Exploration and abandonments/geological and geophysical costs. Exploration and abandonments/geological and geophysical costs totaled $127.9 million, $87.6 million and $66.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2001, 32 2000 and 1999, respectively. The following table sets forth the components of the Companys 2001, 2000 and 1999 exploration and abandonments/geological and geophysical costs: United Other States Argentina Canada Foreign Total (in thousands) Year Ended December 31, 2001: Geological and geophysical costs....... $ 29,620 $ 6,541 $ 2,373 $ 13,678 $ 52,212 Exploratory dry holes.................. 34,883 6,040 5,473 10,432 56,828 Leasehold abandonments and other....... 5,546 11,276 2,036 8 18,866 $ 70,049 $ 23,857 $ 9,882 $ 24,118 $127,906 Year Ended December 31, 2000: Geological and geophysical costs....... $ 22,033 $ 6,881 $ 2,273 $ 7,761 $ 38,948 Exploratory dry holes.................. 11,745 6,987 887 8,396 28,015 Leasehold abandonments and other....... 7,089 11,520 1,971 7 20,587 $ 40,867 $ 25,388 $ 5,131 $ 16,164 $ 87,550 Year Ended December 31, 1999: Geological and geophysical costs....... $ 17,207 $ 3,399 $ 315 $ 7,498 $ 28,419 Exploratory dry holes.................. 15,591 3,441 978 (275) 19,735 Leasehold abandonments and other....... 8,427 7,169 2,216 8 17,820 $ 41,225 $ 14,009 $ 3,509 $ 7,231 $ 65,974 The increase in 2001 exploration costs, as compared to 2000, is primarily due to increased geological and geophysical costs that are supportive of future exploratory drilling, increased exploratory drilling in the Gulf of Mexico and Argentina and an exploratory dry hole drilled in Tunisia. The increase in 2000 exploration costs, as compared to 1999, is primarily due to increased geological and geophysical costs, unproved leasehold abandonments associated with exploratory dry holes in Argentina and dry hole costs associated with exploratory drilling in South Africa. Approximately 34 percent of the Companys 2001 costs incurred for oil and gas producing activities were exploration costs as compared to 38 percent in 2000 and 32 percent in 1999. Administrative and reorganization expenses. The Companys administrative expense totaled $37.0 million ($.89 per BOE), $33.3 million ($.76 per BOE) and $40.2 million ($.79 per BOE) during the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999. The increase in administrative expense during 2001, as compared to 2000, is primarily due to an increase in compensation expense. The decline in per BOE administrative expense during 2000 was due to the reorganization measures initiated by the Company during 1998 and completed in 1999. Those reorganization measures included the centralization in Irving, Texas of certain operational and administrative functions previously based in Midland, Texas; the closings of the Companys regional offices in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, Corpus Christi, Texas, and Houston, Texas; workforce reductions; and, other initiatives. As a direct result of those measures, the Company recognized reorganization charges of $8.5 million during 1999. See Note M of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for specific information regarding reorganization costs paid during 2001, 2000 and 1999, and unpaid reorganization costs as of December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999. Interest expense. Interest expense was $132.0 million, $162.0 million and $170.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively. Interest expense decreased during 2001, as compared to 2000, due to a decrease in the Companys weighted average borrowing rate and the interest savings associated with the early extinguishment of the Companys outstanding 11 5/8 percent and 10 5/8 percent senior notes and $38.7 million of the Companys 9 5/8 percent senior notes. Interest expense decreased during 2000, as compared to 1999, primarily due to a decrease in the Companys weighted average debt outstanding for the year. This decline was offset, to a certain extent, by higher interest rates in 2000 as compared to 1999. Other expenses. Other expenses were $39.6 million during 2001, as compared to $67.2 million during 2000 and $34.6 million during 1999. Other expenses in 2001 include $11.4 million of commodity derivative settlements that did not qualify for hedge treatment under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities"; $9.9 million of marketing losses incurred to transport and sell purchased Canadian gas to a Chicago, Illinois sales point; $7.7 million of losses from the remeasurement of the Companys Argentine peso denominated net monetary assets and an adjustment to reduce the carrying value of Argentine lease and well equipment inventory to market value (see Note B of Note to 33 Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for additional information regarding currency remeasurement); $6.0 million of bad debt expense related to derivative contracts with Enron North America Corp. and $4.6 million of other expenses. The increase in other expenses during 2000, as compared to 1999, is primarily attributable to increases in mark to market provisions on non hedge derivative financial instruments. Such mark to market provisions during 2000 included $42.0 million associated with non hedge commodity derivatives that matured in December 2000, $14.6 million associated with the Companys non hedge Btu swap agreements and $1.9 million associated with a series of non hedge forward foreign exchange swap agreements that matured in December 2000. Mark to market provisions in 1999 included $21.2 million associated with non hedge commodity derivatives and $11.9 million associated with an investment in the common stock of a non affiliated public entity, partially offset by $5.9 million of mark to market income recognized on a series of forward foreign exchange swap agreements and income of $.2 million associated with the Companys Btu swap agreements. During 2001, the Company entered into offsetting swap agreements that have fixed the prices that are to be received and paid by the Company under the Btu swap agreements. Consequently, the fair values of the Companys Btu swap agreements, which represent a discounted liability to the Company of $19.4 million as of December 31, 2001, are no longer sensitive to the changes in oil or gas commodity prices. See "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" and Notes C and H of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for specific disclosures pertaining to the Companys derivative financial instruments. Income tax provisions (benefits). The Company recognized a consolidated income tax provision of $4.0 million during 2001 and consolidated income tax benefits of $6.0 million and $.6 million during 2000 and 1999. The Companys consolidated tax provision for the year ended December 31, 2001 is comprised of current U.S. state and local taxes of $1.1 million; current foreign tax provision of $10.5 million; and deferred foreign tax benefits of $7.6 million. The Companys consolidated tax benefit in 2000 is comprised of a $10.6 million deferred tax benefit in Argentina, partially offset by $4.6 million of current taxes paid in Argentina. Due to uncertainties regarding the Companys ability to realize net operating loss carryovers and tax credit carryovers prior to their scheduled expirations, the Company did not recognize deferred income tax benefits associated with its operating results for 1999. Although realization is not assured for the Companys remaining deferred tax assets, the Company believes it is more likely than not that they will be realized through future taxable earnings or alternative tax planning strategies. However, the net deferred tax assets could be reduced further if the Companys estimate of taxable income in future periods is significantly reduced or alternative tax planning strategies are no longer viable. As a result of this situation, it is likely that the Companys effective tax rate in 2002 will be minimal. See Note O of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for information regarding the Companys income taxes and deferred tax asset valuation reserves. Extraordinary items. The Company redeemed the remaining $22.5 million of its outstanding 11 5/8 percent senior subordinated discount notes due July 1, 2006 and $6.8 million of its outstanding 10 5/8 percent senior subordinated notes due July 1, 2006 during July 2001, and redeemed $38.7 million of its 9 5/8 percent senior notes due April 1, 2010 during the fourth quarter of 2001. Associated with these redemptions, the Company recognized an extraordinary loss, net of taxes, of $3.8 million during 2001. During 2000, the Company replaced its prior credit facility, which was scheduled to mature August 7, 2002, with a new $575 million corporate credit facility due March 1, 2005 (the "Credit Agreement"). Associated therewith, the Company recognized a $12.3 million extraordinary loss on early extinguishment of debt. Capital Commitments, Capital Resources and Liquidity Capital commitments. The Companys primary needs for cash are for exploration, development and acquisitions of oil and gas properties, repayment of contractual obligations and working capital obligations. Oil and gas properties. The Companys cash expenditures for additions to oil and gas properties during 2001, 2000 and 1999 totaled $529.7 million, $299.7 million and $179.7 million, respectively. The Companys 2001 expenditures were internally funded by $475.6 million of net cash provided by operating activities and a portion of the Companys $113.5 million of proceeds from disposition of 34 assets. The Companys 2000 and 1999 capital expenditures were internally funded by net cash provided by operating activities. The Company strives to maintain its indebtedness at moderate levels in order to provide sufficient financial flexibility to take advantage of future opportunities. The Companys $375 million capital budget for 2002 includes $180 million of expenditures for the development of the Companys Canyon Express, Devils Tower, Falcon and Sable projects which may cause capital expenditures to exceed internally generated cash flows. To the extent that the Companys capital expenditures during 2002 exceed cash provided by operating activities, the Company may increase its outstanding indebtedness by utilizing unused borrowing capacity under its Credit Agreement or, alternatively, the Company may use other sources of capital as described in "Capital resources" below. Contractual obligations. The Companys contractual obligations include long term debt, operating leases, Btu swap agreements, terminated commodity hedges and other contracts. Contractual obligations for which the ultimate settlement amounts are not fixed and determinable include derivative contracts that are sensitive to future changes in commodity prices, currency exchange rates and interest rates. See "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" for a table of changes in the fair value of the Companys derivative contract assets and liabilities during the year ended December 31, 2001. The following table summarizes the Companys payments due by period for fixed and determinable contractual obligations: Payments Due by Year 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 Thereafter (in thousands) Long term debt (a)................. $ $ $ 445,998 $1,121,306 Operating leases (b)............... 5,942 63,919 46,230 28,538 Btu swap agreements (c)............ 7,175 14,358 Terminated commodity hedges (c).... 30,209 $ 43,326 $ 78,277 $ 492,228 $1,149,844 (a) See Note D of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data". (b) See Note G of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data". (c) See Note H of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data". Working capital. Funding for the Companys working capital obligations is provided by internally generated cash flow. Funding for the repayment of principal and interest on outstanding debt and the Companys capital expenditure program may be provided by any combination of internally generated cash flow, proceeds from the disposition of non strategic assets or alternative financing sources as discussed in "Capital resources" below. Capital resources. The Companys primary capital resources are net cash provided by operating activities, proceeds from financing activities and proceeds from sales of non strategic assets. The Company expects that these resources will be sufficient to fund its capital commitments in 2002. Operating activities. Net cash provided by operating activities during 2001, 2000 and 1999 were $475.6 million, $430.1 million and $255.2 million, respectively. During 2001, net cash provided by operating activities increased by $45.5 million, or 11 percent, as compared to that of 2000. The increase in 2001 is primarily due to higher commodity prices as compared to 2000 and an increase in trade receivable collections. Net cash provided by operating activities increased 69 percent during 2000 from that of 1999, primarily as a result of favorable commodity prices and cost management measures. Net cash provided by operating activities during 1999 decreased 19 percent from that of 1998 primarily as a result of declines in production volumes due to oil and gas property divestitures, partially offset by increases in commodity prices and decreases in production and administrative costs. Financing activities. During the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999, the Company has used $64.0 million, $244.1 million and $479.1 million, respectively, of net cash in financing activities. Over the three year period ended December 31, 2001, the Company has used $620.8 million of cash for net reductions in long term borrowings and has reduced its ratio of debt to book capitalization to 55 percent as of December 31, 2001, from 69 percent as of 35 December 31, 1999. Additionally, the Company has entered into financing transactions with the intent of reducing its costs of capital and increasing liquidity through the extension of debt maturities. During 2001, the Company entered into interest rate swap contracts to hedge the fair value of its 6 1/2 percent senior notes due in 2008, its 8 7/8 percent senior notes due in 2005 and its 8 1/4 percent senior notes due in 2007. The Company also entered into interest rate swaps to hedge a portion of its interest rate risk under the Credit Agreement. These swap contracts reduced the Companys interest expense by $7.3 million during 2001. See Note H of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplemental Data" and "Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" for more information about the Companys hedging activities. As is further described in "Results of Operations" above, during 2001, the Company redeemed its remaining 11 5/8 percent and 10 5/8 percent senior subordinated notes due July 1, 2006, and $38.7 million of its 9 5/8 percent senior notes due April 1, 2010. At December 31, 2001, the Company had a $575 million corporate credit facility with a syndicate of banks that matures on March 1, 2005. Outstanding borrowings under the corporate credit facility totaled $294 million as of December 31, 2001. In addition, the Company has five outstanding senior note issuances at December 31, 2001. Such debt issuances consist of (i) $150 million aggregate principal amount of 8 7/8 percent senior notes due in 2005; (ii) $150 million aggregate principal amount of 8 1/4 percent senior notes due in 2007; (iii) $350 million aggregate principal amount of 6 1/2 percent senior notes due in 2008; (iv) $385 million aggregate remaining principal amount of 9 5/8 percent senior notes due in 2010; and, (iv) (v) $250 million aggregate principal amount of 7 1/5 percent senior notes due in 2028. Certain of the obligations above contain restrictive covenants which the Company is in compliance with as of December 31, 2000. The weighted average interest rate on the Companys indebtedness for the year ended December 31, 2001 was 7.52 percent as compared to 8.68 percent for the year ended December 31, 2000 and 7.81 percent for the year ended December 31, 1999, taking into account the effect of interest rate swaps. See Note D of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for more specific information regarding the Companys long term debt as of December 31, 2001 and 2000. As the Company pursues its strategy, it may utilize various financing sources, including fixed and floating rate debt, convertible securities, preferred stock or common stock. The Company may also issue securities in exchange for oil and gas properties, stock or other interests in other oil and gas companies or related assets. Additional securities may be of a class preferred to common stock with respect to such matters as dividends and liquidation rights and may also have other rights and preferences as determined by the Companys Board of Directors. Sales of non strategic assets. During 2001, 2000 and 1999, proceeds from the sale of non strategic assets totaled $113.5 million, $102.7 million and $420.5 million (1999 includes $30 million of non cash proceeds), respectively. The Companys 2001, 2000 and 1999 asset divestitures were comprised of hedge derivatives, common stock of a non affiliated entity, and non strategic United States and Canadian oil and gas properties, gas plants and other assets. The cash proceeds received from asset divestitures during 2001 were used to fund a portion of the Companys 2001 capital expenditures and for general corporate obligations. The net cash proceeds from the 2000 and 1999 asset divestitures were used to reduce the Companys outstanding indebtedness (see "Results of Operations", above, and Note K of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data"). Book capitalization and liquidity. Total debt remained constant at $1.6 billion as of December 31, 2001, as compared to total debt of $1.6 billion and $1.7 billion on December 31, 2000 and 1999, respectively. The Companys total book capitalization at December 31, 2001 was $2.9 billion, consisting of total debt of $1.6 billion and stockholders equity of $1.3 billion. Consequently, the Companys debt to total capitalization decreased to 55 percent at December 31, 2001 from 64 percent at December 31, 2000. At December 31, 2001, the Company had $14.3 million of cash and cash equivalents on hand, compared to $26.2 million at December 31, 2000. The Companys ratio of current assets to current liabilities was 1.12 at December 31, 2001 and .88 at December 31, 2000. Including $27.9 million of undrawn and outstanding letters of credit, the Company has $253.1 million of unused borrowing capacity available under its Credit Agreement as of December 31, 2001. 36 ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The following quantitative and qualitative information is provided about financial instruments to which the Company was a party as of December 31, 2001 and 2000, and from which the Company may incur future gains or losses from changes in market interest rates, foreign exchange rates, commodity prices or common stock prices. Although certain derivative contracts that the Company is a party to do not qualify as hedges, the Company does not enter into derivative or other financial instruments for trading purposes. The fair value of the Companys derivative contracts are determined based on counterparties estimates and valuation models. The Company has not changed its valuation method during 2001. During 2001, the Company only entered into costless swap and collar contracts. See Note H of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for additional information regarding the Companys derivative contracts, including deferred gains and losses on terminated derivative contracts. The following table reconciles the changes that occurred in the fair values of the Companys open derivative contracts during 2001: Derivative Contract Assets (Liabilities) Foreign Interest Exchange Commodity Rate Rate Total (in thousands) Fair value of contracts outstanding as of December 31, 2000.............. $(165,560) $ 6,216 $ $(159,344) Changes in contract fair value........... 396,921 (159) 61 396,823 Contract realizations: Maturities........................... (3,601) (4,524) (8,125) Termination cash settlements....... (64,240) (21,170) (85,410) Termination future obligations..... 22,311 22,311 Termination future receivables.... (5,277) (5,277) Fair value of contracts outstanding as of December 31, 2001.............. $ 180,554 $(19,637) $ 61 $ 160,978 Quantitative Disclosures Interest rate sensitivity. The following tables provide information, in U. S. dollar equivalent amounts, about derivative financial instruments and other financial instruments to which the Company was a party as of December 31, 2001 and 2000, which are sensitive to changes in interest rates. For debt obligations, the tables present maturities by expected maturity dates together with the weighted average interest rates expected to be paid on the debt, given current contractual terms and market conditions. For fixed rate debt, the weighted average interest rate represents the contractual fixed rates that the Company is obligated to periodically pay on the debt as of December 31, 2001 and 2000. For variable rate debt, the average interest rate represents the average rates being paid on the debt projected forward proportionate to the forward yield curve for the six month London Interbank Offered Rate as of February 28, 2002 for the Interest Rate Sensitive table as of December 31, 2001 and the forward yield curve for United States treasury securities for the Interest Rate Sensitivity table as of December 31, 2000. The accompanying tables also provide information about interest rate swap agreements entered into by the Company during 2001 and 2000. The interest rate swap agreements as of December 31, 2001 hedge (i) the fair value of the Companys 8 1/4 percent senior notes due August 15, 2007; (ii) the fair value of the Companys 6 1/2 percent senior notes due January 15, 2008; and (iii) a portion of the interest rate risk associated with the Companys Credit Agreement. The Interest Rate Sensitivity table as of December 31, 2000 includes information about interest rate swap agreements that the Company terminated during 2001 but which, as of December 31, 2000, hedged the fair value of the Companys 8 7/8 percent senior notes due April 15, 2005. 37 Interest Rate Sensitivity Derivative And Other Financial Instruments as of December 31, 2001 Asset (Liability) 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 Thereafter Total Fair Value (in thousands except interest rates) Total Debt: U.S. dollar denominated maturities: Fixed rate debt.......... $ $ $ $161,998 $ $1,121,306 $1,283,304 $(1,268,178) Weighted average interest rate.......... 8.06% 8.06% 8.06% 7.98% 7.95% 7.95% Variable rate debt....... $ $ $ $294,000 $ $ $ 294,000 $ (294,000) Average interest rates... 4.38% 6.12% 6.90% 7.27% Interest Rate Hedge Derivatives (1): 8 1/4% senior notes hedge: Notional debt amount..... $150,000 $150,000 $150,000 $150,000 $150,000 $ 150,000 $ 150,000 $ (2,965) Fixed rate receivable.... 8.25% 8.25% 8.25% 8.25% 8.25% 8.25% Variable rate payable.... 6.50% 8.24% 9.02% 9.39% 9.64% 9.79% 6 1/2% senior notes hedge: Notional debt amount..... $350,000 $350,000 $350,000 $350,000 $350,000 $ 350,000 $ 350,000 $ (16,229) Fixed rate receivable.... 6.50% 6.50% 6.50% 6.50% 6.50% 6.50% Variable rate payable.... 5.15% 6.89% 7.67% 8.04% 8.29% 8.44% Credit Agreement hedge: Notional debt amount..... $ 55,000 $ 55,000 $ (443) Fixed rate payable....... 5.43% Variable rate receivable. 4.38% (1) The Companys 8 1/4% senior notes hedge matures August 15, 2007; the 6 1/2% senior notes hedge matures January 15, 2008; and the Credit Agreement hedge matures May 20, 2002. Interest Rate Sensitivity Derivative And Other Financial Instruments as of December 31, 2000 Asset (Liability) 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 Thereafter Total Fair Value (in thousands except interest rates) Total Debt: U.S. dollar denominated maturities: Fixed rate debt.......... $ $ $ $ $150,000 $1,203,776 $1,353,776 $(1,290,250)(1) Weighted average interest rate.......... 8.10% 8.10% 8.10% 8.10% 8.03% 8.00% Variable rate debt....... $ $ $ $ $225,000 $ $ 225,000 $ (225,000) Average interest rates... 6.64% 6.27% 6.18% 6.24% 6.31% Interest Rate Hedge Derivatives (2): Notional amount of interest rate swap................ $150,000 $150,000 $150,000 $150,000 $150,000 $ $ 150,000 $ 6,216 Fixed interest rate received................... 8.88% 8.88% 8.88% 8.88% 8.88% Variable interest rate paid. 7.17% 6.77% 6.67% 6.74% 6.81% (1) Excludes $30.9 million of debt instruments for which fair values were insignificant and no estimate of fair value was performed as of December 31, 2000. (2) The Companys interest rate hedge derivatives as of December 31, 2000 had a scheduled maturity of April 15, 2005. 38 Foreign exchange rate sensitivity. The following table provides information, in U.S. dollar equivalent amounts, about derivative financial instruments that the Company was a party to as of December 31, 2001 and that were sensitive to changes in foreign exchange rates. Foreign Exchange Rate Sensitivity Derivative And Other Financial Instruments as of December 31, 2001 Asset 2002 Total Fair Value (in thousands except interest rates) Foreign Exchange Rate Hedge Derivatives: Notional amount of foreign currency forward contracts.................... $ 24,752 $ 24,752 $ 61 Fixed Canadian to U.S. dollar rate paid.............................. .6266 Average forward Canadian dollar to U.S. dollar exchange rate as of February 28, 2002......... .6250 Commodity price sensitivity. The following tables provide information, in U.S. dollar equivalent amounts, about derivative financial instruments that the Company was a party to as of December 31, 2001 and 2000 and that are sensitive to changes in oil and gas prices. The tables segregate hedge derivative contracts from those that do not qualify as hedges. Commodity hedge instruments. The Company hedges commodity price risk with swap and collar contracts. Swap contracts provide a fixed price for a notional amount of sales volumes. Collar contracts provide minimum ("floor") and maximum ("ceiling") prices for the Company on a notional amount of sales volumes, thereby allowing some price participation if the relevant index price closes above the floor price. Commodity non hedge instruments. The Company is a party to Btu swap contracts. These contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting. Under the terms of the Btu swap contracts, the Company receives 10 percent of the NYMEX oil price and pays the NYMEX gas price on a notional 13,036 MMBtu daily gas volume. During 2000, the Company entered into Btu swap contracts that offset its variable position in the Btu swap contracts for the 2001 volumes, but continued to participate for 2002 through 2004 volumes. Accordingly, these derivative instruments are presented in both the accompanying oil and gas tables for the year ended December 31, 2000. During 2001, the Company entered into Btu swap contracts that offset its remaining variable positions in the Btu swap contracts for 2002 through 2004 volumes. Consequently, the Company has no remaining market risk associated with Btu swap contracts as of December 31, 2001. As of December 31, 2001, the carrying value of the Btu swap contracts represented a discounted liability of $19.4 million. See Notes B, C and H of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for a description of the accounting procedures followed by the Company relative to hedge and non hedge derivative financial instruments and for specific information regarding the terms of the Companys derivative financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in oil and gas prices. 39 Oil Price Sensitivity Derivative Financial Instruments as of December 31, 2001 (3) Asset 2002 2003 Fair Value Oil Hedge Derivatives (1): Average daily notional Bbl volumes: Swap contracts.................................. 9,463 2,975 $ 23,423 Weighted average per Bbl fixed price........... $ 26.23 $ 24.02 Collar contracts................................ 2,975 $ 5,506 Weighted average short call per Bbl ceiling price................................ $ 28.61 Weighted average long put per Bbl floor price.................................. $ 25.00 Average forward NYMEX oil prices (2).............. $ 21.86 $ 21.54 (1) See Note H of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for hedge volumes and weighted average prices by calendar quarter for 2002 and 2003. (2) The average forward NYMEX oil prices are based on February 28, 2002 market quotes. (3) During January 2002, the Company entered into 4,000 Bbls per day of July through December 2002 swap contracts with average per Bbl fixed prices of $21.55. These financial instruments are not included in the table. Oil Price Sensitivity Derivative Financial Instruments as of December 31, 2000 Asset (Liability) 2001 2002 2003 2004 Fair Value Oil Hedge Derivatives: Average daily notional Bbl volumes: Swap contracts.................................. 6,510 $ 8,819 Weighted average per Bbl fixed price........... $ 29.27 Collar contracts................................ 4,479 $ (1,820) Weighted average short call per Bbl ceiling price................................ $ 25.15 Weighted average long put per Bbl floor price.................................. $ 20.57 Oil Non hedge Derivatives (1): Daily notional MMBtu volumes under swap of NYMEX gas price for 10 percent of NYMEX WTI price................................ 13,036 13,036 13,036 13,036 $ (25,507) Average forward NYMEX gas prices (2)........... $ 4.05 $ 4.61 $ 4.29 $ 4.35 Average forward NYMEX oil prices (2)........... $ 27.69 $ 24.15 $ 22.21 $ 21.54 (1) Since the oil non hedge derivatives were sensitive to changes in both oil and gas market prices, they are duplicated in the Oil Price Sensitivity and the Natural Gas Price Sensitivity tables as of December 31, 2000. (2) The average forward NYMEX oil and gas prices are based on February 20, 2001 market quotes, except for the 2001 prices that represent locked in prices associated with the Companys Btu swaps. 40 Natural Gas Price Sensitivity Derivative Financial Instruments as of December 31, 2001 (4) Asset 2002 2003 2004 2005 Fair Value Natural Gas Hedge Derivatives (1) (2): Average daily notional MMBtu volumes: Swap contracts.................................. 165,205 117,500 165,000 50,000 $ 137,606 Weighted average per MMBtu fixed price......... $ 4.19 $ 3.62 $ 3.84 $ 3.63 Collar contracts................................ 20,000 $ 14,019 Weighted average short call per MMBtu ceiling price............................... $ 6.00 Weighted average long put per MMBtu floor price................................. $ 4.50 Average forward NYMEX gas prices (3).............. $ 2.68 $ 3.21 $ 3.42 $ 3.52 (1) To minimize basis risk, the Company enters into basis swaps for a portion of its gas hedges to convert the index price of the hedging instrument from a NYMEX index to an index which reflects the geographic area of production. The Company considers these basis swaps as part of the associated swap and option contracts and, accordingly, the effects of the basis swaps have been presented together with the associated contracts. (2) See Note H of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for hedge volumes and weighted average prices by calendar quarter for 2002, 2003, 2004 and 2005. (3) The average forward NYMEX gas prices are based on February 28, 2002 market quotes. (4) During January and February 2002, the Company terminated 2003, 2004 and 2005 gas swap contracts for 117,500 MMBtu per day, 110,000 MMBtu per day and 20,000 MMBtu per day, respectively. Associated therewith, the Company received $51.4 million of cash proceeds representing deferred hedge gains. These deferred hedge gains will be recorded as increments to gas revenues as follows: $23.5 million during 2003, $26.7 million in 2004 and $1.2 million in 2005. During February 2002, the Company entered into 50,000 MMBtu per day of April through December 2002 costless collar contracts having floor prices of $2.40 per MMBtu and ceiling prices of $3.08 per MMBtu and 50,000 MMBtu per day of August through December 2002 costless collars having floor prices of $2.50 per Mcf and ceiling prices of $3.25 per MMBtu. These changes in financial instruments are not reflected in the table. Natural Gas Price Sensitivity Derivative Financial Instruments as of December 31, 2000 Asset (Liability) 2001 2002 2003 2004 Fair Value Natural Gas Hedge Derivatives (1): Average daily notional MMBtu volumes: Swap contracts.................................. 76,346 $ (79,771) Weighted average per MMBtu fixed price......... $ 4.59 Collar contracts................................ 54,482 $ (67,281) Weighted average short call per MMBtu ceiling price............................... $ 2.73 Weighted average long put per MMBtu contingent floor price...................... $ 2.11 Natural Gas Non hedge Derivatives (2): Daily notional MMBtu volumes under agreement to swap NYMEX gas price for 10 percent of NYMEX WTI price............... 13,036 13,036 13,036 13,036 $ (25,507) Average forward NYMEX gas prices (3)........... $ 4.05 $ 4.61 $ 4.29 $ 4.35 Average forward NYMEX oil prices (3)........... $ 27.69 $ 24.15 $ 22.21 $ 21.54 (1) To minimize basis risk, the Company enters into basis swaps for a portion of its gas hedges to convert the index price of the hedging instrument from a NYMEX index to an index which reflects the geographic area of production. The Company considers these basis swaps as part of the associated swap and option contracts and, accordingly, the effects of the basis swaps have been presented together with the associated contracts. (2) Since the oil non hedge derivatives were sensitive to changes in both oil and gas market prices, they are duplicated in the Oil Price Sensitivity and the Natural Gas Price Sensitivity tables as of December 31, 2000. (3) The average forward NYMEX oil and gas prices are based on February 20, 2001 market quotes, except for the 2001 prices that represent locked in prices associated with the Companys Btu swaps. 41 Other price sensitivity. As of December 31, 2000, the Company owned 613,215 shares of a non affiliated entity having an aggregate fair value of $12.7 million. During 2001, the Company sold its shares for $12.7 million (see Notes C, E and K of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for more information regarding the shares sold). Qualitative Disclosures Non derivative financial instruments. The Company is a borrower under fixed rate and variable rate debt instruments that give rise to interest rate risk. The Companys objective in borrowing under fixed or variable rate debt is to satisfy capital requirements while minimizing the Companys costs of capital. To realize its objectives, the Company borrows under fixed and variable rate debt instruments, based on the availability of capital, market conditions and hedge opportunities. See Note D of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" for a discussion relative to the Companys debt instruments. As described in "Other price sensitivity" above, the Company owned 613,215 shares of a non affiliated entity. The Company does not routinely acquire shares of common stock of publicly traded entities for investment purposes. The shares were received by the Company in partial consideration for assets sold to the non affiliated entity. Derivative financial instruments. The Company has entered into interest rate, foreign exchange rate and commodity price derivative contracts to hedge interest rate, foreign exchange rate and commodity price risks. Although the Company is a party to certain derivative contracts that do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment, the Companys policy is to limit its participation in derivative contracts to those that, in the opinion of management, reduce the Companys overall economic risk. As of December 31, 2001 and 2000, the Company was a party to the Btu swap contracts that are described more fully in Quantitative Disclosures, above, and Note H of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data". These financial instruments do not qualify as hedges of commodity price risk under generally accepted accounting standards. As of December 31, 2001, the Companys primary risk exposures associated with financial instruments to which it is a party include oil and gas price volatility, volatility in the exchange rates of the Canadian dollar and Argentine peso against the U.S. dollar and interest rate volatility. The Companys primary risk exposures associated with financial instruments have not changed significantly since December 31, 2001. 42 
 
