Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk for a description of various factors that could materially affect the ability of Pioneer to achieve the anticipated results described in the forward looking statements. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof. The Company undertakes no duty to publicly update these statements except as required by law. 4 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business General Pioneer is a Delaware corporation whose common stock is listed and traded on the NYSE. The Company is a large independent oil and gas exploration and production company with current operations in the United States, South Africa and Tunisia. Pioneer is a holding company whose assets consist of direct and indirect ownership interests in, and whose business is conducted substantially through, its subsidiaries. The Companys executive offices are located at 5205 N. OConnor Blvd., Suite 200, Irving, Texas 75039. The Companys telephone number is (972) 444 9001. The Company maintains other offices in Anchorage, Alaska; Denver, Colorado; Midland, Texas; London, England; Capetown, South Africa and Tunis, Tunisia. At December 31, 2009, the Company had 1,888 employees, 1,151 of whom were employed in field and plant operations. Available Information Pioneer files or furnishes annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other documents with the SEC under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act). The public may read and copy any materials that Pioneer files with the SEC at the SECs Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1 800 SEC 0330. Also, the SEC maintains an Internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including Pioneer, that file electronically with the SEC. The public can obtain any documents that Pioneer files with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov. The Company also makes available free of charge through its internet website (www.pxd.com) its Annual Report on Form 10 K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10 Q, Current Reports on Form 8 K and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after it electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the SEC. Mission and Strategies The Companys mission is to enhance shareholder investment returns through strategies that maximize Pioneers long term profitability, net asset value and net asset value per share. The strategies employed to achieve this mission are predicated on maintaining financial flexibility and capital allocation discipline while enhancing net asset value per share through accretive drilling programs, acquisitions, debt reduction, dividend distributions and share repurchases. These strategies are anchored by the Companys long lived Spraberry oil field and Hugoton, Raton and West Panhandle gas fields, which have an estimated remaining productive life in excess of 40 years. Underlying these fields are approximately 88 percent of the Companys proved oil and gas reserves as of December 31, 2009. Business Activities The Company is an independent oil and gas exploration and production company. Pioneers purpose is to competitively and profitably explore for, develop and produce oil and gas reserves. In so doing, the Company sells homogenous oil, NGL and gas units that, except for geographic and relatively minor quality differences, cannot be significantly differentiated from units offered for sale by the Companys competitors. Competitive advantage is gained in the oil and gas exploration and development industry by employing well trained experienced personnel who make prudent capital investment decisions, embrace technological innovation and are focused on price and cost management. Petroleum industry. Beginning in the second half of 2008 and continuing throughout 2009, the United States and other industrialized countries experienced a significant economic slowdown, which led to a substantial decline in worldwide energy demand. During this same time period, North American gas supply increased as a result of the rise in domestic unconventional gas production. The combination of lower energy demand due to the economic slowdown and higher North American gas supply resulted in significant declines in oil, NGL and gas prices. While oil and NGL prices started to steadily improve beginning in the second quarter of 2009, gas prices remained volatile throughout 2009 due to high storage levels and increasing gas supply. The outlook for a worldwide economic recovery in 2010 remains uncertain and, therefore, the timing of a recovery in worldwide demand for energy is difficult to predict. As a result, it is likely that commodity prices during 2010 will continue to be volatile. 5 Table of Contents For the several years preceding the 2008 economic slowdown, the petroleum industry had generally been characterized by volatile but upward trending oil, NGL and gas commodity prices. During that period, world oil prices increased in response to increases in demand from developing economies and the perceived threat of supply disruptions in the Middle East, Nigeria, Venezuela and other areas. In 2007 and the first half of 2008, oil prices increased due to supply uncertainty surrounding Middle East conflicts and increasing world demand for both oil and refined products. A significant increase in refinery outages led to tightness in products markets, which was responsible for oil price strength throughout much of 2007 and the early part of 2008. North American gas prices increased during the first half of 2008 as a result of reduced inventory levels and a perceived shortage of North American gas supply and an anticipation that the United States would become a larger importer of LNG, which was selling at a substantial premium to United States gas prices in the world market. However, by mid year 2008 it became increasingly apparent that the capital investment in gas drilling and discoveries of significant gas reserves in United States shale plays would be more than sufficient to meet the Unites States demand. Coupled with the economic slowdown experienced in the second half of 2008, the increased supply of gas resulted in a sharp decline in North American gas prices. Significant factors that the Company expects to impact 2010 commodity prices include: the effect of economic stimulus initiatives being implemented in the United States and worldwide in response to the worldwide economic slowdown; developments in the issues affecting the Middle East in general; demand of Asian and European markets; the extent to which members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and other oil exporting nations are able to manage oil supply through export quotas; and overall North American gas supply and demand fundamentals. To mitigate the impact of commodity price volatility on the Companys net cash provided by operating activities and its net asset value, Pioneer utilizes commodity derivative contracts. Although the Company has entered into derivative contracts on a large portion of its forecasted production through 2012, a sustained lower commodity price environment would result in lower realized prices for unprotected volumes and reduce the prices at which the Company could enter into derivative contracts on additional volumes in the future. As a result, the Companys internally generated cash flows would be reduced for affected periods. Significant or extended price declines could also adversely affect the amount of oil, NGL and gas that the Company can produce economically. The duration, timing and magnitude of any period of lower commodity prices cannot be predicted. A sustained decline in commodity prices could result in a shortfall in expected cash flows, which could negatively affect the Companys liquidity, financial position and future results of operations. See Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk and Note J of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for information regarding the effect on oil, NGL and gas revenues during 2009, 2008 and 2007 from the Companys derivative price risk management activities and the Companys open derivative positions at December 31, 2009. The Company. The Companys asset base is anchored by the Spraberry oil field located in West Texas, the Raton gas field located in southern Colorado, the Hugoton gas field located in southwest Kansas and the West Panhandle gas field located in the Texas Panhandle. Complementing these areas, the Company has exploration and development opportunities and or oil and gas production activities in the Eagle Ford and Edwards Trend areas of South Texas, the Barnett Shale area of North Texas and Alaska, and internationally in South Africa and Tunisia. Combined, these assets create a portfolio of resources and opportunities that are well balanced among oil, NGLs and gas, and that are also well balanced among long lived, dependable production, lower risk exploration and development opportunities and a limited number of higher impact exploration opportunities. Additionally, the Company has a team of dedicated employees that represent the professional disciplines and sciences that will allow Pioneer to maximize the long term profitability and net asset value inherent in its physical assets. The Company provides administrative, financial, legal and management support to United States and foreign subsidiaries that explore for, develop and produce proved reserves. Production operations are principally located domestically in Texas, Kansas, Colorado and Alaska, and internationally in South Africa and Tunisia. Production. The Company focuses its efforts towards maximizing its average daily production of oil, NGLs and gas through development drilling, production enhancement activities and acquisitions of producing properties, while minimizing the controllable costs associated with the production activities. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the Companys average daily production, on a BOE basis, increased three percent as compared to 2008 as a 6 Table of Contents result of a full year of production from the successful development drilling programs in the Spraberry field during 2008, the addition of the Sable gas well during the fourth quarter of 2008 to production from the South Coast gas project in South Africa, development activities in Tunisia and a seven percent decrease in scheduled deliveries of VPP volumes. Production, price and cost information with respect to the Companys properties for 2009, 2008 and 2007 is set forth under Item 2. Properties Selected Oil and Gas Information Production, Price and Cost Data. Development activities. The Company seeks to increase its oil and gas reserves, production and cash flow through development drilling and by conducting other production enhancement activities, such as well recompletions. During the three years ended December 31, 2009, the Company drilled 1,203 gross (1,154 net) development wells, 99 percent of which were successfully completed as productive wells, at a total drilling cost (net to the Companys interest) of $2.4 billion. The Company believes that its current property base provides a substantial inventory of prospects for future reserve, production and cash flow growth. The Companys proved reserves as of December 31, 2009 include proved undeveloped reserves and proved developed reserves that are behind pipe of 186 MMBbls of oil, 66 MMBbls of NGLs and 870 Bcf of gas. The Company believes that its current portfolio of proved reserves provides attractive development opportunities for at least the next five years. The timing of the development of these reserves will be dependent upon commodity prices, drilling and operating costs and the Companys expected operating cash flows and financial condition. Exploratory activities. The Company has devoted significant efforts and resources to hiring and developing a highly skilled geoscience staff as well as acquiring a portfolio of lower risk exploration opportunities complemented by a limited number of higher impact exploration opportunities. Exploratory and extension drilling involve greater risks of dry holes or failure to find commercial quantities of hydrocarbons than development drilling or enhanced recovery activities. See Item 1A. Risk Factors Exploration and development drilling may not result in commercially productive reserves below. Acquisition activities. The Company regularly seeks to acquire properties that complement its operations, provide exploration and development opportunities and potentially provide superior returns on investment. In addition, the Company pursues strategic acquisitions that will allow the Company to expand into new geographical areas that feature producing properties and provide exploration/exploitation opportunities. During 2009, 2008 and 2007, the Company invested $88.9 million, $137.6 million and $536.7 million, respectively, of acquisition capital to purchase proved oil and gas properties, including additional interests in its existing assets, and to acquire new prospects for future exploitation and exploration activities. See Note C of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for a description of the Companys acquisitions of proved oil and gas properties during 2009, 2008 and 2007. The Company periodically evaluates and pursues acquisition opportunities (including opportunities to acquire particular oil and gas assets or entities owning oil and gas assets and opportunities to engage in mergers, consolidations or other business combinations with such entities) and at any given time may be in various stages of evaluating such opportunities. Such stages may take the form of internal financial analyses, oil and gas reserve analyses, due diligence, the submission of indications of interest, preliminary negotiations, negotiation of letters of intent or negotiation of definitive agreements. The success of any acquisition is uncertain and depends on a number of factors, some of which are outside the Companys control. See Item 1A. Risk Factors The Company may be unable to make attractive acquisitions, and any acquisition it completes is subject to substantial risks that could adversely affect its business. Asset divestitures. The Company regularly reviews its asset base for the purpose of identifying nonstrategic assets, the disposition of which would increase capital resources available for other activities and create organizational and operational efficiencies. While the Company generally does not dispose of assets solely for the purpose of reducing debt, such dispositions can have the result of furthering the Companys objective of increasing financial flexibility through reduced debt levels. See Notes N and V of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for specific information regarding the Companys asset divestitures and discontinued operations during 2009, 2008 and 2007. The Company anticipates that it will continue to sell nonstrategic properties or other assets from time to time to increase capital resources available for other activities, to achieve operating and administrative efficiencies and to improve profitability. 7 Table of Contents Operations by Geographic Area The Company operates in one industry segment, that being oil and gas exploration and production, in three geographic areas. See Note R of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for geographic operating segment information, including results of operations and segment assets. Marketing of Production General. Production from the Companys properties is marketed using methods that are consistent with industry practices. Sales prices for oil, NGL and gas production are negotiated based on factors normally considered in the industry, such as the index or spot prices, price regulations, distance from the well to the pipeline, commodity quality and prevailing supply and demand conditions. See Qualitative Disclosures in Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk for additional discussion of operations and price risk. Significant purchasers. During 2009, the Companys significant purchasers of oil, NGLs and gas were Plains Marketing LP (10 percent), ConocoPhillips (9 percent), Occidental Energy Marketing, Inc. (7 percent), Enterprise Products Partners L.P. (6 percent) and Oneok Resources (5 percent). The Company believes that the loss of any one purchaser would not have a material adverse effect on its ability to sell its oil, NGL and gas production. Derivative risk management activities. The Company from time to time utilizes commodity swap and collar contracts in order to (i) reduce the effect of price volatility on the commodities the Company produces and sells, (ii) support the Companys annual capital budgeting and expenditure plans and (iii) reduce commodity price risk associated with certain capital projects. As of January 31, 2009, the Company discontinued hedge accounting and began accounting for its derivative contracts using the mark to market (MTM) method of accounting. See Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for a description of the Companys derivative risk management activities, Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk and Note J of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for information about the impact of commodity derivative activities on oil, NGL and gas revenues and net derivative losses during 2009, 2008 and 2007, as well as the Companys open and terminated commodity derivative positions at December 31, 2009. Competition, Markets and Regulations Competition. The oil and gas industry is highly competitive. A large number of companies, including major integrated and other independent companies, and individuals engage in the exploration for and development of oil and gas properties, and there is a high degree of competition for oil and gas properties suitable for development or exploration. Acquisitions of oil and gas properties have been an important element of the Companys growth. The Company intends to continue to acquire oil and gas properties that complement its operations, provide exploration and development opportunities and potentially provide superior returns on investment. The principal competitive factors in the acquisition of oil and gas properties include the staff and data necessary to identify, evaluate and acquire such properties and the financial resources necessary to acquire and develop the properties. Many of the Companys competitors are substantially larger and have financial and other resources greater than those of the Company. Markets. The Companys ability to produce and market oil, NGLs and gas profitably depends on numerous factors beyond the Companys control. The effect of these factors cannot be accurately predicted or anticipated. Although the Company cannot predict the occurrence of events that may affect these commodity prices or the degree to which these prices will be affected, the prices for any commodity that the Company produces will generally approximate current market prices in the geographic region of the production. Securities regulations. Enterprises that sell securities in public markets are subject to regulatory oversight by agencies such as the SEC and the NYSE. This regulatory oversight imposes on the Company the responsibility for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting, and ensuring that the financial statements and other information included in submissions to the SEC do not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made in such submissions not misleading. Failure to comply with the rules and regulations of the SEC could subject the Company to litigation from public or private plaintiffs. Failure to comply with the rules of the NYSE could result in the de listing of the Companys common stock, which could have an adverse effect on the market price of the Companys commons stock. Compliance with some of these rules and regulations is costly, and regulations are subject to change or reinterpretation. 8 Table of Contents Environmental matters and regulations. The Companys operations are subject to stringent and complex foreign, federal, state and local laws and regulations governing environmental protection as well as the discharge of materials into the environment. These laws and regulations may, among other things: require the acquisition of various permits before drilling commences; enjoin some or all of the operations of facilities deemed in non compliance with permits; restrict the types, quantities and concentration of various substances that can be released into the environment in connection with oil and gas drilling, production and transportation activities; limit or prohibit drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas; and require remedial measures to mitigate pollution from former and ongoing operations, such as requirements to close pits and plug abandoned wells. These laws, rules and regulations may also restrict the rate of oil and gas production below the rate that would otherwise be possible. The regulatory burden on the oil and gas industry increases the cost of doing business in the industry and consequently affects profitability. Additionally, the United States Congress and state legislatures, federal and state regulatory agencies and foreign government and agencies frequently revise environmental laws and regulations, and the clear trend in environmental regulation is to place more restrictions and limitations on activities that may affect the environment. Any changes that result in more stringent and costly waste handling, disposal and cleanup requirements for the oil and gas industry could have a significant impact on the Companys operating costs. The following is a summary of some of the existing laws, rules and regulations to which the Companys business operations are subject. Waste handling. The Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) and comparable state statutes regulate the generation, transportation, treatment, storage, disposal and cleanup of hazardous and non hazardous wastes. Under the auspices of the federal Environmental Protection Agency (the EPA), the individual states administer some or all of the provisions of RCRA, sometimes in conjunction with their own, more stringent requirements. Drilling fluids, produced waters and most of the other wastes associated with the exploration, development and production of oil or gas are currently regulated under RCRAs non hazardous waste provisions. It is possible that certain oil and gas exploration and production wastes now classified as non hazardous could be classified as hazardous wastes in the future. Any such change could result in an increase in the Companys costs to manage and dispose of wastes, which could have a material adverse effect on the Companys results of operations and financial position. Also, in the course of the Companys operations, it generates some amounts of ordinary industrial wastes, such as paint wastes, waste solvents and waste oils that may be regulated as hazardous wastes. Wastes containing naturally occurring radioactive materials (NORM) may also be generated in connection with the Companys operations. Certain processes used to produce oil and gas may enhance the radioactivity of NORM, which may be present in oilfield wastes. NORM is subject primarily to individual state radiation control regulations. In addition, NORM handling and management activities are governed by regulations promulgated by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA). These state and OSHA regulations impose certain requirements concerning worker protection; the treatment, storage and disposal of NORM waste; the management of waste piles, containers and tanks containing NORM; as well as restrictions on the uses of land with NORM contamination. Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act. The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA), also known as the Superfund law, imposes joint and several liability, without regard to fault or legality of conduct, on classes of persons who are considered to be responsible for the release of a hazardous substance into the environment. These persons include the current and past owner or operator of the site where the release occurred, and anyone who disposed or arranged for the disposal of a hazardous substance released at the site. Under CERCLA, such persons may be subject to joint and several liability for the costs of cleaning up the hazardous substances that have been released into the environment, for damages to natural resources and for the costs of certain health studies. In addition, it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the hazardous substances released into the environment. The Company currently owns or leases numerous properties that have been used for oil and gas exploration and production for many years. Although the Company believes it has used operating and waste disposal practices that were standard in the industry at the time, hazardous substances, wastes or hydrocarbons may have been released 9 Table of Contents on or under the properties owned or leased by the Company, or on or under other locations, including off site locations, where such substances have been taken for disposal. In addition, some of the Companys properties have been operated by third parties or by previous owners or operators whose treatment and disposal of hazardous substances, wastes or hydrocarbons were not under the Companys control. In fact, there is evidence that petroleum spills or releases have occurred in the past at some of the properties owned or leased by the Company. These properties and the substances disposed or released on them may be subject to CERCLA, RCRA and analogous state laws. Under such laws, the Company could be required to remove previously disposed substances and wastes, remediate contaminated property or perform remedial plugging or pit closure operations to prevent future contamination. Water discharges and use. The Clean Water Act (the CWA) and analogous state laws impose restrictions and strict controls with respect to the discharge of pollutants, including spills and leaks of oil and other substances, into waters of the United States. The discharge of pollutants into regulated waters is prohibited, except in accordance with the terms of a permit issued by EPA or an analogous state agency. The CWA and regulations implemented thereunder also prohibit the discharge of dredge and fill material into regulated waters, including wetlands, unless authorized by an appropriately issued permit. Spill prevention, control and countermeasure requirements of federal laws require appropriate containment berms and similar structures to help prevent the contamination of navigable waters by a petroleum hydrocarbon tank spill, rupture or leak. Federal and state regulatory agencies can impose administrative, civil and criminal penalties for non compliance with discharge permits or other requirements of the CWA and analogous state laws and regulations. The primary federal law imposing liability for oil spills is the Oil Pollution Act (OPA), which sets minimum standards for prevention, containment and cleanup of oil spills. OPA applies to vessels, offshore facilities and onshore facilities, including exploration and production facilities that may affect waters of the United States. Under OPA, responsible parties, including owners and operators of onshore facilities, may be subject to oil spill cleanup costs and natural resource damages as well as a variety of public and private damages that may result from oil spills. Operations associated with the Companys properties also produce wastewaters that are disposed via injection in underground wells. These injection wells are regulated by the Safe Drinking Water Act (the SDWA) and analogous state and local laws. The underground injection well program under the SDWA requires permits from the EPA or analogous state agency for the Companys disposal wells, establishes minimum standards for injection well operations, and restricts the types and quantities of fluids that may be injected. Currently, the Company believes that disposal well operations on the Companys properties comply with all applicable requirements under the SDWA. However, a change in the regulations or the inability to obtain permits for new injection wells in the future may affect the Companys ability to dispose of produced waters and ultimately increase the cost of the Companys operations. In addition, the United States Congress is considering amending the SDWA to require additional regulation of chemicals used by the oil and gas industry in the hydraulic fracturing process, and some states are considering similar regulations. The water produced by the Companys CBM operations also may be subject to the laws of various states and regulatory bodies regarding the ownership and use of water. For example, in connection with the Companys CBM operations in the Raton Basin in Colorado, water is removed from coal seams to reduce pressure and allow the methane to be recovered. Historically, these operations have been regulated by the state agency responsible for regulating oil and gas activity in the state. In a recent case brought by the owners of ranch land involving a CBM competitor in a different CBM basin in Colorado, the Colorado Supreme Court held that water produced in connection with the CBM operations should be subject to state water use regulations administered by a different agency that regulates other uses of water in the state, including requirements to obtain permits for diversion and use of surface and subsurface water, an evaluation of potential competing uses of the water, and a possible requirement to provide mitigation water for other water users. The Companys CBM or other oil and gas operations and the Companys ability to expand its operations could be adversely affected, and these changes in regulation could ultimately increase the Companys cost of doing business. Air emissions. The Federal Clean Air Act (the CAA) and comparable state laws regulate emissions of various air pollutants through air emissions permitting programs and the imposition of other requirements. Such laws and regulations may require a facility to obtain pre approval for the construction or modification of certain projects or facilities expected to produce air emissions or result in the increase of existing air emissions; obtain or strictly comply with air permits containing various emissions and operational limitations; or utilize specific emission control technologies to limit emissions of certain air pollutants. In addition, the EPA has developed, and continues to 10 Table of Contents develop, stringent regulations governing emissions of toxic air pollutants at specified sources. Moreover, states can impose air emissions limitations that are more stringent than the federal standards imposed by the EPA. Federal and state regulatory agencies can also impose administrative, civil and criminal penalties for non compliance with air permits or other requirements of the federal CAA and associated state laws and regulations. Permits and related compliance obligations under the CAA, as well as changes to state implementation plans for controlling air emissions in regional non attainment areas, may require the Company to incur future capital expenditures in connection with the addition or modification of existing air emission control equipment and strategies for gas and oil exploration and production operations. In addition, some gas and oil production facilities may be included within the categories of hazardous air pollutant sources, which are subject to increasing regulation under the CAA. Failure to comply with these requirements could subject a regulated entity to monetary penalties, injunctions, conditions or restrictions on operations and enforcement actions. Gas and oil exploration and production facilities may be required to incur certain capital expenditures in the future for air pollution control equipment in connection with obtaining and maintaining operating permits and approvals for air emissions. The Texas Commission on Environmental Quality (the TCEQ) recently concluded an analysis of air emissions of third party operators in the Barnett Shale area in response to reported concerns about high concentrations of benzene in the air near drilling sites and gas processing facilities. The TCEQs investigation revealed elevated levels of benzene and other emissions at certain locations. The agency has announced that it will continue monitoring emissions and will investigate all complaints about oil and gas activities in the Barnett Shale area within 12 hours of receipt. The agencys investigations could lead to more stringent air permitting, increased regulation and possible enforcement actions against producers, including Pioneer, in the Barnett Shale area. In addition, environmental groups have advocated for increased regulation in the Barnett Shale area, and at least one state representative has advocated a moratorium on the issuance of drilling permits for new gas wells in the area. Any adoption of laws, regulations, orders or other legally enforceable mandates governing gas drilling and operating activities in the Barnett Shale that result in more stringent drilling or operating conditions or limit or prohibit the drilling of new gas wells for any extended period of time could increase the Companys costs and or reduce its production, which could have a material adverse effect on the Companys results of operations and cash flows. Health and safety. The Companys operations are subject to the requirements of the federal Occupational Safety and Health Act (the OSH Act) and comparable state statutes. These laws and the related regulations strictly govern the protection of the health and safety of employees. The OSH Act hazard communication standard, EPA community right to know regulations under Title III of CERCLA and similar state statues require that the Company organize or disclose information about hazardous materials used or produced in the Companys operations. The Company believes that it is in substantial compliance with these applicable requirements and with other OSH Act and comparable requirements. Global warming and climate change. On December 15, 2009, the EPA officially published its findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases, or GHGs, present an endangerment to human health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to warming of the Earths atmosphere and other climatic changes. These findings by the EPA allow the agency to proceed with the adoption and implementation of regulations that would restrict emissions of GHGs under existing provisions of the CAA. In late September 2009, the EPA had proposed two sets of regulations in anticipation of finalizing its findings that would require a reduction in emissions of GHGs from motor vehicles and that could also lead to the imposition of GHG emission limitations in CAA permits for certain stationary sources. In addition, on September 22, 2009, the EPA issued a final rule requiring the reporting of GHG emissions from specified large GHG emission sources in the United States beginning in 2011 for emissions occurring in 2010. The adoption and implementation of any regulations imposing reporting obligations on, or limiting emissions of GHGs from, the Companys equipment and operations could require the Company to incur costs to reduce emissions of GHGs associated with the Companys operations or could adversely affect demand for the oil, NGL and gas that the Company produces. Also, on June 26, 2009, the U.S. House of Representatives approved adoption of the American Clean Energy and Security Act of 2009 (ACESA), which is also known as the Waxman Markey cap and trade legislation. The purpose of ACESA is to control and reduce emissions of greenhouse gases in the United States. ACESA would establish an economy wide cap on emissions of GHGs in the United States and would require an overall reduction in GHG emissions of 17% (from 2005 levels) by 2020, and by over 80% by 2050. Under ACESA, most sources of GHG emissions would be required to obtain GHG emission allowances corresponding to their annual emissions of GHGs. The number of emission allowances issued each year would decline as necessary to meet ACESAs overall emission reduction goals. As the number of GHG emission allowances permitted by ACESA declines each year, the 11 Table of Contents cost or value of allowances would be expected to escalate significantly. The net effect of ACESA would be to impose increasing costs on the combustion of carbon based fuels such as oil, refined petroleum products and gas. The U.S. Senate has begun work on its own legislation for controlling and reducing emissions of GHGs in the United States. If the Senate adopts GHG legislation that is different from ACESA, the Senate legislation would need to be reconciled with ACESA and both chambers would be required to approve identical legislation before it could become law. In addition, more than one third of the states, either individually or through multi state regional initiatives, already have begun implementing legal measures to reduce emissions of GHGs, primarily through the planned development of emission inventories or regional greenhouse gas cap and trade programs. Finally, other nations have been seeking to reduce emissions of GHGs pursuant to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, also known as the Kyoto Protocol, an international treaty pursuant to which participating countries (not including the United States) have agreed to reduce their emissions of GHGs to below 1990 levels by 2012. Depending on the particular jurisdiction in which the Companys operations are located, it could be required to purchase and surrender allowances for GHG emissions resulting from the Companys operations. The Company believes it is in substantial compliance with all existing environmental laws and regulations applicable to the Companys current operations and that its continued compliance with existing requirements will not have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial condition and results of operations. For instance, the Company did not incur any material capital expenditures for remediation or pollution control activities for the year ended December 31, 2009. Additionally, the Company is not aware of any environmental issues or claims that will require material capital expenditures during 2010. However, accidental spills or releases may occur in the course of the Companys operations, and the Company cannot give any assurance that it will not incur substantial costs and liabilities as a result of such spills or releases, including those relating to claims for damage to property and persons. Moreover, the Company cannot give any assurance that the passage of more stringent laws or regulations in the future will not have a negative effect on the Companys business, financial condition and results of operations. Other regulation of the oil and gas industry. The oil and gas industry is regulated by numerous foreign, federal, state and local authorities. Legislation affecting the oil and gas industry is under constant review for amendment or expansion, frequently increasing the regulatory burden. Also, numerous departments and agencies, foreign, federal and state, are authorized by statute to issue rules and regulations binding on the oil and gas industry and its individual members, some of which carry substantial penalties for failure to comply. Although the regulatory burden on the oil and gas industry may increase the Companys cost of doing business by increasing the cost of transporting its production to market, these burdens generally do not affect the Company any differently or to any greater or lesser extent than they affect other companies in the industry with similar types, quantities and locations of production. For example, the Companys properties located in Colorado are subject to the authority of the Colorado Oil & Gas Conservation Commission (the COGCC). The COGCC has recently promulgated new rules that are likely to increase the Companys costs of permitting and environmental compliance, and to extend waiting periods for the acquisition of permits. Development and production. Development and production operations are subject to various types of regulation at foreign, federal, state and local levels. These types of regulation include requiring permits for the drilling of wells, the posting of bonds in connection with various types of activities and filing reports concerning operations. Most states, and some counties and municipalities, in which the Company operates also regulate one or more of the following: the location of wells; the method of drilling and casing wells; the surface use and restoration of properties upon which wells are drilled; the plugging and abandoning of wells; and notice to surface owners and other third parties. State laws regulate the size and shape of drilling and spacing units or proration units governing the pooling of oil and gas properties. Some states allow forced pooling or integration of tracts to facilitate exploration while other states rely on voluntary pooling of lands and leases. In some instances, forced pooling or unitization may be implemented by third parties and may reduce the Companys interest in the unitized properties. In addition, state conservation laws establish maximum rates of production from oil and gas wells, generally prohibit the venting or flaring of gas and impose requirements regarding the ratability of production. These laws and regulations may limit the amount of oil and gas the Company can produce from the Companys wells or limit the number of wells or the 12 Table of Contents locations at which the Company can drill. Moreover, each state generally imposes a production or severance tax with respect to the production and sale of oil, NGL and gas within its jurisdiction. States do not regulate wellhead prices or engage in other similar direct regulation, but there can be no assurance that they will not do so in the future. The effect of such future regulations may be to limit the amounts of oil and gas that may be produced from the Companys wells, negatively affect the economics of production from these wells, or to limit the number of locations the Company can drill. Regulation of transportation and sale of gas. The availability, terms and cost of transportation significantly affect sales of gas. Foreign, federal and state regulations govern the price and terms for access to gas pipeline transportation. The interstate transportation and sale for resale of gas is subject to federal regulation, including regulation of the terms, conditions and rates for interstate transportation, storage and various other matters, primarily by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). The FERCs regulations for interstate gas transmission in some circumstances may also affect the intrastate transportation of gas. As a result of initiatives like FERC Order No. 636 (Order 636), issued in April 1992, the interstate gas transportation and marketing system has been substantially restructured to remove various barriers and practices that historically limited non pipeline gas sellers, including producers, from effectively competing with interstate pipelines for sales to local distribution companies and large industrial and commercial customers. The most significant provisions of Order 636 require that interstate pipelines provide firm and interruptible transportation service on an open access basis that is equal for all gas supplies. In many instances, the results of Order 636 and related initiatives have been to substantially reduce or eliminate the interstate pipelines traditional role as wholesalers of gas in favor of providing only storage and transportation services. In August 2005, Congress enacted the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (EPAct 2005). Among other matters, EPAct 2005 amends the Natural Gas Act (NGA) to make it unlawful for any entity, including otherwise non jurisdictional producers such as the Company, to use any deceptive or manipulative device or contrivance in connection with the purchase or sale of gas or the purchase or sale of transportation services subject to regulation by the FERC, in contravention of rules prescribed by the FERC. The FERCs rules implementing this provision make it unlawful, in connection with the purchase or sale of gas subject to the jurisdiction of the FERC, or the purchase or sale of transportation services subject to the jurisdiction of the FERC, for any entity, directly or indirectly, to use or employ any device, scheme or artifice to defraud; to make any untrue statement of material fact or omit to make any such statement necessary to make the statements made not misleading; or to engage in any act or practice that operates as a fraud or deceit upon any person. EPAct 2005 also gives the FERC authority to impose civil penalties for violations of the NGA up to $1.0 million per day per violation. The anti manipulation rule does not apply to activities that relate only to intrastate or other non jurisdictional sales or gathering, but does apply to activities of otherwise non jurisdictional entities to the extent the activities are conducted in connection with gas sales, purchases or transportation subject to FERC jurisdiction, which includes the annual reporting requirements under Order 704 (defined below). In December 2007, the FERC issued rules (Order 704) requiring that any market participant, including a producer such as the Company, that engages in wholesale sales or purchases of gas that equal or exceed 2.2 million MMBtus during a calendar year must annually report such sales and purchases to the FERC. Order 704 is intended to increase the transparency of the wholesale gas markets and to assist the FERC in monitoring those markets and in detecting market manipulation. Although gas prices are currently unregulated, Congress historically has been active in the area of gas regulation. The Company cannot predict whether new legislation to regulate gas or gas prices might be proposed, what proposals, if any, might actually be enacted by Congress or the various state legislatures and what effect, if any, the proposals might have on the Companys operations. Sales of condensate and gas liquids are not currently regulated and are made at market prices. Gas gathering. While the Company owns or operates some gas gathering facilities, the Company also depends on gathering facilities owned and operated by third parties to gather production from its properties, and therefore the Company is impacted by the rates charged by such third parties for gathering services. To the extent that changes in foreign, federal and or state regulation affect the rates charged for gathering services, the Company also may be affected by such changes. Accordingly, the Company does not anticipate that the Company would be affected any differently than similarly situated gas producers. 13 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors The nature of the business activities conducted by the Company subjects it to certain hazards and risks. The following is a summary of some of the material risks relating to the Companys business activities. Other risks are described in Item 1. Business Competition, Markets and Regulations and Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. These risks are not the only risks facing the Company. The Companys business could also be affected by additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to the Company or that it currently deems to be immaterial. If any of these risks actually occurs, it could materially harm the Companys business, financial condition or results of operations and impair Pioneers ability to implement business plans or complete development projects as scheduled. In that case, the market price of the Companys common stock could decline. The prices of oil, NGL and gas are highly volatile. A sustained decline in these commodity prices could adversely affect the Companys financial condition and results of operations. The Companys revenues, profitability, cash flow and future rate of growth are highly dependent on commodity prices. Commodity prices may fluctuate widely in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil, NGL and gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond the Companys control, such as: domestic and worldwide supply of and demand for oil, NGL and gas; weather conditions; overall domestic and global political and economic conditions; actions of OPEC and other state controlled oil companies relating to oil price and production controls; the effect of LNG deliveries to the United States; technological advances affecting energy consumption and energy supply; domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxation; the effect of energy conservation efforts; the proximity, capacity, cost and availability of pipelines and other transportation facilities; and the price and availability of alternative fuels. In the past, commodity prices have been extremely volatile, and the Company expects this volatility to continue. For example, oil prices reached record levels in July 2008 of $145.29 per Bbl before declining to $33.87 per Bbl in December, while gas prices reached $13.58 per Mcf before declining to $5.29 per Mcf over the same period. During 2009, oil prices increased from a low of $33.98 per Bbl in February to a high of $81.37 per Bbl in October while gas prices declined from $6.07 per Mcf in January to $2.51 per Mcf in September. The Company makes price assumptions that are used for planning purposes, and a significant portion of the Companys cash outlays, including rent, salaries and noncancellable capital commitments, are largely fixed in nature. Accordingly, if commodity prices are below the expectations on which these commitments were based, the Companys financial results are likely to be adversely and disproportionately affected because these cash outlays are not variable in the short term and cannot be quickly reduced to respond to unanticipated decreases in commodity prices. Significant or extended price declines could also adversely affect the amount of oil, NGL and gas that the Company can produce economically. A reduction in production could result in a shortfall in expected cash flows and require the Company to reduce capital spending or borrow funds to cover any such shortfall. Any of these factors could negatively affect the Companys ability to replace its production and its future rate of growth. The Company could experience periods of higher costs if commodity prices rise. Such increases could reduce the Companys profitability, cash flow and ability to complete development activities as planned. Historically, the Companys capital and operating costs have risen during periods of increasing oil, NGL and gas prices. These cost increases result from a variety of factors beyond the Companys control, such as increases in the cost of electricity, steel and other raw materials that the Company and its vendors rely upon; increased demand for labor, services and materials as drilling activity increases; and increased taxes. Such costs may rise faster than increases in the Companys revenue, thereby negatively impacting the Companys profitability, cash flow and ability to complete development activities as planned. 14 Table of Contents The Companys derivative risk management activities could result in financial losses. To achieve more predictable cash flow and to manage the Companys exposure to fluctuations in the prices of oil, NGL and gas, the Companys strategy is to enter into derivative arrangements covering a portion of its oil, NGL and gas production. These derivative arrangements are subject to mark to market accounting treatment, and the changes in fair market value of the contracts will be reported in the Companys statement of operations each quarter, which may result in significant net gains or losses. These derivative contracts may also expose the Company to risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including when: production is less than the contracted derivative volumes, the counterparty to the derivative contract defaults on its contract obligations, or the derivative contracts limit the benefit the Company would otherwise receive from increases in commodity prices. On the other hand, failure to protect against declines in commodity prices exposes the Company to reduced revenue and liquidity when prices decline, as occurred in late 2008 and during 2009. The failure by counterparties to the Companys derivative risk management activities to perform their obligations could have a material adverse effect on the Companys results of operations. The use of derivative risk management transactions involves the risk that the counterparties will be unable to meet the financial terms of such transactions. If any of these counterparties were to default on its obligations under the Companys derivative arrangements, such a default could have a material, adverse effect on the Companys results of operations, and could result in a larger percentage of the Companys future production being subject to commodity price changes. Exploration and development drilling may not result in commercially productive reserves. Drilling involves numerous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive oil or gas reservoirs will be encountered. The cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain and drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled as a result of a variety of factors, including: unexpected drilling conditions; unexpected pressure or irregularities in formations; equipment failures or accidents; adverse weather conditions; restricted access to land for drilling or laying pipelines; and costs of, or shortages or delays in the delivery of, drilling rigs, equipment and personnel. The Companys future drilling activities may not be successful and, if unsuccessful, such failure could have an adverse effect on the Companys future results of operations and financial condition. While all drilling, whether developmental, extension or exploratory, involves these risks, exploratory and extension drilling involves greater risks of dry holes or failure to find commercial quantities of hydrocarbons. The Company expects that it will continue to experience exploration and abandonment expense in 2010. Increased levels of drilling activity in the oil and gas industry in recent periods have led to increased costs of some drilling equipment, materials and supplies. Although the Company has experienced some decrease in these costs over the past year, such decreases could be short lived. A return to the trends of increasing demand and costs in the future may affect the Companys profitability, cash flow and ability to complete development projects as scheduled and on budget. Future price declines could result in a reduction in the carrying value of the Companys proved oil and gas properties, which could adversely affect the Companys results of operations. Declines in commodity prices may result in the Companys having to make substantial downward adjustments to the Companys estimated proved reserves. If this occurs, or if the Companys estimates of production or economic factors change, accounting rules may require the Company to impair, as a noncash charge to earnings, the carrying value of the Companys oil and gas properties. The Company is required to perform impairment tests on proved oil and gas properties whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of proved properties may not be recoverable. To the extent such tests indicate a reduction of the estimated useful life or estimated future cash flows of the Companys oil and gas properties, the carrying value may not be recoverable and therefore an impairment charge will be required to reduce the carrying value of the proved properties to their estimated fair value. For example, during 2009, the Company recognized impairment charges of $21.1 million due to the 15 Table of Contents impairment of the Companys net assets in the Uinta/Piceance areas, primarily due to declines in gas prices and downward adjustments to the economically recoverable resource potential. The Company may incur impairment charges in the future, which could materially affect the Companys results of operations in the period incurred. The Company periodically evaluates its unproved oil and gas properties and could be required to recognize noncash charges in the earnings of future periods. At December 31, 2009, the Company carried unproved property costs of $236.7 million. GAAP requires periodic evaluation of these costs on a project by project basis. These evaluations will be affected by the results of exploration activities, commodity price outlooks, planned future sales or expiration of all or a portion of the leases, contracts and permits appurtenant to such projects. If the quantity of potential reserves determined by such evaluations is not sufficient to fully recover the cost invested in each project, the Company will recognize noncash charges in the earnings of future periods. The Company may be unable to make attractive acquisitions, and any acquisition it completes is subject to substantial risks that could adversely affect its business. Acquisitions of producing oil and gas properties have been an important element of the Companys growth. The Companys growth following the full development of its existing property base could be impeded if it is unable to acquire additional oil and gas reserves on a profitable basis. Acquisition opportunities in the oil and gas industry are very competitive, which can increase the cost of, or cause the Company to refrain from, completing acquisitions. The success of any acquisition will depend on a number of factors and involves potential risks, including among other things: the inability to estimate accurately the costs to develop the reserves, the recoverable volumes of reserves, rates of future production and future net cash flows attainable from the reserves; the assumption of unknown liabilities, losses or costs for which the Company is not indemnified or for which the indemnity the Company receives is inadequate; the validity of assumptions about costs, including synergies; the impact on the Companys liquidity or financial leverage of using available cash or debt to finance acquisitions; the diversion of managements attention from other business concerns; and an inability to hire, train or retain qualified personnel to manage and operate the Companys growing business and assets. All of these factors affect whether an acquisition will ultimately generate cash flows sufficient to provide a suitable return on investment. Even though the Company performs a review of the properties it seeks to acquire that it believes is consistent with industry practices, such reviews are often limited in scope. As a result, among other risks, the Companys initial estimates of reserves may be subject to revision following an acquisition, which may materially and adversely affect the desired benefits of the acquisition. The Company may be unable to dispose of nonstrategic assets on attractive terms, and may be required to retain liabilities for certain matters. The Company regularly reviews its property base for the purpose of identifying nonstrategic assets, the disposition of which would increase capital resources available for other activities and create organizational and operational efficiencies. Various factors could materially affect the ability of the Company to dispose of nonstrategic assets, including the availability of purchasers willing to purchase the nonstrategic assets at prices acceptable to the Company. Sellers typically retain certain liabilities or indemnify buyers for certain matters. The magnitude of any such retained liability or indemnification obligation may be difficult to quantify at the time of the transaction and ultimately may be material. Also, as is typical in divestiture transactions, third parties may be unwilling to release the Company from guarantees or other credit support provided prior to the sale of the divested assets. As a result, after a sale the Company may remain secondarily liable for the obligations guaranteed or supported to the extent that the buyer of the assets fails to perform these obligations. The current economic outlook has affected the level of sales activity for oil and gas properties. The higher cost of credit has limited third parties ability to acquire properties, and the potential value of the Companys properties is likely to decline if adverse economic conditions continue. 16 Table of Contents The Company periodically evaluates its goodwill for impairment and could be required to recognize noncash charges in the earnings of future periods. At December 31, 2009, the Company carried goodwill of $309.3 million associated with its United States reporting unit. Goodwill is tested for impairment annually during the third quarter using a July 1 assessment date, and also whenever facts or circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the Companys goodwill may be impaired, requiring an estimate of the fair values of the reporting units assets and liabilities. Those assessments may be affected by (a) future reserve adjustments both positive and negative, (b) results of drilling activities, (c) changes in managements outlook on commodity prices and costs and expenses, (d) changes in the Companys market capitalization, (e) changes in the Companys weighted average cost of capital and (f) changes in income taxes. If the fair value of the reporting units net assets is not sufficient to fully support the goodwill balance in the future, the Company will reduce the carrying value of goodwill for the impaired value, with a corresponding noncash charge to earnings in the period in which goodwill is determined to be impaired. The Companys gas processing operations are subject to operational risks, which could result in significant damages and the loss of revenue. As of December 31, 2009, the Company owned interests in four gas processing plants and eleven treating facilities. The Company operates two of the gas processing plants and all eleven of the treating facilities. There are significant risks associated with the operation of gas processing plants. Gas and NGLs are volatile and explosive and may include carcinogens. Damage to or misoperation of a gas processing plant or facility could result in an explosion or the discharge of toxic gases, which could result in significant damage claims in addition to interrupting a revenue source. The Companys operations involve many operational risks, some of which could result in substantial losses to the Company and unforeseen interruptions to the Companys operations for which the Company may not be adequately insured. The Companys operations are subject to all the risks normally incident to the oil and gas development and production business, including: blowouts, cratering, explosions and fires; adverse weather effects; environmental hazards, such as gas leaks, oil spills, pipeline ruptures and discharges of toxic gases; high costs, shortages or delivery delays of equipment, labor or other services; facility or equipment malfunctions, failures or accidents; title problems; pipe or cement failures or casing collapses; compliance with environmental and other governmental requirements; lost or damaged oilfield workover and service tools; unusual or unexpected geological formations or pressure or irregularities in formations; and natural disasters. Any of these risks could result in substantial losses to the Company due to injury or loss of life, damage to or destruction of wells, production facilities or other property, clean up responsibilities, regulatory investigations and penalties and suspension of operations. The Company is not fully insured against certain of the risks described above, either because such insurance is not available or because of the high premium costs and deductibles associated with obtaining such insurance. Additionally, the Company relies to a large extent on facilities owned and operated by third parties, and damage to or destruction of those third party facilities could affect the ability of the Company to produce, transport and sell its hydrocarbons. For example, in 2008, damage caused by Hurricanes Gustav and Ike to a third party facility that fractionates NGLs from a portion of the Companys production resulted in a portion of the Companys production being shut in or curtailed from early September to mid November 2008 while repairs and maintenance to the facility were being completed. 17 Table of Contents The Companys expectations for future drilling activities will be realized over several years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of such activities. The Company has identified drilling locations and prospects for future drilling opportunities, including development, exploratory and infill drilling and enhanced recovery activities. These drilling locations and prospects represent a significant part of the Companys future drilling plans. The Companys ability to drill and develop these locations depends on a number of factors, including the availability of capital, seasonal conditions, regulatory approvals, negotiation of agreements with third parties, commodity prices, costs and drilling results. Because of these uncertainties, the Company cannot give any assurance as to the timing of these activities or that they will ultimately result in the realization of proved reserves or meet the Companys expectations for success. As such, the Companys actual drilling and enhanced recovery activities may materially differ from the Companys current expectations, which could have a significant adverse effect on the Companys proved reserves, financial condition and results of operations. The Company may not be able to obtain access to pipelines, gas gathering, transmission, storage and processing facilities to market its oil and gas production. The marketing of oil and gas production depends in large part on the availability, proximity and capacity of pipelines and storage facilities, gas gathering systems and other transportation, processing and refining facilities, as well as the existence of adequate markets. If there were insufficient capacity available on these systems, or if these systems were unavailable to the Company, the price offered for the Companys production could be significantly depressed, or the Company could be forced to shut in some production or delay or discontinue drilling plans and commercial production following a discovery of hydrocarbons while it constructs its own facility. The Company also relies (and expects to rely in the future) on facilities developed and owned by third parties in order to store, process, transmit and sell its oil and gas production. The Companys plans to develop and sell its oil and gas reserves could be materially and adversely affected by the inability or unwillingness of third parties to provide sufficient transmission, storage or processing facilities to the Company, especially in areas of planned expansion where such facilities do not currently exist. The nature of the Companys assets exposes it to significant costs and liabilities with respect to environmental and operational safety matters. The oil and gas business is subject to environmental hazards such as oil spills, produced water spills, gas leaks and ruptures and discharges of substances or gases that could expose the Company to substantial liability due to pollution and other environmental damage. A variety of United States federal, state and local, as well as foreign laws and regulations govern the environmental aspects of the oil and gas business. Noncompliance with these laws and regulations may subject the Company to administrative, civil or criminal penalties, remedial cleanups, and natural resource damages or other liabilities, and compliance with these laws and regulations may increase the cost of the Companys operations. Such laws and regulations may also affect the costs of acquisitions. See Item 1. Business Competition, Markets and Regulations Environmental matters and regulations above for additional discussion related to environmental risks. No assurance can be given that existing or future environmental laws will not result in a curtailment of production or processing activities, result in a material increase in the costs of production, development, exploration or processing operations or adversely affect the Companys future operations and financial condition. Pollution and similar environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. The Companys credit facility and debt instruments have substantial restrictions and financial covenants that may restrict its business and financing activities. The Company is a borrower under fixed rate senior notes, senior convertible notes and a credit facility. The terms of the Companys borrowings under the senior notes, senior convertible notes and the credit facility specify scheduled debt repayments and require the Company to comply with certain associated covenants and restrictions. The Companys ability to comply with the debt repayment terms, associated covenants and restrictions is dependent on, among other things, factors outside the Companys direct control, such as commodity prices and interest rates. See Note F of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for information regarding the Companys outstanding debt as of December 31, 2009 and the terms associated therewith. The Companys ability to obtain additional financing is also affected by the Companys debt credit ratings and competition for available debt financing. See Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for a discussion of the Companys debt credit ratings. 18 Table of Contents The Company faces significant competition, and many of its competitors have resources in excess of the Companys available resources. The oil and gas industry is highly competitive. The Company competes with a large number of companies, producers and operators in a number of areas such as: seeking to acquire oil and gas properties suitable for development or exploration; marketing oil, NGL and gas production; and seeking to acquire the equipment and expertise, including trained personnel, necessary to operate and develop properties. Many of the Companys competitors are larger and have substantially greater financial and other resources than the Company. See Item 1. Business Competition, Markets and Regulations for additional discussion regarding competition. The Company is subject to regulations that may cause it to incur substantial costs. The Companys business is regulated by a variety of federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations. For example, the Companys properties located in Colorado are subject to the authority of the Colorado Oil & Gas Conservation Commission (the COGCC), which recently passed certain rules that will increase the length of time needed to obtain certain permits and will increase the Companys costs of permitting and environmental compliance. In addition, in connection with the Companys CBM operations in the Raton Basin in Colorado, the Colorado Supreme Court recently affirmed a state water court holding that water produced in connection with CBM operations should be subject to state water use regulations, including regulations requiring permits for diversion and use of surface and subsurface water, an evaluation of potential competing permits, possible uses of the water and a possible requirement to provide augmentation water supplies for water rights owners with more senior rights. There can be no assurance that present or future regulations will not adversely affect the Companys business and operations, including that the Company may be required to suspend drilling operations or shut in production pending compliance. See Item 1. Business Competition, Markets and Regulations for additional discussion regarding government regulation. The Companys international operations may be adversely affected by economic, political and other factors. At December 31, 2009, two percent of the Companys proved reserves were located outside the United States. The success and profitability of international operations may be adversely affected by risks associated with international activities, including: economic and labor conditions; war, terrorist acts and civil disturbances; political instability; loss of revenue, property and equipment as a result of actions taken by foreign countries where the Company has operations, such as expropriation or nationalization of assets and renegotiation, modification or nullification of existing contracts; changes in taxation policies (including host country import export, excise and income taxes and United States taxes on foreign subsidiaries); laws and policies of the United States and foreign jurisdictions affecting foreign investment, trade and business conduct; and changes in the value of the U.S. dollar versus the local currencies in which oil and gas producing activities may be denominated. In some cases, the market for the Companys production in foreign countries is limited to some extent. For example, all of the Companys gas and condensate production from the South Coast Gas project in South Africa is currently committed by contract to a single, government affiliated gas to liquids facility. If such facility ceased to purchase the gas because of an unforeseen event, it might be difficult to find an alternative market for the production, and if such a market were secured, the price received by the Company might be less than that provided under its current gas sales contract. See Qualitative Disclosures Foreign currency, operations and price risk in Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk and Note B of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for information regarding other risks associated with the Companys international operations. 19 Table of Contents Estimates of proved reserves and future net cash flows are not precise. The actual quantities and net cash flows of the Companys proved reserves may prove to be lower than estimated. Numerous uncertainties exist in estimating quantities of proved reserves and future net cash flows therefrom. The estimates of proved reserves and related future net cash flows set forth in this Report are based on various assumptions, which may ultimately prove to be inaccurate. Petroleum engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. Estimates of economically recoverable oil and gas reserves and of future net cash flows depend upon a number of variable factors and assumptions, including the following: historical production from the area compared with production from other producing areas; the quality and quantity of available data; the interpretation of that data; the assumed effects of regulations by governmental agencies; assumptions concerning future commodity prices; and assumptions concerning future operating costs, severance, ad valorem and excise taxes, development costs, transportation costs and workover and remedial costs. Because all reserve estimates are to some degree subjective, each of the following items may differ materially from those assumed in estimating reserves: the quantities of oil, NGLs and gas that are ultimately recovered; the production and operating costs incurred; the amount and timing of future development expenditures; and future commodity prices. Furthermore, different reserve engineers may make different estimates of proved reserves and cash flows based on the same available data. The Companys actual production, revenues and expenditures with respect to proved reserves will likely be different from estimates, and the differences may be material. As required by the SEC, the estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves are based on average prices preceding the date of the estimate and costs as of the date of the estimate, while actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower. Actual future net cash flows also will be affected by factors such as: the amount and timing of actual production; levels of future capital spending; increases or decreases in the supply of or demand for oil, NGLs and gas; and changes in governmental regulations or taxation. The Company reports all proved reserves held under concessions utilizing the economic interest method, which excludes the host countrys share of proved reserves. Estimated quantities reported under the economic interest method are subject to fluctuations in commodity prices and recoverable operating expenses and capital costs. If costs remain stable, reserve quantities attributable to recovery of costs will change inversely to changes in commodity prices. Standardized Measure is a reporting convention that provides a common basis for comparing oil and gas companies subject to the rules and regulations of the SEC. In general, it requires the use of commodity prices that are based upon a 12 month unweighted average, as well as operating and development costs being incurred at the end of the reporting period. Consequently, it may not reflect the prices ordinarily received or that will be received for oil and gas production because of seasonal price fluctuations or other varying market conditions, nor may it reflect the actual costs that will be required to produce or develop the oil and gas properties. Accordingly, estimates included herein of future net cash flows may be materially different from the future net cash flows that are ultimately received. In addition, the ten percent discount factor, which is required by the SEC to be used in calculating discounted future net cash flows for reporting purposes, may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with the Company or the oil and gas industry in general. Therefore, the estimates of discounted future net cash flows or Standardized Measure in this Report should not be construed as accurate estimates of the current market value of the Companys proved reserves. 20 Table of Contents The Companys actual production could differ materially from its forecasts. From time to time the Company provides forecasts of expected quantities of future oil and gas production. These forecasts are based on a number of estimates, including expectations of production from existing wells and the outcome of future drilling activity. Should these estimates prove inaccurate, actual production could be adversely affected. In addition, the Companys forecasts assume that none of the risks associated with the Companys oil and gas operations summarized in this Item 1A occur, such as facility or equipment malfunctions, adverse weather effects, or downturns in commodity prices or significant increases in costs, which could make certain drilling activities or production uneconomical. The Company may be unable to complete its plans to repurchase its common stock. The Board of Directors (the Board) approves share repurchase programs and sets limits on the price per share at which Pioneers common stock can be repurchased. From time to time, the Company may not be permitted to repurchase its stock during certain periods because of scheduled and unscheduled trading blackouts. Additionally, business conditions and availability of capital may dictate that repurchases be suspended or canceled. As a result, there can be no assurance that additional repurchase programs will be commenced and, if so, that they will be completed. A subsidiary of the Company acts as the general partner of a publicly traded limited partnership. As such, the subsidiarys operations may involve a greater risk of liability than ordinary business operations. A subsidiary of the Company acts as the general partner of Pioneer Southwest Energy Partners L.P., a publicly traded limited partnership formed by the Company to own and acquire oil and gas assets in its area of operations. As general partner, the subsidiary may be deemed to have undertaken fiduciary obligations to the partnership. Activities determined to involve fiduciary obligations to others typically involve a higher standard of conduct than ordinary business operations and therefore may involve a greater risk of liability, particularly when a conflict of interest is found to exist. Any such liability may be material. A failure by purchasers of the Companys production to perform their obligations to the Company could require the Company to recognize a pre tax charge in earnings and have a material adverse effect on the Companys results of operation. While the credit markets, the availability of credit and the equity markets have improved during 2009, the economic outlook for 2010 remains uncertain. To the extent that purchasers of the Companys production rely on access to the credit or equity markets to fund their operations, there could be an increased risk that those purchasers could default in their contractual obligations to the Company. If for any reason the Company were to determine that it was probable that some or all of the accounts receivable from any one or more of the purchasers of the Companys production were uncollectible, the Company would recognize a pre tax charge in the earnings of that period for the probable loss. The Company may not be able to obtain funding, obtain funding on acceptable terms or obtain funding under its current credit facility in the event of a deterioration of the credit and capital markets, which could hinder or prevent the Company from meeting its future capital needs. During 2009, access to the debt and equity capital markets improved. However, as a result of concerns about the stability of financial markets generally and the solvency of counterparties specifically, the cost of obtaining money from the credit markets was higher than historical levels as many lenders and institutional investors increased interest rates, enacted tighter lending standards and limited the amount of funding available to borrowers. If these events were to recur, the Company could be unable to obtain adequate funding under its current credit facility because (i) the Companys lending counterparties may be unwilling or unable to meet their funding obligations or (ii) the amount the Company may borrow under its current credit facility could be reduced as a result of lower oil, NGL or gas prices, declines in reserves, stricter lending requirements or regulations, or for other reasons. For example, the Companys credit facility requires that the Company maintain a specified ratio of the net present value of the Companys oil and gas properties to total debt, with the variables on which the calculation of net 21 Table of Contents present value is based (including assumed commodity prices and discount rates) being subject to adjustment by the lenders. Due to these factors, the Company cannot be certain that funding will be available if needed and to the extent required, on acceptable terms. If funding is not available when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, the Company may be unable to implement its business plans or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Companys production, revenues and results of operations. Declining general economic, business or industry conditions could have a material adverse affect on the Companys results of operations. Concerns over the worldwide economic outlook, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, the United States mortgage market and a declining real estate market in the United States have contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the global economy. These factors, combined with volatile oil prices, declining business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment, precipitated a worldwide recession. Concerns about global economic growth have had a significant adverse effect on global financial markets and commodity prices, both of which contributed to a decline in the Companys share price and corresponding market capitalization during 2008. If the economic climate in the United States or abroad deteriorates, demand for petroleum products could further diminish, which could further depress the prices at which the Company can sell its oil, NGLs and gas and ultimately decrease the Companys net revenue and profitability. Certain U.S. federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development may be eliminated as a result of future legislation. President Obamas proposed Fiscal Year 2011 Budget includes proposed legislation that would, if enacted into law, make significant changes to United States tax laws, including the elimination of certain key U.S. federal income tax incentives currently available to oil and gas exploration and production companies. These changes include, but are not limited to (i) the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and gas properties, (ii) the elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and development costs, (iii) the elimination of the deduction for certain domestic production activities and (iv) an extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures. Each of these changes is proposed to be effective for taxable years beginning, or in the case of costs described in (ii) and (iv), costs paid or incurred, after December 31, 2010. It is unclear whether these or similar changes will be enacted and, if enacted, how soon any such changes could become effective. Any such change could negatively affect the Companys financial condition and results of operations. The adoption of climate change legislation by Congress or regulation by the EPA could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil, NGLs and gas the Company produces. On December 15, 2009, the EPA officially published its findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases, or GHGs, present an endangerment to human health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to warming of the Earths atmosphere and other climatic changes. These findings by the EPA allow the agency to proceed with the adoption and implementation of regulations that would restrict emissions of GHGs under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act. The adoption and implementation of any regulations imposing reporting obligations on, or limiting emissions of GHGs from, the Companys equipment and operations could require the Company to incur costs to reduce emissions of GHGs associated with the Companys operations or could adversely affect demand for the oil, NGL and gas that the Company produces. Also, on June 26, 2009, the United States House of Representatives approved adoption of ACESA. The purpose of which is to control and reduce emissions of greenhouse gases in the United States. The United States Senate has begun work on its own legislation for controlling and reducing emissions of GHGs in the United States. It is not possible at this time to predict with certainty whether climate change legislation will be enacted, but any laws or regulations that may be adopted to restrict or reduce emissions of GHGs would likely require the Company to incur increased operating costs and could have an adverse effect on demand for the oil, NGLs and gas it produces. See Competition, Markets and Regulations in Item 1. Business. 22 Table of Contents The adoption of derivatives legislation by the United States Congress could have an adverse effect on the Companys ability to use derivative instruments to reduce the effect of commodity price risk associated with its business. The United States Congress currently is considering comprehensive financial reform legislation that includes restrictions on certain transactions involving derivatives. This legislation also would provide the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) with express authority to impose position limits related to energy commodities, such as oil and gas. Separately, the CFTC is proposing regulations to set position limits for certain futures and option contracts in the major energy markets. Although it is not possible at this time to predict whether or when the CFTC may adopt rules or the United States Congress may act on derivatives legislation, any laws or regulations that may be adopted could have an adverse effect on the Companys ability to utilize derivative instruments to reduce the effect of commodity price risk associated with its business. Federal and state legislation and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays. The United States Congress is currently considering legislation to amend the federal Safe Drinking Water Act to regulate chemicals used by the oil and gas industry in the hydraulic fracturing process, and some other states are considering similar regulations. Hydraulic fracturing involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into rock formations to stimulate oil and gas production. Sponsors of bills currently pending before the United States Senate and House of Representatives have asserted that chemicals used in the fracturing process could adversely affect drinking water supplies. The proposed legislation also would require the disclosure of chemical constituents used in the fracturing process to state or federal regulatory agencies, which could make such information publicly available. The availability of this information could make it easier for third parties opposing the hydraulic fracturing process to initiate legal proceedings based on allegations that specific chemicals used in the fracturing process could adversely affect groundwater. In addition, these bills, if adopted, could establish an additional level of regulation at the federal level that could lead to operational delays or increased operating costs and could result in additional regulatory burdens that could make it more difficult to perform hydraulic fracturing and increase the Companys costs of compliance and doing business. Provisions of the Companys charter documents and Delaware law may inhibit a takeover, which could limit the price investors might be willing to pay in the future for the Companys common stock. Provisions in the Companys certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing an acquisition of the Company or a merger in which the Company is not the surviving company and may otherwise prevent or slow changes in the Companys board of directors and management. In addition, because the Company is incorporated in Delaware, it is governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. The Company has also adopted a shareholder rights plan. These provisions could discourage an acquisition of the Company or other change in control transaction and thereby negatively affect the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for the Companys common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 23 Table of Contents Item 2. Properties Reserve Rule Changes During 2009, the SEC issued its final rule on the modernization of oil and gas reporting (the Reserve Ruling) and the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2010 03 (ASU 2010 03) Extractive Industries Oil and Gas, which aligns the estimation and disclosure requirements of FASB Accounting Standards CodificationTopic 932 with the Reserve Ruling. The Reserve Ruling and ASU 2010 03 are effective for Annual Reports on Form 10 K for fiscal years ending on or after December 31, 2009. The key provisions of the Reserve Ruling and ASU 2010 03 are as follows: Expanding the definition of oil and gas producing activities to include the extraction of saleable hydrocarbons, in the solid, liquid or gaseous state, from oil sands, coalbeds or other nonrenewable natural resources that are intended to be upgraded into synthetic oil or gas, and activities undertaken with a view to such extraction; Amending the definition of proved oil and gas reserves to require the use of an average of the first day of the month commodity prices during the 12 month period ending on the balance sheet date rather than the period end commodity prices; Adding to and amending other definitions used in estimating proved oil and gas reserves, such as reliable technology and reasonable certainty; Broadening the types of technology that a reporter may use to establish reserves estimates and categories; and Changing disclosure requirements and providing formats for tabular reserve disclosures. Reserve Estimation Procedures and Audits The information included in this Report about the Companys proved reserves as of December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, which are located in the United States, South Africa and Tunisia, is based on evaluations prepared by (i) the Companys engineers and audited by Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc. (NSAI), with respect to the Companys major properties, and (ii) the Companys engineers, with respect to all other properties. The Company has no oil and gas reserves from non traditional sources. Additionally, the Company does not provide optional disclosure of probable or possible reserves. Reserve estimation procedures. The Company has established internal controls over reserve estimation processes and procedures to support the accurate and timely preparation and disclosure of reserve estimates in accordance with SEC and GAAP requirements. These controls include oversight of the reserves estimation reporting processes by Pioneers Worldwide Reserves Group (WWR), and annual external audits of substantial portions of the Companys proved reserves by NSAI. The management of Pioneers oil and gas assets is decentralized geographically by individual asset teams who are responsible for the oil and gas activities in each of the Companys Permian Basin, Rockies, Mid Continent, South Texas (which is now being further decentralized stratigraphically into the South Texas Eagle Ford Shale and South Texas Edwards asset teams), Barnett Shale, Alaska and Africa asset teams (the Asset Teams). The Companys Asset Teams are each staffed with reservoir engineers and geoscientists who prepare reserve estimates for the assets that they manage at the end of each calendar quarter using reservoir engineering information technology. There is shared oversight of the Asset Teams reservoir engineers by the Asset Teams managers and the Director of the WWR, each of whom is in turn subject to direct or indirect oversight by the Companys Chief Operating Officer (COO) and management committee (MC). The Companys MC is comprised of its Chief Executive Officer, COO, Chief Financial Officer and other Executive Vice Presidents. Asset Teams reserve estimates are reviewed by the asset team reservoir engineers before being submitted to the Director of the WWR and are summarized in reserve reconciliations that quantify reserve changes represented by revisions of previous estimates, purchases of minerals in place, extensions and discoveries, production and sales of minerals in place. All reserve estimates, material assumptions and inputs used in reserve estimates and significant changes in reserve estimates are reviewed for engineering and financial appropriateness and compliance with SEC and GAAP standards by the WWR. The MC reviews the reserve estimates and any differences with NSAI (for the portion of the reserves audited by NSAI) on a consolidated basis before these estimates are approved. The engineers and geoscientists who participate in the reserve estimation and disclosure process attended training on the Reserve Ruling by external consultants and or through internal Pioneer programs. Additionally, the WWR has prepared and maintains an internal document for the asset teams to reference on reserve estimation and preparation to promote objectivity in the preparation of the Companys reserve estimates and SEC and GAAP compliance in the reserve estimation and reporting process. 24 Table of Contents Proved reserves audits. The reserve audits performed by NSAI in the aggregate represented 93 percent, 87 percent and 86 percent of the Companys 2009, 2008 and 2007 proved reserves, respectively; and, 86 percent, 80 percent and 80 percent of the Companys 2009, 2008 and 2007 associated pre tax present value of proved reserves discounted at ten percent, respectively. NSAI follows the general principles set forth in the standards pertaining to the estimating and auditing of oil and gas reserve information promulgated by the Society of Petroleum Engineers (SPE). A reserve audit as defined by the SPE is not the same as a financial audit. The SPEs definition of a reserve audit includes the following concepts: A reserve audit is an examination of reserve information that is conducted for the purpose of expressing an opinion as to whether such reserve information, in the aggregate, is reasonable and has been presented in conformity with generally accepted petroleum engineering and evaluation principles. The estimation of proved reserves is an imprecise science due to the many unknown geologic and reservoir factors that cannot be estimated through sampling techniques. Since reserves are only estimates, they cannot be audited for the purpose of verifying exactness. Instead, reserve information is audited for the purpose of reviewing in sufficient detail the policies, procedures and methods used by a company in estimating its reserves so that the reserve auditors may express an opinion as to whether, in the aggregate, the reserve information furnished by a company is reasonable. The methods and procedures used by a company, and the reserve information furnished by a company, must be reviewed in sufficient detail to permit the reserve auditor, in its professional judgment, to express an opinion as to the reasonableness of the reserve information. The auditing procedures require the reserve auditor to prepare its own estimates of reserve information for the audited properties. To further clarify, in conjunction with the audit of the Companys proved reserves and associated pre tax present value discounted at ten percent, Pioneer provided to NSAI its external and internal engineering and geoscience technical data and analyses. Following NSAIs review of that data, it had the option of honoring Pioneers interpretation, or making its own interpretation. No data was withheld from NSAI. NSAI accepted without independent verification the accuracy and completeness of the historical information and data furnished by Pioneer with respect to ownership interest, oil and gas production, well test data, commodity prices, operating and development costs, and any agreements relating to current and future operations of the properties and sales of production. However, if in the course of its evaluation something came to its attention that brought into question the validity or sufficiency of any such information or data, NSAI did not rely on such information or data until it had satisfactorily resolved its questions relating thereto or had independently verified such information or data. In the course of its evaluations, NSAI prepared, for all of the audited properties, its own estimates of the Companys proved reserves and the pre tax present value of such reserves discounted at ten percent. NSAI reviewed its audit differences with the Company, and, in a number of cases, held joint meetings with the Company to review additional reserves work performed by the technical teams and any updated performance data related to the reserve differences. Such data was incorporated, as appropriate, by both parties into the reserve estimates. NSAIs estimates, including any adjustments resulting from additional data, of those proved reserves and the pre tax present value of such reserves discounted at ten percent did not differ from Pioneers estimates by more than ten percent in the aggregate. However, when compared on a lease by lease, field by field or area by area basis, some of the Companys estimates were greater than those of NSAI and some were less than the estimates of NSAI. When such differences do not exceed ten percent in the aggregate and NSAI is satisfied that the proved reserves and pre tax present value of such reserves discounted at ten percent are reasonable and that its audit objectives have been met, NSAI will issue an unqualified audit opinion. Remaining differences are not resolved due to the limited cost benefit of continuing such analyses by the Company and NSAI. At the conclusion of the audit process, it was NSAIs opinion, as set forth in its audit letter which is included as an exhibit to this Report, that Pioneers estimates of the Companys proved oil and gas reserves and associated pre tax future net revenues discounted at ten percent are, in the aggregate, reasonable and have been prepared in accordance with petroleum engineering and evaluation principles. See Item 1A. Risk Factors, Critical Accounting Estimates in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis and Results of Operations and 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial and Operating Performance Pioneers financial and operating performance for 2009 included the following highlights: Earnings attributable to common stockholders was a net loss of $52.1 million ($.46 per diluted share), as compared to net income attributable to common stockholders of $210.0 million ($1.76 per diluted share) in 2008. The decrease in earnings attributable to common stockholders is primarily due to: A $617.6 million pretax decline in oil and gas revenues as a result of commodity price declines, partially offset by an increase in sales volumes; A $185.4 million pretax increase in net derivative losses, primarily due to rising oil and NGL prices since the Companys January 31, 2009 change from hedge accounting to the mark to market (MTM) accounting method; and A $161.8 million pretax increase in depreciation, depletion and amortization (DD&A) expense, primarily due to (i) negative price revisions resulting from lower commodity prices during 2009 as compared to 2008 and (ii) negative reserve price revisions in the fourth quarter of 2009 associated with the SECs new reserve reporting rules; partially offset by: A $108.3 million decrease in pretax oil and gas production costs and production and ad valorem taxes, primarily due to successes realized from the Companys cost reduction initiatives and commodity price declines, respectively; A $93.3 million increase in after tax income from discontinued operations, primarily due to $119.3 million of pretax income recognized for the recovery of excess deepwater Gulf of Mexico royalties paid during 2003 through 2005 and a $17.5 million pretax gain from the divestiture of substantially all of the Companys Gulf of Mexico shelf properties during 2009; and A $76.4 million increase in pretax Alaskan Petroleum Production Tax credit dispositions. Daily sales volumes from continuing operations increased on a per BOE basis by three percent to 115 MBOEPD during 2009, as compared to 112 MBOEPD during 2008. Approximately 1,100 BOEPD of 2009 annual production was lost due to unplanned third party pipeline repairs in Alaska and the Mid Continent area and to longer than anticipated gas to liquids plant maintenance shutdowns in South Africa. Average reported oil, NGL and gas prices from continuing operations decreased during 2009 to $72.49 per Bbl, $29.76 per Bbl and $3.99 per Mcf, respectively, as compared to respective prices of $74.53 per Bbl, $51.31 per Bbl and $7.64 per Mcf during 2008. Average oil and gas production costs and ad valorem and production taxes per BOE from continuing operations decreased during 2009 to $9.08 and $2.35, respectively, as compared to respective per BOE costs of $10.32 and $4.01 during 2008, primarily as a result of cost reduction initiatives and commodity price declines. Net cash provided by operating activities decreased by $490.8 million to $543.1 million for 2009, as compared to $1.0 billion in 2008, primarily due to the decrease in oil and gas revenue. Long term debt was reduced by $138.2 million during 2009. Pioneer Southwest issued 3.1 million common units during 2009 for net proceeds of $61.0 million. The net proceeds from the issuance of common units were used to reduce Pioneer Southwests credit facility indebtedness. The Company issued $450 million of 7.5% Senior Notes due 2020 during November 2009 and used the net proceeds to reduce credit facility indebtedness. Significant Events Commodity prices. Beginning in the second half of 2008 and continuing throughout 2009, the United States and other industrialized countries experienced a significant economic slowdown, which led to a substantial decline in worldwide energy demand. During this same time period, North American gas supply was increasing as a result of the rise in domestic unconventional gas production. The combination of lower energy demand due to the economic slowdown and higher North American gas supply resulted in significant declines in prices for oil, NGL and gas. While oil and NGL prices started to steadily improve beginning in the second quarter of 2009, gas prices remained volatile throughout 2009 due to high storage levels and increasing gas supply. The outlook for a 44 Table of Contents worldwide economic recovery in 2010 remains uncertain and therefore, the timing of a recovery in worldwide demand for energy is difficult to predict. As a result, it is likely that commodity prices during 2010 will continue to be volatile. Although the Company has entered into derivative contracts on a large portion of its production volumes through 2012, a sustained lower commodity price environment would result in lower realized prices for unprotected volumes and reduce the prices at which the Company could enter into derivative contracts on additional volumes in the future. As a result, the Companys cash flows would be reduced for affected periods. Significant or extended price declines could also adversely affect the amount of oil, NGL and gas that the Company can produce economically. The duration, timing and magnitude of any period of lower commodity prices cannot be predicted. A sustained decline in commodity prices could result in a shortfall in expected cash flows, which could negatively affect the Companys liquidity, financial position and future results of operations. As of December 31, 2009, the Company had $27.4 million of cash on hand and $1.2 billion of liquidity under its credit facility that matures in 2012. As of December 31, 2009, the Company also had $331.7 million of net accounts receivable and was a party to derivative financial instruments, of which approximately $92.3 million represented assets. Management is closely monitoring the credit standings of its customers; counterparties, including its banks; derivative counterparties and purchasers of the commodities the Company produces and sells. See Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk and Notes F and J, respectively of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for additional information about the Companys credit facility and derivative contracts. Cost reduction initiatives. During the second half of 2008, the Company increased its emphasis on reducing capital spending, operating costs and administrative expenses to support its goal of delivering net cash flow from operating activities in excess of capital requirements in 2009 and to enhance and preserve financial flexibility. These initiatives included minimizing drilling activities until margins improved as a result of (i) commodity prices increasing and or (ii) well cost reductions. As a result, the Company significantly reduced its 2009 rig activity and has realized and continues to pursue reductions in operating expenses and well costs to align costs with a lower commodity price environment. Rigs were terminated or stacked in the Spraberry, Raton, Edwards Trend and Barnett Shale areas and in Tunisia. Since the third quarter of 2008, when drilling and completion costs peaked, the Company has achieved a reduction of approximately 30 percent in the cost of drilling and completing a well in the Spraberry field. The Companys asset teams have also reduced 2009 lease operating expense per BOE from continuing operations by 13 percent during 2009, as compared to 2008. The cost savings reflect reductions in electricity, water disposal and compression rental costs and expanded use of Pioneers internal well services in the Spraberry field. During 2009, the Companys capital costs (excluding acquisitions, effects of asset retirement obligations, capitalized interest and geological and geophysical administrative costs) were $312.9 million, as compared to $1.2 billion during 2008, representing a 74 percent decrease. As a result of the successes realized from the aforementioned cost reduction initiatives and increases in 2009 oil prices, the Company implemented a plan to resume oil and liquids rich gas focused drilling activities during 2010 and has preliminarily targeted its 2010 capital budget to be in a range of $800 million to $900 million (excluding acquisitions, effects of asset retirement obligations, capitalized interest and geological and geophysical administrative costs). Historically, the Companys capital and operating costs have risen during periods of increased oil, NGL and gas prices. These costs may rise faster than increases in the Companys revenue, thereby negatively impacting the Companys profitability, cash flow and ability to complete development activities as planned. Sale of assets to Pioneer Southwest. On August 31, 2009, the Company completed a sale of oil and gas properties in the Spraberry field to Pioneer Southwest pursuant to a Purchase and Sale Agreement having an effective date of July 1, 2009. Associated therewith, Pioneer received $168.2 million of cash, including customary closing adjustments, and transferred net obligations associated with certain commodity price derivative positions and certain other liabilities to Pioneer Southwest. Proceeds were used to reduce Pioneers credit facility indebtedness and Pioneer Southwest funded the purchase with cash on hand and borrowings under its credit facility. Pioneer Southwest equity offering. On November 16, 2009, Pioneer Southwest completed a public offering of 3,105,000 common units representing limited partner interests (the Equity Offering). Net proceeds from the Equity Offering of $61.0 million were used to reduce Pioneer Southwests credit facility borrowings. Following the Equity Offering, Pioneer owns a 61.9 percent limited partner interest in Pioneer Southwest. 45 Table of Contents Senior note issuance. In November 2009, the Company issued $450 million of 7.5% Senior Notes due 2020 for net proceeds of $438.6 million. The net proceeds were used to reduce the Companys credit facility indebtedness. Modernization of oil and gas reporting. During 2009, the SEC issued the Reserve Ruling and the FASB issued ASU 2010 03. The Reserve Ruling and the ASU 2010 03 are effective for annual reports on Forms 10 K for fiscal years ending on or after December 31, 2009. The key provisions of the Reserve Ruling and ASU 2010 03, which impact the Companys disclosures and consolidated financial statements, are as follows: Amending the definition of proved oil and gas reserves to require the use of an average of the first day of the month commodity prices during the 12 month period ending on the balance sheet date rather than the period end commodity prices; Adding to and amending other definitions used in estimating proved oil and gas reserves, such as reliable technology and reasonable certainty; Broadening the types of technology that a reporter may use to establish reserves estimates and categories; and Changing disclosure requirements and providing formats for tabular reserve disclosures. See Item 2. Properties, above Results of Operations Depletion, depreciation and amortization expense below and supplementary disclosures in 
 
