Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk for a description of various factors that could materially affect the ability of Pioneer to achieve the anticipated results described in the forward looking statements. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof. The Company undertakes no duty to publicly update these statements except as required by law. 5 Table of Contents PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS General Pioneer is a Delaware corporation whose common stock is listed and traded on the NYSE. The Company is a large independent oil and gas exploration and production company with operations in the United States and South Africa. Pioneer is a holding company whose assets consist of direct and indirect ownership interests in, and whose business is conducted substantially through, its subsidiaries. The Companys executive offices are located at 5205 N. OConnor Blvd., Suite 200, Irving, Texas 75039. The Companys telephone number is (972) 444 9001. The Company maintains other offices in Anchorage, Alaska; Denver, Colorado; Midland, Texas and Capetown, South Africa. At December 31, 2011, the Company had 3,304 employees, 2,282 of whom were employed in field and plant operations. Available Information Pioneer files or furnishes annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other documents with the SEC under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act). The public may read and copy any materials that Pioneer files with the SEC at the SECs Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1 800 SEC 0330. Also, the SEC maintains an Internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including Pioneer, that file electronically with the SEC. The public can obtain any documents that Pioneer files with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov. The Company also makes available free of charge through its internet website (www.pxd.com) its Annual Report on Form 10 K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10 Q, Current Reports on Form 8 K and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after it electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the SEC. Mission and Strategies The Companys mission is to enhance shareholder investment returns through strategies that maximize Pioneers long term profitability and net asset value. The strategies employed to achieve this mission are predicated on maintaining financial flexibility, capital allocation discipline and enhancing net asset value through accretive drilling programs, joint ventures and acquisitions. These strategies are anchored by the Companys interests in the long lived Spraberry oil field; the liquid rich Eagle Ford Shale, Barnett Shale Combo, Hugoton and West Panhandle fields; and the Raton gas field; which together have an estimated remaining productive life in excess of 40 years. Underlying these fields are approximately 93 percent of the Companys proved oil and gas reserves as of December 31, 2011. Business Activities The Company is an independent oil and gas exploration and production company. Pioneers purpose is to competitively and profitably explore for, develop and produce oil and gas reserves. In so doing, the Company sells homogenous oil, NGL and gas units that, except for geographic and relatively minor quality differences, cannot be significantly differentiated from units offered for sale by the Companys competitors. Competitive advantage is gained in the oil and gas exploration and development industry by employing well trained and experienced personnel who make prudent capital investment decisions based on management direction, embrace technological innovation and are focused on price and cost management. Petroleum industry. Oil and NGL prices have steadily improved since the beginning of 2009, while gas prices have remained volatile and have generally trended lower since 2009. The decline in gas prices is primarily a result of growing gas production associated with discoveries of significant gas reserves in United States shale plays, combined with the warmer than normal 2011/2012 winter, which has resulted in gas storage levels being at historically high levels, and minimal economic demand growth in the United States. 6 Table of Contents PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY During 2009, 2010 and 2011, economic stimulus initiatives implemented in the United States and worldwide served to stabilize the United States and certain other economies in the world with resulting improvements in industrial demand and consumer confidence. However, other economies, such as those of certain European Union (or Eurozone) nations, continue to face economic struggles. The outlook for a continued worldwide economic recovery is cautiously optimistic, but remains uncertain; therefore, the sustainability of the recovery in worldwide demand for energy is difficult to predict. As a result, the Company believes it is likely that commodity prices, especially North American gas prices, will continue to be volatile during 2012. Significant factors that will impact 2012 commodity prices include: the ongoing impact of economic stimulus initiatives in the United States and worldwide and continuing economic struggles in Eurozone nations economies; political and economic developments in North Africa and the Middle East; demand from Asian and European markets; the extent to which members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and other oil exporting nations are able to manage oil supply through export quotas; and overall North American NGL and gas supply and demand fundamentals. Pioneer uses commodity derivative contracts to mitigate the impact of commodity price volatility on the Companys net cash provided by operating activities and its net asset value. Although the Company has entered into commodity derivative contracts for a large portion of its forecasted production through 2014, a sustained lower commodity price environment would result in lower realized prices for unprotected volumes and reduce the prices at which the Company could enter into derivative contracts on additional volumes in the future. As a result, the Companys internal cash flows would be reduced for affected periods. A sustained decline in commodity prices could result in a shortfall in expected cash flows, which could negatively impact the Companys liquidity, financial position and future results of operations. See Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk and Notes I and J of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for information regarding the impact to oil and gas revenues during 2011, 2010 and 2009 from the Companys derivative price risk management activities and the Companys open derivative positions as of December 31, 2011. The Company. The Companys growth plan is anchored primarily by drilling in the Spraberry oil field located in West Texas, the liquid rich Eagle Ford Shale field located in South Texas, the liquid rich Barnett Shale Combo field in North Texas and, to a lesser extent, Alaska. Complementing these growth areas, the Company has oil and gas production activities and development opportunities in the Raton gas field located in southern Colorado, the Hugoton gas and liquid field located in southwest Kansas, the West Panhandle gas and liquid field located in the Texas Panhandle and the Edwards gas field located in South Texas. Combined, these assets create a portfolio of resources and opportunities that are well balanced among oil, NGL and gas, and that are also well balanced among long lived, dependable production and lower risk exploration and development opportunities. Additionally, the Company has a team of dedicated employees that represent the professional disciplines and sciences that are necessary to allow Pioneer to maximize the long term profitability and net asset value inherent in its physical assets. The Company provides administrative, financial, legal and management support to United States and South Africa subsidiaries that explore for, develop and produce proved reserves. The Companys continuing operations are principally located in the United States in the states of Texas, Kansas, Colorado and Alaska. Production. The Company focuses its efforts towards maximizing its average daily production of oil, NGLs and gas through development drilling, production enhancement activities and acquisitions of producing properties, while minimizing the controllable costs associated with the production activities. For the year ended December 31, 2011, the Companys production from continuing operations, excluding field fuel usage, of 44.0 MMBOE represented a 16 percent increase over production from continuing operations during 2010. Production, price and cost information with respect to the Companys properties for 2011, 2010 and 2009 is set forth in Item 2. Properties Selected Oil and Gas Information Production, price and cost data. Development activities. The Company seeks to increase its oil and gas reserves, production and cash flow through development drilling and by conducting other production enhancement activities, such as well recompletions. During the three years ended December 31, 2011, the Company drilled 1,236 gross (1,112 net) development wells, 99 percent of which were successfully completed as productive wells, at a total drilling cost (net to the Companys interest) of $2.5 billion. The Company believes that its current property base provides a substantial inventory of prospects for future reserve, production and cash flow growth. The Companys proved reserves as of December 31, 2011 include proved 7 Table of Contents PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY undeveloped reserves and proved developed reserves that are behind pipe of 259.0 MMBbls of oil, 98.7 MMBbls of NGLs and 850.8 Bcf of gas. The Company believes that its current portfolio of proved reserves provides attractive development opportunities for at least the next five years. The timing of the development of these reserves will be dependent upon commodity prices, drilling and operating costs and the Companys expected operating cash flows and financial condition. Exploratory activities. The Company has devoted significant efforts and resources to hiring and developing a highly skilled geoscience staff as well as acquiring a portfolio of lower risk exploration opportunities. Exploratory and extension drilling involve greater risks of dry holes or failure to find commercial quantities of hydrocarbons than development drilling or enhanced recovery activities. See Item 1A. Risk Factors Exploration and development drilling may not result in commercially productive reserves below. Integrated services. The Company continues to expand its integrated services to control drilling costs and support the execution of its accelerating drilling program. The Company has 15 owned drilling rigs operating in the Spraberry field, and at the end of 2011, had Company owned fracture stimulation fleets totaling 250,000 horsepower supporting drilling operations in the Spraberry, Eagle Ford Shale and Barnett Shale Combo areas. The Company also owns other field service equipment, including pulling units, fracture stimulation tanks, water transport trucks, hot oilers, blowout preventers, construction equipment and fishing tools. Acquisition activities. The Company regularly seeks to acquire properties that complement its operations, provide exploration and development opportunities and potentially provide superior returns on investment. In addition, the Company pursues strategic acquisitions that will allow the Company to expand into new geographical areas that provide future exploration/exploitation opportunities. During 2011, 2010 and 2009, the Company spent $131.9 million, $181.6 million and $88.9 million, respectively, to purchase primarily undeveloped acreage for future exploitation and exploration activities. The Company periodically evaluates and pursues acquisition opportunities (including opportunities to acquire particular oil and gas assets or entities owning oil and gas assets and opportunities to engage in mergers, consolidations or other business combinations with such entities) and at any given time may be in various stages of evaluating such opportunities. Such stages may take the form of internal financial analyses, oil and gas reserve analyses, due diligence, the submission of indications of interest, preliminary negotiations, negotiation of letters of intent or negotiation of definitive agreements. The success of any acquisition is uncertain and depends on a number of factors, some of which are outside the Companys control. See Item 1A. Risk Factors The Company may be unable to make attractive acquisitions and any acquisition it completes is subject to substantial risks that could adversely affect its business. Asset divestitures and discontinued operations. The Company regularly reviews its asset base for the purpose of identifying nonstrategic assets, the disposition of which would increase capital resources available for other activities and create organizational and operational efficiencies. While the Company generally does not dispose of assets solely for the purpose of reducing debt, such dispositions can have the result of furthering the Companys objective of increasing financial flexibility through reduced debt levels. During December 2011, the Company committed to a plan to divest its South Africa assets (Pioneer South Africa). The plan is expected to result in the sale of Pioneer South Africa assets during 2012. In accordance with GAAP, the Company has classified its South Africa assets and liabilities as discontinued operations held for sale in the Companys accompanying consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2011, and has recast Pioneer South Africas results of operations as income from discontinued operations, net of tax in the Companys accompanying consolidated statements of operations. During February 2011, the Company completed the sale of its share holdings in Pioneer Natural Resources Tunisia Ltd. and Pioneer Natural Resources Anaguid Ltd. (referred to in the aggregate as Pioneer Tunisia) for cash proceeds of $853.6 million, including normal closing adjustments. As a result of having committed to a plan to sell the Tunisian subsidiaries during 2010, the Company classified its Tunisian assets and liabilities as discontinued operations held for sale in the Companys accompanying consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2010, and recorded the historical results of operations of its Tunisian assets as income from discontinued operations, net of tax in the Companys accompanying consolidated statements of operations. The Company anticipates that it will continue to sell nonstrategic properties or other assets from time to time to increase capital resources available for other activities, to achieve operating and administrative efficiencies and to 8 Table of Contents PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY improve profitability. See Notes M and U of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for specific information regarding the Companys asset divestitures and discontinued operations, including the 2011 sale of Pioneer Tunisia and planned sale of Pioneer South Africa. Marketing of Production General. Production from the Companys properties is marketed using methods that are consistent with industry practices. Sales prices for oil, NGL and gas production are negotiated based on factors normally considered in the industry, such as an index or spot price, price regulations, distance from the well to the pipeline, commodity quality and prevailing supply and demand conditions. See Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk for additional discussion of operations and price risk. Significant purchasers. During 2011, the Companys significant purchasers of oil, NGLs and gas were Plains Marketing LP (16 percent), Occidental Energy Marketing Inc. (14 percent) and Enterprise Products Partners L.P. (12 percent). The Company believes that the loss of any one purchaser would not have an adverse effect on its ability to sell its oil, NGL and gas production. Derivative risk management activities. The Company utilizes commodity swap contracts, collar contracts and collar contracts with short puts to (i) reduce the effect of price volatility on the commodities the Company produces and sells, (ii) support the Companys annual capital budgeting and expenditure plans and (iii) reduce commodity price risk associated with certain capital projects. The Company also utilizes commodity swap contracts to reduce price volatility on the fuel that the Companys drilling rigs and fracture stimulation fleets consume. Effective February 1, 2009, the Company discontinued hedge accounting on all of its then existing hedge contracts and began accounting for its derivative contracts using the mark to market (MTM) method of accounting. See Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for a description of the Companys derivative risk management activities, Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, and Note I of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for information about the impact of commodity derivative activities on oil, NGL and gas revenues and net derivative gains and losses during 2011, 2010 and 2009, as well as the Companys open commodity derivative positions at December 31, 2011. Competition, Markets and Regulations Competition. The oil and gas industry is highly competitive. A large number of companies, including major integrated and other independent companies, and individuals engage in the exploration for and development of oil and gas properties, and there is a high degree of competition for oil and gas properties suitable for development or exploration. Acquisitions of oil and gas properties have been an important element of the Companys growth. The Company intends to continue acquiring oil and gas properties that complement its operations, provide exploration and development opportunities and potentially provide superior returns on investment. The principal competitive factors in the acquisition of oil and gas properties include the staff and data necessary to identify, evaluate and acquire such properties and the financial resources necessary to acquire and develop the properties. Many of the Companys competitors are substantially larger and have financial and other resources greater than those of the Company. Markets. The Companys ability to produce and market oil, NGLs and gas profitably depends on numerous factors beyond the Companys control. The effect of these factors cannot be accurately predicted or anticipated. Although the Company cannot predict the occurrence of events that may affect these commodity prices or the degree to which these prices will be affected, the prices for any commodity that the Company produces will generally approximate current market prices in the geographic region of the production. Securities regulations. Enterprises that sell securities in public markets are subject to regulatory oversight by agencies such as the SEC and the NYSE. This regulatory oversight imposes on the Company the responsibility for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting, and ensuring that the financial statements and other information included in submissions to the SEC do not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made in such submissions not misleading. Failure to comply with the rules and regulations of the SEC could subject the Company to litigation from public or private plaintiffs. Failure to comply with the rules of the NYSE could result in the de listing of the Companys common stock, which would have an adverse effect on the market price of the Companys common stock. Compliance with some of these rules and regulations is costly, and regulations are subject to change or reinterpretation. 9 Table of Contents PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY Environmental matters and regulations. The Companys operations are subject to stringent and complex foreign, federal, state and local laws and regulations governing environmental protection as well as the discharge of materials into the environment. These laws and regulations may, among other things: require the acquisition of various permits before drilling commences; enjoin some or all of the operations of facilities deemed in non compliance with permits; restrict the types, quantities and concentration of various substances that can be released into the environment in connection with oil and gas drilling, production and transportation activities; limit or prohibit drilling activities on certain lands lying within wilderness, wetlands and other protected areas; and require remedial measures to mitigate pollution from former and ongoing operations, such as requirements to close pits and plug abandoned wells. These laws, rules and regulations may also restrict the rate of oil and gas production below the rate that would otherwise be possible. The regulatory burden on the oil and gas industry increases the cost of doing business in the industry and consequently affects profitability. Additionally, the United States Congress and state legislatures, federal and state regulatory agencies and foreign government and agencies frequently revise environmental laws and regulations, and the clear trend in environmental regulation is to place more restrictions and limitations on activities that may affect the environment. Any changes that result in more stringent and costly waste handling, disposal and cleanup requirements for the oil and gas industry could have a significant impact on the Companys operating costs. The following is a summary of some of the laws, rules and regulations to which the Companys business operations are or may be subject. Waste handling. The Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) and comparable state statutes regulate the generation, transportation, treatment, storage, disposal and cleanup of hazardous and non hazardous wastes. Under the auspices of the federal Environmental Protection Agency (the EPA), the individual states administer some or all of the provisions of RCRA, sometimes in conjunction with their own, more stringent requirements. Drilling fluids, produced waters and most of the other wastes associated with the exploration, development and production of oil or gas are currently regulated under RCRAs non hazardous waste provisions. It is possible that certain oil and gas exploration and production wastes now classified as non hazardous could be classified as hazardous wastes in the future. Any such change could result in an increase in the Companys costs to manage and dispose of wastes, which could have a material adverse effect on the Companys results of operations and financial position. Also, in the course of the Companys operations, it generates some amounts of ordinary industrial wastes, such as paint wastes, waste solvents and waste oils that may be regulated as hazardous wastes. Wastes containing naturally occurring radioactive materials (NORM) may also be generated in connection with the Companys operations. Certain processes used to produce oil and gas may enhance the radioactivity of NORM, which may be present in oilfield wastes. NORM is subject primarily to individual state radiation control regulations. In addition, NORM handling and management activities are governed by regulations promulgated by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA). These state and OSHA regulations impose certain requirements concerning worker protection; the treatment, storage and disposal of NORM waste; the management of waste piles, containers and tanks containing NORM; as well as restrictions on the uses of land with NORM contamination. Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act. The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA), also known as the Superfund law, imposes joint and several liability, without regard to fault or legality of conduct, on classes of persons who are considered to be responsible for the release of a hazardous substance into the environment. These persons include the current and past owner or operator of the site where the release occurred, and anyone who disposed or arranged for the disposal of a hazardous substance released at the site. Under CERCLA, such persons may be subject to joint and several liability for the costs of cleaning up the hazardous substances that have been released into the environment, for damages to natural resources and for the costs of certain health studies. In addition, it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the hazardous substances released into the environment. 10 Table of Contents PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY The Company currently owns or leases numerous properties that have been used for oil and gas exploration and production for many years. Although the Company believes it has used operating and waste disposal practices that were standard in the industry at the time, hazardous substances, wastes or hydrocarbons may have been released on or under the properties owned or leased by the Company, or on or under other locations, including off site locations, where such substances have been taken for disposal. In addition, some of the Companys properties have been operated by third parties or by previous owners or operators whose treatment and disposal of hazardous substances, wastes or hydrocarbons were not under the Companys control. In fact, there is evidence that petroleum spills or releases have occurred in the past at some of the properties owned or leased by the Company. These properties and the substances disposed or released on them may be subject to CERCLA, RCRA and analogous state laws. Under such laws, the Company could be required to remove previously disposed substances and wastes, remediate contaminated property or perform remedial plugging or pit closure operations to prevent future contamination. Water discharges and use. The Clean Water Act (the CWA) and analogous state laws impose restrictions and strict controls with respect to the discharge of pollutants, including spills and leaks of oil and other substances, into waters of the United States. The discharge of pollutants into regulated waters is prohibited, except in accordance with the terms of a permit issued by the EPA or an analogous state agency. The CWA and regulations implemented thereunder also prohibit the discharge of dredge and fill material into regulated waters, including wetlands, unless authorized by an appropriately issued permit. Spill prevention, control and countermeasure requirements of federal laws require appropriate containment berms and similar structures to help prevent the contamination of navigable waters by a petroleum hydrocarbon tank spill, rupture or leak. Federal and state regulatory agencies can impose administrative, civil and criminal penalties for non compliance with discharge permits or other requirements of the CWA and analogous state laws and regulations. The primary federal law imposing liability for oil spills is the Oil Pollution Act (OPA), which sets minimum standards for prevention, containment and cleanup of oil spills. OPA applies to vessels, offshore facilities and onshore facilities, including exploration and production facilities that may affect waters of the United States. Under OPA, responsible parties, including owners and operators of onshore facilities, may be subject to oil spill cleanup costs and natural resource damages as well as a variety of public and private damages that may result from oil spills. Operations associated with the Companys properties also produce wastewaters that are disposed via injection in underground wells. These injection wells are regulated by the Safe Drinking Water Act (the SDWA) and analogous state and local laws. The underground injection well program under the SDWA requires permits from the EPA or analogous state agency for the Companys disposal wells, establishes minimum standards for injection well operations, and restricts the types and quantities of fluids that may be injected. Currently, the Company believes that disposal well operations on the Companys properties comply with all applicable requirements under the SDWA. However, a change in the regulations or the inability to obtain permits for new injection wells in the future may affect the Companys ability to dispose of produced waters and ultimately increase the cost of the Companys operations. In addition, in response to recent seismic events near underground injection wells used for the disposal of oil and gas related wastewaters, federal and state agencies have begun investigating whether such wells have caused increased seismic activity, and some states have shut down or imposed moratoria on the use of such injection wells. The U.S. Geological Survey is advising the EPA regarding potential seismic hazards associated with these types of underground injection wells. It is possible that federal or state agencies will seek to regulate more stringently the underground injection of oil and gas wastewaters as a result of these events. Nevertheless, the Company is not aware of any imminent actions by federal or state agencies that would affect its use or operation of underground injection wells. The Company also routinely uses hydraulic fracturing techniques in many of its drilling and completion programs. The process involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into rock formations to stimulate oil and gas production. The process is typically regulated by state oil and gas commissions. The EPA, however, recently asserted federal regulatory authority over hydraulic fracturing involving diesel fuels under the SDWA Underground Injection Control Program. In addition, legislation has been introduced before the United States Congress to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing under the SDWA and to require disclosure of the chemicals used in the fracturing process. At the state level, several states have adopted or are considering legal requirements that could impose more stringent permitting, disclosure and well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing activities. The Company believes that it follows applicable standard industry practices and legal requirements for groundwater protection in its hydraulic fracturing activities. Nonetheless, if new or more stringent federal, state or local legal restrictions relating to the hydraulic fracturing process are adopted in areas where the 11 Table of Contents PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY Company operates, the Company could incur potentially significant added costs to comply with such requirements, experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of exploration, development or production activities, and perhaps even be precluded from drilling wells. In addition, certain governmental reviews are either underway or proposed that focus on environmental aspects of hydraulic fracturing practices. The White House Council on Environmental Quality is coordinating an administration wide review of hydraulic fracturing practices, and a committee of the United States House of Representatives has conducted an investigation of hydraulic fracturing practices. The EPA has commenced a study of the potential environmental effects of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water and groundwater, with initial results expected to be available by late 2012 and final results by 2014. Moreover, the EPA is developing effluent limitations for the treatment and discharge of wastewater resulting from hydraulic fracturing activities and plans to propose these standards by 2014. Other governmental agencies, including the U.S. Department of Energy and the U.S. Department of the Interior, are evaluating various other aspects of hydraulic fracturing. These ongoing or proposed studies, depending on their degree of pursuit and any meaningful results obtained, could spur initiatives to further regulate hydraulic fracturing under the SDWA or other regulatory mechanisms. To the Companys knowledge, there have been no citations, suits or contamination of potable drinking water arising from its fracturing operations. The Company does not have insurance policies in effect that are intended to provide coverage for losses solely related to hydraulic fracturing operations; however, the Company believes its existing insurance policies would cover third party claims related to hydraulic fracturing operations and associated legal expenses, subject to the terms of such policies. The water produced by the Companys CBM operations also may be subject to the laws of various states and regulatory bodies regarding the ownership and use of water. For example, in connection with the Companys CBM operations in the Raton Basin in Colorado, water is removed from coal seams to reduce pressure and allow the methane to be recovered. Historically, these operations have been regulated by the state agency responsible for regulating oil and gas activity in the state. In a 2008 case brought by the owners of ranch land involving a CBM competitor in a different CBM basin in Colorado, the Colorado Supreme Court held that water produced in connection with the CBM operations should be subject to state water use regulations administered by a different agency that regulates other uses of water in the state, including requirements to obtain permits for diversion and use of surface and subsurface water, an evaluation of potential competing uses of the water, and a possible requirement to provide mitigation water for other water users. The Colorado legislature and state agency adopted laws and regulations in response to this ruling, but there continue to be litigation and uncertainty regarding permitting of produced water withdrawn in connection with CBM activities. The Companys CBM or other oil and gas operations and the Companys ability to expand its operations could be adversely affected, and these changes in regulation could ultimately increase the Companys cost of doing business. Air emissions. The Federal Clean Air Act (the CAA) and comparable state laws regulate emissions of various air pollutants through air emissions permitting programs and the imposition of other requirements. Such laws and regulations may require a facility to obtain pre approval for the construction or modification of certain projects or facilities expected to produce air emissions or result in the increase of existing air emissions; obtain or strictly comply with air permits containing various emissions and operational limitations; or utilize specific emission control technologies to limit emissions of certain air pollutants. In addition, the EPA has developed, and continues to develop, stringent regulations governing emissions of toxic air pollutants at specified sources. Moreover, states can impose air emissions limitations that are more stringent than the federal standards imposed by the EPA. Federal and state regulatory agencies can also impose administrative, civil and criminal penalties for non compliance with air permits or other requirements of the CAA and associated state laws and regulations. Permits and related compliance obligations under the CAA, as well as changes to state implementation plans for controlling air emissions in regional non attainment areas, may require the Company to incur future capital expenditures in connection with the addition or modification of existing air emission control equipment and strategies for gas and oil exploration and production operations. In addition, some gas and oil production facilities may be included within the categories of hazardous air pollutant sources, which are subject to increasing regulation under the CAA. Failure to comply with these requirements could subject a regulated entity to monetary penalties, injunctions, conditions or restrictions on operations and enforcement actions. Gas and oil exploration and production facilities may be required to incur certain capital expenditures in the future for air pollution control equipment in connection with obtaining and maintaining operating permits and approvals for air emissions. 12 Table of Contents PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY In July 2011, the EPA issued proposed rules that would subject all oil and gas operations (production, processing, transmission, storage and distribution) to regulation under the New Source Performance Standards (NSPS) and National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants programs. The EPAs proposed rules also include NSPS standards for completions of hydraulically fractured gas wells. These standards include the reduced emission completion techniques developed in the EPAs Natural Gas STAR program along with the flaring of gas. If finalized, these rules could require a number of modifications to the Companys operations, including the installation of new equipment. Compliance with such rules could result in significant new costs to the Company and make it more costly and time consuming to complete oil and gas wells. Any delay or decrease in the completion of new oil and gas wells could have a material adverse effect on the Companys liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, in response to reported concerns about high concentrations of benzene in the air near certain drilling sites and gas processing facilities in the Barnett Shale area, the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality (the TCEQ) adopted new air emissions limitations and permitting requirements for oil and gas facilities in the state, which are applicable to facilities located in the Barnett Shale area. The TCEQ may expand the application of the requirements to facilities in other areas of the state in 2012. These new requirements could increase the cost and time associated with drilling wells in the Barnett Shale or other areas of the state in the future. The agencys investigations could lead to additional, more stringent air permitting requirements, increased regulation, and possible enforcement actions against producers, including Pioneer, in the Barnett Shale area. Any adoption of laws, regulations, orders or other legally enforceable mandates governing gas drilling and operating activities in the Barnett Shale or other areas of the state that result in more stringent drilling or operating conditions or limit or prohibit the drilling of new gas wells for any extended period of time could increase the Companys costs and or reduce its production, which could have a material adverse effect on the Companys results of operations and cash flows. Endangered species. The federal Endangered Species Act (the ESA) and analogous state laws regulate activities that could have an adverse effect on threatened or endangered species. Some of the Companys operations are conducted in areas where protected species and or their habitats are known to exist. In these areas, the Company may be obligated to develop and implement plans to avoid potential adverse effects to protected species and their habitats, and the Company may be prohibited from conducting operations in certain locations or during certain seasons, such as breeding and nesting seasons, when the Companys operations could have an adverse effect on the species. It is also possible that a federal or state agency could order a complete halt to drilling activities in certain locations if it is determined that such activities may have a serious adverse effect on a protected species. The presence of a protected species in areas where the Company performs activities could result in increased costs of or limitations on the Companys ability to perform operations and thus have an adverse effect on the Companys business. The United States Fish and Wildlife Service has proposed listing the Dunes Sagebrush Lizard as endangered under the ESA and expects to make a final determination on the listing by June 2012. Some of the Companys operations in the Permian Basin are located in or near areas that may potentially be designated as Dunes Sagebrush Lizard habitat. If the lizard is classified as an endangered species, the Companys operations in any area that is designated as the lizards habitat may be limited, delayed or, in some circumstances, prohibited, and the Company may be required to comply with expensive mitigation measures intended to protect the lizard and its habitat. Moreover, as a result of a settlement approved by the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia in September 2011, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service is required to consider listing more than 250 species as endangered under the ESA and issue decisions with respect to the 250 candidate species over the next several years. The designation of previously unprotected species in areas where the Company operates as threatened or endangered could cause the Company to incur increased costs arising from species protection measures or could result in limitations on the Companys exploration and production activities that could have an adverse effect on the Companys ability to develop and produce its reserves. Health and safety. The Companys operations are subject to the requirements of the federal Occupational Safety and Health Act (the OSH Act) and comparable state statutes. These laws and the related regulations strictly govern the protection of the health and safety of employees. The OSH Act hazard communication standard, EPA community right to know regulations under Title III of CERCLA and similar state statues require that the Company organize or disclose information about hazardous materials used or produced in the Companys operations. The Company believes that it is in substantial compliance with these applicable requirements and with other OSH Act and comparable requirements. Global warming and climate change. In December 2009, the EPA officially published its findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases, or GHGs, present an endangerment to public 13 Table of Contents PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to warming of the Earths atmosphere and other climatic changes. These findings by the EPA allow the agency to proceed with the adoption and implementation of regulations that would restrict emissions of GHGs under existing provisions of the CAA. Based on these findings, the EPA has begun adopting and implementing regulations to restrict emissions of GHGs under existing provisions of the CAA. The EPA adopted two sets of rules that regulate greenhouse gas emissions under the CAA, one of which requires a reduction in emissions of GHGs from motor vehicles and the other of which regulates emissions of GHGs from certain large stationary sources. The EPA has also adopted rules requiring the reporting, on an annual basis, of greenhouse gas emissions from specified greenhouse gas emission sources in the United States, including petroleum refineries, as well as certain oil and gas production facilities. The Company is monitoring GHG emissions from its operations in accordance with the GHG emissions reporting rule and believes its monitoring activities are in substantial compliance with applicable reporting obligations. In addition, the United States Congress has from time to time considered adopting legislation to reduce emissions of GHGs and almost one half of the states have already taken legal measures to reduce emissions of GHGs primarily through the planned development of GHG emission inventories and or regional GHG cap and trade programs. Most of these cap and trade programs work by requiring major sources of emissions, such as electric power plants, or major producers of fuels, such as refineries and gas processing plants, to acquire and surrender emission allowances. The number of allowances available for purchase is reduced each year in an effort to achieve the overall GHG emission reduction goal. The adoption of legislation or regulatory programs to reduce emissions of GHGs could require the Company to incur increased operating costs, such as costs to purchase and operate emissions control systems, to acquire emissions allowances or comply with new regulatory or reporting requirements. Any such legislation or regulatory programs could also increase the cost of consuming, and thereby reduce demand for oil and gas, which could reduce the demand for the oil and gas the Company produces. Consequently, legislation and regulatory programs to reduce emissions of GHGs could have an adverse effect on the Companys business, financial condition and results of operations. It should be noted that some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of GHGs in the Earths atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts, and floods and other climatic events. If any such effects were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on the Companys financial condition and results of operations. Finally, other nations have been seeking to reduce emissions of GHGs pursuant to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, also known as the Kyoto Protocol, an international treaty pursuant to which participating countries (not including the United States) have agreed to reduce their emissions of GHGs. Depending on the particular jurisdiction in which the Companys operations are located, it could be required to purchase and surrender allowances for GHG emissions resulting from the Companys operations. The Company believes it is in substantial compliance with all existing environmental laws and regulations applicable to the Companys current operations and that its continued compliance with existing requirements will not have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial condition and results of operations. For instance, the Company did not incur any material capital expenditures for remediation or pollution control activities for the year ended December 31, 2011. Additionally, the Company is not aware of any environmental issues or claims that will require material capital expenditures during 2012. However, accidental spills or releases may occur in the course of the Companys operations, and the Company cannot give any assurance that it will not incur substantial costs and liabilities as a result of such spills or releases, including those relating to claims for damage to property and persons. Moreover, the Company cannot give any assurance that the passage of more stringent laws or regulations in the future will not have a negative effect on the Companys business, financial condition and results of operations. Other regulation of the oil and gas industry. The oil and gas industry is regulated by numerous foreign, federal, state and local authorities. Legislation affecting the oil and gas industry is under constant review for amendment or expansion, frequently increasing the regulatory burden. Also, numerous federal, state and foreign departments and agencies are authorized by statute to issue rules and regulations binding on the oil and gas industry and its individual members, some of which carry substantial penalties for failure to comply. Although the regulatory burden on the oil and gas industry may increase the Companys cost of doing business by increasing the cost of production, these burdens generally do not affect the Company any differently or to any greater or lesser extent than they affect other companies in the industry with similar types, quantities and locations of production. Development and production. Development and production operations are subject to various types of regulation at foreign, federal, state and local levels. These types of regulation include requiring permits for the 14 Table of Contents PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY drilling of wells, the posting of bonds in connection with various types of activities and filing reports concerning operations. Most states, and some counties and municipalities, in which the Company operates, also regulate one or more of the following: the location of wells; the method of drilling and casing wells; the method and ability to fracture stimulate wells; the surface use and restoration of properties upon which wells are drilled; the plugging and abandoning of wells; and notice to surface owners and other third parties. State laws regulate the size and shape of drilling and spacing units or proration units governing the pooling of oil and gas properties. Some states allow forced pooling or integration of tracts to facilitate exploration while other states rely on voluntary pooling of lands and leases. In some instances, forced pooling or unitization may be implemented by third parties and may reduce the Companys interest in the unitized properties. In addition, state conservation laws establish maximum rates of production from oil and gas wells, generally prohibit the venting or flaring of gas and impose requirements regarding the ratability of production. These laws and regulations may limit the amount of oil and gas the Company can produce from the Companys wells or limit the number of wells or the locations at which the Company can drill. Moreover, each state generally imposes a production or severance tax with respect to the production and sale of oil, NGL and gas within its jurisdiction. States do not regulate wellhead prices or engage in other similar direct regulation, but there can be no assurance that they will not do so in the future. The effect of such future regulations may be to limit the amounts of oil and gas that may be produced from the Companys wells, negatively affect the economics of production from these wells, or limit the number of locations the Company can drill. Regulation of transportation and sale of gas. The availability, terms and cost of transportation significantly affect sales of gas. Foreign, federal and state regulations govern the price and terms for access to gas pipeline transportation. Intrastate gas pipeline transportation activities are subject to various state laws and regulations, as well as orders of state regulatory bodies, including the Railroad Commission of Texas (the TRRC). The interstate transportation and sale of gas is subject to federal regulation, including regulation of the terms, conditions and rates for interstate transportation, storage and various other matters, primarily by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). Since 1985, FERC has endeavored to make gas transportation more accessible to gas buyers and sellers on an open and non discriminatory basis. Pursuant to the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (EPAct 2005) it is unlawful for any entity, including producers such as the Company, that are otherwise not subject to FERCs jurisdiction under the Natural Gas Act (the NGA) to use any deceptive or manipulative device or contrivance in connection with the purchase or sale of gas or the purchase or sale of transportation services subject to regulation by FERC, in contravention of rules prescribed by FERC. FERCs rules implementing this provision make it unlawful, in connection with the purchase or sale of gas subject to the jurisdiction of FERC, or the purchase or sale of transportation services subject to the jurisdiction of FERC, for any entity, directly or indirectly, to use or employ any device, scheme or artifice to defraud; to make any untrue statement of material fact or omit to make any such statement necessary to make the statements made not misleading; or to engage in any act or practice that operates as a fraud or deceit upon any person. EPAct 2005 also gives FERC authority to impose civil penalties for violations of the NGA up to $1.0 million per day per violation. The anti manipulation rule applies to activities of otherwise non jurisdictional entities to the extent the activities are conducted in connection with gas sales, purchases or transportation subject to FERC jurisdiction, which includes the annual reporting requirements under Order 704 (defined below). In December 2007, FERC issued rules (Order 704) requiring that any market participant, including a producer such as the Company, that engages in wholesale sales or purchases of gas that equal or exceed 2.2 million MMBtus during a calendar year annually report such sales and purchases to FERC. Order 704 is intended to increase the transparency of the wholesale gas markets and to assist FERC in monitoring those markets and in detecting market manipulation. Gas gathering. Section 1(b) of the NGA exempts gas gathering facilities from FERCs jurisdiction. The Company believes that its gathering facilities meet the traditional tests FERC has used to establish a pipeline systems status as a non jurisdictional gatherer. There is, however, no bright line test for determining the jurisdictional status of pipeline facilities. Moreover, the distinction between FERC regulated transmission services and federally unregulated gathering services is the subject of litigation from time to time, so the classification and 15 Table of Contents PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY regulation of some of the Companys gathering facilities may be subject to change based on future determinations by FERC and the courts. Thus, the Company cannot guarantee that the jurisdictional status of its gas gathering facilities will remain unchanged. While the Company owns or operates some gas gathering facilities, the Company also depends on gathering facilities owned and operated by third parties to gather production from its properties, and therefore the Company is impacted by the rates charged by such third parties for gathering services. To the extent that changes in foreign, federal and or state regulation affect the rates charged for gathering services, the Company also may be affected by such changes. Accordingly, the Company does not anticipate that the Company would be affected any differently than similarly situated gas producers. Regulation of transportation and sale of oil and NGLs. The availability, terms and cost of transportation significantly affect sales of oil and NGLs. Foreign, federal and state regulations govern the price and terms for access to pipeline transportation of oil and NGLs. Intrastate pipeline transportation activities are subject to various state laws and regulations, as well as orders of state regulatory bodies, including the TRRC. Interstate common carrier pipeline operations are subject to rate regulation by FERC under the Interstate Commerce Act (the ICA). The ICA requires that tariff rates for petroleum pipelines, which include both oil pipelines and refined products pipelines, be just and reasonable and non discriminatory. Energy commodity prices. Sales prices of gas, oil, condensate and NGLs are not currently regulated and are made at market prices. Although prices of these energy commodities are currently unregulated, the United States Congress historically has been active in their regulation. The Company cannot predict whether new legislation to regulate oil and gas, or the prices charged for these commodities might be proposed, what proposals, if any, might actually be enacted by the United States Congress or the various state legislatures and what effect, if any, the proposals might have on the Companys operations. Transportation of hazardous materials. The federal Department of Transportation has adopted regulations requiring that certain entities transporting designated hazardous materials develop plans to address security risks related to the transportation of hazardous materials. The Company does not believe that these requirements will have an adverse effect on the Company or its operations. The Company cannot provide any assurance that the security plans required under these regulations would protect against all security risks and prevent an attack or other incident related to the Companys transportation of hazardous materials. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The nature of the business activities conducted by the Company subjects it to certain hazards and risks. The following is a summary of some of the material risks relating to the Companys business activities. Other risks are described in Item 1. Business Competition, Markets and Regulations and Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. These risks are not the only risks facing the Company. The Companys business could also be affected by additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to the Company or that it currently deems to be immaterial. If any of these risks actually occurs, it could materially harm the Companys business, financial condition or results of operations and impair Pioneers ability to implement business plans or complete development activities as scheduled. In that case, the market price of the Companys common stock could decline. The prices of oil, NGL and gas are highly volatile. A sustained decline in these commodity prices could adversely affect the Companys financial condition and results of operations. The Companys revenues, profitability, cash flow and future rate of growth are highly dependent on commodity prices. Commodity prices may fluctuate widely in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil, NGL and gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond the Companys control, such as: domestic and worldwide supply of and demand for oil, NGL and gas; inventory levels at Cushing, Oklahoma, the benchmark for WTI oil prices; gas inventory levels in the United States; weather conditions; overall domestic and global political and economic conditions; actions of OPEC and other state controlled oil companies relating to oil price and production controls; 16 Table of Contents PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY the effect of LNG deliveries to the United States; technological advances affecting energy consumption and energy supply; domestic and foreign governmental regulations and taxation; the effect of energy conservation efforts; the proximity, capacity, cost and availability of pipelines and other transportation facilities; and the price and availability of alternative fuels. In the past, commodity prices have been extremely volatile, and the Company expects this volatility to continue. For example, during 2011, oil prices fluctuated from a high of $113.93 per Bbl in April to a low of $75.67 per Bbl in October, while gas prices fluctuated from a high of $4.85 per Mcf in June to a low of $2.99 per Mcf in December. During 2010, oil prices fluctuated from a low of $68.01 per Bbl in May to a high of $91.51 per Bbl in December, while gas prices fluctuated from a high of $6.01 per Mcf in January to a low of $3.29 per Mcf in October. The Company makes price assumptions that are used for planning purposes, and a significant portion of the Companys cash outlays, including rent, salaries and noncancellable capital commitments, are largely fixed in nature. Accordingly, if commodity prices are below the expectations on which these commitments were based, the Companys financial results are likely to be adversely and disproportionately affected because these cash outlays are not variable in the short term and cannot be quickly reduced to respond to unanticipated decreases in commodity prices. Significant or extended price declines could also adversely affect the amount of oil, NGL and gas that the Company can produce economically. A reduction in production could result in a shortfall in expected cash flows and require the Company to reduce capital spending or borrow funds to cover any such shortfall. Any of these factors could negatively affect the Companys ability to replace its production and its future rate of growth. The Company could experience periods of higher costs if commodity prices rise. These increases could reduce the Companys profitability, cash flow and ability to complete development activities as planned. Historically, the Companys capital and operating costs have risen during periods of increasing oil, NGL and gas prices. These cost increases result from a variety of factors beyond the Companys control, such as increases in the cost of electricity, steel and other raw materials that the Company and its vendors rely upon; increased demand for labor, services and materials as drilling activity increases; and increased taxes. Increased levels of drilling activity in the oil and gas industry in recent periods have led to increased costs of some drilling equipment, materials and supplies. Such costs may rise faster than increases in the Companys revenue, thereby negatively impacting the Companys profitability, cash flow and ability to complete development activities as scheduled and on budget. The Companys derivative risk management activities could result in financial losses. To achieve more predictable cash flow and to manage the Companys exposure to fluctuations in the prices of oil, NGL and gas, the Companys strategy is to enter into derivative arrangements covering a portion of its oil, NGL and gas production. These derivative arrangements are subject to MTM accounting treatment, and the changes in fair market value of the contracts are reported in the Companys statement of operations each quarter, which may result in significant net gains or losses. These derivative contracts may also expose the Company to risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including when: production is less than the contracted derivative volumes; the counterparty to the derivative contract defaults on its contract obligations; or the derivative contracts limit the benefit the Company would otherwise receive from increases in commodity prices. On the other hand, failure to protect against declines in commodity prices exposes the Company to reduced liquidity when prices decline. The failure by counterparties to the Companys derivative risk management activities to perform their obligations could have a material adverse effect on the Companys results of operations. The use of derivative risk management transactions involves the risk that the counterparties will be unable to meet the financial terms of such transactions. If any of these counterparties were to default on its obligations under the Companys derivative arrangements, such a default could have a material adverse effect on the Companys results of operations, and could result in a larger percentage of the Companys future production being subject to commodity price changes. 17 Table of Contents PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY Exploration and development drilling may not result in commercially productive reserves. Drilling involves numerous risks, including the risk that no commercially productive oil or gas reservoirs will be encountered. The cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain and drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or canceled, or become costlier, as a result of a variety of factors, including: unexpected drilling conditions; unexpected pressure or irregularities in formations; equipment failures or accidents; fracture stimulation accidents or failures; adverse weather conditions; restricted access to land for drilling or laying pipelines; and access to, and the cost and availability of, the equipment, services and personnel required to complete the Companys drilling, completion and operating activities. The Companys future drilling activities may not be successful and, if unsuccessful, such failure could have an adverse effect on the Companys future results of operations and financial condition. While all drilling, whether developmental, extension or exploratory, involves these risks, exploratory and extension drilling involves greater risks of dry holes or failure to find commercial quantities of hydrocarbons. The Company expects that it will continue to experience exploration and abandonment expense in 2012. Future price declines could result in a reduction in the carrying value of the Companys proved oil and gas properties, which could adversely affect the Companys results of operations. Declines in commodity prices may result in the Company having to make substantial downward adjustments to its estimated proved reserves. If this occurs, or if the Companys estimates of production or economic factors change, accounting rules may require the Company to impair, as a noncash charge to earnings, the carrying value of the Companys oil and gas properties. The Company is required to perform impairment tests on proved oil and gas properties whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of proved properties may not be recoverable. To the extent such tests indicate a reduction of the estimated useful life or estimated future cash flows of the Companys oil and gas properties, the carrying value may not be recoverable and therefore an impairment charge would be required to reduce the carrying value of the proved properties to their estimated fair value. For example, during 2011 and 2009, the Company recognized impairment charges of $354.4 million and $21.1 million, respectively, due to the impairment of the Companys Edwards and Austin Chalk gas fields in South Texas and the Uinta/Piceance area in Colorado, primarily due to declines in gas prices and downward adjustments to the economically recoverable resource potential. The Company may incur impairment charges in the future, which could materially affect the Companys results of operations in the period incurred. The Company periodically evaluates its unproved oil and gas properties and could be required to recognize noncash charges in the earnings of future periods. At December 31, 2011, the Company carried unproved property costs of $235.5 million. GAAP requires periodic evaluation of these costs on a project by project basis. These evaluations are affected by the results of exploration activities, commodity price outlooks, planned future sales or expiration of all or a portion of the leases, contracts and permits appurtenant to such projects. If the quantity of potential reserves determined by such evaluations is not sufficient to fully recover the cost invested in each project, the Company will recognize noncash charges in the earnings of future periods. The Company may be unable to make attractive acquisitions, and any acquisition it completes is subject to substantial risks that could adversely affect its business. Acquisitions of producing oil and gas properties have from time to time contributed to the Companys growth. The Companys growth following the full development of its existing property base could be impeded if it is unable to acquire additional oil and gas reserves on a profitable basis. Acquisition opportunities in the oil and gas industry are very competitive, which can increase the cost of, or cause the Company to refrain from, completing acquisitions. The success of any acquisition will depend on a number of factors and involves potential risks, including among other things: 18 Table of Contents PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY the inability to estimate accurately the costs to develop the reserves, the recoverable volumes of reserves, rates of future production and future net cash flows attainable from the reserves; the assumption of unknown liabilities, losses or costs for which the Company is not indemnified or for which the indemnity the Company receives is inadequate; the validity of assumptions about costs, including synergies; the impact on the Companys liquidity or financial leverage of using available cash or debt to finance acquisitions; the diversion of managements attention from other business concerns; and an inability to hire, train or retain qualified personnel to manage and operate the Companys growing business and assets. All of these factors affect whether an acquisition will ultimately generate cash flows sufficient to provide a suitable return on investment. Even though the Company performs a review of the properties it seeks to acquire that it believes is consistent with industry practices, such reviews are often limited in scope. As a result, among other risks, the Companys initial estimates of reserves may be subject to revision following an acquisition, which may materially and adversely affect the desired benefits of the acquisition. The Company may be unable to dispose of nonstrategic assets on attractive terms, and may be required to retain liabilities for certain matters. The Company regularly reviews its property base for the purpose of identifying nonstrategic assets, the disposition of which would increase capital resources available for other activities and create organizational and operational efficiencies. Various factors could materially affect the ability of the Company to dispose of nonstrategic assets or complete announced dispositions, including the availability of purchasers willing to purchase the nonstrategic assets at prices acceptable to the Company. Sellers typically retain certain liabilities or indemnify buyers for certain matters. The magnitude of any such retained liability or indemnification obligation may be difficult to quantify at the time of the transaction and ultimately may be material. Also, as is typical in divestiture transactions, third parties may be unwilling to release the Company from guarantees or other credit support provided prior to the sale of the divested assets. As a result, after a sale, the Company may remain secondarily liable for the obligations guaranteed or supported to the extent that the buyer of the assets fails to perform these obligations. The Company periodically evaluates its goodwill for impairment and could be required to recognize noncash charges in the earnings of future periods. At December 31, 2011, the Company carried goodwill of $298.1 million associated with its United States reporting unit. Goodwill is tested for impairment annually during the third quarter using a July 1 assessment date, and also whenever facts or circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the Companys goodwill may be impaired, requiring an estimate of the fair values of the reporting units assets and liabilities. Those assessments may be affected by (a) additional reserve adjustments both positive and negative, (b) results of drilling activities, (c) managements outlook for commodity prices and costs and expenses, (d) changes in the Companys market capitalization, (e) changes in the Companys weighted average cost of capital and (f) changes in income taxes related to the Companys United States reporting unit. If the fair value of the reporting units net assets is not sufficient to fully support the goodwill balance in the future, the Company will reduce the carrying value of goodwill for the impaired value, with a corresponding noncash charge to earnings in the period in which goodwill is determined to be impaired. The Companys gas processing operations are subject to operational risks, which could result in significant damages and the loss of revenue. As of December 31, 2011, the Company owned interests in four gas processing plants and ten treating facilities. The Company operates two of the gas processing plants and all ten of the treating facilities. There are significant risks associated with the operation of gas processing plants. Gas and NGLs are volatile and explosive and may include carcinogens. Damage to or improper operation of a gas processing plant or facility could result in an explosion or the discharge of toxic gases, which could result in significant damage claims in addition to interrupting a revenue source. 19 Table of Contents PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY The Companys operations involve many operational risks, some of which could result in substantial losses to the Company and unforeseen interruptions to the Companys operations for which the Company may not be adequately insured. The Companys operations, including well stimulation and completion activities, such as hydraulic fracturing, are subject to all the risks normally incident to the oil and gas development and production business, including: blowouts, cratering, explosions and fires; adverse weather effects; environmental hazards, such as gas leaks, oil spills, pipeline ruptures and discharges of toxic gases, brine, well stimulation and completion fluids or other pollutants in to the surface and subsurface environment; high costs, shortages or delivery delays of equipment, labor or other services; facility or equipment malfunctions, failures or accidents; title problems; pipe or cement failures or casing collapses; compliance with environmental and other governmental requirements; lost or damaged oilfield workover and service tools; unusual or unexpected geological formations or pressure or irregularities in formations; and natural disasters. The Companys overall exposure to operational risks may increase as its drilling activity expands and as it seeks to directly provide drilling, fracture stimulation and other services internally. Any of these risks could result in substantial losses to the Company due to injury or loss of life, damage to or destruction of wells, production facilities or other property, clean up responsibilities, regulatory investigations and penalties and suspension of operations. The Company is not fully insured against certain of the risks described above, either because such insurance is not available or because of the high premium costs and deductibles associated with obtaining such insurance. Additionally, the Company relies to a large extent on facilities owned and operated by third parties, and damage to or destruction of those third party facilities could affect the ability of the Company to produce, transport and sell its hydrocarbons. The Companys expectations for future drilling activities will be realized over several years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of such activities. The Company has identified drilling locations and prospects for future drilling opportunities, including development, exploratory and infill drilling and enhanced recovery activities. These drilling locations and prospects represent a significant part of the Companys future drilling plans. The Companys ability to drill and develop these locations depends on a number of factors, including the availability of capital, seasonal conditions, regulatory approvals, negotiation of agreements with third parties, commodity prices, costs, access to and availability of equipment, services and personnel and drilling results. Because of these uncertainties, the Company cannot give any assurance as to the timing of these activities or that they will ultimately result in the realization of proved reserves or meet the Companys expectations for success. As such, the Companys actual drilling and enhanced recovery activities may materially differ from the Companys current expectations, which could have a significant adverse effect on the Companys proved reserves, financial condition and results of operations. The Company may not be able to obtain access to pipelines, gas gathering, transportation, storage and processing facilities to market its oil, NGL and gas production. The marketing of oil, NGL and gas production depends in large part on the availability, proximity and capacity of pipelines and storage facilities, gas gathering systems and other transportation, processing and refining facilities, as well as the existence of adequate markets. If there were insufficient capacity available on these systems, or if these systems were unavailable to the Company, the price offered for the Companys production could be significantly depressed, or the Company could be forced to shut in some production or delay or discontinue drilling plans and commercial production following a discovery of hydrocarbons while it constructs its own facility. The Company also relies (and expects to rely in the future) on facilities developed and owned by third parties in order to store, process, transport and sell its oil, NGL and gas production. The Companys plans to develop and sell its oil and gas reserves could be materially and adversely affected by the inability or unwillingness of third parties to provide sufficient transportation, storage or processing facilities to the Company, especially in areas of planned expansion where such facilities do not currently exist. 20 Table of Contents PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY The nature of the Companys assets and operations exposes it to significant costs and liabilities with respect to environmental and operational safety matters. The oil and gas business involves the production, handling, sale and disposal of environmentally sensitive materials and is subject to environmental hazards such as oil spills, produced water spills, gas leaks and ruptures and discharges of substances or gases that could expose the Company to substantial liability due to pollution and other environmental damage. A variety of United States federal, state and local, as well as foreign laws and regulations govern the environmental aspects of the oil and gas business. Noncompliance with these laws and regulations may subject the Company to administrative, civil or criminal penalties, remedial cleanups, and natural resource damages or other liabilities, and compliance with these laws and regulations may increase the cost of the Companys operations. Such laws and regulations may also affect the costs of acquisitions. See Item 1. Business Competition, Markets and Regulations Environmental matters and regulations above for additional discussion related to environmental risks. No assurance can be given that existing or future environmental laws will not result in a curtailment of production or processing activities, result in a material increase in the costs of production, development, exploration or processing operations or adversely affect the Companys future operations and financial condition. Pollution and similar environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. The Companys credit facility and debt instruments have substantial restrictions and financial covenants that may restrict its business and financing activities. The Company is a borrower under fixed rate senior notes, senior convertible notes and a credit facility. The terms of the Companys borrowings under the senior notes, senior convertible notes and the credit facility specify scheduled debt repayments and require the Company to comply with certain associated covenants and restrictions. The Companys ability to comply with the debt repayment terms, associated covenants and restrictions is dependent on, among other things, factors outside the Companys direct control, such as commodity prices and interest rates. See Note E of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for information regarding the Companys outstanding debt as of December 31, 2011 and the terms associated therewith. The Companys ability to obtain additional financing is also affected by the Companys debt credit ratings and competition for available debt financing. 21 Table of Contents PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY The Company faces significant competition, and many of its competitors have resources in excess of the Companys available resources. The oil and gas industry is highly competitive. The Company competes with a large number of companies, producers and operators in a number of areas such as: seeking to acquire oil and gas properties suitable for development or exploration; marketing oil, NGL and gas production; and seeking to acquire the equipment and expertise, including trained personnel, necessary to evaluate, operate and develop properties. Many of the Companys competitors are larger and have substantially greater financial and other resources than the Company. See Item 1. Business Competition, Markets and Regulations for additional discussion regarding competition. The Company is subject to regulations that may cause it to incur substantial costs. The Companys business is regulated by a variety of federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations. For instance, the TCEQ recently adopted rules establishing new air emissions limitations and permitting requirements for oil and gas activities in the Barnett Shale area, which may increase the cost and time associated with drilling wells in that area. In addition, in connection with the Companys CBM operations in the Raton Basin in Colorado, the Colorado Supreme Court affirmed a state water court holding that water produced in connection with CBM operations should be subject to state water use regulations, including regulations requiring permits for diversion and use of surface and subsurface water, an evaluation of potential competing permits, possible uses of the water and a possible requirement to provide augmentation water supplies for water rights owners with more senior rights. There can be no assurance that present or future regulations will not adversely affect the Companys business and operations, including that the Company may be required to suspend drilling operations or shut in production pending compliance. See Item 1. Business Competition, Markets and Regulations for additional discussion regarding government regulation. The Companys sales of oil, gas and NGLs, and any derivative activities related to such energy commodities, expose the Company to potential regulatory risks. FERC, the Federal Trade Commission and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (the CFTC) hold statutory authority to monitor certain segments of the physical and futures energy commodities markets relevant to the Companys business. These agencies have imposed broad regulations prohibiting fraud and manipulation of such markets. With regard to the Companys physical sales of oil, gas and NGLs, and any derivative activities related to these energy commodities, the Company is required to observe the market related regulations enforced by these agencies, which hold substantial enforcement authority. Failure to comply with such regulations, as interpreted and enforced, could materially and adversely affect the Companys financial condition or results of operations. Estimates of proved reserves and future net cash flows are not precise. The actual quantities and net cash flows of the Companys proved reserves may prove to be lower than estimated. Numerous uncertainties exist in estimating quantities of proved reserves and future net cash flows therefrom. The estimates of proved reserves and related future net cash flows set forth in this Report are based on various assumptions, which may ultimately prove to be inaccurate. Petroleum engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. Estimates of economically recoverable oil and gas reserves and of future net cash flows depend upon a number of variable factors and assumptions, including the following: historical production from the area compared with production from other producing areas; the quality and quantity of available data; the interpretation of that data; the assumed effects of regulations by governmental agencies; assumptions concerning future commodity prices; and assumptions concerning future operating costs, severance, ad valorem and excise taxes, development costs, transportation costs and workover and remedial costs. 22 Table of Contents PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY Because all proved reserve estimates are to some degree subjective, each of the following items may differ materially from those assumed in estimating proved reserves: the quantities of oil and gas that are ultimately recovered; the production costs incurred to recover the reserves; the amount and timing of future development expenditures; and future commodity prices. Furthermore, different reserve engineers may make different estimates of proved reserves and cash flows based on the same available data. The Companys actual production, revenues and expenditures with respect to proved reserves will likely be different from estimates, and the differences may be material. As required by the SEC, the estimated discounted future net cash flows from proved reserves are based on average prices preceding the date of the estimate and costs as of the date of the estimate, while actual future prices and costs may be materially higher or lower. Actual future net cash flows also will be affected by factors such as: the amount and timing of actual production; levels of future capital spending; increases or decreases in the supply of or demand for oil, NGLs and gas; and changes in governmental regulations or taxation. The Company reports all proved reserves held under concessions utilizing the economic interest method, which excludes the host countrys share of proved reserves. Estimated quantities reported under the economic interest method are subject to fluctuations in commodity prices and recoverable operating expenses and capital costs. If costs remain stable, reserve quantities attributable to recovery of costs will change inversely to changes in commodity prices. Standardized Measure is a reporting convention that provides a common basis for comparing oil and gas companies subject to the rules and regulations of the SEC. In general, it requires the use of commodity prices that are based upon a 12 month unweighted average, as well as operating and development costs being incurred at the end of the reporting period. Consequently, it may not reflect the prices ordinarily received or that will be received for oil and gas production because of seasonal price fluctuations or other varying market conditions, nor may it reflect the actual costs that will be required to produce or develop the oil and gas properties. Accordingly, estimates included herein of future net cash flows may be materially different from the future net cash flows that are ultimately received. In addition, the ten percent discount factor, which is required by the SEC to be used in calculating discounted future net cash flows for reporting purposes, may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with the Company or the oil and gas industry in general. Therefore, the estimates of discounted future net cash flows or Standardized Measure in this Report should not be construed as accurate estimates of the current market value of the Companys proved reserves. The Companys actual production could differ materially from its forecasts. From time to time, the Company provides forecasts of expected quantities of future oil and gas production. These forecasts are based on a number of estimates, including expectations of production from existing wells and the outcome of future drilling activity. Should these estimates prove inaccurate, actual production could be adversely affected. In addition, the Companys forecasts assume that none of the risks associated with the Companys oil and gas operations summarized in this Item 1A. Risk Factors occur, such as facility or equipment malfunctions, adverse weather effects, or downturns in commodity prices or significant increases in costs, which could make certain drilling activities or production uneconomical. A subsidiary of the Company acts as the general partner of a publicly traded limited partnership. As such, the subsidiarys operations may involve a greater risk of liability than ordinary business operations. A subsidiary of the Company acts as the general partner of Pioneer Southwest, a publicly traded limited partnership formed by the Company to own, develop and acquire oil and gas assets in its area of operations. As general partner, the subsidiary may be deemed to have undertaken fiduciary obligations to Pioneer Southwest. 23 Table of Contents PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY Activities determined to involve fiduciary obligations to others typically involve a higher standard of conduct than ordinary business operations and therefore may involve a greater risk of liability, particularly when a conflict of interest is found to exist. Any such liability may be material. The tax treatment of Pioneer Southwest depends on its status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes as well as its not being subject to a material amount of entity level taxation by individual states. If the Internal Revenue Service (the IRS) were to treat Pioneer Southwest as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or Pioneer Southwest becomes subject to a material amount of entity level taxation for state tax purposes, then the value of the Companys investment in Pioneer Southwest would be substantially reduced. The Company currently owns a 52.4% limited partner interest and a 0.1% general partner interest in Pioneer Southwest. The value of the Companys investment in Pioneer Southwest depends largely on its being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. A publicly traded partnership may be treated as a corporation for United States federal income tax purposes unless 90 percent or more of its gross income for every year is qualifying income under section 7704 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Pioneer Southwest has not requested and does not plan to request a ruling from the IRS with respect to its treatment as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. A change in Pioneer Southwests business could cause it to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes. In addition, a change in current law may cause Pioneer Southwest to be treated as a corporation for such purposes. For example, members of United States Congress have from time to time considered substantive changes to the existing federal income tax laws that would affect the tax treatment of certain publicly traded partnerships. Moreover, because of widespread state budget deficits, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise or other forms of taxation. If Pioneer Southwest were subject to federal income tax as a corporation or any state was to impose a tax upon Pioneer Southwest, its cash available to pay distributions would be reduced. Therefore, treatment of Pioneer Southwest as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after tax return to Pioneer Southwests unitholders, including the Company, and would likely cause a substantial reduction in the value of the Companys investment in Pioneer Southwest. Pioneer Southwests partnership agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects it to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects it to entity level taxation for federal, state or local income tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution and the target distribution amounts may be adjusted to reflect the effect of that law on Pioneer Southwest. The Companys business could be negatively affected by security threats, including cybersecurity threats, and other disruptions. As an oil and gas producer, the Company faces various security threats, including cybersecurity threats to gain unauthorized access to sensitive information or to render data or systems unusable; threats to the security of the Companys facilities and infrastructure or third party facilities and infrastructure, such as processing plants and pipelines; and threats from terrorist acts. The potential for such security threats has subjected the Companys operations to increased risks that could have a material adverse effect on the Companys business. In particular, the Companys implementation of various procedures and controls to monitor and mitigate security threats and to increase security for the Companys information, facilities and infrastructure may result in increased capital and operating costs. Moreover, there can be no assurance that such procedures and controls will be sufficient to prevent security breaches from occurring. If any of these security breaches were to occur, they could lead to losses of sensitive information, critical infrastructure or capabilities essential to the Companys operations and could have a material adverse effect on the Companys reputation, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Cybersecurity attacks in particular are becoming more sophisticated and include, but are not limited to, malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data, and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in critical systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information, and corruption of data. These events could damage the Companys reputation and lead to financial losses from remedial actions, loss of business or potential liability. 24 Table of Contents PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY A failure by purchasers of the Companys production to perform their obligations to the Company could require the Company to recognize a pre tax charge in earnings and have a material adverse effect on the Companys results of operation. While the credit markets, the availability of credit and the equity markets have improved during 2010 and 2011, the economic outlook for 2012 remains uncertain. To the extent that purchasers of the Companys production rely on access to the credit or equity markets to fund their operations, there is a risk that those purchasers could default in their contractual obligations to the Company if such purchasers were unable to access the credit or equity markets for an extended period of time. If for any reason the Company were to determine that it was probable that some or all of the accounts receivable from any one or more of the purchasers of the Companys production were uncollectible, the Company would recognize a pre tax charge in the earnings of that period for the probable loss. Declining general economic, business or industry conditions could have a material adverse effect on the Companys results of operations. Concerns over the worldwide economic outlook, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit and the United States mortgage and real estate markets have contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the global economy. These factors, combined with volatile commodity prices, declining business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment resulted in a worldwide recession. While the worldwide economic outlook seems to be improving, concerns about global economic growth or government debt in the Eurozone or the United States could have a significant adverse effect on global financial markets and commodity prices. If the economic climate in the United States or abroad were to deteriorate, demand for petroleum products could diminish, which could depress the prices at which the Company could sell its oil, NGLs and gas and ultimately decrease the Companys net revenue and profitability. Certain United States federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development may be eliminated as a result of future legislation. In recent years, legislation has been proposed that would, if enacted into law, make significant changes to United States tax laws, including elimination of certain key United States federal income tax incentives currently available to oil and gas companies. Such tax legislation changes include, but are not limited to, (i) the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and gas properties, (ii) the elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and development costs, (iii) the elimination of the deduction for certain domestic production activities and (iv) an extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures. It is unclear whether these or similar changes will be enacted and, if enacted, how soon any such changes could become effective. The passage of this legislation or any other similar changes in United States federal income tax laws could eliminate or postpone certain tax deductions that are currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development, and any such change could negatively affect the value of an investment in the Companys common stock. The adoption of climate change legislation by the United States Congress or regulation by the EPA could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the oil, NGLs and gas the Company produces. During December 2009, the EPA officially published its findings that emissions of GHGs present an endangerment to public health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to warming of the Earths atmosphere and other climatic changes. Based on these findings, the EPA adopted two sets of rules that regulate greenhouse gas emissions under the CAA, one of which requires a reduction in emissions of GHGs from motor vehicles and the other of which regulates emissions of GHGs from certain large stationary sources. The EPA has also adopted rules requiring the reporting, on an annual basis, of greenhouse gas emissions from specified greenhouse gas emission sources in the United States, including petroleum refineries as well as certain oil and gas production facilities. The Company is monitoring GHG emissions from its operations in accordance with the GHG emissions reporting rule and believes that its monitoring activities are in substantial compliance with applicable reporting obligations. In addition, the United States Congress has from time to time considered adopting legislation to reduce emissions of GHGs and almost one half of the states have already taken legal measures to reduce emissions of GHGs primarily through the planned development of GHG emission inventories and or regional GHG cap and trade programs. Most of these cap and trade programs work by requiring major sources of emissions, such as electric power plants, or major producers of fuels, such as refineries and gas processing plants, to acquire and surrender emission allowances. The number of allowances available for purchase is reduced each year in an effort to achieve the overall GHG emission reduction goal. 25 Table of Contents PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY The adoption of legislation or regulatory programs to reduce emissions of GHGs could require the Company to incur increased operating costs, such as costs to purchase and operate emissions control systems, to acquire emissions allowances or comply with new regulatory or reporting requirements. Any such legislation or regulatory programs could also increase the cost of consuming, and thereby reduce demand for oil and gas, which could reduce the demand for the oil and gas the Company produces. Consequently, legislation and regulatory programs to reduce emissions of GHGs could have an adverse effect on the Companys business, financial condition and results of operations. Finally, it should be noted that some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of GHGs in the Earths atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts, and floods and other climatic events. If any such effects were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on the Companys financial condition and results of operations. See Item 1. Business Competition, Markets and Regulations. The recent adoption of derivatives legislation by the United States Congress could have an adverse effect on the Companys ability to use derivative instruments to reduce the effect of commodity price, interest rate and other risks associated with its business. The United States Congress recently adopted comprehensive financial reform legislation that establishes federal oversight and regulation of the over the counter derivatives market and entities, such as the Company, that participate in that market. The legislation, known as the Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the Act), was signed into law by the President in July 2010 and requires the CFTC and the SEC to promulgate rules and regulations to implement the new legislation. In December 2011, the CFTC extended temporary exemptive relief from certain regulations applicable to swaps until no later than July 16, 2012. In its rulemaking under the Act, the CFTC has issued final regulations to set position limits for certain futures and option contracts in the major energy markets and for swaps that are their economic equivalents. Certain bona fide derivative transactions would be exempt from these position limits. It is not possible at this time to predict when the CFTC will make these regulations effective. The financial reform legislation may also require the Company to comply with margin requirements and with certain clearing and trade execution requirements in connection with its derivatives activities, although the application of those provisions to the Company is uncertain at this time. The financial reform legislation may also require the counterparties to the Companys derivative instruments to spin off some of their derivatives activities to a separate entity, which may not be as creditworthy as the current counterparty. The legislation and any new regulations could significantly increase the cost of derivative contracts (including through requirements to post collateral which could adversely affect the Companys available liquidity), materially alter the terms of derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against risks the Company encounters, reduce the Companys ability to monetize or restructure its existing derivative contracts, and increase the Companys exposure to less creditworthy counterparties. If the Company reduces its use of derivatives as a result of the legislation and regulations, the Companys results of operations may become more volatile and its cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect the Companys ability to plan for and fund capital expenditures. Finally, the legislation was intended, in part, to reduce the volatility of oil and gas prices, which some legislators attributed to speculative trading in derivatives and commodity instruments related to oil and gas. The Companys revenues could therefore be adversely affected if a consequence of the legislation and regulations is to lower commodity prices. Any of these consequences could have a material, adverse effect on the Company, its financial condition and its results of operations. Federal and state legislation and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays. Hydraulic fracturing is an important and common practice that is used to stimulate production of hydrocarbons from tight formations. The Company routinely utilizes hydraulic fracturing techniques in many of its drilling and completion programs. The process involves the injection of water, sand and chemicals under pressure into rock formations to stimulate oil and gas production. The process is typically regulated by state oil and gas commissions. The EPA, however, recently asserted federal regulatory authority over hydraulic fracturing involving diesels under the SDWAs Underground Injection Control Program. Moreover, the EPA issued proposed rules in July 2011 that would subject oil and gas production activities to regulation under the NSPS air emissions program, including, among other things, the implementation of standards for reduced emission completion techniques to be used during hydraulic fracturing activities. In addition, legislation has been introduced before the United States Congress to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing under the SDWA and to require disclosure of the 26 Table of Contents PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY chemicals used in the fracturing process. At the state level, several states have adopted or are considering legal requirements that could impose more stringent permitting, disclosure and well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing activities. Nonetheless, if new or more stringent federal, state or local legal restrictions relating to the hydraulic fracturing process are adopted in areas where the Company operates, it could incur potentially significant added costs to comply with such requirements, experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of exploration, development or production activities, and perhaps even be precluded from drilling wells. In addition, certain governmental reviews are either underway or being proposed that focus on environmental aspects of hydraulic fracturing practices. The White House Council on Environmental Quality is coordinating an administration wide review of hydraulic fracturing practices, and a committee of the United States House of Representatives has conducted an investigation of hydraulic fracturing practices. The EPA has commenced a study of the potential environmental effects of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water and groundwater, with initial results expected to be available by late 2012 and final results by 2014. Moreover, the EPA is developing effluent limitations for the treatment and discharge of wastewater resulting from hydraulic fracturing activities and plans to propose these standards by 2014. Other governmental agencies, including the U.S. Department of Energy and the U.S. Department of the Interior, are evaluating various other aspects of hydraulic fracturing. These ongoing or proposed studies, depending on their degree of pursuit and any meaningful results obtained, could spur initiatives to further regulate hydraulic fracturing under the SDWA or other regulatory mechanisms. Provisions of the Companys charter documents and Delaware law may inhibit a takeover, which could limit the price investors might be willing to pay in the future for the Companys common stock. Provisions in the Companys certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing an acquisition of the Company or a merger in which the Company is not the surviving company and may otherwise prevent or slow changes in the Companys board of directors and management. In addition, because the Company is incorporated in Delaware, it is governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. These provisions could discourage an acquisition of the Company or other change in control transaction and thereby negatively affect the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for the Companys common stock. The Company is growing production in areas of high industry activity, which may impact its ability to obtain the personnel, equipment, services, resources and facilities access needed to complete its development activities as planned or result in increased costs. The Companys strategy is to expand drilling activity in areas in which industry activity has increased rapidly, particularly in the Spraberry field area, the Eagle Ford Shale play in South Texas and the Barnett Shale Combo play in North Texas. As a result, demand for personnel, equipment, hydraulic fracturing services, proppant for fracture stimulation operations, water and other services and resources, as well as access to transportation, processing and refining facilities in these areas has increased, as has the costs for those items. A delay or inability to secure the personnel, equipment, services, resources and facilities access necessary for the Company to complete its development activities as planned could result in a rate of oil and gas production below the rate forecasted, and significant increases in costs would impact the Companys profitability. Laws and regulations pertaining to threatened and endangered species could delay or restrict the Companys operations and cause it to incur substantial costs. Various state and federal statutes prohibit certain actions that adversely affect endangered or threatened species and their habitats, migratory birds, wetlands and natural resources. These statutes include the ESA, the Migratory Bird Treaty Act, the CWA and CERCLA. The United States Fish and Wildlife Service may designate critical habitat and suitable habitat areas that it believes are necessary for survival of threatened or endangered species. A critical habitat or suitable habitat designation could result in further material restrictions to federal land use and private land use and could delay or prohibit land access or oil and gas development. If harm to species or damages to wetlands, habitat or natural resources occur or may occur, government entities, or at times private parties, may act to prevent oil and gas exploration or development activities or seek damages for harm to species, habitat or natural resources resulting from drilling or construction or releases of oil, wastes, hazardous substances or other regulated materials, and may seek damages and, in some cases, criminal penalties. The United States Fish and Wildlife Service has proposed listing the Dunes Sagebrush Lizard as endangered under the ESA and expects to make a final determination on the listing by June 2012. Some of the Companys operations in the Permian Basin are located in or near areas that may potentially be designated as Dunes Sagebrush Lizard habitat. If the lizard is 27 Table of Contents PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY classified as an endangered species, the Companys operations in any area that is designated as the lizards habitat may be limited, delayed or, in some circumstances, prohibited, and the Company may be required to comply with expensive mitigation measures intended to protect the lizard and its habitat. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS As of December 31, 2011, the Company did not have any SEC staff comments that have been unresolved for more than 180 days. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES Reserve Rule Changes During 2009, the SEC issued its final rule on the modernization of oil and gas reporting (the Reserve Ruling) and, during 2010, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2010 03 (ASU 2010 03) Extractive Industries Oil and Gas, which aligned the estimation and disclosure requirements of FASB Accounting Standards Codification Topic 932 with the Reserve Ruling. The Reserve Ruling and ASU 2010 03 became effective for Annual Reports on Form 10 K for fiscal years ending on or after December 31, 2009. The key provisions of the Reserve Ruling and ASU 2010 03 are as follows: Expanding the definition of oil and gas producing activities to include the extraction of saleable hydrocarbons, in the solid, liquid or gaseous state, from oil sands, coalbeds or other nonrenewable natural resources that are intended to be upgraded into synthetic oil or gas, and activities undertaken with a view to such extraction; Amending the definition of proved oil and gas reserves to require the use of an average of the first day of the month commodity prices during the 12 month period ending on the balance sheet date rather than period end commodity prices; Adding to and amending other definitions used in estimating proved oil and gas reserves, such as reliable technology and reasonable certainty; Broadening the types of technology that a reporter may use to establish reserves estimates and categories; and Changing disclosure requirements and providing formats for tabular reserve disclosures. Reserve Estimation Procedures and Audits The information included in this Report about the Companys proved reserves as of December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, which were located in the United States, South Africa and Tunisia, is based on evaluations prepared by (i) the Companys engineers and audited by Netherland, Sewell & Associates, Inc. (NSAI), with respect to the Companys major properties, and (ii) the Companys engineers, with respect to all other properties. The Company has no oil and gas reserves from non traditional sources. Additionally, the Company does not provide optional disclosure of probable or possible reserves. See Notes B and U of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for information regarding the sale of the Companys share holdings in Pioneer Tunisia during February 2011, which owned the Companys Tunisia proved reserves. Reserve estimation procedures. The Company has established internal controls over reserve estimation processes and procedures to support the accurate and timely preparation and disclosure of reserve estimates in accordance with SEC and GAAP requirements. These controls include oversight of the reserves estimation reporting processes by Pioneers Worldwide Reserves Group (the WWR), and annual external audits of substantial portions of the Companys proved reserves by NSAI. The management of Pioneers oil and gas assets is decentralized geographically by individual asset teams who are responsible for the oil and gas activities in each of the Companys Permian Basin, Rockies, Mid Continent, South Texas Eagle Ford Shale, South Texas Edwards, Barnett Shale, Alaska and Africa asset teams (the Asset Teams). The Companys Asset Teams are each staffed with reservoir engineers and geoscientists who prepare reserve estimates at the end of each calendar quarter for the assets that they manage, using reservoir engineering information technology. There is shared oversight of the Asset Teams reservoir engineers by the Asset Teams managers and the Director of the WWR, each of whom is in turn subject to direct or indirect oversight by the Companys Chief Operating Officer (COO) and management committee (MC). The Companys MC is comprised of its Chief Executive Officer, COO, Chief Financial Officer and other Executive Vice Presidents. The Asset Teams reserve estimates are reviewed by the asset team reservoir engineers before being submitted to the WWR for further review. 28 Table of Contents PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY The reserve estimates are summarized in reserve reconciliations that quantify reserve changes since the previous year end by revisions of previous estimates, purchases of minerals in place, improved recovery, extensions and discoveries, production and sales of minerals in place. All reserve estimates, material assumptions and inputs used in reserve estimates and significant changes in reserve estimates are reviewed for engineering and financial appropriateness and compliance with SEC and GAAP standards by the WWR, in consultation with the Companys accounting and financial management personnel. Annually, the MC reviews the reserve estimates and any differences with NSAI (for the portion of the reserves audited by NSAI) on a consolidated basis before these estimates are approved. The engineers and geoscientists who participate in the reserve estimation and disclosure process periodically attend training on the Reserve Ruling by external consultants and or through internal Pioneer programs. Additionally, the WWR has prepared and maintains written policies and guidelines for the Asset Teams to reference on reserve estimation and preparation to promote objectivity in the preparation of the Companys reserve estimates and SEC and GAAP compliance in the reserve estimation and reporting process. Proved reserves audits. The proved reserve audits performed by NSAI in the aggregate represented 90 percent, 90 percent and 93 percent of the Companys 2011, 2010 and 2009 proved reserves, respectively; and, 91 percent, 79 percent and 86 percent of the Companys 2011, 2010 and 2009 associated pre tax present value of proved reserves discounted at ten percent, respectively. NSAI follows the general principles set forth in the standards pertaining to the estimating and auditing of oil and gas reserve information promulgated by the Society of Petroleum Engineers (the SPE). A reserve audit as defined by the SPE is not the same as a financial audit. The SPEs definition of a reserve audit includes the following concepts: A reserve audit is an examination of reserve information that is conducted for the purpose of expressing an opinion as to whether such reserve information, in the aggregate, is reasonable and has been presented in conformity with the 2007 SPE publication entitled Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserves Information. The estimation of reserves is an imprecise science due to the many unknown geologic and reservoir factors that cannot be estimated through sampling techniques. Since reserves are only estimates, they cannot be audited for the purpose of verifying exactness. Instead, reserve information is audited for the purpose of reviewing in sufficient detail the policies, procedures and methods used by a company in estimating its reserves so that the reserve auditors may express an opinion as to whether, in the aggregate, the reserve information furnished by a company is reasonable. The methods and procedures used by a company, and the reserve information furnished by a company, must be reviewed in sufficient detail to permit the reserve auditor, in its professional judgment, to express an opinion as to the reasonableness of the reserve information. The auditing procedures require the reserve auditor to prepare its own estimates of reserve information for the audited properties. In conjunction with the audit of the Companys proved reserves and associated pre tax present value discounted at ten percent, Pioneer provided to NSAI its external and internal engineering and geoscience technical data and analyses. Following NSAIs review of that data, it had the option of honoring Pioneers interpretation, or making its own interpretation. No data was withheld from NSAI. NSAI accepted without independent verification the accuracy and completeness of the historical information and data furnished by Pioneer with respect to ownership interest, oil and gas production, well test data, commodity prices, operating and development costs, and any agreements relating to current and future operations of the properties and sales of production. However, if in the course of its evaluation something came to its attention that brought into question the validity or sufficiency of any such information or data, NSAI did not rely on such information or data until it had satisfactorily resolved its questions relating thereto or had independently verified such information or data. In the course of its evaluations, NSAI prepared, for all of the audited properties, its own estimates of the Companys proved reserves and the pre tax present value of such reserves discounted at ten percent. NSAI reviewed its audit differences with the Company, and, in a number of cases, held joint meetings with the Company to review additional reserves work performed by the technical teams and any updated performance data related to the proved reserve differences. Such data was incorporated, as appropriate, by both parties into the proved reserve estimates. NSAIs estimates, including any adjustments resulting from additional data, of those proved reserves and the pre tax present value of such reserves discounted at ten percent did not differ from Pioneers estimates by more than ten percent in the aggregate. However, when compared on a lease by lease, field by field or area by area basis, some of the Companys estimates were greater than those of NSAI and some were less than the estimates of NSAI. When such differences do not exceed ten percent in the aggregate and NSAI is satisfied that the proved reserves and pre tax 29 Table of Contents PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY present value of such reserves discounted at ten percent are reasonable and that its audit objectives have been met, NSAI will issue an unqualified audit opinion. Remaining differences are not resolved due to the limited cost benefit of continuing such analyses by the Company and NSAI. At the conclusion of the audit process, it was NSAIs opinion, as set forth in its audit letter, which is included as an exhibit to this Report, that Pioneers estimates of the Companys proved oil and gas reserves and associated pre tax present value discounted at ten percent are, in the aggregate, reasonable and have been prepared in accordance with the Standards Pertaining to the Estimating and Auditing of Oil and Gas Reserves Information promulgated by the SPE. See Item 1A. Risk Factors, Critical Accounting Estimates in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis and Results of Operations and 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Financial and Operating Performance Pioneers financial and operating performance for 2011 included the following highlights: Earnings attributable to common stockholders increased to $834.5 million ($6.88 per diluted share), as compared to $605.2 million ($5.08 per diluted share) in 2010. The increase in earnings attributable to common stockholders is primarily due to: A $575.8 million increase in oil and gas revenues as a result of increasing sales volumes and higher average oil and NGL sales prices; A $289.1 million increase in income from discontinued operations, net of associated income taxes, primarily attributable to a $645.2 million pretax gain on the sale of Pioneer Tunisia during February 2011; and A $68.3 million decrease in exploration and abandonments expense, primarily due to a reduction in exploratory dry hole provisions; partially offset by: A $354.4 million impairment provision on dry gas properties in the Edwards and Austin Chalk fields in South Texas; A $137.5 million decrease in net hurricane activity due to the receipt in 2010 of $140 million of insurance proceeds; A $107.5 million increase in DD&A, primarily due to increased sales volumes; An $88.3 million increase in oil and gas production costs, primarily due to increases in lease operating expenses as a result of higher sales volumes and inflation of oilfield service costs; and A $55.7 million decrease in net derivative gains, primarily due to reduced interest rate derivative gains during 2011; Daily sales volumes from continuing operations increased on a BOE basis by 16 percent to 120,418 BOEPD during 2011, as compared to 103,823 BOEPD during 2010, primarily due to the success of the Companys drilling programs; Average reported oil and NGL prices from continuing operations increased during 2011 to $96.60 and $46.27 per Bbl, respectively, as compared to respective average reported prices of $90.56 and $38.14 per Bbl during 2010. Partially offsetting the increases in average reported oil and NGL prices was a decrease in average reported gas prices to $3.84 per Mcf during 2011, as compared to $4.18 per Mcf during 2010; Average oil and gas production costs and total ad valorem and production taxes per BOE from continuing operations increased during 2011 to $10.32 and $3.35, respectively, as compared to respective per BOE costs of $9.61 and $2.96 during 2010, primarily as a result of inflation of well servicing costs, increased transportation and treating costs and higher commodity prices; Net cash provided by operating activities increased by $244.7 million, or 19 percent, to $1.5 billion for 2011, as compared to $1.3 billion during 2010, primarily due to the increases in oil and gas sales volumes, oil and NGL prices and realized derivative gains; Long term debt was reduced by $72.8 million and the Companys cash and cash equivalents increased by $426.3 million during 2011; During November 2011, the Company completed an offering of 5.5 million shares of its common stock at a per share offering price of $92.03 and realized $484.2 million of associated proceeds, net of offering costs. The Company is using the net proceeds from this offering for general corporate purposes, including expansion of its drilling in the horizontal Wolfcamp Shale play in the Spraberry field; During 2011, the Company continued to expand its integrated services to control drilling and completion costs and support the execution of its accelerated drilling program. The Company has increased its owned drilling rigs to 15 and increased its owned fracture stimulation fleets to ten during 2011; 46 Table of Contents PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY During December 2011, Pioneer Southwest completed a public offering of 4.4 million common units, including 1.8 million common units owned by Pioneer, at a per unit offering price of $29.20. The Company realized $123.0 million of consolidated proceeds, net of offering costs, associated with this offering; During December 2011, the Company committed to a plan to sell Pioneer South Africa. The Company expects to complete the sale of Pioneer South Africa during 2012. In accordance with GAAP, the Company has classified Pioneer South Africa assets and liabilities as discontinued operations held for sale in the Companys accompanying consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2011, and has recast Pioneer South Africas results of operations as income from discontinued operations, net of associated income taxes, in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data; and As of December 31, 2011, the Companys net debt to book capitalization was 26 percent, as compared to 37 percent as of December 31, 2011. The Company was upgraded to investment grade by one of its debt rating agencies during the fourth quarter of 2011. First Quarter 2012 Continuing Operations Outlook Based on current estimates, the Company expects that first quarter 2012 production will average 141,000 to 146,000 BOEPD, reflecting increased 2012 drilling activity. First quarter production costs (including production and ad valorem taxes and transportation costs) are expected to average $13.00 to $15.00 per BOE, based on current NYMEX strip prices for oil and gas. DD&A expense is expected to average $13.00 to $15.00 per BOE. Total exploration and abandonment expense for the quarter is expected to be $35 million to $60 million, the higher limit of which reflects the potential dry hole costs associated with two exploration wells being drilled in Alaska. General and administrative expense is expected to be $49 million to $54 million. Interest expense is expected to be $45 million to $49 million, and other expense is expected to be $20 million to $30 million. Accretion of discount on asset retirement obligations from continuing operations is expected to be $2 million to $4 million. Noncontrolling interest in consolidated subsidiaries net income, excluding noncash derivative MTM adjustments, is expected to be $9 million to $12 million, primarily reflecting the public ownership in Pioneer Southwest. During January 2012, the Company sold a portion of its interest in an unproved oil and gas property in the Eagle Ford Shale to unaffiliated third parties for $54.8 million. The Company expects to record a pretax gain of $40 million to $43 million attributable to this transaction during the three months ended March 31, 2012. The Companys first quarter effective income tax rate from continuing operations is expected to range from 35 percent to 40 percent, assuming current capital spending plans and no significant derivative MTM changes in the Companys derivative position. Cash income taxes are expected to be $2 million to $5 million and are primarily attributable to state taxes. 2012 Capital Budget Pioneers capital program for 2012 totals $2.5 billion, consisting of $2.4 billion for drilling operations, including budgeted land capital for existing assets, and $100 million for vertical integration. The 2012 budget excludes acquisitions, asset retirement obligations, capitalized interest and geological and geophysical general and administrative expense. The 2012 drilling capital of $2.4 billion continues to be focused on oil and liquids rich drilling, with 89 percent of the capital allocated to the Spraberry field, including the horizontal Wolfcamp Shale play, the Eagle Ford Shale play and the Barnett Shale Combo play. Following is a breakdown of the forecasted spending by asset area: Spraberry field, excluding Horizontal Wolfcamp Shale $1.5 billion; Horizontal Wolfcamp Shale $275 million; Eagle Ford Shale $130 million (reflecting 25 percent of anticipated 2011 drilling costs, with the remaining 75 percent to be funded by a contractual drilling carry benefit); 47 Table of Contents PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY Barnett Shale Combo play $215 million; Alaska $135 million; and Other spending $120 million, including land capital for existing assets. Funds for the expansion of Pioneers integrated fracture stimulation and well service operations are budgeted at $100 million in 2012. The 2012 capital budget is expected to be funded from cash and cash equivalents and forecasted operating cash flow. Acquisitions During 2011, 2010 and 2009, the Company spent $131.9 million, $181.6 million and $88.9 million, respectively, to acquire primarily undeveloped acreage for future exploitation and exploration activities. The 2011 and 2010 acquisitions primarily increased the Companys acreage positions in the South Texas Eagle Ford Shale play, Barnett Shale play and West Texas Spraberry field. The 2009 acquisitions primarily increased the Companys acreage positions in the South Texas Eagle Ford Shale play. Divestitures and Discontinued Operations Pioneer South Africa. As referred to in Financial and Operating Performance above, in December 2011 the Company committed to a plan to divest Pioneer South Africa. The assets and liabilities of Pioneer South Africa are classified as discontinued operations held for sale in the Companys accompanying consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2011 and the results of operations of Pioneer South Africa are reported as income from discontinued operations, net of tax in all periods presented in the Companys accompanying consolidated statements of operations (see Notes B and U of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for additional information about the Companys discontinued operations). Pioneer Tunisia. During December 2010, the Company committed to a plan to sell Pioneer Tunisia. The assets and liabilities of Pioneer Tunisia are classified as discontinued operations held for sale in the Companys accompanying consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2010. In February 2011 the Company sold its share holdings in Pioneer Tunisia for net proceeds of $853.6 million and recorded an associated pretax gain of $645.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2011. Pioneer Tunisias historical results of operations, and the related gain recorded on the disposition of Pioneer Tunisia, are reported as discontinued operations, net of tax in the Companys accompanying consolidated statements of operations. Eagle Ford Shale. In June 2010, the Company entered into an Eagle Ford Shale joint venture. Associated therewith, the Company sold 45 percent of its Eagle Ford Shale proved and unproved oil and gas properties to an unaffiliated third party for $212.0 million of cash proceeds, including normal closing adjustments. Under the terms of the transaction, the purchaser is also paying 75 percent (up to $886.8 million) of the Companys defined exploration, drilling and completion costs attributable to the Eagle Ford Shale assets during the six years ending on July 1, 2016, subject to extension. As of December 31, 2011, the purchaser had satisfied $398.2 million of the obligation to pay 75 percent of the Companys defined exploration, drilling and completion costs attributable to Eagle Ford Shale assets and continues to be obligated to pay $488.6 million of the Companys future qualifying costs. The Companys current expectations are that the purchasers obligation to pay 75 percent of the Companys defined exploration, drilling and completion costs attributable to Eagle Ford Shale assets will be satisfied by the end of 2012. Uinta/Piceance. During the first half of 2010, the Company sold certain proved and unproved oil and gas properties in the Uinta/Piceance area for net proceeds of $11.8 million and the assumption by the purchaser of certain asset retirement obligations, resulting in a pretax gain of $17.3 million. The historical results and the related gain on disposition are reported as discontinued operations, net of tax. Mississippi and Gulf of Mexico Shelf. During June and August 2009, the Company sold its Mississippi and shelf properties in the Gulf of Mexico, respectively, for aggregate net proceeds of $23.6 million, resulting in a pretax gain of $17.5 million. The historical results and the related gain on disposition are reported as discontinued operations, net of tax. 48 Table of Contents PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY Results of Operations Oil and gas revenues. Oil and gas revenues from continuing operations totaled $2.3 billion, $1.7 billion and $1.4 billion during 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The increase in 2011 oil and gas revenues relative to 2010 is reflective of seven percent and 21 percent increases in average reported oil and NGL prices, respectively and 44 percent, 14 percent and three percent increases in oil, NGL, and gas sales volumes respectively; partially offset by an eight percent decrease in average reported gas prices. The increase in 2010 oil and gas revenues relative to 2009 is reflective of 20 percent, 28 percent and eight percent increases in average reported oil, NGL and gas prices, respectively and a 13 percent increase in oil volumes; partially offset by a five percent decrease in gas volumes. The following table provides average daily sales volumes from continuing operations for 2011, 2010 and 2009: Year Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 Oil (Bbls) 40,618 28,211 24,968 NGLs (Bbls) 22,487 19,736 19,680 Gas (Mcf) 343,879 335,256 352,749 Total (BOE) 120,418 103,823 103,440 Average daily BOE sales volumes in 2011 increased by 16 percent as compared to 2010 principally due to the Companys successful United States drilling program and declines in scheduled VPP deliveries. Oil volumes delivered under the Companys VPPs decreased by 45 percent from 2010 to 2011. The Companys only remaining obligations under VPP agreement are to deliver 1,281,000 Bbls of oil during 2012. The following table provides average daily sales volumes from discontinued operations by geographic area and in total during 2011, 2010 and 2009: Year Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 Oil (Bbls): United States 554 South Africa 530 616 375 Tunisia 547 4,880 6,531 Worldwide 1,077 5,496 7,460 NGLs (Bbls): United States 29 Gas (Mcf): United States 1,899 South Africa 20,570 29,760 25,538 Tunisia 496 2,849 1,668 Worldwide 21,066 32,609 29,105 Total (BOE): United States 900 South Africa 3,958 5,576 4,631 Tunisia 630 5,355 6,809 Worldwide 4,588 10,931 12,340 In South Africa, sales volumes in 2011 declined by 29 percent from 2010, primarily due to unplanned production curtailments resulting from third party gas to liquid plant downtime and normal well declines. In Tunisia, sales volumes in 2011 decreased from those of 2010, due to the sale of Pioneer Tunisia during February 2011. 49 Table of Contents PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY The oil, NGL and gas prices that the Company reports are based on the market prices received for the commodities adjusted for transfers of the Companys deferred hedge gains and losses from the effective portions of the discontinued deferred hedges included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) net deferred hedge gains (losses), net of tax (AOCI Hedging) and the amortization of deferred VPP revenue. See Derivative activities and Deferred revenue discussion below for additional information regarding the Companys cash flow hedging activities and the amortization of deferred VPP revenue. The following table provides average reported prices from continuing operations (including deferred hedge gains and losses and the amortization of deferred VPP revenue) and average realized prices from continuing operations (excluding deferred hedge gains and losses and the amortization of deferred VPP revenue) for 2011, 2010 and 2009: Year Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 Average reported prices: Oil (per Bbl) $ 96.60 $ 90.56 $ 75.60 NGL (per Bbl) $ 46.27 $ 38.14 $ 29.76 Gas (per Mcf) $ 3.84 $ 4.18 $ 3.88 Total (per BOE) $ 52.19 $ 45.34 $ 37.15 Average realized prices: Oil (per Bbl) $ 91.35 $ 74.21 $ 55.04 NGL (per Bbl) $ 46.27 $ 37.12 $ 28.45 Gas (per Mcf) $ 3.84 $ 4.15 $ 3.32 Total (per BOE) $ 50.42 $ 40.61 $ 30.02 Derivative activities. The Company utilizes commodity swap contracts, collar contracts and collar contracts with short puts in order to (i) reduce the effect of price volatility on the commodities the Company produces, sells or consumes, (ii) support the Companys annual capital budgeting and expenditure plans and (iii) reduce commodity price risk associated with certain capital projects. Effective February 1, 2009, the Company discontinued hedge accounting on all of its then existing hedge contracts. Changes in the fair value of effective cash flow hedges prior to the Companys discontinuance of hedge accounting were recorded as a component of AOCI Hedging in the stockholders equity section of the Companys accompanying consolidated balance sheets, and are being transferred to earnings during the same periods in which the hedged transactions are recognized in the Companys earnings. Since February 1, 2009, the Company has recognized all changes in the fair values of its derivative contracts as gains or losses in the earnings of the periods in which they occur. The following table summarizes the transfers of deferred hedge gains and losses associated with oil, NGL and gas cash flow hedges from AOCI Hedging to oil, NGL and gas revenues for the years ending December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 (in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 Increase to oil revenue from AOCI Hedging transfers $ 32,918 $ 78,052 $ 88,873 Increase to NGL revenue from AOCI Hedging transfers 7,297 9,402 Increase to gas revenue from AOCI Hedging transfers 3,691 22,791 Total $ 32,918 $ 89,040 $ 121,066 The Company will transfer $3.1 million of deferred hedge losses to oil revenues during the year ended December 31, 2012, which transfer represents the remaining deferred hedge losses recorded in AOCI Hedging as of December 31, 2011. See Note I of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Notes B and U of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for information about the planned sale of Pioneer South Africa. 68 Table of Contents PIONEER NATURAL RESOURCES COMPANY The Companys financial results and Pioneer South Africa results of operations could be affected by factors impacting foreign operations such as changes in foreign currency exchange rates, changes in the legal or regulatory environment, economic conditions or changes in political or economic climates and other factors. For example: Local political and economic developments could restrict, or increase the cost of, Pioneers foreign operations; Exchange controls and currency fluctuations could result in financial losses; Royalty and tax increases and retroactive tax claims could increase costs of the Companys foreign operations; Expropriation of the Companys property could result in loss of revenue, property and equipment; Civil uprising, riots, terrorist attacks and wars could make it impractical to continue operations, resulting in financial losses; Compliance with applicable U.S. law could be in conflict with the Companys contractual obligations, the laws of foreign governments or local customs; Import and export regulations and other foreign laws or policies could result in loss of revenues; Repatriation levels for export revenues could restrict the availability of cash to fund operations outside a particular foreign country; and Laws and policies of the U.S. affecting foreign trade, taxation and investment could restrict the Companys ability to fund foreign operations or may make foreign operations more costly. The Company does not currently maintain political risk insurance for Pioneer South Africa. Africa. The Company views the operating environment in South Africa as stable and the economic stability as good. While the value of South Africas currency fluctuates in relation to the U.S. dollar, the Company believes that any currency risk associated with Pioneer South Africas operations prior to its sale in 2012 would not have a material impact on the Companys reported discontinued operations given that Pioneer South Africas revenues are closely tied to oil prices, which are denominated in U.S. dollars. 69 Table of Contents 
 
