FILE:MO/MO-8K-20030415160320.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.    Other Events.
 
On April 14, 2003, Altria Group, Inc. announced that its domestic tobacco subsidiary, Philip Morris USA Inc., has obtained trial court approval of an Order on Defendant's Request for Reduction of Bond and Stay of Enforcement of the Judgment in in Illinois. The Order is attached as Exhibit 99.2 to this Form 8-K and incorporated herein by reference.
Price, et al. v. Philip Morris Incorporated
 
 
Item 7.    Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c)    Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
DATE: April 15, 2003
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Madison County Circuit Court Judge Nicholas Byron today reduced the size of the bond that Philip Morris USA must provide in order to obtain a stay of execution of the judgment while the case is on appeal.
NEW YORK (April 14, 2003) 
Price
 
Judge Byron ordered an appeal bond secured by $800 million in cash payable in four equal quarterly installments of $200 million beginning September 2003, and a preexisting $6 billion long-term note to be placed in escrow pending the resolution of the case.
 
"This is an onerous but viable solution to this issue. It will allow Philip Morris USA to exercise its constitutional right to appeal, and to make this year's payment under the Master Settlement Agreement with the states," said William S. Ohlemeyer, Philip Morris USA vice president and associate general counsel. "We look forward to promptly beginning our appeal on the merits of this case."
 
At issue was the company's ability to obtain a $12 billion bond Judge Byron ordered last month pending Philip Morris USA's appeal of the $10.1 billion judgment in the "lights" class action case, formerly known as the case. The company had said it could not post a bond that large.
Miles
 
In addition, the company had said it was uncertain whether it would be able to meet its $2.6 billion payment due April 15 as part of its Master Settlement Agreement with the states without relief from the $12 billion bonding requirement. The company said today that it will make its payment on schedule.
 
In his order, Byron has directed Philip Morris USA to place in an escrow account with an Illinois financial institution its rights to a preexisting $6 billion long-term note. Future interest payments due on the note will be deposited into an account maintained by the Clerk of the Madison County Circuit Court. In addition, Philip Morris USA will deposit $800 million into the same account in four equal quarterly installments, between September 2003 and June 2004.
 
The $6 billion term note, issued in April 2002 by Philip Morris USA's parent company, Altria Group, Inc., part of an inter-company financing arrangement, bears interest at the rate of seven percent; the principal is due and payable to Philip Morris USA in three equal installments on April 1 in years 2008, 2009 and 2010.
 
Beginning October 1, 2003, Philip Morris USA will place the $210 million interest received every six months into the county account. Interest will accrue on all cash deposited into the account.
 
In exchange, the Court ordered that enforcement of the $10.1 billion judgment "shall be stayed through the completion of all judicial review" up to, and including, the U.S. Supreme Court.
 
Neither the lawyers nor any members of the class will be entitled to any of the money held in the escrow account or the county account unless Judge Byron's decision is upheld on appeal. If Philip Morris USA prevails on appeal, the escrowed note and all cash deposited with the Court will be returned to the company, with accrued interest less an administrative fee determined by the court.
 
Earlier this month, the company petitioned Judge Byron to reduce the bond required in order to stay execution of the judgment by the plaintiffs. Under Illinois Supreme Court rules regarding bonds, the trial court or other appellate courts have authority to reduce the bond required in order to stay enforcement of a judgment on appeal.
 
Judge Byron's decision paving the way for the company to file its appeal came after considering the matter in closed-door hearings with Philip Morris USA and attorneys for the plaintiffs.
 
"We want to appeal the Court's decision, as well as the class-certification order that preceded it. "We believe that, once this case is reviewed by an appellate court, this verdict will be overturned because of the errors that occurred during trial," Ohlemeyer said.
 
Ohlemeyer noted that federal and state courts have almost uniformly rejected class actions in cigarette cases. Since the landmark decision in 1996, courts have rejected class actions in 27 separate decisions, while allowing only three cases to go to trial.
Castano
 
"The issues that the Madison County court attempted to decide are national in scope and governed by federal laws and regulations. It is not appropriate for a state judge to substitute his judgment on these issues for those of the Congress and the U.S. Federal Trade Commission."
 

EXHIBIT 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
This Cause came to be heard on that portion of the post-judgment motion of defendant Philip Morris USA Inc. (f/k/a Philip Morris Incorporated; hereafter "PM-USA") that seeks a stay of enforcement of this Court's March 21, 2003 Judgment Order ("Judgment") upon the posting of a bond of less than the $12 billion ordered in the Judgment. After due notice and hearings, this Court GRANTS the request over the objection of the Plaintiffs. Illinois Supreme Court Rule 305(b). If PM-USA's post-judgment motion is otherwise denied, this Court's Judgment shall be deemed modified such that enforcement of the Judgment shall be stayed through the completion of all judicial review (whether of the merits or of any application for review of the merits, including without limitation by the Supreme Court of the United States), if PM-USA has filed a bond in the form attached to this Order as Exhibit A.
See
PM-USA shall comply with the following requirements:
 
 
 
 
and is not subject to any lien, security interest or other charge or encumbrance or any other type of preferential arrangement.
 
 
 
 
 
 
(i) in direct obligations of, or obligations the timely payment of principal of and interest on which are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by, the United States of America, its agencies or instrumentalities, maturing no more than 91 days after the date of acquisition thereof, (ii) in repurchase agreements fully collateralized
 
 
by securities described in clause (i) above and with a counterparty whose long-term debt securities are rated "AA" or higher by Standard & Poor's and "Aa" or higher by Moody's or (iii) money market mutual funds, the investments of which may include but are not limited to marketable obligations issued or guaranteed by the United States of America, its agencies or instrumentalities, bank instruments, corporate debt securities issued by U.S. or foreign companies, commercial paper, demand instruments, adjustable rate obligations, asset-backed securities, restricted securities and fully collateralized repurchase agreements, that any such money market mutual fund shall (a) be subject to the requirements of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, (b) have net assets of not less than $2,500,000,000 and (c) have a rating from Standard & Poor's of not less than "AAA," , , that the investment in any money market fund described in this clause (iii) shall not constitute more than 5% of the total assets of such money market fund at the time of investment. The parties may mutually agree to retain an Investment Advisor to monitor the investment of the funds deposited with the Clerk of the Court. Fees for such an Investment Advisor shall be paid out of the interest generated on the Principal.
provided
provided
further
 
 
 
a result of any tax liabilities paid on behalf of such person or entity pursuant to this paragraph, then PM-USA shall either pay any such liability directly or reimburse any such person or entity immediately upon demand for any such taxes paid.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Know all men by these presents that we, Philip Morris USA Inc. (f/k/a Philip Morris Incorporated) (hereinafter "PM-USA"), a Virginia corporation, are held and firmly bound unto the Plaintiff Class in the above-captioned case, 00-L-112, obligee, in the penal sum of:
 
 
 
 
 
for the payment of which sum we bind ourselves and our successors and assigns firmly by these presents.
 
The condition of the above obligation is premised on the fact that on March 21, 2003, in the Circuit Court of the Third Judicial Circuit, Madison County, Illinois, the Plaintiff Class in 00-L-112 received judgment against PM-USA and in favor of the Plaintiff Class for, in total, Ten Billion, One Hundred Million, Five Hundred Thousand Dollars and 00/100 Cents ($10,100,500,000.00), of which Three Billion Dollars and 00/100 Cents ($3,000,000,000.00) is punitive damages (being awarded to the State of Illinois), (the "Judgment"). PM-USA is appealing from the Judgment to the Appellate Court of Illinois, Fifth District, and to such higher courts as may be appropriate.
 
This appeal bond shall be secured by the Escrow Agreement and the funds held by the Clerk of the Court in accordance with this Court's April 14, 2003 Order on Defendant's Request for Reduction of Bond and Stay of Enforcement of the Judgment.
 
Now, therefore, if the Judgment is dismissed, reversed or otherwise vacated, or if PM-USA shall pay the Judgment (including interest and costs), or such part of the Judgment that is not reversed or otherwise vacated, then the above obligation will be void. If the Judgment is affirmed in whole or part, and all judicial review (including by the Supreme Court of the United States) is completed, but the Judgment (including interest and costs) or any portion thereof is not paid, the obligation will remain in full force and effect up to the amount of any such unpaid portion of the Judgment.
 
Witness our signature and seal this day of April, 2003.
    
 
 
 
The foregoing bond is approved by me this day of April, 2003.
    
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.3
 
 
 
 
 
 
Know all men by these presents that we, Philip Morris USA Inc. (f/k/a Philip Morris Incorporated) (hereinafter "PM-USA"), a Virginia corporation, are held and firmly bound unto the Plaintiff Class in the above-captioned case, 00-L-112, obligee, in the penal sum of:
 
 
 
 
 
for the payment of which sum we bind ourselves and our successors and assigns firmly by these presents.
 
The condition of the above obligation is premised on the fact that on March 21, 2003, in the Circuit Court of the Third Judicial Circuit, Madison County, Illinois, the Plaintiff Class in 00-L-l12 received judgment against PM-USA and in favor of the Plaintiff Class for, in total, Ten Billion, One Hundred Million, Five Hundred Thousand Dollars and 00/100 Cents ($10,100,500,000.00), of which Three Billion Dollars and 00/100 Cents ($3,000,000,000.00) is punitive damages (being awarded to the State of Illinois), (the "Judgment"). PM-USA is appealing from the Judgment to the Appellate Court of Illinois, Fifth District, and to such higher courts as may be appropriate.
 
This appeal bond shall be secured by the Escrow Agreement and the funds held by the Clerk of the Court in accordance with this Court's April 14, 2003 Order on Defendant's Request for Reduction of Bond and Stay of Enforcement of the Judgment.
 
Now, therefore, if the Judgment is dismissed, reversed or otherwise vacated, or if PM-USA shall pay the Judgment (including interest and costs), or such part of the Judgment that is not reversed or otherwise vacated, then the above obligation will be void. If the Judgment is affirmed in whole or in part, and all judicial review (including by the Supreme Court of the United States) is completed, but the Judgment (including interest and costs) or any portion thereof is not paid, the obligation will remain in full force and effect up to the amount of any such unpaid portion of the Judgment.
 
Witness our signature and seal this day of April, 2003.
14th
 
 
 
The foregoing bond is approved by me this day of April, 2003.
14th
 
 


