FILE:MO/MO-8K-20031104171635.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Altria Group, Inc. (the "Company") has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") a Prospectus dated October 30, 2003 and a Prospectus Supplement dated October 30, 2003 (Registration No. 333-35143) in connection with the public offering of $500,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 5
 5
/
8
% Notes due 2008 and $1,000,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 7% Notes due 2013 (collectively, the "Notes"). The purpose of this Current Report on Form 8-K (the "Report") is to file with the Commission the Terms Agreement and certain other documents related to such offering.
 
         The following documents are filed as part of this Report.
Item 7.
Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Information and Exhibits.
 
(c) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: November 4, 2003
 

Exhibit 1
 
EXECUTION COPY
 
 
 
 
 
Altria Group, Inc.
120 Park Avenue
New York, New York 10017
 
 
Dear Ladies and Gentlemen:
 
We offer to purchase, on and subject to the terms and conditions of the Underwriting Agreement relating to Debt Securities and Warrants to Purchase Debt Securities dated as of December 1, 1997 in connection with the Company's registration statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-35143) (the "Underwriting Agreement"), the following securities ("Debt Securities") on the following terms:
 
 
 
The principal amounts of the Debt Securities to be severally purchased by each of the Underwriters are set forth opposite their names in Schedule I hereto.
 
Except as set forth below, the provisions of the Underwriting Agreement are incorporated herein by reference and the following provisions are hereby added thereto and made a part thereof:
 
1. Subsection (g) of Section 4 of the Underwriting Agreement is subject to the letter agreement entered into on the date hereof between the Company and the Representatives.
 
2. The Company represents and agrees with each Underwriter that the documents incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus on or before the Closing Date, when they were or are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, conformed or will conform, as the case may be, in all material respects to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), and the Rules and Regulations thereunder.
 
3. Subsection (a) of Section 2 of the Underwriting Agreement is hereby amended by adding the following sentence: "Notwithstanding the foregoing, and except as otherwise specified, any reference herein to the Registration Statement or the Prospectus shall be deemed to include all documents incorporated therein by reference pursuant to the requirements of Item 12 of Form S-3 under the Act that have been filed pursuant to the Exchange Act, prior to the execution of the applicable Terms Agreement referred to in Section 3."
 
4. Section 2 of the Underwriting Agreement is hereby further amended by adding the following additional representations and warranties:
 
"(c) The Company and its subsidiaries possess adequate certificates, authorities or permits issued by appropriate governmental agencies or bodies necessary to conduct the business now operated by them, except to the extent that the failure to possess such certificates, authorities or permits would not reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on the condition (financial or other), business, properties or results of operations of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole ("Material Adverse Effect"), and have not received any notice of proceedings relating to the revocation or modification of any such certificate, authority or permit that, if determined adversely to
 
the Company or any of its subsidiaries, would individually or in the aggregate have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
(d) There are no pending or to the Company's knowledge, threatened, actions, suits or proceedings against or affecting the Company, any of its subsidiaries or any of their respective properties that are required to be disclosed in the Prospectus that are not so disclosed.
 
(e) The financial statements included in the Registration Statement and Prospectus present fairly the consolidated financial position of the Company and its subsidiaries as of the dates shown and their results of operations and cash flows for the periods shown and all such financial statements have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States applied on a consistent basis (except for changes required by changes in such accounting principles) and comply as to form with the applicable accounting requirements of the Act; any schedules included in the Registration Statement present fairly the information required to be stated therein; the summary and selected financial data included in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus, if any, present fairly, on the basis stated in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus, the information shown therein; and with respect to any pro forma financial information included in the Registration Statement and Prospectus, the assumptions used in preparing such pro forma financial information provide a reasonable basis for presenting the significant effects directly attributable to the transactions or events described therein, and the related pro forma adjustments give appropriate effect to those assumptions.
 
(f) Other than as set forth in the Prospectus, since the date of the latest audited financial statements included in the Prospectus, there has been no material adverse change in the condition (financial or other), business, properties or results of operations of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole, and there has been no extraordinary dividend or extraordinary distribution of any kind declared, paid or made by the Company on any class of its capital stock.
 
(g) The Company is not and, after giving effect to the offering and sale of the Securities and the application of the proceeds thereof as described in the Prospectus, will not be an "investment company" as defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended."
 
5. Subsection (f) of Section 4 of the Underwriting Agreement is hereby amended by adding the following sentence at the end thereof: "Such documentation and information may be furnished or made available electronically."
 
6. Subsection (c) of Section 5 of the Underwriting Agreement is hereby amended as follows:
 
(a) Clause (iii) thereof is deleted in its entirety and the following new clause (iii) is substituted therefor:
 
"(iii) any material suspension or material limitation of trading in securities generally on the New York Stock Exchange, or any material disruption in commercial banking or securities settlement or clearance services, or any setting of minimum prices for trading any securities of the Company on the New York Stock Exchange, or any suspension of trading of any securities of the Company on the New York Stock Exchange."
 
7. Subsection (d) of Section 5 of the Underwriting Agreement is hereby amended as follows:
 
(a) The following new clause (viii) is added:
 
"(viii) the documents incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus on or before the Closing Date, when they were or are filed with the Commission, conformed or will conform, as the case may be, in all material respects to the requirements of the Exchange Act and the Rules and Regulations thereunder."
 
8. For purposes of Section 6 of the Underwriting Agreement, the only information furnished to the Company by the Underwriters for use in the prospectus supplement consists of the following information: the concession and reallowance figures appearing in the sixth paragraph under the caption "Underwriting" in the prospectus supplement, the information contained in the ninth and tenth paragraphs under the caption "Underwriting" in the prospectus supplement and, assuming that the Debt Securities are rated investment grade by the applicable rating agencies, the last sentence of the thirteenth paragraph under the caption "Underwriting" in the prospectus supplement.
 
9. The following selling restrictions apply to the offer and sale of the Debt Securities:
 
(a) Each Underwriter hereby severally represents and agrees that it and its affiliates have not offered, sold or delivered and it and its affiliates will not offer, sell or deliver, directly or indirectly, any of the Debt Securities or distribute the Prospectus, or any other offering material relating to the Debt Securities, in or from any jurisdiction except under circumstances that comply with the applicable laws and regulations thereof, including obtaining any consent, approval or permission required for the offer or sale of the Debt Securities, and that will not impose any obligation on the Company except as set forth in the Underwriting Agreement and herein.
 
(b) Each Underwriter hereby severally represents and agrees that:
 
(1) it has not offered or sold and, prior to the expiry of a period of six months from the issue date of the Debt Securities, will not offer or sell any Debt Securities to persons in the United Kingdom except to persons whose ordinary activities involve them in acquiring, holding, managing or disposing of investments (as principal or agent) for the purposes of their businesses or otherwise in circumstances which have not
 
resulted and will not result in an offer to the public in the United Kingdom within the meaning of the Public Offers of Securities Regulations 1995;
 
(2) it has only communicated or caused to be communicated and will only communicate or cause to be communicated any invitation or inducement to engage in investment activity (within the meaning of section 21 of the Financial Services and Markets Act of 2000 of the United Kingdom (the "FSMA")) received by it in connection with the issue or sale of any Debt Securities in circumstances in which section 21(1) of the FSMA does not apply to the Company; and
 
(3) it has complied and will comply with all applicable provisions of the FSMA with respect to anything done by it in relation to such Debt Securities in, from or otherwise involving the United Kingdom.
 
(c) Each Underwriter hereby severally represents and agrees that it will comply with the Securities Sales Prospectus Act (, the "Act") of the Federal Republic of Germany and all other applicable legal and regulatory requirements. In particular, each of the Underwriters has represented and agreed that it has not engaged and has agreed that it will not engage in a public offering () within the meaning of the Act with respect to any Debt Securities otherwise than in accordance with the Act.
Wertpapier-Verkaufsprospektgesetz
ffentliches Angebot
 
(d) Each Underwriter hereby severally represents and agrees that it has not offered or sold, and will not offer or sell, directly or indirectly, the Debt Securities to the public in France and that offers and sales of the Debt Securities in France will be made only to qualified investors () as defined in Article L.411-2 of the French Code and decree no. 98-880 dated 1 October 1998. In addition, each Underwriter hereby severally represents and agrees that it has not distributed or caused to be distributed and will not distribute or cause to be distributed in France the Prospectus or any other offering material relating to the Debt Securities other than to investors to whom offers and sales of the Debt Securities in France may be made as described above.
investisseurs qualifis
montaire et financier
 
(e) Each Underwriter hereby severally represents and agrees that the Debt Securities may not be offered, sold, transferred or delivered in or from The Netherlands, as part of its initial distribution or as part of any re-offering, and neither the Prospectus nor any other document in respect of the offering may be distributed or circulated in The Netherlands, other than to individuals or legal entities which include, but are not limited to, banks, brokers, dealers, institutional investors and undertakings with a treasury department, who or which trade or invest in securities in the conduct of a business or profession.
 
(f) Each Underwriter hereby severally represents and agrees that it has not offered, sold or delivered, and will not offer, sell or deliver, and has not distributed and will not distribute and has not made and will not make available in Italy the Debt Securities, the Prospectus nor any other offering material relating to the Debt Securities
 
other than (i) to professional investors () as defined in Article 31, paragraph 2, of Regulation no. 11522 of 1 July 1998 of ("CONSOB"), as amended, pursuant to Article 100, paragraph 1, lett. a) and Article 30, paragraph 2, of Legislative Decree no. 58 of 24 February 1998 (the "Financial Laws Consolidated Act"), (ii) in any other circumstances where an express exemption from compliance with the investment solicitation rules provided for by the Financial Laws Consolidated Act and CONSOB Regulation no. 11971 of 14 May 1999, as amended, applies, or (iii) to Italian residents who submit unsolicited offers to any of the Underwriters to purchase the Debt Securities. Any offer, sale or delivery of the Debt Securities, the Prospectus or any other offering material relating to the Debt Securities shall (i) be made in accordance with all applicable Italian laws and regulations, (ii) be made in compliance with Article 129 of Legislative Decree no. 385 of 1 September 1993, as amended (the "Banking Law Consolidated Act") and the implementing guidelines of the Bank of Italy () pursuant to which the issue, trading or placement of the Debt Securities in Italy is subject to prior notification to the Bank of Italy, unless an exemption depending, , on the aggregate amount and the characteristics of the Debt Securities issued or offered in Italy applies, (iii) be conducted in accordance with any relevant limitations or procedural requirements the Bank of Italy or CONSOB may impose upon the offer or sale of the Debt Securities, and (iv) be made only by (a) banks, investment firms or financial companies enrolled in the special register provided for in Article 107 of the Banking Law Consolidated Act, to the extent duly authorised to engage in the placement and/or underwriting of financial instruments in Italy in accordance with the Financial Laws Consolidated Act and the relevant implementing regulations; or by (b) foreign banks or financial institutions (the controlling shareholding of which is owned by one or more banks located in the same EU Member State) authorised to place and distribute securities in Italy pursuant to Articles 15, 16 and 18 of the Banking Law Consolidated Act, in each case acting in compliance with every applicable law and regulation.
investitori professionali/operatori qualificati
Commissione Nazionale per la Societ e la Borsa
Istruzioni di Vigilanza per le banche
inter alia
 
(g) Each Underwriter hereby severally represents and agrees that it has not offered or sold, and will not offer or sell, the Debt Securities to any investors in Switzerland other than on a non-public basis.
 
The Closing will take place at 10:00 A.M., New York City time, on November 4, 2003 at the offices of Hunton & Williams LLP, 200 Park Avenue, New York, New York 10166.
 
 
Please signify your acceptance by signing the enclosed in the space provided and returning it to us.
 
 
Accepted:
 
 
 

Exhibit 4.1 (a)
 
 
REGISTERED
No. 1
 
 
 
 
 
CUSIP No. 02209S AB 9
 
THIS NOTE IS A GLOBAL SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE THEREOF. UNLESS AND UNTIL IT IS EXCHANGED IN WHOLE OR IN PART FOR NOTES IN CERTIFICATED FORM, THIS NOTE MAY NOT BE TRANSFERRED EXCEPT AS A WHOLE BY THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY (THE "DEPOSITARY") TO A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY OR BY THE DEPOSITARY OR ANY SUCH NOMINEE TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE OF SUCH SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY. UNLESS THIS NOTE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITARY TO THE COMPANY OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY NOTE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITARY (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITARY), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
 
        ALTRIA GROUP, INC. (formerly known as Philip Morris Companies Inc.), a Virginia corporation (hereinafter called the "Company," which term includes any successor corporation under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to Cede & Co. or registered assigns, the principal sum of $500,000,000 on November 4, 2008, and to pay interest (computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months) thereon from November 4, 2003 or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, semiannually in arrears on May 4 and November 4 in each year, commencing May 4, 2004, at the rate of 5
 5
/
8
% per annum until the principal hereof is paid or made available for payment.
The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in the Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Note (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for the payment of such interest, which shall be April 20 or October 20 (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, next preceding such Interest Payment Date. Any such interest not so punctually paid or duly provided for shall forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date and may be paid to the Person in whose name this Note (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee for the Notes, notice whereof shall be given to Holders of Notes not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or may be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Notes may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in said Indenture.
 
Payment of the principal of and interest on this Note shall be made at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts; ,, that at the option of the Company payment of interest may be made by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall appear on the Securities Register or by wire transfer to an account maintained by the payee at a bank located in the United States. All payments of principal and interest in respect of this Note shall be made by the Company in immediately available funds.
provided
however
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any payment of interest, principal or other amount to be made in respect of this Note would otherwise be due on a day that is not a Business Day, such payment may be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day, with the same effect as if such payment were made on the due date.
 
Additional provisions of this Note are contained on the reverse hereof, and such provisions shall have the same effect as though fully set forth in this place.
 
Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by or on behalf of the Trustee for the Notes by manual signature, this Note shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture, or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, ALTRIA GROUP, INC. has caused this instrument to be duly executed under its corporate seal.
 
Dated: November 4, 2003
 
 
[SEAL]
 
 
 
This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein described in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
 
 
This Note is one of a duly authorized issue of debentures, notes or other evidences of indebtedness (hereinafter called the "Securities") of the Company of the series hereinafter specified, which series is initially issued in the aggregate principal amount of $500,000,000, all such Securities issued and to be issued under an Indenture dated as of December 2, 1996 between the Company (formerly known as Philip Morris Companies Inc.) and The Chase Manhattan Bank (now known as JPMorgan Chase Bank), as Trustee (herein called the "Indenture"), to which Indenture and all other indentures supplemental thereto reference is hereby made for a statement of the rights and limitations of rights thereunder of the Holders of the Securities and of the rights, obligations, duties and immunities of the Trustee for each series of Securities and of the Company, and the terms upon which the Securities are and are to be authenticated and delivered. As provided in the Indenture, the Securities may be issued in one or more series, which different series may be issued in various aggregate principal amounts, may mature at different times, may bear interest, if any, at different rates, may be subject to different redemption provisions, if any, may be subject to different sinking, purchase or analogous funds, if any, may be subject to different covenants and Events of Default and may otherwise vary as in the Indenture provided or permitted. This Note is one of a series of the Securities designated as 5
 5
/
8
% Notes due 2008 (the "Notes").
 
The Company may, without the consent of the Holders of the Notes, issue additional notes having the same ranking and the same interest rate, maturity and other terms as the Notes. Any additional notes having such similar terms, together with the Notes, shall constitute a single series of notes under the Indenture. No additional notes may be issued if an Event of Default has occurred with respect to the Notes.
 
The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of the entire indebtedness of the Securities of this series and for covenant defeasance at any time of certain covenants in the Indenture upon compliance with certain conditions set forth in the Indenture.
 
If an Event of Default with respect to the Notes shall occur and be continuing, then either the Trustee or the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Notes then Outstanding may declare the entire principal amount of the Notes, together with accrued interest and all other amounts under the Notes, immediately due and payable in the manner and with effect provided in the Indenture.
 
The Indenture provides that in the event of such a declaration, its consequences may be rescinded and annulled with respect to all of the Notes by the Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of all of the Notes then Outstanding in accordance with the provisions of, and in the circumstances provided by and the conditions set forth in the Indenture. It is also provided in the Indenture that the Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Notes at the time Outstanding may, on behalf of the Holders of all of the Notes, waive, prior to such a declaration, any past default under the Indenture with respect to the Notes and its consequences, except a default in the
payment of interest on or principal of (or premium, if any, on) the Notes or a default with respect to a covenant or provision which under Article Nine of the Indenture cannot be modified or amended without the consent of the Holders of all the Notes then Outstanding.
 
As provided in and subject to the provisions of the Indenture, no Holder of this Note shall have the right to institute any suit, action or proceeding with respect to the Indenture, or for appointment of any receiver or trustee or for any other remedy thereunder, unless an Event of Default with respect to the Notes shall have occurred and be continuing and such Holder previously shall have given the Trustee written notice of default and the continuance thereof, the Holders of not less than 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Notes then Outstanding shall have made written request to the Trustee to institute such suit, action or proceeding and shall have offered to the Trustee reasonable indemnity and the Trustee, for 60 days after the receipt of such notice, request and offer of indemnity, shall have neglected or refused to institute the same and shall not have received any direction inconsistent therewith from the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of all Notes then Outstanding.
 
The Indenture contains provisions permitting the Company and the Trustee, with the consent of the Holders of more than 50% in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of each series of Securities then Outstanding to be affected thereby, evidenced as provided in the Indenture, to execute supplemental indentures for the purpose of adding any provisions to, or changing in any manner or eliminating any of the provisions of, the Indenture with respect to each such series of Securities or modifying in any manner the rights of the Holders of each such series of Securities; ,, that no such supplemental indenture, without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security affected thereby, shall (i) change the Stated Maturity of the principal or reduce the principal amount thereof, or reduce the rate of interest thereon or any premium payable upon redemption, or change any obligation of the Company to pay certain additional amounts required by the Indenture (subject to stated exceptions) or reduce the amount of the principal of a Discounted Security due and payable upon an acceleration thereof, or change the Place of Payment of amounts due, or change the currency in which any Security or interest thereon is payable, or impair or affect the right of any registered Holder hereof to institute suit for the payment thereof, (ii) reduce the percentage in principal amount of Outstanding Securities of any series, the consent of the Holders of which is required for any such supplemental indenture or the consent of which Holders is required for waivers of certain covenants or provisions of or a default under the Indenture; or (iii) modify any of the provisions of the section of the Indenture discussed in this paragraph or certain other sections of the Indenture (as described therein), except to increase the percentages discussed therein or to provide that other provisions of the Indenture cannot be modified or waived without the consent of the Holders of each Security affected thereby, subject to certain exceptions enumerated in the Indenture. Any consent, waiver or other action by the registered Holder of this Note shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Note and of any Note issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange or in substitution herefor whether or not notation of such consent, waiver or other action is made upon this Note.
provided
however
 
No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Note or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and
 
unconditional, to pay the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on this Note at the times, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein and in the Indenture prescribed.
 
As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Note shall be registered on the Security Register of the Company, upon surrender of this Note for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Company to be maintained for that purpose in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, or at any other office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar duly executed by the Holder hereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Notes, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, shall be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
 
The Notes are denominated in U.S. dollars issuable only in registered form without coupons in denominations of $1,000 and any integral multiple of $1,000. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, Notes are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Notes of a like tenor and of a different authorized denomination, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same. No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
 
The Company, the Trustee for the Notes and any agent of the Company or such Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Note is registered as the owner hereof for the purpose of receiving payment as herein provided and for all other purposes, whether or not this Note be overdue and notwithstanding any notation of ownership or other writing hereon, and neither the Company, such Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
 
The Notes are not redeemable prior to maturity and are not subject to a sinking fund.
 
This Note shall for all purposes be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
 
Certain terms used in this Note which are defined in the Indenture have the meanings set forth therein.
 
 
 
PLEASE INSERT SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER OR
OTHER IDENTIFYING NUMBER OF ASSIGNEE
 
(Name and address of Assignee, including zip code, must be printed or typewritten)    
 
 
the within Note, and all rights thereunder, hereby irrevocably, constituting and appointing
 
 
to transfer the said Note on the books of Altria Group, Inc. with full power of substitution in the premises.
 
 

Exhibit 4.1(b)
 
 
The Company issued one (1) 5
 5
/
8
% Note due 2008 with an aggregate principal amount of $500,000,000 and two (2) 7% Notes due 2013 with an aggregate principal amount of $1,000,000,000. A specimen of the Notes is filed as Exhibit 4.1(a) hereto.
 
The material details of the Notes are set forth below:
 


