FILE:MO/MO-8K-20040405111801.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure.
      On April 3, 2004, Philip Morris International Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Altria Group, Inc., issued a press release concerning negotiations with the European Commission regarding a draft cooperation agreement. The terms of a draft agreement have been submitted to several Member States of the European Union. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
     
In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information in this current report on Form 8-K, including the exhibit hereto, shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. The information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing or document.
     
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
LAUSANNE, Switzerland  3 April, 2004  Following reports in the news media today, Philip Morris International confirmed that it has been in discussions with the European Commission regarding the terms of a longterm cooperation agreement to fight illegal trade in counterfeit and genuine cigarettes. The terms of the draft agreement have been submitted to several Member States of the European Union.
A spokesperson for Philip Morris International said that the draft agreement had not been finalized and was still subject to the approval of Member States and the Board of Directors of Philip Morris International.
Philip Morris International did confirm that the negotiations contemplated broad areas of cooperation with European law enforcement agencies that would build upon Philip Morris International's existing policies and procedures designed to assure that its tobacco products are sold appropriately and lawfully. Included are customer oversight policies and provisions for the tracking of products manufactured by Philip Morris International.
Philip Morris International also said that the draft agreement would contemplate substantial payments over a number of years that would be available to fund anti-contraband and anti-counterfeit efforts.
The agreement would also resolve all disputes between the European Commission, the Member States, and Philip Morris International relating to these issues.
Philip Morris International said that it sees a new era of cooperation with the European Commission and its Member States in the fight against illegal trade in cigarettes, and particularly the growing problem of fake cigarettes, which increasingly dominate the market in illegal cigarettes and represent a significant challenge for Philip Morris International, and particularly its Marlboro brand.
Information on Philip Morris International
Philip Morris International is one of the operating companies of Altria Group, Inc. Philip Morris International, based in Lausanne, Switzerland, is a leading tobacco company outside the United States. Philip Morris International produces and markets some of the world's most popular cigarette brands, including Marlboro, L&M and Chesterfield.


