FILE:MO/MO-8K-20061030161343.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01.    Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
Effective October 25, 2006, Altria Group, Inc. ("Altria") entered into an indemnity agreement with each of the members of its Board of Directors ("Board"). The agreement, a form of which was approved by the Board on October 25, 2006, provides for the mandatory advancement and reimbursement of reasonable expenses (subject to limited exceptions) incurred by members of the Board in various legal proceedings in which they may be involved by reason of their service as directors, as permitted by Virginia law and Altria's Restated Articles of Incorporation. The agreement also outlines procedures for requesting and obtaining the payment of expenses.
The form of agreement is attached as Exhibit 10.1 and incorporated by reference, and the foregoing description is qualified in its entirety by the provisions of the form of agreement.
 
Item 9.01.    Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
DATE: October 25, 2006
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
is entered into, effective as of October 25, 2006, between ALTRIA GROUP, INC., a Virginia corporation (the "Company") and (the "Indemnitee").
THIS AGREEMENT
                                                 
it is essential to the Company to retain and attract as directors the most capable persons available;
WHEREAS,
the Indemnitee is a director of the Company;
WHEREAS,
the Company's Restated Articles of Incorporation set forth the general indemnification provisions applicable to directors of the Company;
WHEREAS,
both the Company and the Indemnitee recognize the increased risk of litigation and other legal proceedings currently facing directors of corporations, the related exposure of directors to liability for expenses associated with such litigation and other legal proceedings, and the desirability for mandatory advancement of such expenses; and
WHEREAS,
in recognition that it is in the best interest of the Company to provide protection against personal liability for expenses in such circumstances in order to enhance the Indemnitee's continued and effective service to the Company, and to induce the Indemnitee to provide continued services to the Company as a director, the Company wishes to provide in this Agreement for the mandatory advancement of reasonable expenses to the Indemnitee in such circumstances, as permitted by Section 13.1-704 of the Virginia Stock Corporation Act and Article VI, Section 3 of the Company's Restated Articles of Incorporation, and as set forth in this Agreement.
WHEREAS,
in consideration of the above premises and mutual covenants recited herein, the parties agree as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE,
1.
:
Certain Definitions
(a) : The Board of Directors of the Company.
Board
(b) : Any reasonable expense, including without limitation, reasonable counsel fees incurred in connection with preparing for or defending against or serving as a witness in any Proceeding (including all appeals thereof). All such expenses shall be deemed ordinary and necessary to the Indemnitee's continued and effective service to the Company, and no such expense shall be considered an extraordinary payment.
Expenses
(c) : Any threatened, pending, or completed action, suit, or proceeding whether civil, criminal, administrative, or investigative and whether formal or informal (including a proceeding brought by or in the right of the Company) brought by reason of the fact that the Indemnitee is or was a director of the Company or serving at the request of the Company
Proceeding
 
as a director, trustee, partner, officer or employee of another corporation, affiliated corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise.
(d) : Any day other than a Saturday, a Sunday or a day on which banking institutions located in the Commonwealth of Virginia or the State of New York are authorized or obligated by law or executive order to close.
Business Day
2. .
Agreement to Advance Expenses
(a) . The Company shall pay for or reimburse the Expenses incurred by the Indemnitee in advance of final disposition of a Proceeding or the making of any determination of eligibility for indemnification pursuant to the Company's Restated Articles of Incorporation (an "Expense Advance"), if so requested by the Indemnitee, the Company shall not advance any Expenses to the Indemnitee unless and until it shall have received, substantially in the form attached hereto as , a request for such Expense Advance, which request shall include: (i) a written statement, executed personally by the Indemnitee, of the Indemnitee's good faith belief that his or her conduct relevant to the Proceeding did not constitute willful misconduct or a knowing violation of the criminal law and (ii) a written undertaking, executed personally by the Indemnitee, to repay the Expense Advance if it is ultimately determined by a court of relevant jurisdiction that he or she did not meet such standard of conduct. The Company shall pay an Expense Advance promptly after receipt by the Company of the Indemnitee's completed request for such Expense Advance. The Indemnitee is obligated to repay any Expense Advance promptly following a written notice to the Indemnitee by the Company of a final determination (after exhaustion or waiver by the Indemnitee of all rights of appeal) that the Indemnitee did not meet the required standard of conduct. Any request for an Expense Advance shall be accompanied by an itemization, in reasonable detail, of the Expenses for which an Expense Advance is sought. The undertaking required by this Section 2(a) shall be an unlimited general obligation but need not be secured.
Advancement of Expenses
provided that
Exhibit A
(b) . The Company shall advance such Expenses to the Indemnitee, and shall indemnify the Indemnitee for such Expenses, that are incurred by the Indemnitee in connection with any claim asserted against, or action brought by the Indemnitee for, enforcement of this Agreement.
Indemnification and Advancement for Expenses Incurred in Enforcing Rights
(c) . Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, the Indemnitee shall not be entitled to advancement of Expenses pursuant to this Agreement in connection with any Proceeding:
Exception to Obligation to Advance Expenses
(i) initiated by the Indemnitee against the Company or any director or officer of the Company, unless the Company has joined in or the Board has consented to the initiation of such Proceeding, or the Proceeding is one to enforce indemnification or advancement rights under Section 2(b); or
(ii) initiated by or on behalf of the Company against the Indemnitee, if the Board has consented to the initiation of such Proceeding.
3. The rights of the Indemnitee hereunder shall be in addition to any other rights the Indemnitee may have under the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia, the
.
Non-Exclusivity
 
Company's Restated Articles of Incorporation, the Company's Amended and Restated By-laws, applicable law, or otherwise.
4. No supplement, modification or amendment of this Agreement shall be binding unless executed in writing by both of the parties hereto. No waiver of any of the provisions of this Agreement shall operate as a waiver of any other provisions hereof (whether or not similar), nor shall such waiver constitute a continuing waiver. Except as specifically provided herein, no failure to exercise or any delay in exercising any right or remedy hereunder shall constitute a waiver thereof.
.
Amendment of this Agreement
5. The Company shall not be required under this Agreement to make any Expense Advance to the Indemnitee to the extent the underlying Expense has previously been paid or reimbursed, whether under the Company's Restated Articles of Incorporation, the Company's Amended and Restated By-laws, any insurance policy, by law, or otherwise (the "Other Payment"). To the extent the Indemnitee receives the Other Payment for the underlying Expense after the Expense Advance has been made by the Company to the Indemnitee under this Agreement, the Indemnitee shall promptly reimburse the Company for the Expense Advance after receipt by the Indemnitee of such Other Payment.
.
No Duplication of Payments
6. This Agreement shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by, the parties hereto and their respective successors, assigns (including any direct or indirect successor of the Company by purchase, merger, consolidation, or otherwise to all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company), as well as spouses, heirs, and personal and legal representatives. This Agreement shall continue in effect regardless of whether the Indemnitee continues to serve as a director of the Company or a director, trustee, partner, officer, or employee of another corporation, an affiliated corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan, or other enterprise at the Company's request.
.
Binding Effect
7. Any provision (or any portion thereof) of this Agreement shall not be effective if and to the extent that it is determined to be contrary to the Company's Restated Articles of Incorporation or applicable laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia, but the other provisions of this Agreement shall not be affected by such determination.
.
Severability
8. This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia (other than the laws regarding choice of laws and conflicts of laws) as to all matters, including matters of validity, construction, effect, performance and remedies.
.
Governing Law
9. All requests pursuant to Section 2(a) hereof and notices or other communications hereunder (collectively, "Notices") shall be in writing and shall be given (and shall be deemed to have been duly given upon receipt) by delivery in person, by cable, telegram, facsimile, electronic mail or other standard form of telecommunications (provided confirmation is delivered to the recipient the next Business Day in the case of facsimile, electronic mail or
.
Notices
 
other standard form of telecommunications) or by registered or certified mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, addressed as follows:
 
 
Notice of change of address shall be effective only when done in accordance with this Section.
 
the parties hereto have duly executed and delivered this Agreement as of the day first above written.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF,
 
 
 
 
Altria Group, Inc.
120 Park Avenue
New York, New York 10017
facsimile: 917-663-5372
email: penn.holsenbeck@altria.com
Attn: Corporate Secretary
To Whom It May Concern:
I request, pursuant to Section 2 of the Indemnity Agreement, dated as of October 25, 2006 (the ""), between Altria Group, Inc. (the "") and me, that the Company advance Expenses (as such term is defined in the Agreement) incurred in connection with [describe Proceeding] (the "").
Indemnity Agreement
Company
Proceeding
I believe, in good faith, that my conduct that is relevant to the Proceeding did not constitute willful misconduct or a knowing violation of the criminal law.
I undertake and agree to repay to the Company any funds advanced to me or paid on my behalf if it shall be ultimately determined, as provided in the Indemnity Agreement, that I have not met the foregoing standard of conduct. I shall make any such repayment promptly following written notice to me by the Company of any such determination.
I agree that payment by the Company of my Expenses in connection with the Proceeding in advance of the final disposition thereof shall not be deemed an admission by the Company that it shall ultimately be determined that I am entitled to indemnification.
 
 
 


