FILE:MO/MO-8K-20070202163014.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements With Certain Officers.
On January 31, 2007, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of Altria Group, Inc. (the "Company") approved the grant of shares of deferred stock under the 2005 Performance Incentive Plan to the following executive officers in the amounts indicated below:
(e) Deferred Stock.
 
The deferred stock awards vest three years from the grant date. A form of deferred stock agreement is attached as an Exhibit to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference herein.
On January 31, 2007, the Compensation Committee approved new base salaries, effective May 1, 2007, for the following executive officers, in the amounts indicated below:
Base Salaries.
 
On January 31, 2007, the Compensation Committee approved annual incentive awards for 2006, payable in cash, to the following executive officers, as follows:
Annual Incentive Awards.
 
The maximum award amounts for the 2006 annual incentive awards were determined based on a performance incentive pool equal to 0.25% of the 2006 adjusted net earnings of the Company. Adjusted net earnings of the Company is defined as the net earnings before extraordinary items, discontinued operations and the cumulative effect of accounting changes and excluding certain other items designated by the Compensation Committee. In addition, individual award amounts are limited to the shareholder-approved maximum defined in the 2005 Performance Incentive Plan of $10.0 million.
 
On January 31, 2007, the Compensation Committee approved long-term incentive awards for the three-year cycle ended December 31, 2006, payable in cash, to the following executive officers, as follows:
Long-Term Performance Incentive Awards.
 
The maximum award amounts that can be paid to the officers covered by the compensation formula as a group are 0.25% of the three-year cumulative adjusted net earnings. In addition, individual awards are limited to the stockholder-approved maximum of $24 million as provided in the 2005 Performance Incentive Plan.
2007 and 2008 Programs
In addition, on January 31, 2007, the Compensation Committee approved formulas for determining the maximum award amounts for 2007 annual incentive awards and long-term awards for the 2007-2009 performance cycle of the Long-Term Incentive Plan. These formulas reflect the Company's intention to qualify, to the extent possible, cash compensation paid to officers as tax deductible, subject to the deductibility limitations of Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code.
Under each formula, the maximum award amounts are determined based on a performance incentive pool equal to 0.25% of adjusted net earnings of the Company for each respective performance cycle, i.e., 2007 adjusted net earnings under the 2007 Annual Incentive Plan and three-year cumulative adjusted net earnings under the 2007  2009 performance cycle of the Long-Term Incentive Plan. Adjusted net earnings of the Company is defined as the net earnings before extraordinary items, discontinued operations and the cumulative effect of accounting changes and excluding certain other items designated by the Compensation Committee. In addition, individual award amounts are limited to the shareholder-approved maximum defined in the 2005 Performance Incentive Plan: $10.0 million for the annual incentive awards and $8 million for each of the three years of the 2007  2009 performance cycle of the Long-Term Incentive Plan.
At the conclusion of each performance cycle the respective performance pools will be calculated and divided among the covered officers. The Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer's maximum award under both plans is limited to one-third of each pool, and the remaining covered officers each will be eligible for a maximum award equal to one-sixth of each remaining pool, in each case, subject to the individual maximums defined in the 2005 Performance Incentive Plan.
In addition, on January 31, 2007, the Compensation Committee approved a formula for determining the maximum award amounts for 2008 deferred stock awards, which formula reflects the Company's intention to qualify, to the extent possible, stock awards made to officers as tax deductible, subject to the deductibility limitations of Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code.
The maximum deferred stock award grant value amounts for the 2008 deferred stock awards are determined based on a performance incentive pool equal to 0.5% of the adjusted net earnings of the Company. Adjusted net earnings of the Company is defined as the net earnings before extraordinary items, discontinued operations and the cumulative effect of accounting changes and excluding certain other items designated by the Compensation Committee. In addition, individual awards are limited to the shareholder-approved maximum defined in the 2005 Performance Incentive Plan of one million shares.
At the conclusion of 2007, the performance pool for the 2008 deferred stock awards will be calculated and divided among the covered officers. The Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer's
maximum award is equal to one-third of the pool and the remaining covered officers each will be eligible for a maximum award up to an equal share of the remaining pool, in each case, subject to the individual maximum defined in the 2005 Performance Incentive Plan.
The Company will provide additional information regarding the compensation of its executive officers in its proxy statement for the 2007 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, which will be issued in mid-March.
A form of deferred stock agreement is attached as an Exhibit to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference herein.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
10.1 Form of Deferred Stock Agreement.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
ALTRIA GROUP, INC.
By:
/s/ G. PENN HOLSENBECK                         
Counsel and Corporate Secretary
DATE: February 2, 2007

Exhibit 10.1
ALTRIA GROUP, INC. (the "Company"), a Virginia corporation, hereby grants to the employee identified in the 2007 Deferred Stock Award section of the Award Statement (the "Employee") under The Altria Group, Inc. 2005 Performance Incentive Plan (the "Plan") a Deferred Stock Award (the "Award") dated January 31, 2007, (the "Award Date") with respect to the number of shares set forth in the 2007 Deferred Stock Award section of the Award Statement (the "Deferred Shares") of the Common Stock of the Company (the "Common Stock"), all in accordance with and subject to the following terms and conditions:
1. . Subject to Section 2 below, the restrictions on the Deferred Shares shall lapse and the Deferred Shares shall vest on the Vesting Date set forth in the 2007 Deferred Stock Award section of the Award Statement (the "Vesting Date"), provided that the Employee remains an employee of the Company (or a subsidiary or affiliate) during the entire period commencing on the Award Date set forth in the Award Statement and ending on the Vesting Date.
Restrictions
2. . In the event of the termination of the Employee's employment with the Company (and with all subsidiaries and affiliates of the Company) prior to the Vesting Date due to death, Disability or Normal Retirement, the restrictions on the Deferred Shares shall lapse and the Deferred Shares shall become fully vested on the date of death, Disability, or Normal Retirement.
Termination of Employment Before Vesting Date
If the Employee's employment with the Company (and with all subsidiaries and affiliates of the Company) is terminated for any reason other than death, Disability, or Normal Retirement prior to the Vesting Date, the Employee shall forfeit all rights to the Deferred Shares. Notwithstanding the foregoing, upon the termination of an Employee's employment with the Company (and with all subsidiaries and affiliates of the Company), the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company may, in its sole discretion, waive the restrictions on, and the vesting requirements for, the Deferred Shares.
3. The Employee does not have the right to vote the Deferred Shares or receive dividends prior to the date, if any, such Deferred Shares are paid to the Employee in the form of Common Stock pursuant to the terms hereof. However, unless otherwise determined by the Committee, the Employee shall receive cash payments (less applicable withholding taxes) in lieu of dividends otherwise payable with respect to shares of Common Stock equal in number to the Deferred Shares that have not been forfeited, as such dividends are paid.
Voting and Dividend Rights.
4. . This Award and the Deferred Shares are non-transferable and may not be assigned, hypothecated or otherwise pledged and shall not be subject to execution, attachment or similar process. Upon any attempt to effect any such disposition, or upon the levy of any such process, the Award shall immediately become null and void and the Deferred Shares shall be forfeited. These restrictions shall not apply, however, to any payments received pursuant to Section 7 below.
Transfer Restrictions
5. . The Company is authorized to satisfy the actual minimum statutory withholding taxes arising from the granting, vesting, or payment of this Award, as the case may be, by deducting the number of Deferred Shares having an aggregate value equal to the amount of withholding taxes due from the total number of Deferred Shares awarded, vested, paid, or otherwise becoming subject to current taxation. The Company is also authorized to satisfy the actual withholding taxes arising from the granting or vesting of this Award, or hypothetical withholding tax amounts if the Employee is covered under a Company tax equalization policy, as the case may be, by the remittance of the required amounts from any proceeds realized upon
Withholding Taxes
the open-market sale of the Common Stock received in payment of vested Deferred Shares by the Employee. Deferred Shares deducted from this Award in satisfaction of actual minimum withholding tax requirements shall be valued at the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock received in payment of vested Deferred Shares on the date as of which the amount giving rise to the withholding requirement first became includible in the gross income of the Employee under applicable tax laws. If the Employee is covered by a Company tax equalization policy, the Employee also agrees to pay to the Company any additional hypothetical tax obligation calculated and paid under the terms and conditions of such tax equalization policy.
6. . If any of the Deferred Shares shall vest upon the death of the Employee, any Common Stock received in payment of the vested Deferred Shares shall be registered in the name of the estate of the Employee except that, to the extent permitted by the Compensation Committee, if the Company shall have theretofore received in writing a beneficiary designation, the Common Stock shall be registered in the name of the designated beneficiary.
Death of Employee
7. . Each Deferred Share granted pursuant to this Award represents an unfunded and unsecured promise of the Company to issue to the Employee, on or as soon as practicable after the date the Deferred Share becomes fully vested pursuant to Section 1 or 2 and otherwise subject to the terms of this Agreement, the value of one share of the Common Stock. Except as otherwise expressly provided in the 2007 Deferred Stock Award section of the Award Statement and subject to the terms of this Agreement, such issuance shall be made to the Employee (or, in the event of his or her death to the Employee's estate or beneficiary as provided above) in the form of Common Stock as soon as practicable following the full vesting of the Deferred Share pursuant to Section 1 or 2.
Payment of Deferred Shares
8. . Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, if the Employee (i) is subject to US Federal income tax on any part of the payment of the Deferred Shares, (ii) is a "specified employee" within the meaning of section 409A(a)(2)(B) of the Internal Revenue Code and the regulations thereunder, and (iii) will become eligible for Normal Retirement (A) for Deferred Shares with a Vesting Date between January 1 and March 15, before the calendar year preceding the Vesting Date and (B) for Deferred Shares with a Vesting Date after March 15, before the calendar year in which such Vesting Date occurs, then any payment of Deferred Shares under Section 7 that is on account of his separation from service within the meaning of section 409A(a)(2)(A)(i) of the Internal Revenue Code and the regulations thereunder shall be delayed until six months following such separation from service. In addition, if such an Employee is not vested in his Deferred Shares, and the Employee (i) becomes eligible for Normal Retirement while employed by a subsidiary or affiliate of the Company that would not be a "service recipient" with respect to the Award within the meaning of the regulations under section 409A of the Code or (ii) becomes eligible for Normal Retirement and subsequently transfers to a subsidiary or affiliate of the Company that would not be a "service recipient" with respect to the Award within the meaning of the regulations under section 409A of the Code, then the Employee's Deferred Shares shall be paid to the Employee at such time in accordance with Section 7 (based on the value of shares of Common Stock at the time of payment), subject to a six-month delay from the date treated as a separation from service within the meaning of section 409A(a)(2)(A)(i) of the Internal Revenue Code and the regulations thereunder.
Special Payment Provisions
9. . Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, if the Board of Directors of the Company or an appropriate Committee of the Board determines that, as a result of a restatement of the Company's financial statements, an Employee has received greater compensation in connection with the Award than would been received absent the incorrect financial statements, the Board or Committee, in its discretion, may take such action with respect to this Award as it deems necessary or appropriate to address the events that gave rise to the restatement and to prevent its recurrence. Such action may include, to the extent permitted by applicable law, causing the full or partial cancellation of this Award and, with respect to Deferred Shares that have vested, requiring the Employee to repay to the Company the full or partial Fair Market Value of the Award determined at the time of vesting, and the Employee agrees by accepting this Award that the Board or
Board Authorization in the Event of Restatement
 
Committee may make such a cancellation, impose such a repayment obligation, or take other necessary or appropriate actions in such circumstances.
10. . This Award is contingent on the Employee's acceptance of the discontinuance of the Executive Ownership Stock Option feature of his Company stock options effective at 4:00 pm EST on the record date of the spin-off of Kraft Foods, Inc. If the Employee does not contact Howard Greene, Vice President, Compensation & Benefits, Altria Corporate Services, Inc. at 917-663-3362 by March 1, 2007, the Employee will be deemed to have accepted this Award and the cessation of the EOSO feature. If the Employee does not accept the discontinuance of the EOSO feature by contacting Howard Greene by March 1, 2007, the Employee will forfeit all rights to the Deferred Shares under this Award.
Award Contingent on EOSO Discontinuance
11. . The terms and provisions of the Plan (a copy of which will be furnished to the Employee upon written request to the Office of the Secretary, Altria Group, Inc., 120 Park Avenue, New York, New York 10017) are incorporated herein by reference. To the extent any provision of this Award is inconsistent or in conflict with any term or provision of the Plan, the Plan shall govern. Capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein have the meaning set forth in the Plan. In the event of any merger, share exchange, reorganization, consolidation, recapitalization, reclassification, distribution, stock dividend, stock split, reverse stock split, split-up, spin-off, issuance of rights or warrants or other similar transaction or event affecting the Common Stock after the date of this Award, the Board of Directors of the Company is authorized, to the extent it deems appropriate, to make adjustments to the number and kind of shares of stock subject to this Award, including the substitution of equity interests in other entities involved in such transactions, to provide for cash payments in lieu of Deferred Shares, and to determine whether continued employment with any entity resulting from such a transaction will or will not be treated as continued employment with the Company or a subsidiary or affiliate, in each case subject to any Board or Committee action specifically addressing any such adjustments, cash payments, or continued employment treatment.
Other Terms and Definitions
For purposes of this Agreement, (a) the term "Disability" means permanent and total disability as determined under procedures established by the Company for purposes of the Plan, and (b) the term "Normal Retirement" means retirement from active employment under a pension plan of the Company, any subsidiary or affiliate or under an employment contract with any of them on or after the date specified as the normal retirement age in the pension plan or employment contract, if any, under which the Employee is at that time accruing pension benefits for his or her current service (or, in the absence of a specified normal retirement age, the age at which pension benefits under such plan or contract become payable without reduction for early commencement and without any requirement of a particular period of prior service). In any case in which (i) the meaning of "Normal Retirement" is uncertain under the definition contained in the prior sentence or (ii) a termination of employment at or after age 65 would not otherwise constitute "Normal Retirement," an Employee's termination of employment shall be treated as a "Normal Retirement" under such circumstances as the Committee, in its sole discretion, deems equivalent to retirement. Generally, for purposes of this Agreement, (x) a "subsidiary" includes only any company in which the Company, directly or indirectly, has a beneficial ownership interest of greater than 50 percent and (y) an "affiliate" includes only any company that (A) has a beneficial ownership interest, directly or indirectly, in the Company of greater than 50 percent or (B) is under common control with the Company through a parent company that, directly or indirectly, has a beneficial ownership interest of greater than 50 percent in both the Company and the affiliate.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Deferred Stock Agreement has been duly executed as of January 31, 2007.
 
 


