FILE:MO/MO-8K-20070626075622.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.05. Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities.
On June 26, 2007, Altria Group, Inc. announced plans by its tobacco subsidiaries to optimize worldwide cigarette production by moving U.S.-based cigarette production for non-U.S. markets to Philip Morris International (PMI) facilities in Europe. Due to declining U.S. cigarette volume, as well as PMI's decision to re-source its production, Philip Morris USA (PM USA) will close its Cabarrus, NC manufacturing facility and consolidate manufacturing for the U.S. market at its Richmond, VA manufacturing center.
The program is expected to generate pre-tax cost savings beginning in 2008, with total estimated annual cost savings of approximately $335 million by 2011, of which $179 million will be realized by PMI and $156 million will be realized by PM USA. Cumulative total expenses of the program, all of which will be taken by PM USA, are estimated at approximately $670 million, comprising accelerated depreciation of $143 million, employee separation cost of $353 million and other charges, primarily related to the relocation of employees and equipment, of $174 million. Approximately $440 million, or 66% of the total charges, will result in cash expenditures. In addition, the program will entail capital expenditures of approximately $230 million at PM USA and $50 million at PMI.
Altria Group, Inc. expects PM USA to record an initial charge for the program of approximately $325 million, or $0.10 per Altria share, in the second quarter of 2007, related primarily to employee separation programs.
Altria's press release regarding the program is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (d) Exhibits
     99.1 Altria Group, Inc. Press Release dated June 26, 2007
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
DATE: June 26, 2007
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
     NEW YORK, June 26, 2007  Altria Group, Inc. (NYSE: MO) today announced plans by its tobacco subsidiaries to optimize worldwide cigarette production by moving U.S.-based cigarette production for non-U.S. markets to PMI facilities in Europe. Due to declining U.S. cigarette volume, as well as PMI's decision to re-source its production, PM USA will close its Cabarrus, NC manufacturing facility and consolidate manufacturing for the U.S. market at its Richmond, VA Manufacturing Center.
     Altria Group, Inc. said that it expects PM USA to record an initial pre-tax charge of approximately $325 million or $0.10 per Altria share in the second quarter of 2007 for costs related to the program, primarily for employee separation, with additional estimated charges of approximately $50 million for the remainder of 2007.
 
     The program is expected to generate pre-tax cost savings beginning in 2008, with total estimated annual cost savings of approximately $335 million by 2011, of which $179 million will be realized by PMI and $156 million by PM USA. Cumulative total expenses through 2011 are estimated at approximately $670 million, all of which will be at PM USA. Expenses are summarized in the following table:
 
     PMI is expected to shift sourcing of approximately 57 billion cigarettes from Cabarrus to PMI facilities in Europe by the third quarter of 2008, and PM USA will close its Cabarrus manufacturing facility by the end of 2010. The Cabarrus facility currently employs approximately 2,500 people. PM USA and PMI are significant purchasers of U.S. leaf tobacco and will continue to purchase U.S. tobacco for future production. Looking ahead, PM USA said that it plans to source its production of cigarettes sold in the U.S. from its manufacturing facility in Richmond.
     "PM USA recognizes the profound impact the closing of the Cabarrus cigarette manufacturing facility has on employees and their families. As the company works to reduce manufacturing overcapacity, it will address the adverse impact on employees by relocating as many as possible to jobs in Richmond and offering separation benefits to those it cannot relocate," said Mike Szymanczyk, chairman and chief executive officer of PM USA. "It is my hope that the majority of employees at Cabarrus will be able to relocate to Richmond."
     As a result of increased production requirements at its operations in Richmond, coupled with ongoing retirements of current Richmond-based employees, PM USA expects to be able to offer positions in Richmond to most North Carolina-based hourly employees and many salaried
 
employees. PM USA employees who are displaced by the changes will be eligible for three to twenty months of severance pay and benefits, depending on length of service, as well as job outplacement counseling.
Altria Group, Inc. Profile
     As of March 31, 2007, Altria Group, Inc. owned 100% of Philip Morris International Inc., Philip Morris USA Inc. and Philip Morris Capital Corporation, and approximately 28.6% of SABMiller plc. The brand portfolio of Altria Group, Inc.'s tobacco operating companies includes such well-known names as , , and . Altria Group, Inc. recorded 2006 net revenues (ex-Kraft) from continuing operations of $67.1 billion.
Marlboro
L&M
Parliament
Virginia Slims
     Trademarks and service marks mentioned in this release are the registered property of, or licensed by, the subsidiaries of Altria Group, Inc.
Forward-Looking and Cautionary Statements
     This press release contains projections of future results and other forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties and are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The following important factors could cause actual results and outcomes to differ materially from those contained in such forward-looking statements.
     Altria Group, Inc.'s tobacco subsidiaries (Philip Morris USA and Philip Morris International) are subject to intense price competition; changes in consumer preferences and demand for their products; fluctuations in levels of customer inventories; the effects of foreign economies and local economic and market conditions; unfavorable currency movements and changes to income tax laws. Their results are dependent upon their continued ability to promote brand equity successfully; to anticipate and respond to new consumer trends; to develop new products and markets and to broaden brand portfolios in order to compete effectively with lower-priced products; and to improve productivity.
     Altria Group, Inc.'s tobacco subsidiaries continue to be subject to litigation, including risks associated with adverse jury and judicial determinations, and courts reaching conclusions at variance with the company's understanding of applicable law and bonding requirements in the limited number of jurisdictions that do not limit the dollar amount of appeal bonds; legislation, including actual and potential excise tax increases; discriminatory excise tax structures; increasing marketing and regulatory restrictions; the effects of price increases related to excise tax increases and concluded tobacco litigation settlements on consumption rates and consumer
 
preferences within price segments; health concerns relating to the use of tobacco products and exposure to environmental tobacco smoke; governmental regulation; privately imposed smoking restrictions; and governmental and grand jury investigations.
     Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries are subject to other risks detailed from time to time in its publicly filed documents, including its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2007. Altria Group, Inc. cautions that the foregoing list of important factors is not complete and does not undertake to update any forward-looking statements that it may make.
Contacts:


