FILE:MO/MO-8K-20080424161626.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
On April 24, 2008, Altria Group, Inc. ("Altria") issued an earnings press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2008. A copy of the earnings press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information in Item 2.02 of this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. The information in Item 2.02 of this Current Report on Form 8-K shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing or document.
 
(d)
Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
DATE: April 24, 2008
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
RICHMOND, VA, April 24, 2008  Altria Group, Inc. (NYSE: MO) today announced reported diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $0.29 in the first quarter of 2008 versus $0.33 in the first quarter of 2007, down 12.1% versus the prior year. This quarter's results were impacted by net costs and charges related to the spin-off of Philip Morris International Inc. (PMI) and the closure of Altria's headquarters in New York as well as other items detailed in Schedule 2. Adjusted for items detailed in Table 1, diluted earnings per share from continuing operations were up 12.1% to $0.37 versus $0.33 in the year-earlier period.
"In the first quarter, Altria successfully completed the spin-off of PMI, which we expect will further enhance shareholder value," said Michael E. Szymanczyk, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Altria Group, Inc. "In conjunction with this spin-off, Altria also completed its corporate restructuring, including relocating our corporate headquarters to Richmond, Virginia. These actions will substantially reduce the company's cost structure."
"Adjusted for special items, Altria delivered solid earnings per share growth of 12.1%," Mr. Szymanczyk said. "PM USA achieved strong retail share growth behind the strength of . As expected, PM USA's operating income results were lower than last year. PM USA expects income performance to improve as the year unfolds. We are pleased with John Middleton's strong income, volume and share performance. This is the first full quarter that John Middleton is reporting results as an Altria operating company."
Marlboro
Spin-off of Philip Morris International Inc. Completed
On March 28, 2008, Altria completed the spin-off of PMI to its shareholders. Altria's shareholders received one share of PMI common stock for every share of Altria common stock outstanding as of the March 19, 2008 record date. Additional details of the spin-off are available at www.altria.com/pmispinoff or in the information statement mailed to all shareholders of Altria common stock as of the record date.
Altria's 2008 reported results and previous-year results reflect PMI as a discontinued operation. As such, net revenues and operating companies income for PMI are excluded from the company's continuing results, while the net earnings impact is included as a single line item.
Tender Offer for Altria Notes Completed
On February 29, 2008, in connection with the PMI spin-off, Altria and its subsidiary, Altria Finance (Cayman Islands) Ltd., completed debt tender offers and consent solicitations to purchase for cash $2.3 billion of notes and debentures denominated in U.S. dollars and 373 million in euro-denominated bonds. Altria arranged a $4.0 billion bridge loan facility to finance the tender offer. Altria intends to access the public-debt market to replace the retired debt. As a result of the tender offer and consent solicitations, Altria recorded a $393 million pre-tax loss for the early retirement of this debt.
Sale of NY Headquarters Building Completed
On March 25, 2008, Altria completed the sale of its corporate headquarters building at 120 Park Avenue in New York City. Altria recorded a pre-tax gain of $404 million on the sale of the headquarters building.
 
Corporate Restructuring
In connection with the PMI spin-off, Altria has restructured its corporate headquarters functions, which included the move of its corporate headquarters to Richmond, Virginia. Altria incurred pre-tax charges of $247 million, consisting primarily of employee separation costs, as well as investment banking and legal fees associated with the PMI spin-off. This restructuring program is expected to yield approximately $250 million in annual savings, beginning in 2009.
Share Repurchase Program Commenced
As previously announced, the Board of Directors has authorized a $7.5 billion two-year share repurchase program. Altria began repurchasing shares as part of this program in April 2008.
Conference Call
A conference call with members of the investment community and news media will be webcast today at 5 p.m. Eastern Time.Access to the webcast is available at www.altria.com.
2008 First-Quarter Results Excluding Special Items
Adjusted for the items shown in the table below, diluted earnings per share from continuing operations increased 12.1% to $0.37 for the first quarter of 2008.
Table 1
 
 
2008 Full-Year Forecast
Altria reaffirms its 2008 earnings per share guidance. Altria forecasts that 2008 adjusted full-year diluted earnings per share from continuing operations will grow in the range of $1.63 to $1.67. This represents a 9% to 11% growth rate from an adjusted base of $1.50 per share in 2007 as shown in Table 2 below. This full-year earnings per share forecast reflects expected stronger earnings per share growth in the second half of this year compared to the first half. This forecast also reflects the income contribution from John Middleton, Inc. (Middleton), the impact of share repurchases and a higher effective tax rate. Altria also expects full-year operating companies income growth from continuing operations in the mid-single digits on a reported and underlying basis. The factors described in the Forward-Looking and Cautionary Statements section of this release represent continuing risks to these projections.
Table 2
 
As described in "Note 15. Segment Reporting" of Altria's 2007 Annual Report, management reviews operating companies income, which is defined as operating income before corporate expenses and amortization of intangibles, to evaluate segment performance and allocate resources. Management believes it is appropriate to disclose this measure to help investors analyze business performance and trends. For a reconciliation of operating companies income to operating income, see the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Earnings contained in this release.
Altria has revised its reporting segments to reflect the PMI spin-off and the December 2007 acquisition of Middleton. Beginning with the first quarter of 2008, Altria's reporting segments are Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products, manufactured and sold by Philip Morris USA (PM USA); Cigars, manufactured and sold by Middleton; and Financial Services, provided by Philip Morris Capital Corporation (PMCC).
 
All references in this news release are to continuing operations, unless otherwise noted. Schedules reflecting the PMI spin-off and the Kraft Foods Inc. (Kraft) spin-off with associated revised results for the years 2006 and 2007 are attached.
2008 First-Quarter Results
Net revenues increased 2.8% to $4.4 billion. Operating income increased 8.4% to $1.2 billion, primarily driven by the $404 million pre-tax gain on the sale of the corporate headquarters building, partially offset by a pre-tax charge of $247 million for the corporate restructuring, and other items detailed in Schedule 2.
Earnings from continuing operations decreased 11.8% to $614 million, reflecting a $393 million loss on the early extinguishment of debt related to the bond tender offer, partially offset by the items mentioned above and interest on tax reserve transfers to Kraft in 2007.
Net earnings, which include PMI and Kraft as discontinued operations and the factors mentioned above, decreased 10.8% to $2.5 billion. This decrease was primarily due to the spin-off of Kraft in the first quarter of 2007, partially offset by higher earnings from PMI in the first quarter of 2008. Diluted earnings per share, including discontinued operations as detailed on Schedule 1, decreased 10.8% to $1.16.
2008 First-Quarter Results
PM USA achieved strong retail cigarette share results for the first-quarter 2008, driven by , which increased its retail market share 0.7 points to 41.5% in the first quarter.
Marlboro
Net revenues and revenues net of excise taxes were essentially unchanged at $4.2 billion and $3.4 billion, respectively. Operating companies income decreased 8.0% to $1.0 billion compared to the year-earlier period. The decline was driven by lower volume, costs related to the reduction of volume produced for PMI, higher resolution expenses, the timing of promotional expenditures and a $26 million pre-tax charge for the previously announced closure of the Cabarrus, NC cigarette manufacturing facility. These factors were partially offset by lower wholesale promotional allowance rates.
 
PM USA's cigarette shipment volume of 40.1 billion units was 1.2% lower than the prior-year period, but was estimated to be down approximately 3.5% when adjusted for changes in trade inventories. PM USA estimates that total cigarette industry volume declined approximately 4% in the first quarter. For the full-year 2008, PM USA estimates a total cigarette industry volume decline of approximately 3%.
Cigarette volume performance by brand for PM USA is summarized in the table below:
 
 
As shown in the following table, PM USA's total retail share increased to 50.9% in the first quarter of 2008, driven by , which had a strong retail share gain of 0.7 share points.
Marlboro
 
 
 
As part of its adjacency growth strategy to develop new revenue and income sources for the future, PM USA is test marketing Snus, which is a spit-free, smokeless tobacco pouch product designed especially for adult smokers. PM USA began testing Snus in Dallas, Texas in August of 2007 and expanded the test into the Indianapolis, Indiana area in the first quarter of 2008. PM USA believes snus offers long-term potential as an alternative product for adult smokers as well as other adult tobacco users.
Marlboro
Marlboro
In addition, PM USA is test marketing Moist Smokeless Tobacco, which is designed to provide a premium quality product at an attractive price for adult moist smokeless tobacco consumers. PM USA began testing Moist Smokeless Tobacco in the Atlanta area in October 2007, and expanded the test market to include additional counties in the greater Atlanta, Georgia area in the first quarter of 2008.
Marlboro
Marlboro
2008 First-Quarter Results
As previously announced, Altria completed the acquisition of Middleton, a leading manufacturer of machine-made large cigars in December 2007. This is the first full quarter that Altria is reporting results for Middleton.
Middleton's first-quarter net revenues were $91 million and revenues net of excise taxes were $76 million. Operating companies income in the first quarter was $41 million, which includes a pre-tax charge of $2 million for integration costs. Middleton's first-quarter cigar shipment volume grew 8.2% versus year-ago to 312 million units, driven by its leading brand .
Black & Mild
Middleton's first-quarter retail share through February 2008 increased 2.7 share points versus year-ago to 26.8% of the machine-made large cigar segment, driven by . Retail share for increased 3.0 share points versus year-ago to 25.9% of the machine-made large cigar segment. Retail share performance is based on data from the most recent IRI Syndicated Reviews Database (February 2008 year-to-date), which is a tracking service that uses a sample of stores to project market share performance across multiple product categories, including machine-made large cigars.
Black & Mild
Black & Mild
 
Middleton entered into an agreement with PM USA to leverage PM USA's distribution network and field sales force to represent Middleton's brands. In March 2008, PM USA's sales force began representing Middleton's brands at retail and supporting the execution of Middleton's trade marketing programs.
2008 First-Quarter Results
PMCC reported operating companies income of $74 million for the first quarter of 2008 versus $160 million for the year-earlier period. First-quarter 2007 results reflected a cash recovery of $129 million at PMCC from assets that had been previously written down. Excluding the 2007 recovery, operating companies income for the first quarter of 2008 was favorable due to higher asset management gains.
PMCC remains focused on managing its portfolio of leased assets to maximize gains and cash flows from income generating assets, as well as asset sales and related activities. PMCC is not making new investments and expects that its operating companies income will vary over time as investments mature or are sold.
Altria Group, Inc. Profile
As of March 31, 2008, Altria owned 100% of Philip Morris USA Inc., John Middleton, Inc. and Philip Morris Capital Corporation, and approximately 28.6% of SABMiller plc. The brand portfolio of Altria's tobacco operating companies includes such well-known names as , , and. Altria recorded 2007 net revenues from continuing operations, which includes excise taxes billed to customers, of $18.7 billion.
Marlboro
Parliament
Virginia Slims, Basic
Black & Mild
Trademarks and service marks referenced in this release are the property of, or licensed by, Altria Group, Inc. or its subsidiaries.
Forward-Looking and Cautionary Statements
This press release contains projections of future results and other forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties and are made pursuant to the Safe
 
Harbor Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The following important factors could cause actual results and outcomes to differ materially from those contained in such forward-looking statements.
Altria's tobacco subsidiaries (PM USA and Middleton) are subject to intense price competition; changes in consumer preferences and demand for their products; fluctuations in raw material costs; fluctuations in levels of customer inventories; the effects of local economic and market conditions; and changes to income tax laws. Their results are dependent upon their continued ability to promote brand equity successfully; to anticipate and respond to new consumer trends; to develop new products and markets and to broaden brand portfolios in order to compete effectively with lower-priced products; and to improve productivity.
Altria's tobacco subsidiaries continue to be subject to litigation, including risks associated with adverse jury and judicial determinations, and courts reaching conclusions at variance with the company's understanding of applicable law and bonding requirements in the limited number of jurisdictions that do not limit the dollar amount of appeal bonds; legislation, including actual and potential excise tax increases; increasing marketing and regulatory restrictions; the effects of price increases related to excise tax increases and concluded tobacco litigation settlements on consumption rates and consumer preferences within price segments; health concerns relating to the use of tobacco products and exposure to environmental tobacco smoke; governmental regulation; privately imposed smoking restrictions; and governmental and grand jury investigations.
Altria and its subsidiaries are subject to other risks detailed from time to time in its publicly filed documents, including its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2007. Altria cautions that the foregoing list of important factors is not complete and does not undertake to update any forward-looking statements that it may make.
 
 
Schedule 1
 
 
Schedule 2
 
Schedule 3
 
Schedule 4
 
 
Accordingly, the sum of the quarterly earnings per share amounts may not agree to the total for the year.
Schedule 5
 
 
Accordingly, the sum of the quarterly earnings per share amounts may not agree to the total for the year.
Schedule 6
 


