FILE:MO/MO-8K-20080605164053.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As previously disclosed, Altria Group, Inc. ("Altria") completed the spin-off of Philip Morris International Inc. ("PMI") to Altria stockholders on March 28, 2008 (the "Spin-Off"). Beginning in the first quarter of 2008, as a result of the Spin-Off, Altria classified the operations of PMI as discontinued operations and revised its reportable segments. The revision to Altria's reportable segments also reflects Altria's December 2007 acquisition of John Middleton Co. (f/k/a John Middleton, Inc.).
This Current Report on Form 8-K is filed in order to revise, in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, certain information disclosed in Altria's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007 (the "Form 10-K"), namely:
 
The change in reportable segments does not affect Altria's:
 
The revisions to the Form 10-K reported in this Current Report on Form 8-K are limited to the specific items identified above. The information provided herein should be read in conjunction with Altria's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2008, its Current Reports on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, as well as those portions of the Form 10-K not subject to the revisions noted above.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
DATE: June 5, 2008
 
 
 

Exhibit 12
 
 
 
 
(A) Reflects Philip Morris International Inc. ("PMI") and Kraft Foods Inc. ("Kraft") as discontinued operations. Interest incurred and the portion of rent expense deemed to represent the interest factor of PMI and Kraft have been excluded from fixed charges in the computation. Including these amounts in fixed charges, the ratio of earnings to fixed charges would have been 5.9, 3.8, 3.0, 3.1 and 2.9 for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.

Exhibit 23
We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in Post-Effective Amendment No. 13 to the Registration Statement of Altria Group, Inc. on Form S-14 (File No. 2-96149) and in Altria Group, Inc.'s Registration Statements on Form S-3 (File No. 333-35143) and Forms S-8 (File Nos. 333-28631, 33-10218, 33-13210, 33-14561, 33-40110, 33-48781, 33-59109, 333-43478, 333-43484, 333-128494, 333-139523, and 333-148070), of our report dated January 28, 2008, except for Notes 19 and 21 which are as of February 4, 2008, and except for the impact of presenting Philip Morris International Inc. as a discontinued operation as discussed in Notes 1 and 4, the impact of the spin-off of Philip Morris International Inc. as discussed in Note 21, and the change in reportable segments as discussed in Notes 1 and 15, all of which are as of June 5, 2008, relating to the consolidated financial statements and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting of Altria Group, Inc., which appears in this Current Report on Form 8-K of Altria Group, Inc. We also consent to the incorporation by reference of our report dated January 28, 2008, except for Notes 19 and 21 which are as of February 4, 2008, and except for the impact of presenting Philip Morris International Inc. as a discontinued operation, as discussed in Notes 1 and 4, the impact of the spin-off of Philip Morris International Inc., as discussed in Note 21 and the change in reportable segments as discussed in Notes 1 and 15, all of which are as of June 5, 2008, relating to the financial statement schedule, which appears in this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
New York, New York
June 5, 2008

Exhibit 99.1
Selected Financial DataFive-Year Review
(in millions of dollars, except per share data)
 

Exhibit 99.2
Description of the Company
Throughout Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ("MD&A"), the term "Altria Group, Inc." refers to the consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows of the Altria family of companies and the term "ALG" refers solely to the parent company. ALG's wholly-owned subsidiaries are Philip Morris USA Inc. ("PM USA"), which is engaged in the manufacture and sale of cigarettes and other tobacco products in the United States and John Middleton, Inc., which is engaged in the manufacture and sale of machine-made cigars and pipe tobacco. Philip Morris Capital Corporation ("PMCC"), another wholly-owned subsidiary, maintains a portfolio of leveraged and direct finance leases. In addition, ALG held a 28.6% economic and voting interest in SABMiller plc ("SABMiller") at December 31, 2007. ALG's wholly owned international tobacco subsidiary as of December 31, 2007, Philip Morris International Inc. ("PMI"), is reflected in the financial statements and throughout MD&A as a discontinued operation as a result of the PMI spin-off discussed below. ALG's access to the operating cash flows of its subsidiaries consists principally of cash received from the payment of dividends by its subsidiaries.
On March 30, 2007, Altria Group, Inc. distributed all of its remaining interest in Kraft Foods, Inc. ("Kraft") on a pro-rata basis to Altria Group, Inc. stockholders in a tax-free distribution. Altria Group, Inc. has reclassified and reflected the results of Kraft prior to the Kraft Distribution Date as discontinued operations on the consolidated statements of earnings and the consolidated statements of cash flows for all periods presented. The assets and liabilities related to Kraft were reclassified and reflected as discontinued operations on the consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2006.
For further discussion, please refer to the Kraft Spin-Off discussion below.
PMI Spin-Off:
On January 30, 2008, the Board of Directors announced Altria Group, Inc.'s plans to spin off all of its interest in PMI to Altria Group, Inc. stockholders in a tax-free distribution. The distribution of all the PMI shares owned by Altria Group, Inc. was made on March 28, 2008 (the "PMI Distribution Date"), to Altria Group, Inc. stockholders of record as of the close of business on March 19, 2008 (the "PMI Record Date"). Altria Group, Inc. distributed one share of PMI common stock for every share of Altria Group, Inc. common stock outstanding as of the PMI Record Date.
Holders of Altria Group, Inc. stock options were treated similarly to public stockholders and, accordingly, had their stock awards split into two instruments. Holders of Altria Group, Inc. stock options received the following stock options, which, immediately after the spin-off, had an aggregate intrinsic value equal to the intrinsic value of the pre-spin Altria Group, Inc. options:
 
 
As set forth in the Employee Matters Agreement, the exercise price of each option was developed to reflect the relative market values of PMI and Altria Group, Inc. shares, by allocating the share price of Altria Group, Inc. common stock before the spin-off ($73.83) to PMI shares ($51.44) and Altria Group, Inc. shares ($22.39) and then multiplying each of these allocated values by the Option Conversion Ratio. The Option Conversion Ratio is equal to the exercise price of the Altria Group, Inc. option, prior to any adjustment for the spin-off,
divided by the share price of Altria Group, Inc. common stock before the spin-off ($73.83). As a result, the new PMI option and the adjusted Altria Group, Inc. option have an aggregate intrinsic value equal to the intrinsic value of the pre-spin Altria Group, Inc. option.
Holders of Altria Group, Inc. restricted stock or deferred stock awarded prior to January 30, 2008, retained their existing awards and received the same number of shares of restricted or deferred stock of PMI. The restricted stock and deferred stock will not vest until the completion of the original restriction period (typically, three years from the date of the original grant). Recipients of Altria Group, Inc. deferred stock awarded on January 30, 2008, who were employed by Altria Group, Inc. after the PMI Distribution Date, received additional shares of deferred stock of Altria Group, Inc. to preserve the intrinsic value of the award. Recipients of Altria Group, Inc. deferred stock awarded on January 30, 2008, who were employed by PMI after the PMI Distribution Date, received substitute shares of deferred stock of PMI to preserve the intrinsic value of the award.
To the extent that employees of the remaining Altria Group, Inc. received PMI stock options, Altria Group, Inc. reimbursed PMI in cash for the Black-Scholes fair value of the stock options received. To the extent that PMI employees hold Altria Group, Inc. stock options, PMI reimbursed Altria Group, Inc. in cash for the Black-Scholes fair value of the stock options. To the extent that employees of the remaining Altria Group, Inc. received PMI deferred stock, Altria Group, Inc. paid to PMI the fair value of the PMI deferred stock less the value of projected forfeitures. To the extent that PMI employees hold Altria Group, Inc. restricted stock or deferred stock, PMI reimbursed Altria Group, Inc. in cash for the fair value of the restricted or deferred stock less the value of projected forfeitures and any amounts previously charged to PMI for the restricted or deferred stock. Based upon the number of Altria Group, Inc. stock awards outstanding at the PMI Distribution Date, the net amount of these reimbursements resulted in a payment of $449 million from Altria Group, Inc. to PMI ($427 million of which was paid in March 2008).
In connection with the spin-off, PMI paid to Altria Group, Inc. $4.0 billion in special dividends in addition to its normal dividends to Altria Group, Inc. PMI paid $3.1 billion of these special dividends in 2007 and paid the additional $900 million in the first quarter of 2008.
Prior to the PMI spin-off, PMI was included in the Altria Group, Inc. consolidated federal income tax return, and PMI's federal income tax contingencies were recorded as liabilities on the balance sheet of ALG. ALG reimbursed PMI in cash for these liabilities, which were $97 million.
Prior to the PMI spin-off, certain employees of PMI participated in the U.S. benefit plans offered by Altria Group, Inc. After the PMI Distribution Date, the benefits previously provided by Altria Group, Inc. will be provided by PMI. As a result, new plans were established by PMI, and the related plan assets (to the extent that the benefit plans were previously funded) and liabilities were transferred to the PMI plans. The transfer of these benefits resulted in Altria Group, Inc. reducing its benefit plan liabilities by $129 million and increasing its prepaid pension assets by $33 million in its consolidated balance sheet, partially offset by the related deferred tax assets ($23 million) and the corresponding Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 158, "Employers' Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans" adjustment to stockholders' equity ($27 million). Altria Group, Inc. paid PMI a corresponding amount of $112 million in cash, which is net of the related tax benefit.
A subsidiary of ALG previously provided PMI with certain corporate services at cost plus a management fee. After the PMI Distribution Date, PMI independently undertook most of these activities. Any remaining limited services provided to PMI by the ALG service subsidiary under the Transition Services Agreement are expected to cease in 2008. The settlement of the intercompany accounts (including the amounts discussed above related to stock awards, tax contingencies and benefit plans) resulted in a net payment from Altria Group, Inc. to PMI of $332 million. In March 2008, Altria Group, Inc. made an estimated payment of $427 million to PMI, thereby resulting in PMI reimbursing $95 million to Altria Group, Inc. in the second quarter of 2008.
Under the terms of the Distribution Agreement between Altria Group, Inc. and PMI, liabilities concerning tobacco products will be allocated based in substantial part on the manufacturer. PMI will indemnify Altria
 
Group, Inc. and PM USA for liabilities related to tobacco products manufactured by PMI or contract manufactured for PMI by PM USA, and PM USA will indemnify PMI for liabilities related to tobacco products manufactured by PM USA, excluding tobacco products contract manufactured for PMI. Altria Group, Inc. does not have a liability recorded on its condensed consolidated balance sheet at March 31, 2008 as the fair value of this indemnification is insignificant.
Altria Group, Inc. estimates that, if the distribution had occurred on December 31, 2007, it would have resulted in a net decrease to Altria Group, Inc.'s stockholders' equity of approximately $15 billion.
Dividends and Share Repurchases:
In conjunction with its announcement of the PMI spin-off, the Board of Directors announced its intention to adjust Altria Group, Inc.'s dividend so that Altria Group, Inc. stockholders who retain their PMI shares will initially receive, in the aggregate, the same annual cash dividend rate of $3.00 per common share that existed before the spin-off. Altria Group, Inc. expects to pay a dividend at the initial rate of $0.29 per common share per quarter, or $1.16 per common share on an annualized basis. Altria Group, Inc. has established a dividend policy that anticipates a payout ratio of approximately 75% post-spin. PMI is expected to pay a dividend at the initial rate of $0.46 per common share per quarter, or $1.84 per common share on an annualized basis. PMI has established a dividend policy that anticipates a payout ratio of approximately 65% post-spin. Payment of cash dividends is at the discretion of the Boards of Directors of the respective companies.
In addition, the Board of Directors approved share repurchase programs as follows:
 
 
Tender Offer for Altria Group, Inc. Notes:
In connection with the spin-off of PMI, in the first quarter of 2008, Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiary, Altria Finance (Cayman Islands) Ltd. completed tender offers to purchase for cash $2.3 billion of notes and debentures denominated in U.S. dollars and 373 million in euro-denominated bonds, equivalent to $568 million in U.S. dollars.
While Altria Group, Inc. believes that the spin-off of PMI was not prohibited by the indentures, it believes that it was desirable to eliminate any uncertainty by amending the indentures with the consent of note holders.
In order to finance the tender offers, Altria Group, Inc. arranged a $4.0 billion, 364-day bridge loan facility with substantially the same terms as its existing credit facilities. The tender offers however, were paid with existing cash and Altria Group, Inc. has not borrowed under this bridge facility. Subsequent to the spin-off of PMI, Altria Group, Inc. intends to issue new public debt for general corporate purposes, including its share repurchase program, if market conditions permit. The tender offers and consent solicitations resulted in pre-tax charges of $393 million in the first quarter of 2008.
Kraft Spin-Off:
On March 30, 2007 (the "Kraft Distribution Date"), Altria Group, Inc. distributed all of its remaining interest in Kraft on a pro-rata basis to Altria Group, Inc. stockholders of record as of the close of business on March 16, 2007 (the "Kraft Record Date") in a tax-free distribution. The distribution ratio was 0.692024 of a share of Kraft for each share of Altria Group, Inc. common stock outstanding. Altria Group, Inc. stockholders received cash in lieu of fractional shares of Kraft. Following the distribution, Altria Group, Inc. does not own any shares of Kraft. During the second quarter of 2007, Altria Group, Inc. adjusted its quarterly dividend to $0.69 per share, so that its stockholders who retained their Altria Group, Inc. and Kraft shares would receive,
 
in the aggregate, the same dividend dollars as before the distribution. In August 2007, Altria Group, Inc. increased its quarterly dividend to $0.75 per share.
Holders of Altria Group, Inc. stock options were treated similarly to public stockholders and accordingly, had their stock awards split into two instruments. Holders of Altria Group, Inc. stock options received the following stock options, which, immediately after the spin-off, had an aggregate intrinsic value equal to the intrinsic value of the pre-spin Altria Group, Inc. options:
 
 
The new Kraft option has an exercise price equal to the Kraft market price at the time of the distribution ($31.66) multiplied by the Option Conversion Ratio, which represents the exercise price of the original Altria Group, Inc. option divided by the Altria Group, Inc. market price immediately before the distribution ($87.81). The reduced exercise price of the adjusted Altria Group, Inc. option was determined by multiplying the Altria Group, Inc. market price immediately following the distribution ($65.90) by the Option Conversion Ratio.
Holders of Altria Group, Inc. restricted stock or deferred stock awarded prior to January 31, 2007, retained their existing award and received restricted stock or deferred stock of Kraft Class A common stock. The amount of Kraft restricted stock or deferred stock awarded to such holders was calculated using the same formula set forth above with respect to new Kraft options. All of the restricted stock and deferred stock will vest at the completion of the original restriction period (typically, three years from the date of the original grant). Recipients of Altria Group, Inc. deferred stock awarded on January 31, 2007, did not receive restricted stock or deferred stock of Kraft. Rather, they received additional deferred shares of Altria Group, Inc. to preserve the intrinsic value of the original award.
To the extent that employees of the remaining Altria Group, Inc. received Kraft stock options, Altria Group, Inc. reimbursed Kraft in cash for the Black-Scholes fair value of the stock options received. To the extent that Kraft employees held Altria Group, Inc. stock options, Kraft reimbursed Altria Group, Inc. in cash for the Black-Scholes fair value of the stock options. To the extent that holders of Altria Group, Inc. deferred stock received Kraft deferred stock, Altria Group, Inc. paid to Kraft the fair value of the Kraft deferred stock less the value of projected forfeitures. Based upon the number of Altria Group, Inc. stock awards outstanding at the Kraft Distribution Date, the net amount of these reimbursements resulted in a payment of $179 million from Kraft to Altria Group, Inc. in April 2007. The reimbursement from Kraft is reflected as an increase to the additional paid-in capital of Altria Group, Inc. on the December 31, 2007 consolidated balance sheet.
Kraft was previously included in the Altria Group, Inc. consolidated federal income tax return, and federal income tax contingencies were recorded as liabilities on the balance sheet of ALG. As part of the intercompany account settlement discussed below, ALG reimbursed Kraft in cash for these liabilities, which as of March 30, 2007, were approximately $305 million, plus pre-tax interest of $63 million ($41 million after taxes). ALG also reimbursed Kraft in cash for the federal income tax consequences of the adoption of Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Interpretation No. 48, "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes  an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109" ("FIN 48") (approximately $70 million plus pre-tax interest of $14 million, $9 million after taxes). See Note 14. for a discussion of the FIN 48 adoption and the Tax Sharing Agreement between Altria Group, Inc. and Kraft.
Income Taxes
A subsidiary of ALG previously provided Kraft with certain services at cost plus a 5% management fee. After the Kraft Distribution Date, Kraft undertook these activities, and any remaining limited services provided to Kraft ceased during 2007. All intercompany accounts were settled in cash within 30 days of the Kraft Distribution Date. The settlement of the intercompany accounts (including the amounts discussed
 
above related to stock awards and tax contingencies) resulted in a net payment from Kraft to ALG of $85 million in April 2007.
The distribution resulted in a net decrease to Altria Group, Inc.'s stockholders' equity of $27.4 billion on the Kraft Distribution Date.
Other:
On December 11, 2007, in conjunction with PM USA's adjacency strategy, Altria Group, Inc. acquired 100% of John Middleton, Inc., a leading manufacturer of machine-made large cigars, for $2.9 billion in cash. The acquisition was financed with existing cash. John Middleton, Inc.'s balance sheet has been consolidated with Altria Group, Inc.'s as of December 31, 2007. Earnings from December 12, 2007 to December 31, 2007, the amounts of which were insignificant, have been included in Altria Group, Inc.'s consolidated operating results.
In March 2008, Altria Group, Inc. sold its headquarters building in New York City for $525 million and recorded a net pre-tax gain on the sale of the building and other assets of $404 million in the first quarter of 2008.
Beginning with the first quarter of 2008, Altria Group, Inc. revised its reportable segments to reflect the change in the way in which Altria Group, Inc.'s management reviews the business as a result of the acquisition of John Middleton, Inc. and the PMI spin-off. Altria Group, Inc.'s revised segments are Cigarettes and other tobacco products; Cigars; and Financial Services. Accordingly, prior year segment results have been revised.
Executive Summary
The following executive summary is intended to provide significant highlights of the Discussion and Analysis that follows.
 The changes in Altria Group, Inc.'s earnings from continuing operations and diluted earnings per share ("EPS") from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2007, from the year ended December 31, 2006, were due primarily to the following (in millions, except per share data):
Consolidated Operating Results
 
 
See discussion of events affecting the comparability of statement of earnings amounts in the Consolidated Operating Results section of the following Discussion and Analysis.
In June 2007, Altria Group, Inc. announced plans by its tobacco subsidiaries to optimize worldwide cigarette production by moving U.S.-based cigarette production for non-U.S. markets to PMI facilities in Europe. Due to declining U.S. cigarette volume, as well as PMI's decision to re-source its production, PM USA will close its Cabarrus, North Carolina manufacturing facility and consolidate manufacturing for the U.S. market at its Richmond, Virginia manufacturing center. From 2007 through 2011, PM USA expects to incur total pre-tax asset impairment, exit and implementation charges of approximately $670 million for the program, including $371 million ($234 million after taxes) incurred during 2007. During 2006, PM USA recorded pre-tax asset impairment and exit costs of $10 million ($6 million after taxes). In addition, during 2007 and 2006, pre-tax asset impairment and exit costs of $98 million ($66 million after taxes) and $42 million ($26 million after taxes) were recorded in general corporate expense.
Asset Impairment, Exit and Implementation Costs 
For further details on asset impairment, exit and implementation costs, see Note 3. Asset Impairment and Exit Costs, to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
 As discussed in Note 8. , ("Note 8") PMCC recorded a pre-tax gain of $214 million ($137 million after taxes) on the sale of its ownership interests and bankruptcy claims in certain leveraged lease investments in aircraft, which represented a partial recovery, in cash, of amounts that had been previously written down. During 2006, PMCC increased its allowance for losses by $103 million ($66 million after taxes), due to issues within the airline industry.
Recoveries/Provision from/for Airline Industry Exposure
Finance Assets, net
 As further discussed in Note 1. and Note 14. , the interest on tax reserves transferred to Kraft is related to the Kraft spin-off, the adoption of FIN 48 in 2007 and the conclusion of an IRS audit in 2006.
Interest on Tax Reserve Transfers to Kraft
Background and Basis of Presentation
Income Taxes
 Altria Group, Inc.'s effective tax rate was unchanged at 33.1%. The 2007 effective tax rate includes net tax benefits of $111 million related to the reversal of tax reserves and associated interest resulting from the expiration of statutes of limitations ($55 million in the third quarter and $56 million in the fourth quarter). The tax rate in 2007 also includes the reversal in the fourth quarter of tax accruals of $57 million no longer required. The 2006 effective tax rate includes $146 million of non-cash tax benefits principally representing the reversal of tax reserves after the U.S. Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") concluded its examination of Altria Group, Inc.'s consolidated tax returns for the years 1996 through 1999 in the first quarter of 2006.
Income Taxes
 Higher shares outstanding during 2007 primarily reflect exercises of employee stock options (which become outstanding when exercised) and the incremental share impact of stock options outstanding.
Shares Outstanding
 The favorable impact from operations was due primarily to the following:
Operations
 
 
 
partially offset by:
 
 
For further details, see the Consolidated Operating Results and Operating Results by Business Segment sections of the following Discussion and Analysis.
 In January 2008, Altria Group, Inc. announced that it forecasts 2008 full-year diluted earnings per share from continuing operations to be in the range of $1.63 to $1.67, representing a growth rate of approximately 9% to 11% for the full-year 2008, from a base of $1.50 per share in 2007. This forecast reflects a higher effective tax rate, the contribution of income from recently acquired John Middleton, Inc. and the impact of share repurchases. Earnings per share growth is expected to be stronger in the second half of 2008.
2008 Forecasted Results
 
The forecast excludes the impact of any potential future acquisitions or divestitures, Altria Group, Inc.'s gain on the sale of its headquarters in New York City, charges related to the tender offer for Altria Group, Inc.'s notes and a number of other factors including the items shown in the table above. The factors described in the section of the following represent continuing risks to this forecast.
Cautionary Factors That May Affect Future Results
Discussion and Analysis
Discussion and Analysis
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates
Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements includes a summary of the significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of Altria Group, Inc.'s consolidated financial statements. In most instances, Altria Group, Inc. must use an accounting policy or method because it is the only policy or method permitted under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("U.S. GAAP").
The preparation of financial statements includes the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent liabilities at the dates of the financial statements and the reported amounts of net revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. If actual amounts are ultimately different from previous estimates, the revisions are included in Altria Group, Inc.'s consolidated results of operations for the period in which the actual amounts become known. Historically, the aggregate differences, if any, between Altria Group, Inc.'s estimates and actual amounts in any year, have not had a significant impact on its consolidated financial statements.
The selection and disclosure of Altria Group, Inc.'s critical accounting policies and estimates have been discussed with Altria Group, Inc.'s Audit Committee. The following is a review of the more significant assumptions and estimates, as well as the accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of Altria Group, Inc.'s consolidated financial statements:
 
 
 
 
Altria Group, Inc. is required to conduct an annual review of goodwill and intangible assets for potential impairment. Goodwill impairment testing requires a comparison between the carrying value and fair value of each reporting unit. If the carrying value exceeds the fair value, goodwill is considered impaired. The amount of impairment loss is measured as the difference between the carrying value and implied fair value of goodwill, which is determined using discounted cash flows. Impairment testing for non-amortizable intangible assets requires a comparison between the fair value and carrying value of the intangible asset. If the carrying value exceeds fair value, the intangible asset is considered impaired and is reduced to fair value. These calculations may be affected by interest rates, general economic conditions and projected growth rates.
During 2007, 2006 and 2005, Altria Group, Inc. completed its annual review of goodwill and intangible assets, and no charges resulted from these reviews.
 
 
ALG and its subsidiaries record provisions in the consolidated financial statements for pending litigation when they determine that an unfavorable outcome is probable and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Except as discussed in Note 19: at the present time, while it is reasonably possible that an unfavorable outcome in a case may occur, (i) management has concluded that it is not probable
 
that a loss has been incurred in any of the pending tobacco-related cases; (ii) management is unable to estimate the possible loss or range of loss that could result from an unfavorable outcome of any of the pending tobacco-related cases; and (iii) accordingly, management has not provided any amounts in the consolidated financial statements for unfavorable outcomes, if any. Legal defense costs are expensed as incurred.
 
In September 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 158, "Employers' Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans" ("SFAS No. 158"). SFAS No. 158 requires that employers recognize the funded status of their defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans on the consolidated balance sheet and record as a component of other comprehensive income, net of tax, the gains or losses and prior service costs or credits that have not been recognized as components of net periodic benefit cost. Altria Group, Inc. adopted SFAS No. 158, prospectively, on December 31, 2006. The adoption of SFAS No. 158 by Altria Group, Inc. resulted in a decrease to total assets of $3,096 million, an increase in total liabilities of $290 million and a decrease to stockholders' equity of $3,386 million. Included in these amounts were a decrease to Kraft's total assets of $2,286 million, a decrease to Kraft's total liabilities of $235 million and a decrease to Kraft's stockholders' equity of $2,051 million, as well as a decrease to PMI's total assets of $162 million, an increase to PMI's total liabilities of $351 million and a decrease to PMI's stockholder's equity of $513 million.
At December 31, 2007, Altria Group, Inc.'s discount rate assumption increased to 6.20%, from 5.90% at December 31, 2006, for its pension and postretirement plans. Altria Group, Inc. presently anticipates that this and other less significant assumption changes, coupled with the amortization of deferred gains and losses, will result in substantially the same 2008 pre-tax pension and postretirement expense, not including amounts in each year related to early retirement programs. A fifty basis point decrease in Altria Group, Inc.'s discount rate would increase Altria Group, Inc.'s pension and postretirement expense by approximately $51 million, whereas, a fifty basis point increase would lower expense by approximately $33 million. Similarly, a fifty basis point decrease (increase) in the expected return on plan assets would increase (decrease) Altria Group, Inc.'s pension expense by approximately $27 million. See Note 16 for a sensitivity discussion of the assumed health care cost trend rates.
 
On January 1, 2007, Altria Group, Inc. adopted the provisions of FIN 48. The Interpretation prescribes a recognition threshold and a measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. For those benefits to be recognized, a tax position must be more-likely-than-not to be sustained upon examination by taxing authorities. The amount recognized is measured as the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. As a result of the January 1, 2007 adoption of FIN 48, Altria Group, Inc. lowered its liability for unrecognized tax benefits by $1,021 million. This
 
resulted in an increase to stockholders' equity of $857 million ($835 million, net of minority interest), a reduction of Kraft's goodwill of $85 million and a reduction of federal deferred tax benefits of $79 million.
Altria Group, Inc. adopted the provisions of FASB Staff Position No. FAS 13-2, "Accounting for a Change or Projected Change in the Timing of Cash Flows Relating to Income Taxes Generated by a Leveraged Lease Transaction" ("FAS 13-2") effective January 1, 2007. This Staff Position requires the revenue recognition calculation to be reevaluated if there is a revision to the projected timing of income tax cash flows generated by a leveraged lease. The adoption of this Staff Position by Altria Group, Inc. resulted in a reduction to stockholders' equity of $124 million as of January 1, 2007.
The tax provision in 2007 includes net tax benefits of $111 million related to the reversal of tax reserves and associated interest resulting from the expiration of statutes of limitations ($55 million in the third quarter and $56 million in the fourth quarter). The 2007 tax provision also includes the reversal in the fourth quarter of tax accruals of $57 million no longer required. The tax provision in 2006 includes $146 million of non-cash tax benefits principally representing the reversal of tax reserves after the U.S. IRS concluded its examination of Altria Group, Inc.'s consolidated tax returns for the years 1996 through 1999 in the first quarter of 2006. The tax provision in 2005 includes the impact of the domestic manufacturers' deduction under the American Jobs Creation Act.
 
 
 
PMCC's investment in leases is included in the line item finance assets, net, on the consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2007 and 2006. At December 31, 2007, PMCC's net finance receivable of $5.8 billion in leveraged leases, which is included in the line item on Altria Group, Inc.'s consolidated balance sheet of finance assets, net, consists of rents receivables ($19.4 billion) and the residual value of assets under lease ($1.5 billion), reduced by third-party nonrecourse debt ($12.8 billion) and unearned income ($2.3 billion). The repayment of the nonrecourse debt is collateralized by lease payments receivable and the leased property, and is nonrecourse to the general assets of PMCC. As required by
 
U.S. GAAP, the third-party nonrecourse debt has been offset against the related rents receivable and has been presented on a net basis within the line item finance assets, net, in Altria Group, Inc.'s consolidated balance sheets. Finance assets, net, at December 31, 2007, also include net finance receivables for direct finance leases ($0.4 billion) and an allowance for losses ($0.2 billion).
Estimated residual values represent PMCC's estimate at lease inception as to the fair value of assets under lease at the end of the lease term. The estimated residual values are reviewed annually by PMCC's management based on a number of factors and activity in the relevant industry. If necessary, revisions to reduce the residual values are recorded. Such reviews resulted in decreases of $11 million and $14 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively, to PMCC's net revenues and results of operations. Such residual reviews resulted in no adjustment in 2005. To the extent that lease receivables due PMCC may be uncollectible, PMCC records an allowance for losses against its finance assets. During 2007, PMCC recorded a pre-tax gain of $214 million on the sale of its ownership interests and bankruptcy claims in certain leveraged lease investments in aircraft, which represented a partial recovery, in cash, of amounts that had been previously written down. During 2006 and 2005, PMCC increased its allowance for losses by $103 million and $200 million, respectively, primarily in recognition of issues within the airline industry. It is possible that additional adverse developments may require PMCC to increase its allowance for losses in future periods.
 
Consolidated Operating Results
See pages 33 - - 36 for a discussion of Cautionary Factors That May Affect Future Results.
 
As discussed in Note 15. , management reviews operating companies income, which is defined as operating income before general corporate expenses and amortization of intangibles, to evaluate segment performance and allocate resources. Management believes it is appropriate to disclose this measure to help investors analyze the business performance and trends of the various business segments.
Segment Reporting
The following events that occurred during 2007, 2006 and 2005 affected the comparability of statement of earnings amounts.
 
 
 
Manufacturing Optimization Program
In June 2007, Altria Group, Inc. announced plans by its tobacco subsidiaries to optimize worldwide cigarette production by moving U.S.-based cigarette production for non-U.S. markets to PMI facilities in Europe. Due to declining U.S. cigarette volume, as well as PMI's decision to re-source its production, PM USA will close its Cabarrus, North Carolina manufacturing facility and consolidate manufacturing for the U.S. market at its Richmond, Virginia manufacturing center. PMI expects to shift all of its PM USA-sourced cigarette production, which approximates 57 billion cigarettes to PMI facilities in Europe by October 2008 and PM USA will close its Cabarrus manufacturing facility by the end of 2010.
As a result of this program, from 2007 through 2011, PM USA expects to incur total pre-tax charges of approximately $670 million, comprised of accelerated depreciation of $143 million (including the above mentioned asset impairment charge of $35 million recorded in 2007), employee separation costs of $353 million and other charges of $174 million, primarily related to the relocation of employees and equipment, net of estimated gains on sales of land and buildings. Approximately $440 million, or 66% of the total pre-tax charges, will result in cash expenditures. PM USA recorded total pre-tax charges of $371 million in 2007 related to this program. These charges were comprised of pre-tax asset impairment and exit costs of $344 million, and $27 million of pre-tax implementation costs associated with the program. The pre-tax implementation costs primarily related to accelerated depreciation and were included in cost of sales in the consolidated statement of earnings for the year ended December 31, 2007. Pre-tax charges of approximately $140 million are expected during 2008 for the program. The program is expected to generate annual pre-tax cost savings of approximately $156 million by 2011.
Corporate Asset Impairment and Exit Costs
In 2007, 2006 and 2005, general corporate pre-tax charges were $98 million, $42 million and $49 million, respectively. These charges were primarily related to investment banking and legal fees in 2007 associated with the Kraft and contemplated PMI spin-offs, as well as the streamlining of various corporate functions in each year.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2007 compared with 2006
The following discussion compares consolidated operating results for the year ended December 31, 2007, with the year ended December 31, 2006.
Net revenues, which include excise taxes billed to customers, decreased $126 million (0.7%). Excluding excise taxes, net revenues increased $39 million (0.3%), due primarily to the higher revenues from the Cigarettes and other tobacco products segment and the impact of the John Middleton, Inc. acquisition, partially offset by lower revenues from the Financial services segment.
Excise taxes on products decreased $165 million (4.6%) due to lower volume in the Cigarettes and other tobacco products segment.
Cost of sales increased $440 million (6.0%), due primarily to higher ongoing resolution costs ($484 million).
Marketing, administration and research costs decreased $329 million (10.6%), due primarily to lower marketing expenses and lower general and administrative costs, both decreases reflecting productivity initiatives.
Operating income decreased $145 million (3.2%), due primarily to higher charges for asset impairment, exit and implementation costs, partially offset by higher operating results at PMCC as a result of cash recoveries in 2007 from assets which had previously been written down versus a provision in 2006 for its airline industry exposure, and higher operating results from the Cigarettes and other tobacco products segment.
Interest and other debt expense, net, of $205 million decreased $20 million, due primarily to lower debt levels, partially offset by lower interest income.
Altria Group, Inc.'s effective tax rate was unchanged at 33.1%. The 2007 effective tax rate includes net tax benefits of $111 million related to the reversal of tax reserves and associated interest resulting from the expiration of statutes of limitations ($55 million in the third quarter and $56 million in the fourth quarter). The tax provision in 2007 also includes the reversal in the fourth quarter of tax accruals of $57 million no longer required. The 2006 effective tax rate includes $146 million of non-cash tax benefits principally representing the reversal of tax reserves after the IRS concluded its examination of Altria Group, Inc.'s consolidated tax returns for the years 1996 through 1999 in the first quarter of 2006.
Earnings from continuing operations of $3.1 billion decreased $51 million (1.6%), due primarily to lower operating income, partially offset by higher equity earnings from SABMiller and lower interest and other debt expense, net. Diluted and basic EPS from continuing operations of $1.48 and $1.49, respectively, each decreased by 2.0%.
Earnings from discontinued operations, net of income taxes and minority interest (which represent the results of Kraft prior to the Kraft spin-off, and PMI), decreased $2.2 billion.
Net earnings of $9.8 billion decreased $2.2 billion (18.6%). Diluted and basic EPS from net earnings of $4.62 and $4.66, respectively, each decreased by 19.1%. These decreases reflect the spin-off of Kraft at the end of March 2007.
 
2006 compared with 2005
The following discussion compares consolidated operating results for the year ended December 31, 2006, with the year ended December 31, 2005.
Net revenues, which include excise taxes billed to customers, increased $338 million (1.8%). Excluding excise taxes, net revenues increased $380 million (2.6%), due primarily to increases from the Cigarettes and other tobacco products segment.
Excise taxes on products decreased $42 million (1.1%), due primarily to lower volume in the Cigarettes and other tobacco products segment.
Cost of sales increased $113 million (1.6%), due primarily to higher leaf costs.
Marketing, administration and research costs decreased $26 million (0.8%), due primarily to lower corporate, and general and administrative expenses, partially offset by higher marketing expenses.
Operating income increased $414 million (10.1%), due primarily to higher operating results from the Cigarettes and other tobacco products segment, the 2005 charge for PM USA's portion of the losses incurred by the federal government on disposition of its pool tobacco stock, and a lower provision for airline industry exposure at PMCC. These increases were partially offset by an unfavorable comparison with 2005, when PM USA benefited from the reversal of a 2004 accrual related to the tobacco quota buy-out legislation.
Interest and other debt expense, net, of $225 million decreased $202 million (47.3%), due primarily to lower debt levels and higher interest income.
Altria Group, Inc.'s effective tax rate decreased by 5.1 percentage points to 33.1%. The 2006 effective tax rate includes $146 million of non-cash tax benefits principally representing the reversal of tax reserves after the IRS concluded its examination of Altria Group, Inc.'s consolidated tax returns for the years 1996 through 1999 in the first quarter of 2006. The 2006 tax rate also includes benefits related to dividend repatriation.
Earnings from continuing operations of $3.2 billion increased $633 million (24.8%), due primarily to higher operating income, lower interest and other debt expense, net, and a lower effective tax rate. Diluted and basic EPS from continuing operations of $1.51 and $1.52, respectively, increased by 23.8% and 23.6%, respectively.
Earnings from discontinued operations, net of income taxes and minority interest, of $8.8 billion increased $954 million (12.1%), due to higher net earnings at PMI and Kraft.
Net earnings of $12.0 billion increased $1.6 billion (15.2%). Diluted and basic EPS from net earnings of $5.71 and $5.76, respectively, increased by 14.4% and 14.3%, respectively.
Operating Results by Business Segment
Tobacco
Business Environment
Taxes, Legislation, Regulation and Other Matters Regarding Tobacco and Smoking
The United States tobacco industry faces a number of challenges that may adversely affect the business, volume, results of operations, cash flows and financial position of ALG and our tobacco companies. These challenges, which are discussed below and in the section, include:
Cautionary Factors That May Affect Future Results
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In the ordinary course of business, our tobacco companies are subject to many influences that can impact the timing of sales to customers, including the timing of holidays and other annual or special events, the timing of promotions, customer incentive programs and customer inventory programs, as well as the actual or speculated timing of pricing actions and tax-driven price increases.
: Tobacco products are subject to substantial excise taxes in the United States. Significant increases in tobacco-related taxes or fees have been proposed or enacted and are likely to continue to be proposed or enacted within the United States. Legislation has been passed by the United States Congress that would increase the federal excise tax on cigarettes by $0.61 a pack. The President has vetoed this legislation. It is not possible to predict whether such legislation will be reintroduced and become law.
Excise Taxes
Tax increases are expected to continue to have an adverse impact on sales of tobacco products by our tobacco subsidiaries, due to lower consumption levels and to a shift in consumer purchases from the premium to the non-premium or discount segments or to other low-priced or low-taxed tobacco products or to counterfeit and contraband products.
: A number of public health organizations have determined that the existing standardized machine-based methods for measuring tar and nicotine yields in cigarettes do not provide useful information about tar and nicotine deliveries and that such results are
Tar and Nicotine Test Methods and Brand Descriptors
 
misleading to smokers. For example, in the 2001 publication of Monograph 13, the U.S. National Cancer Institute ("NCI") concluded that measurements based on the Federal Trade Commission ("FTC") standardized method "do not offer smokers meaningful information on the amount of tar and nicotine they will receive from a cigarette" or "on the relative amounts of tar and nicotine exposure likely to be received from smoking different brands of cigarettes." Thereafter, the FTC issued a press release indicating that it would be working with the NCI to determine what changes should be made to its testing method to "correct the limitations" identified in Monograph 13. In 2002, PM USA petitioned the FTC to promulgate new rules governing the use of existing standardized machine-based methodologies for measuring tar and nicotine yields and descriptors. That petition remains pending. In addition, the World Health Organization ("WHO") has concluded that these standardized measurements are "seriously flawed" and that measurements based upon the current standardized methodology "are misleading and should not be displayed." The International Organization for Standardization ("ISO") established a working group, chaired by the WHO, to propose a new measurement method that would more accurately reflect human smoking behavior. PM USA has supported the concept of supplementing the ISO test method with a more intensive method, which PM USA believes would better illustrate the wide variability in the delivery of tar, nicotine and carbon monoxide, depending on how an individual smokes a cigarette.
In light of public health concerns about the limitations of current machine measurement methodologies, governments and public health organizations have increasingly challenged the use of descriptors  such as "light," "mild," and "low tar"  that are based on measurements produced by those methods. In addition, as discussed in Note 19, in August 2006, a federal trial court entered judgment in favor of the United States government in its lawsuit against various cigarette manufacturers and others, including PM USA and ALG, and enjoined the defendants from using brand descriptors, such as "lights," "ultra-lights" and "low tar." In October 2006, the Court of Appeals stayed enforcement of the judgment pending its review of the trial court's decision.
: In February 2007, bipartisan legislation was introduced in the United States Senate and House of Representatives that, if enacted, would grant the FDA broad authority to regulate the design, manufacture and marketing of tobacco products and disclosures of related information. This legislation would also grant the FDA the authority to impose certain recordkeeping and reporting obligations to address counterfeit and contraband tobacco products and would impose fees to pay for the cost of regulation and other matters. ALG and PM USA support this legislation. In August 2007, the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee approved a revised version of this legislation. Whether Congress will grant the FDA broad authority over tobacco products, and the precise nature of that authority if granted, cannot be predicted.
Food and Drug Administration ("FDA") Regulations
: In October 2004, the Fair and Equitable Tobacco Reform Act of 2004 ("FETRA") was signed into law. FETRA provides for the elimination of the federal tobacco quota and price support program through an industry-funded buy-out of tobacco growers and quota holders. The cost of the buy-out is approximately $9.5 billion and is being paid over 10 years by manufacturers and importers of each kind of tobacco product. The cost is being allocated based on the relative market shares of manufacturers and importers of each kind of tobacco product. The quota buy-out payments will offset already scheduled payments to the National Tobacco Grower Settlement Trust (the "NTGST"), a trust fund established in 1999 by four of the major domestic tobacco product manufacturers to provide aid to tobacco growers and quota holders. Manufacturers and importers of tobacco products are also obligated to cover any losses (up to $500 million) that the government may incur on the disposition of tobacco pool stock accumulated under the previous tobacco price support program. PM USA has paid $138 million for its share of the tobacco pool stock losses. For a discussion of the NTGST, see Note 19. The quota buy-out did not have a material adverse impact on the Altria Group, Inc.'s consolidated results in 2007 and Altria Group, Inc. does not anticipate that the quota buyout will have a material adverse impact on its consolidated results in 2008 and beyond.
Tobacco Quota Buy-Out
: The FCTC entered into force on February 27, 2005. As of January 2008, 152 countries, as well as the European Community, have become parties to the FCTC. The FCTC is the first international public health treaty and its objective is to establish a global agenda for tobacco regulation with the purpose of reducing initiation of tobacco use and
The WHO's Framework Convention on Tobacco Control ("FCTC")
 
encouraging cessation. The treaty recommends (and in certain instances, requires) signatory nations to enact legislation that would, among other things:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In addition, some of the proposals currently under consideration by the Conference of the Parties, the governing body of the FCTC, could have the potential to substantially restrict the ability of our tobacco subsidiaries to manufacture and market their products. It is not possible to predict the outcome of regulations under consideration.
: Some Jurisdictions in the United States have enacted or proposed legislation or regulations that would require tobacco product manufacturers to disclose to the government and, in some instances, publicly the ingredients used in the manufacture of tobacco products and, in certain cases, to provide toxicological information. In some jurisdictions, governments have prohibited the use of certain ingredients, and proposals have been discussed to further prohibit or limit the use of ingredients and flavors.
Ingredient Laws
: In certain states, legislation has been proposed which would prohibit the sale of certain flavor varieties of tobacco products or tobacco products with characterizing flavors. The proposed legislation varies in terms of the type of tobacco products subject to prohibition, the conditions under which the sale of such products would be prohibited, and exceptions to the prohibitions. To date, Maine is the only state in which such a prohibition has been enacted, but its provisions affecting cigarette and cigar products do not take effect until July 1, 2009, and covered products also may be granted exemptions under that state's law. Whether other states will enact legislation in this area, and the precise nature of such legislation if enacted, cannot be predicted.
Laws Addressing Flavor Varieties or Characterizing Flavors
: For many years, some legislators and public health groups have called for bans of product displays and for generic packaging. PM USA opposes complete bans on advertising, but supports limitations on marketing, provided that the limitations are within constitutional constraints and manufacturers are able to communicate appropriately with adult smokers.
Bans and Restrictions on Advertising, Marketing, Promotions and Sponsorships
: Health warnings on tobacco product packs are required in the United States. PM USA supports and complies with health warning requirements. PM USA does not support warning
Health Warning Requirements
 
sizes that deprive it of the ability to use their distinctive trademarks and pack designs which differentiate its products from those of its competitors.
: Reports with respect to the health effects of cigarette smoking have been publicized for many years, including in a June 2006 United States Surgeon General report on ETS entitled "The Health Consequences of Involuntary Exposure to Tobacco Smoke." Many countries have restricted smoking in public places. The pace and scope of public smoking bans has increased significantly. Some public health groups have called for, and some jurisdictions have adopted or proposed, bans on smoking in outdoor places, and some tobacco control groups have advocated banning smoking in cars with minors in them.
Health Effects of Smoking and Exposure to Environmental Tobacco Smoke ("ETS")
It is not possible to predict the results of ongoing scientific research or the types of future scientific research into the health risks of tobacco exposure. Although most regulation of ETS exposure to date has been done at the local level through bans in public establishments, the State of California is in the process of regulating ETS exposure in the ambient air at the state level. In January 2006, the California Air Resources Board ("CARB") listed ETS as a toxic air contaminant under state law. CARB is now required to consider the adoption of appropriate control measures utilizing "best available control technology" in order to reduce public exposure to ETS in outdoor air to the "lowest level achievable." In addition, in June 2006, the California Office of Environmental Health Hazard Assessment ("OEHHA") listed ETS as a contaminant known to the State of California to cause reproductive toxicity. Consequently, under California Proposition 65, businesses employing 10 or more persons must post warning signs in certain areas stating that ETS is known to the State of California to be a reproductive toxicant.
It is the policy of PM USA to support a single, consistent public health message on the health effects of cigarette smoking in the development of diseases in smokers, smoking and addiction, and on exposure to ETS. It is also PM USA's policy to defer to the judgment of public health authorities as to the content of warnings in advertisements and on product packaging regarding the health effects of smoking, addiction and exposure to ETS.
PM USA has established a website that includes, among other things, the views of public health authorities on smoking, disease causation in smokers, addiction and ETS. The site reflects PM USA's agreement with the medical and scientific consensus that cigarette smoking is addictive, and causes lung cancer, heart disease, emphysema and other serious diseases in smokers. The website advises smokers, and those considering smoking, to rely on the messages of public health authorities in making all smoking-related decisions. The website address is www.philipmorrisusa.com. The information on PM USA's website is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part of this document or incorporated into any filings ALG makes with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
: In addition to tar, nicotine and carbon monoxide, public health authorities have classified between 45 and 70 other smoke constituents as potential causes of tobacco-related diseases. PM USA measures most of these constituents for its product research and development purposes. However, the capacity to conduct by-brand testing on a national basis does not exist today, and the cost of by-brand annual testing would be significant.
Testing and Reporting of Other Smoke Constituents
: Legislation or regulation requiring cigarettes to meet reduced ignition propensity standards is being considered in many states, at the federal and local levels. New York State implemented ignition propensity standards in June 2004. To date, the same standards have been enacted by twenty-one other states, effective as follows: Vermont (May 2006), California (January 2007), Oregon (April 2007), New Hampshire (October 2007), Illinois (January 2008), Maine (January 2008), Massachusetts (January 2008), Kentucky (April 2008), Montana (May 2008), Alaska (August 2008), New Jersey (June 2008), Maryland (July 2008), Utah (July 2008), Connecticut (July 2008), Rhode Island (August 2008), Delaware (January 2009), Iowa (January 2009), Minnesota (January 2009), Texas (January 2009), Louisiana (August 2009) and North Carolina (January 2010). PM USA supports the enactment of federal legislation mandating a uniform and technically feasible national standard for reduced ignition propensity cigarettes that would preempt state standards and apply to all cigarettes sold in the United States. Although PM USA believes that a national standard is the most appropriate way to address the issue, it has
Reduced Cigarette Ignition Propensity Legislation
 
been actively supporting the adoption of laws at the state level that require all manufacturers to comply with the standard first adopted in New York.
: Regulatory measures and related governmental actions to prevent the illicit manufacture and trade of tobacco products are being considered by a number of jurisdictions. PM USA supports strict regulations and enforcement measures to prevent all forms of illicit trade in tobacco products. PM USA agrees that manufacturers should implement monitoring systems of their sales and distribution practices, and that where appropriately confirmed, manufacturers should stop supplying vendors who have knowingly engaged in illicit trade. For example, PM USA is engaged in a number of initiatives to help prevent contraband trade in cigarettes, including: enforcement of PM USA wholesale and retail trade policies on trade in contraband cigarettes and Internet/remote sales; engagement with and support of law enforcement and regulatory agencies; litigation to protect the Company's trademarks; and support for federal and state legislation. PM USA's legislative initiatives to address contraband trade in cigarettes are designed to better control and protect the legitimate channels of distribution, impose more stringent penalties for the violation of laws and provide additional tools for law enforcement.
Illicit Trade
: As discussed in Note 19, during 1997 and 1998, PM USA and other major domestic tobacco product manufacturers entered into agreements with states and various United States jurisdictions settling asserted and unasserted health care cost recovery and other claims. These settlements require PM USA to make substantial annual payments. The settlements also place numerous restrictions on PM USA's business operations, including prohibitions and restrictions on the advertising and marketing of cigarettes. Among these are prohibitions of outdoor and transit brand advertising; payments for product placement; and free sampling (except in adult-only facilities). Restrictions are also placed on the use of brand name sponsorships and brand name non-tobacco products. The State Settlement Agreements also place prohibitions on targeting youth and the use of cartoon characters. In addition, the State Settlement Agreements require companies to affirm corporate principles directed at reducing underage use of cigarettes; impose requirements regarding lobbying activities; mandate public disclosure of certain industry documents; limit the industry's ability to challenge certain tobacco control and underage use laws; and provide for the dissolution of certain tobacco-related organizations and place restrictions on the establishment of any replacement organizations.
State Settlement Agreements
:Legislative and regulatory initiatives affecting the tobacco industry have been adopted or are being considered in a number of jurisdictions. In recent years, various members of federal and state governments have introduced legislation that would subject cigarettes and other tobacco products to various regulations; restrict or eliminate the use of descriptors for cigarettes such as "lights" or "ultra lights;" establish educational campaigns relating to tobacco consumption or tobacco control programs, or provide additional funding for governmental tobacco control activities; further restrict the advertising of cigarettes and other tobacco products; require additional warnings, including graphic warnings, on packages and in advertising of cigarettes and other tobacco products; eliminate or reduce the tax deductibility of tobacco product advertising; provide that the Federal Cigarette Labeling and Advertising Act and the Smoking Education Act not be used as a defense against liability under state statutory or common law; allow state and local governments to restrict the use of flavors in tobacco products; and allow state and local governments to restrict the sale and distribution of tobacco products.
Other Legislation or Governmental Initiatives
 
It is not possible to predict what, if any, additional legislation, regulation or other governmental action will be enacted or implemented relating to the manufacturing, advertising, sale or use of tobacco products, or the tobacco industry generally. It is possible, however, that legislation, regulation or other governmental action could be enacted or implemented in the United States that might materially affect the business, volume, results of operations and cash flows of our tobacco subsidiaries, and ultimately their parent, ALG.
 
: From time to time, ALG and its subsidiaries are subject to governmental investigations on a range of matters. In this regard, ALG believes that Canadian authorities are contemplating a legal proceeding based on an investigation of ALG entities relating to allegations of contraband shipments of cigarettes into Canada in the early to mid-1990s. ALG and its subsidiaries cannot predict the outcome of this investigation or whether additional investigations may be commenced.
Governmental Investigations
Manufacturing Optimization Program:
In June 2007, Altria Group, Inc. announced plans by its tobacco subsidiaries to optimize worldwide cigarette production by moving U.S.-based cigarette production for non-U.S. markets to PMI facilities in Europe. Due to declining U.S. cigarette volume, as well as PMI's decision to re-source its production, PM USA will close its Cabarrus, North Carolina manufacturing facility and consolidate manufacturing for the U.S. market at its Richmond, Virginia manufacturing center. PMI expects to shift all of its PM USA-sourced cigarette production, which approximates 57 billion cigarettes, to PMI facilities in Europe by October 2008, and PM USA will close its Cabarrus manufacturing facility by the end of 2010.
As a result of this program, from 2007 through 2011, PM USA expects to incur total pre-tax charges of approximately $670 million, comprised of accelerated depreciation of $143 million, employee separation costs of $353 million and other charges of $174 million, primarily related to the relocation of employees and equipment, net of estimated gains on sales of land and buildings. Approximately $440 million, or 66% of the total pre-tax charges, will result in cash expenditures. PM USA recorded total pre-tax charges of $371 million in 2007 related to this program. These charges were comprised of pre-tax asset impairment and exit costs of $344 million, and $27 million of pre-tax implementation costs associated with the program. The pre-tax implementation costs primarily related to accelerated depreciation and were included in cost of sales in the consolidated statement of earnings for the year ended December 31, 2007. Pre-tax charges of approximately $140 million are expected during 2008 for the program. In addition, the program will entail capital expenditures of approximately $230 million.
The program is expected to generate annual pre-tax cost savings of approximately $156 million by 2011.
Acquisition
As discussed in Note 5. , to the consolidated financial statements, the following acquisition occurred during 2007.
Acquisition
On December 11, 2007, in conjunction with PM USA's adjacency strategy, Altria Group, Inc. acquired 100% of John Middleton, Inc., a leading manufacturer of machine-made large cigars, for $2.9 billion in cash. The acquisition was financed with existing cash. John Middleton, Inc.'s balance sheet has been consolidated with Altria Group, Inc.'s as of December 31, 2007. Earnings from December 12, 2007 to December 31, 2007 have been included in Altria Group, Inc.'s consolidated operating results.
 
Operating Results
 
2007 compared with 2006
The following discussion compares tobacco operating results for 2007 with 2006.
    Net revenues, which include excise taxes billed to customers, decreased $4 million. Excluding excise taxes, net revenues increased $164 million (1.1%) to $15.0 billion, due primarily to lower wholesale promotional allowance rates ($1.1 billion), partially offset by lower volume ($906 million).
Cigarettes and other tobacco products.
Operating companies income decreased $301 million (6.3%), due primarily to lower volume ($608 million) and higher pre-tax charges in 2007 for asset impairment, exit and implementation costs related to the announced closing of the Cabarrus, North Carolina cigarette manufacturing facility ($361 million), partially offset by lower wholesale promotional allowance rates, net of higher ongoing resolution costs ($329 million) and lower marketing, administration and research costs ($311 million, net of a $26 million provision for the case in Louisiana in 2007). Lower marketing, administration and research costs primarily reflect productivity savings in marketing, and general and administrative expenses.
Scott
Marketing, administration and research costs include PM USA's cost of administering and litigating product liability claims. Litigation defense costs are influenced by a number of factors, as more fully discussed in Note 19. Principal among these factors are the number and types of cases filed, the number of cases tried annually, the results of trials and appeals, the development of the law controlling relevant legal issues, and litigation strategy and tactics. For the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, product liability defense costs were $200 million, $195 million and $258 million, respectively. The factors that have influenced past product liability defense costs are expected to continue to influence future costs. PM USA does not expect that product liability defense costs will increase significantly in the future.
PM USA's shipment volume was 175.1 billion units, a decrease of 4.6% or 8.3 billion units, but was estimated to be down approximately 3.6% when adjusted for changes in trade inventories and calendar differences. For the full year 2007, PM USA estimates a decline of about 4% in total cigarette industry volume. In the premium segment, PM USA's shipment volume decreased 4.3%. shipment volume decreased 5.9 billion units (3.9%) to 144.4 billion units. In the discount segment, PM USA's shipment volume also decreased, with shipment volume down 8.8% to 13.2 billion units. PM USA estimates that cigarette consumption in 2008 may decline by 2.5% to 3.0%.
Marlboro
Basic
 
The following table summarizes PM USA's cigarette volume performance by brand for 2007 and 2006:
 
The following table summarizes PM USA's retail share performance, based on data from the IRI/Capstone Total Retail Panel, which is a tracking service that uses a sample of stores to project market share performance in retail stores selling cigarettes. This panel was not designed to capture sales through other channels, including Internet and direct mail:
 
Effective September 10, 2007, PM USA reduced its wholesale promotional allowances on ,and by $0.50 per carton, from $4.00 to $3.50, and by $2.00 per carton, from $4.00 to $2.00. In addition, PM USA raised the price on its other brands by $2.50 per thousand cigarettes or $0.50 per carton effective September 10, 2007 and by $9.95 per thousand cigarettes or $1.99 per carton effective February 12, 2007.
Marlboro
Parliament
Basic
Virginia Slims
Effective December 18, 2006, PM USA reduced its wholesale promotional allowance on its Focus on Four brands by $1.00 per carton, from $5.00 to $4.00, and increased the price of its other brands by $1.00 per carton.
Effective December 19, 2005, PM USA reduced its wholesale promotional allowance on its Focus on Four brands by $0.50 per carton, from $5.50 to $5.00. In addition, effective December 27, 2005, PM USA increased the price of its other brands by $2.50 per thousand cigarettes or $0.50 per carton.
PM USA anticipates that U.S. industry volume will decline by approximately 2.5% to 3.0% annually over the next few years. PM USA cannot predict the relative sizes of the premium and discount segments or its shipment or retail market share. PM USA believes that its results may be materially adversely affected by the items discussed under the caption .
TobaccoBusiness Environment
On December 11, 2007, in conjunction with ALG's and PM USA's adjacency strategy, Altria Group, Inc. acquired 100% of John Middleton, Inc., a leading manufacturer of machine-made large cigars, for $2.9 billion in cash. The acquisition was financed with existing cash. John Middleton, Inc.'s balance sheet has been consolidated with Altria Group, Inc.'s as of December 31, 2007. Earnings from December 12, 2007 to December 31, 2007 have been included in Altria Group, Inc.'s consolidated operating results.
Cigars.
 
2006 compared with 2005
The following discussion compares tobacco operating results for 2006 with 2005.
    Net revenues, which include excise taxes billed to customers, increased $340 million (1.9%). Excluding excise taxes, net revenues increased $382 million (2.6%) to $14.9 billion, due primarily to lower wholesale promotional allowance rates ($604 million), partially offset by lower volume ($239 million).
Cigarettes and other tobacco products.
Operating companies income increased $231 million (5.0%), due primarily to lower wholesale promotional allowance rates, net of higher ongoing resolution costs ($424 million) and several other items (aggregating $79 million), partially offset by lower volume ($170 million), higher fixed manufacturing costs ($47 million) and higher marketing, administration and research costs (including spending in 2006 for various excise tax ballot initiatives). The other items reflect a pre-tax provision in 2005 for the individual smoking case ($56 million) and the previously mentioned 2005 net charges related to tobacco quota buy-out legislation ($23 million).
Boeken
PM USA's shipment volume was 183.4 billion units, a decrease of 1.1%, but was estimated to be down approximately 1.5% when adjusted for trade inventory changes and the timing of promotional shipments. In the premium segment, PM USA's shipment volume decreased 0.7%. shipment volume decreased 0.2 billion units (0.2%) to 150.3 billion units. In the discount segment, PM USA's shipment volume decreased 6.2%, while shipment volume was down 5.0% to 14.5 billion units.
Marlboro
Basic
The following table summarizes PM USA's cigarette volume performance by brand for 2006 and 2005:
 
The following table summarizes PM USA's retail share performance, based on data from the IRI/Capstone Total Retail Panel, which is a tracking service that uses a sample of stores to project market share performance in retail stores selling cigarettes. The panel was not designed to capture sales through other channels, including Internet or direct mail:
 
 
Financial Services
Business Environment
In 2003, PMCC shifted its strategic focus and is no longer making new investments but is instead focused on managing its existing portfolio of finance assets in order to maximize gains and generate cash flow from asset sales and related activities. Accordingly, PMCC's operating companies income will fluctuate over time as investments mature or are sold. During 2007, 2006 and 2005, proceeds from asset sales, maturities and bankruptcy recoveries totaled $486 million, $357 million and $476 million, respectively, and gains totaled $274 million, $132 million and $72 million, respectively, in operating companies income.
Included in the proceeds for 2007 were partial recoveries of amounts previously charged to earnings in the allowance for losses related to PMCC's airline exposure. The operating companies income associated with these recoveries, which is included in the gains shown above, was $214 million for the year ended December 31, 2007.
PMCC leases one 750 megawatt ("MW") natural gas-fired power plant (located in Pasadena, Texas) to an indirect subsidiary of Calpine Corporation ("Calpine"). Calpine, which has guaranteed the lease, was operating under bankruptcy protection at December 31, 2007. The subsidiary was not included as part of the bankruptcy filing of Calpine. PMCC does not record income on leases when the lessee or its guarantor is in bankruptcy. At December 31, 2007, PMCC's finance asset balance for this lessee was $60 million. Based on PMCC's assessment of the prospect for recovery on the Pasadena plant, a portion of the outstanding finance asset balance has been provided for in the allowance for losses. In July 2007, PMCC's interest in two 265 MW natural gas-fired power plants (located in Tiverton, Rhode Island, and Rumford, Maine), which were part of the bankruptcy filing, were foreclosed upon. These leases were rejected and written off during 2006.
None of PMCC's aircraft lessees are operating under bankruptcy protection at December 31, 2007. One of PMCC's aircraft lessees, Northwest Airlines, Inc. ("Northwest"), exited bankruptcy on May 31, 2007 and assumed PMCC's leveraged leases for three Airbus A-320 aircraft. PMCC's leases for 19 aircraft with Delta Air Lines, Inc. ("Delta") were sold in early 2007.
The activity in the allowance for losses on finance assets for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 was as follows (in millions):
 
The net impact to the allowance for losses in 2007, 2006 and 2005 related primarily to various airline leases. Amounts recovered of $129 million in 2007 related to partial recoveries of amounts charged to earnings in the allowance for losses in prior years. In addition, PMCC recovered $85 million related to amounts previously charged to earnings and written-off in prior years. In total, these recoveries resulted in additional operating companies income of $214 million for the year ended December 31, 2007. As a result of the $200 million charge in 2005, PMCC's fixed charges coverage ratio did not meet its 1.25:1 requirement under a support agreement with ALG. Accordingly, as required by the support agreement, a support payment of $150 million was made by ALG to PMCC in September 2005. It is possible that additional adverse developments may require PMCC to increase its allowance for losses. Acceleration of taxes on the foreclosures of leveraged leases written-off amounted to approximately $50 million and $80 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively. There were no foreclosures in 2005.
As discussed further in Note 14. , the IRS has disallowed benefits pertaining to several PMCC leverage lease transactions for the years 1996 through 1999.
Income Taxes
 
Operating Results
 
PMCC's net revenues for 2007 decreased $137 million (43.4%) from 2006, due primarily to lower lease revenues due to lower investment balances, and to lower gains from asset management activity. PMCC's operating companies income for 2007 of $380 million increased $205 million (100.0+%) from 2006, due primarily to cash recoveries in 2007 on aircraft leases previously written down versus an increase to the loss provision in 2006, partially offset by lower revenues.
PMCC's net revenues for 2006 decreased $2 million (0.6%) from 2005, due primarily to lower lease revenues as a result of lower investment balances, partially offset by higher gains from asset sales. PMCC's operating companies income for 2006 of $175 million increased $145 million (100.0+%) from 2005. Operating companies income for 2006 includes a $103 million increase to the provision for airline industry exposure as discussed above, a decrease of $97 million from the 2005 provision, and higher gains from asset sales.
Financial Review
Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities, Continuing Operations
During 2007, net cash provided by operating activities on a continuing operations basis was $4.6 billion, compared with $3.6 billion during 2006. The increase in cash provided by operating activities was due primarily to the 2006 reimbursements of PMI's and Kraft's portions of federal income tax benefits related to the RAR, higher accrued settlement charges and lower pension plan contributions, partially offset by lower returns of escrow bond deposits.
During 2006, net cash provided by operating activities on a continuing operations basis was $3.6 billion, compared with $2.4 billion during 2005. The increase in cash provided by operating activities was due primarily to the return of the escrow bond deposit related to the tobacco case and lower pension plan contributions, partially offset by the 2006 reimbursements of PMI's and Kraft's portions of federal income tax benefits related to the RAR.
Price
Net Cash (Used in) Provided by Investing Activities, Continuing Operations
ALG and PM USA from time to time consider acquisitions as part of their adjacency strategy. On December 11, 2007, in conjunction with this adjacency strategy, Altria Group, Inc. acquired 100% of John Middleton, Inc., a leading manufacturer of machine-made large cigars, for $2.9 billion in cash. The acquisition was financed with existing cash.
During 2007 and 2006, net cash used in investing activities on a continuing operations basis was $2.7 billion and $63 million, respectively. During 2005, net cash of $212 million was provided by investing activities on a continuing operations basis. In 2007, the net cash used primarily reflects the purchase of John Middleton, Inc. The net cash provided in 2005 reflects higher proceeds from finance assets.
Capital expenditures for 2007 decreased 3.3% to $386 million. The expenditures were primarily for modernization and consolidation of manufacturing facilities, expansion of research and development, and expansion of certain production capacity. Capital expenditures for 2008 are expected to be slightly below 2007 expenditures, and are expected to be funded by operating cash flows.
 
Net Cash (Used in) Provided by Financing Activities, Continuing Operations
During 2007 and 2006, net cash used in financing activities on a continuing operations basis was $148 million and $5.2 billion, respectively. During 2005 net cash of $1.8 billion was provided by financing activities on a continuing operations basis. The decrease of $5.1 billion from 2006 was due primarily to higher dividends received from PMI in 2007 and to lower repayments of debt in 2007. The increase in cash used of $7.0 billion from 2005 to 2006 was due primarily to lower dividends received from PMI in 2006 and higher repayments of debt in 2006. ALG received a final dividend payment from PMI in the first quarter of 2008.
Debt and Liquidity
 At December 31, 2007, ALG's debt ratings by major credit rating agencies were as follows:
Credit Ratings
 
On January 30, 2008, the major credit rating agencies listed in the table above affirmed ALG's debt ratings following the announcement of the PMI spin-off, and Fitch upgraded ALG's outlook to positive.
 ALG maintains revolving credit facilities. ALG intends to use its revolving credit facilities to support the issuance of commercial paper.
Credit Lines
ALG has a 364-day revolving credit facility in the amount of $1.0 billion, which expires on March 27, 2008. In addition, ALG maintains a multi-year credit facility in the amount of $4.0 billion, which expires April 15, 2010. The ALG facilities require the maintenance of an earnings to fixed charges ratio, as defined by the agreements, of not less than 2.5 to 1.0. At December 31, 2007, the ratio calculated in accordance with the agreements was 19.6 to 1.0. After the effectiveness of the spin-off of PMI, ALG's multi-year credit facility was reduced from $4.0 billion to $3.5 billion and the earnings to fixed charges ratio was replaced with a ratio of EBITDA to interest expense of not less than 4.0 to 1.0. In addition, the facility now requires the maintenance of a ratio of debt to EBITDA of not more than 2.5 to 1.0. If the PMI spin-off had occurred as of December 31, 2007, the ratio of EBITDA to interest expense would have been 15.6 to 1.0, and the ratio of debt to EBITDA would have been 0.9 to 1.0. On January 28, 2008, Altria Group, Inc. entered into a $4.0 billion, 364-day bridge loan facility to finance the tender offers and consent solicitation expenses related to its outstanding consumer products debt. The tender offers, however, were financed with existing cash and Altria Group, Inc. has not borrowed under this bridge loan agreement. The agreement contains the same covenants mentioned above, and is required to be prepaid or reduced by the net proceeds of any capital markets transactions.
ALG expects to continue to meet its covenants. These facilities do not include any credit rating triggers or any provisions that could require the posting of collateral.
At December 31, 2007, credit lines for ALG, and the related activity, were as follows (in billions of dollars):
 
 
 Altria Group, Inc.'s total debt (consumer products and financial services) was $4.7 billion and $5.7 billion at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Total consumer products debt was $4.2 billion and $4.6 billion at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Fixed-rate debt constituted approximately 97% of total consumer products debt at December 31, 2007 and 2006. The weighted average interest rate on total consumer products debt, including the impact of swap agreements, was approximately 6.1% and 6.2% at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
Debt
During the first quarter of 2008, Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiary, Altria Finance (Cayman Islands) Ltd. completed tender offers to purchase for cash $2.3 billion of notes and debentures denominated in U.S. dollars and 373 million in euro-denominated bonds, equivalent to $568 million in U.S. dollars. The tender offers and consent solicitations resulted in charges of $393 million in the first quarter of 2008. In order to finance the tender offers, Altria Group, Inc. arranged a $4.0 billion, 364-day bridge loan facility. The tender offers, however, were paid with existing cash. Subsequent to the spin-off, Altria Group, Inc. intends to issue new public debt for general corporate purposes, including its share repurchase program, if market conditions permit.
 The IRS concluded its examination of Altria Group, Inc.'s consolidated tax returns for the years 1996 through 1999, and issued a final RAR on March 15, 2006. Altria Group, Inc. agreed with the RAR, with the exception of certain leasing matters discussed below. Consequently, in March 2006, Altria Group, Inc. recorded non-cash tax benefits of $1.0 billion, which principally represented the reversal of tax reserves following the issuance of and agreement with the RAR. Altria Group, Inc. reimbursed $337 million and $450 million in cash to Kraft and PMI, respectively, for their portion of the $1.0 billion related to federal tax benefits, as well as pre-tax interest of $46 million to Kraft. The total tax benefits related to Kraft and PMI, which included the above mentioned federal tax benefits, as well as state tax benefits of $74 million, were reclassified to earnings from discontinued operations. The tax reversal resulted in an increase to earnings from continuing operations of $146 million for the year ended December 31, 2006.
Taxes
Altria Group, Inc. has agreed with all conclusions of the RAR, with the exception of the disallowance of benefits pertaining to several PMCC leveraged lease transactions for the years 1996 through 1999. PMCC will continue to assert its position regarding these leveraged lease transactions and contest approximately $150 million of tax and net interest assessed and paid with regard to them. The IRS may in the future challenge and disallow more of PMCC's leveraged leases based on Revenue Rulings, an IRS Notice and subsequent case law addressing specific types of leveraged leases (lease-in/lease-out ("LILO") and sale-in/lease-out ("SILO") transactions). PMCC believes that the position and supporting case law described in the RAR, Revenue Rulings and the IRS Notice are incorrectly applied to PMCC's transactions and that its leveraged leases are factually and legally distinguishable in material respects from the IRS's position. PMCC and ALG intend to vigorously defend against any challenges based on that position through litigation. In this regard, on October 16, 2006, PMCC filed a complaint in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York to claim refunds for a portion of these tax payments and associated interest. However, should PMCC's position not be upheld, PMCC may have to accelerate the payment of significant amounts of federal income tax and significantly lower its earnings to reflect the recalculation of the income from the affected leveraged leases, which could have a material effect on the earnings and cash flows of Altria Group, Inc. in a particular fiscal quarter or fiscal year. PMCC considered this matter in its adoption of FIN 48 and FASB Staff Position No. FAS 13-2.
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Aggregate Contractual Obligations
Altria Group, Inc. has no off-balance sheet arrangements, including special purpose entities, other than guarantees and contractual obligations that are discussed below.
- As discussed in Note 19, at December 31, 2007, Altria Group, Inc.'s third-party guarantees, which are primarily related to divestiture activities, were $22 million. These guarantees have no specified expiration dates. Altria Group, Inc. is required to perform under these guarantees in the event that a third party fails to make contractual payments. Altria Group, Inc. has a liability of $22 million on its consolidated
Guarantees
 
balance sheet at December 31, 2007, relating to these guarantees. In the ordinary course of business, certain subsidiaries of ALG have agreed to indemnify a limited number of third parties in the event of future litigation. At December 31, 2007, subsidiaries of ALG were also contingently liable for $27 million of guarantees related to their own performance, consisting primarily of surety bonds. These items have not had, and are not expected to have, a significant impact on Altria Group, Inc.'s liquidity.
- The following table summarizes Altria Group, Inc.'s contractual obligations from continuing operations at December 31, 2007:
Aggregate Contractual Obligations
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The State Settlement Agreements and related legal fee payments, and payments for tobacco growers, as discussed below and in Note 19, are excluded from the table above, as the payments are subject to adjustment for several factors, including inflation, market share and industry volume. Litigation escrow deposits, as discussed below and in Note 19, are also excluded from the table above since these deposits will be returned to PM USA should it prevail on appeal.
 As discussed previously and in Note 19, PM USA has entered into State Settlement Agreements with the states and territories of the United States and also entered into a trust agreement to provide certain aid to U.S. tobacco growers and quota holders, but PM USA's obligations under this trust have now been eliminated by the obligations imposed on PM USA by FETRA. Each of these agreements calls for payments that are based on variable factors, such as cigarette volume, market shares and inflation. PM USA accounts for the cost of these agreements as a component of cost of sales as product is shipped.
Payments Under State Settlement and Other Tobacco Agreements
As a result of these agreements and the enactment of FETRA, PM USA recorded the following amounts in cost of sales for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 (in billions):
 
Based on current agreements and current estimates of volume and market share, the estimated amounts that PM USA and John Middleton, Inc. (FETRA) may charge to cost of sales under these agreements will be approximately as follows:
 
The estimated amounts charged to cost of sales in each of the years above would generally be paid in the following year. As previously stated, the payments due under the terms of these agreements are subject to adjustment for several factors, including volume, inflation and certain contingent events and, in general, are allocated based on each manufacturer's market share. The amounts shown in the table above are estimates, and actual amounts will differ as underlying assumptions differ from actual future results. See Note 19 for a discussion of proceedings that may result in a downward adjustment of amounts paid under State Settlement Agreements for the years 2003 and 2004.
 As discussed in Note 19, in December 2007, $1.2 billion of funds held in an interest-bearing escrow account in connection with obtaining a stay of execution in the class action was returned to PM USA. In addition, the $100 million relating to the bonding requirement in the same case has been discharged. The $1.2 billion escrow account and the deposit of $100 million related to the bonding requirement were included in the December 31, 2006 consolidated balance sheet as other assets. Interest income on the $1.2 billion escrow account, prior to its return to PM USA, was paid to PM USA quarterly and
Litigation Escrow Deposits
Engle
 
was being recorded as earned in interest and other debt expense, net, in the consolidated statements of earnings.
Also, in June 2006 under the order of the Illinois Supreme Court, the cash deposits of approximately $2.2 billion related to the case were returned to PM USA, and PM USA's obligations to deposit further cash payments were terminated.
Price
With respect to certain adverse verdicts currently on appeal, as of December 31, 2007, PM USA has posted various forms of security totaling approximately $193 million, the majority of which have been collateralized with cash deposits, to obtain stays of judgments pending appeals. These cash deposits are included in other assets on the consolidated balance sheets.
Although litigation is subject to uncertainty and could result in material adverse consequences for the financial condition, cash flows or results of operations of PM USA or Altria Group, Inc. in a particular fiscal quarter or fiscal year, management believes the litigation environment has substantially improved and expects cash flow from operations, together with existing credit facilities, to provide sufficient liquidity to meet the ongoing needs of the business.
Equity and Dividends
As discussed in Note 1. , on March 30, 2007, Altria Group, Inc. distributed all of its remaining interest in Kraft on a pro rata basis to Altria Group, Inc. stockholders of record as of the close of business on March 16, 2007 in a tax-free distribution. The distribution resulted in a net decrease to Altria Group, Inc.'s stockholders' equity of $27.4 billion on March 30, 2007.
Background and Basis of Presentation
As discussed in Note 12. , in January 2007, Altria Group, Inc. issued 1.7 million shares of deferred stock to eligible U.S.-based and non-U.S. employees. Restrictions on these shares lapse in the first quarter of 2010. The market value per share was $87.36 on the date of grant. Recipients of these Altria Group, Inc. deferred shares did not receive restricted stock or deferred stock of Kraft upon the Kraft spin-off. Rather, they received 0.6 million additional deferred shares of Altria Group, Inc. to preserve the intrinsic value of the original award.
Stock Plans
At December 31, 2007, the number of shares to be issued upon exercise of outstanding stock options and vesting of deferred stock was 33.2 million, or 1.6% of shares outstanding.
Dividends paid in 2007 and 2006 were $6.7 billion and $6.8 billion, respectively, a decrease of 2.4%, primarily reflecting a lower dividend rate in 2007 due to the Kraft spin-off, partially offset by a greater number of shares outstanding in 2007. During the second quarter of 2007, Altria Group, Inc. adjusted its quarterly dividend to $0.69 per share so that its stockholders who retained their Altria Group, Inc. and Kraft shares would receive in the aggregate the same dividend dollars as before the distribution. During the third quarter of 2007, Altria Group, Inc.'s Board of Directors approved an 8.7% increase in the quarterly dividend rate to $0.75 per share. As a result, the present annualized dividend rate is $3.00 per share.
Altria Group, Inc. has announced its intention to adjust its current dividend so that its stockholders who retain their PMI shares will initially receive, in the aggregate, the same dividend dollars as before the PMI Distribution. In that regard, PMI's annualized dividend rate will be $1.84 per common share and Altria Group, Inc.'s annualized dividend rate will be $1.16 per common share.
On January 30, 2008, the Altria Group, Inc. Board of Directors approved a $7.5 billion two-year share repurchase program which began in April 2008.
 
Market Risk
Derivative financial instruments are used by ALG and its subsidiaries, principally to reduce exposures to market risks resulting from fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, by creating offsetting exposures. Altria
 
Group, Inc. is not a party to leveraged derivatives and, by policy, does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Hedging activity affected accumulated other comprehensive earnings (losses), net of income taxes, during the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, as follows (in millions):
 
The fair value of all derivative financial instruments has been calculated based on market quotes.
.     Altria Group, Inc. (primarily PMI) uses forward foreign exchange contracts, foreign currency swaps and foreign currency options to mitigate its exposure to changes in exchange rates from third-party and intercompany actual and forecasted transactions. The primary currencies to which Altria Group, Inc. (primarily PMI) is exposed include the Japanese yen, Swiss franc, euro, Turkish lira, Russian ruble and Indonesian rupiah. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, Altria Group, Inc. had contracts with aggregate notional amounts of $6.9 billion and $3.2 billion, respectively, of which $6.9 billion and $3.1 billion, respectively, were at PMI. A portion of Altria Group, Inc.'s foreign currency swaps, while effective as economic hedges, do not qualify for hedge accounting and therefore the unrealized gain (loss) relating to these contracts are reported in Altria Group, Inc.'s consolidated statements of earnings. For the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, the unrealized gain (loss) with regard to the contracts that do not qualify for hedge accounting was insignificant.
Foreign exchange rates
In addition, Altria Group, Inc. uses foreign currency swaps to mitigate its exposure to changes in exchange rates related to foreign currency denominated debt. These swaps typically convert fixed-rate foreign currency denominated debt to fixed-rate debt denominated in the functional currency of the borrowing entity, and are accounted for as cash flow hedges. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, the notional amounts of foreign currency swap agreements aggregated $1.5 billion and $1.4 billion, respectively.
Altria Group, Inc. also designates certain foreign currency denominated debt and forwards as net investment hedges of foreign operations. During the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, these hedges of net investments resulted in losses, net of income taxes, of $45 million and $164 million, respectively, and during the year ended December 31, 2005, resulted in a gain, net of income taxes, of $369 million. These gains and losses were reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive earnings (losses) within currency translation adjustments.
    Altria Group, Inc. uses a value at risk ("VAR") computation to estimate the potential one-day loss in the fair value of its interest rate-sensitive financial instruments and to estimate the potential one-day loss in pre-tax earnings of its foreign currency derivative financial instruments. The VAR computation includes Altria Group, Inc.'s debt; short-term investments; and foreign currency forwards and swaps. Anticipated transactions and net investments in foreign subsidiaries, which the foregoing instruments are intended to hedge, were excluded from the computation.
Value at Risk
.
The VAR estimates were made assuming normal market conditions, using a 95% confidence interval. Altria Group, Inc. used a "variance/co-variance" model to determine the observed interrelationships between movements in interest rates and various currencies. These interrelationships were determined by observing interest rate and forward currency rate movements over the preceding quarter for the calculation of VAR amounts at December 31, 2007 and 2006, and over each of the four preceding quarters for the calculation of average VAR amounts during each year.
The estimated potential one-day loss in fair value of Altria Group, Inc.'s (excluding PMI) interest rate-sensitive instruments, primarily debt, under normal market conditions and the estimated potential one-day
 
loss in pre-tax earnings from foreign currency instruments under normal market conditions, as calculated in the VAR model, were as follows (in millions):
 
The VAR computation is a risk analysis tool designed to statistically estimate the maximum probable daily loss from adverse movements in interest rates and foreign currency rates under normal market conditions. The computation does not purport to represent actual losses in fair value or earnings to be incurred by Altria Group, Inc., nor does it consider the effect of favorable changes in market rates. Altria Group, Inc. cannot predict actual future movements in such market rates and does not present these VAR results to be indicative of future movements in such market rates or to be representative of any actual impact that future changes in market rates may have on its future results of operations or financial position.
New Accounting Standards
See Note 2, Note 16 and Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of new accounting standards.
Contingencies
See Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of contingencies.
Cautionary Factors That May Affect Future Results
Forward-Looking and Cautionary Statements
We
*
may from time to time make written or oral forward-looking statements, including statements contained in filings with the SEC, in reports to stockholders and in press releases and investor webcasts. You can identify these forward-looking statements by use of words such as "strategy," "expects," "continues," "plans," "anticipates," "believes," "will," "estimates," "intends," "projects," "goals," "targets" and other words of similar meaning. You can also identify them by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts.
We cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized, although we believe we have been prudent in our plans and assumptions. Achievement of future results is subject to risks, uncertainties and inaccurate assumptions. Should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could vary materially from those anticipated, estimated or projected. Investors should bear this in mind as they consider forward-looking statements and whether to invest in or remain invested in Altria Group, Inc.'s securities. In connection with the "safe harbor" provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, we are identifying important factors that, individually
 
 
 
or in the aggregate, could cause actual results and outcomes to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements made by us; any such statement is qualified by reference to the following cautionary statements. We elaborate on these and other risks we face throughout this document, particularly in the "Business Environment" sections preceding our discussion of operating results of our subsidiaries' businesses. You should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all risk factors. Consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties. We do not undertake to update any forward-looking statement that we may make from time to time.
.    There is substantial litigation related to tobacco products in the United States. Damages claimed in some of the tobacco-related litigation are significant, and in certain cases, range into the billions of dollars. We anticipate that new cases will continue to be filed. It is possible that there could be adverse developments in pending cases. An unfavorable outcome or settlement of pending tobacco-related litigation could encourage the commencement of additional litigation. Although PM USA has historically been able to obtain required bonds or relief from bonding requirements in order to prevent plaintiffs from seeking to collect judgments while adverse verdicts have been appealed, there remains a risk that such relief may not be obtainable in all cases. This risk has been substantially reduced given that 42 states now limit the dollar amount of bonds or require no bond at all.
Tobacco-Related Litigation
It is possible that the consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position of PM USA or Altria Group, Inc. could be materially affected in a particular fiscal quarter or fiscal year by an unfavorable outcome or settlement of certain pending litigation. Nevertheless, although litigation is subject to uncertainty, management believes the litigation environment has substantially improved. ALG and each of its subsidiaries named as a defendant believe, and each has been so advised by counsel handling the respective cases, that it has a number of valid defenses to the litigation pending against it, as well as valid bases for appeal of adverse verdicts against it. All such cases are, and will continue to be, vigorously defended. However, ALG and its subsidiaries may enter into settlement discussions in particular cases if they believe it is in the best interests of ALG's stockholders to do so. Please see Note 19 for a discussion of pending tobacco-related litigation.
.    Our tobacco subsidiaries face significant governmental action, including efforts aimed at reducing the incidence of smoking, restricting marketing and advertising, imposing regulations on warnings and disclosure of ingredients and flavors, and seeking to hold us responsible for the adverse health effects associated with both smoking and exposure to environmental tobacco smoke. Governmental actions, combined with the diminishing social acceptance of smoking and private actions to restrict smoking, have resulted in reduced industry volume, and we expect that such actions will continue to reduce consumption levels.
Tobacco Control Action in the Public and Private Sectors
.    Tobacco products are subject to substantial excise taxes and significant increases in tobacco product-related taxes or fees have been proposed or enacted and are likely to continue to be proposed or enacted within the United States. For example, legislation was passed by the United States Congress in 2007 that would increase the federal excise tax on cigarettes by $0.61 a pack. The President vetoed this legislation. It is not possible to predict whether such legislation will be reintroduced and become law. Tax increases are expected to continue to have an adverse impact on sales of our tobacco products due to lower consumption levels and to a shift in consumer purchases from the premium to the non-premium or discount segments or to other low-priced or low-taxed tobacco products or to counterfeit and contraband products.
Excise Taxes
.    Settlements of certain tobacco litigation in the United States have resulted in substantial cigarette price increases. PM USA faces competition from lowest priced brands sold by certain United States and foreign manufacturers that have cost advantages because they are not parties to these settlements. These manufacturers may fail to comply with related state escrow legislation or may avoid escrow deposit obligations on the majority of their sales by concentrating on certain states where escrow deposits are not required or are required on fewer than all such manufacturers' cigarettes sold in such states. Additional competition has resulted from diversion into the United States market of cigarettes intended for sale outside the United States, the sale of counterfeit cigarettes by third parties, the sale of cigarettes by third parties over the Internet and by other means designed to avoid collection of applicable taxes, and increased imports of foreign lowest priced brands.
Increased Competition in the United States Tobacco Market
 
.    From time to time, ALG and its tobacco subsidiaries are subject to governmental investigations on a range of matters, including allegations of contraband shipments of cigarettes. We cannot predict the outcome of those investigations or whether additional investigations may be commenced, and it is possible that our tobacco subsidiaries' businesses could be materially affected by an unfavorable outcome of pending or future investigations.
Governmental Investigations
.    Our tobacco subsidiaries continue to seek ways to develop and to commercialize new product technologies that may reduce the risk of tobacco use while continuing to offer adult consumers products that meet their taste expectations. Potential solutions being researched include attempting to reduce constituents in tobacco smoke identified by public health authorities as harmful and seeking to produce products that reduce or eliminate exposure to tobacco smoke. Our tobacco subsidiaries may not succeed in these efforts. If they do not succeed, but one or more of their competitors do, our tobacco subsidiaries may be at a competitive disadvantage. Further, we cannot predict whether regulators will permit the marketing of products with claims of reduced risk to consumers, which could significantly undermine the commercial viability of any products that might be developed.
New Tobacco Product Technologies
.    ALG and PM USA have adjacency growth strategies involving moves and potential moves into complementary tobacco or tobacco-related products or processes. We cannot guarantee that these strategies, or any products introduced in connection with these strategies, will be successful.
Adjacency Strategy
.    Government mandated prices, production control programs, shifts in crops driven by economic conditions and adverse weather patterns may increase or decrease the cost or reduce the quality of tobacco and other agricultural products used to manufacture our products. As with other agriculture commodities, the price of tobacco leaf can be influenced by imbalances in supply and demand and crop quality can be influenced by variations in weather patterns. Tobacco production in certain countries is subject to a variety of controls, including governmental mandated prices and production control programs. Changes in the patterns of demand for agricultural products could cause farmers to plant less tobacco. Any significant change in the price of tobacco leaf, quality and quantity could affect our tobacco subsidiaries' profitability and business.
Tobacco Availability and Quality
.    Our ability to implement our strategy of attracting and retaining the best global talent may be impaired by the decreasing social acceptance of cigarette smoking. The tobacco industry competes for talent with the consumer products industry and other companies that enjoy greater societal acceptance. As a result, our tobacco subsidiaries may be unable to attract and retain the best global talent.
Attracting and Retaining Talent
.    Each of our tobacco subsidiaries is subject to intense competition, changes in consumer preferences and local economic conditions. To be successful, they must continue to:
Competition and Economic Downturns
 
 
 
 
 
The willingness of consumers to purchase premium cigarette brands depends in part on local economic conditions. In periods of economic uncertainty, consumers tend to purchase more private label and other economy brands, and the volume of our consumer products subsidiaries could suffer accordingly.
Our finance subsidiary, PMCC, holds investments in finance leases, principally in transportation (including aircraft), power generation and manufacturing equipment and facilities. Its lessees are also subject to intense competition and economic conditions. If counterparties to PMCC's leases fail to manage through difficult
 
economic and competitive conditions, PMCC may have to increase its allowance for losses, which would adversely affect our profitability.
.    ALG and PM USA from time to time consider acquisitions as part of their adjacency strategy, as evidenced by ALG's 2007 acquisition of John Middleton, Inc. Acquisition opportunities are limited, and acquisitions present risks of failing to achieve efficient and effective integration, strategic objectives and anticipated revenue improvements and cost savings. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to acquire attractive businesses on favorable terms or that all future acquisitions will be quickly accretive to earnings.
Acquisitions
.    We periodically calculate the fair value of our goodwill and intangible assets to test for impairment. This calculation may be affected by the market conditions noted above, as well as interest rates and general economic conditions. If an impairment is determined to exist, we will incur impairment losses, which will reduce our earnings.
Asset Impairment
.    The IRS concluded its examination of Altria Group, Inc.'s consolidated tax returns for the years 1996 through 1999 and issued a final Revenue Agent's Report ("RAR") on March 15, 2006. The RAR disallowed benefits pertaining to certain PMCC leveraged lease transactions for the years 1996 through 1999. Altria Group, Inc. has agreed with all conclusions of the RAR, with the exception of the disallowance of benefits pertaining to several PMCC leveraged lease transactions for the years 1996 through 1999. PMCC will continue to assert its position regarding these leveraged lease transactions and contest approximately $150 million of tax and net interest assessed and paid with regard to them. The IRS may in the future challenge and disallow more of PMCC's leveraged leases based on Revenue Rulings, an IRS Notice and subsequent case law addressing specific types of leveraged leases (lease-in/lease-out ("LILO") and sale-in/lease-out ("SILO") transactions). PMCC believes that the position and supporting case law described in the RAR, Revenue Rulings and the IRS Notice are incorrectly applied to PMCC's transactions and that its leveraged leases are factually and legally distinguishable in material respects from the IRS's position. PMCC and ALG intend to vigorously defend against any challenges based on that position through litigation. In this regard, on October 16, 2006, PMCC filed a complaint in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York to claim refunds for a portion of these tax payments and associated interest. However, should PMCC's position not be upheld, PMCC may have to accelerate the payment of significant amounts of federal income tax and significantly lower its earnings to reflect the recalculation of the income from the affected leveraged leases, which could have a material effect on the earnings and cash flows of Altria Group, Inc. in a particular fiscal quarter or fiscal year. PMCC considered this matter in its adoption of FIN 48 and FASB Staff Position No. FAS 13-2.
IRS Challenges to PMCC Leases
 

Exhibit 99.3
 
 
 
 
 
Management of Altria Group, Inc. is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Altria Group, Inc.'s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Internal control over financial reporting includes those written policies and procedures that:
 
 
 
 
Internal control over financial reporting includes the controls themselves, monitoring and internal auditing practices and actions taken to correct deficiencies as identified.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Management assessed the effectiveness of Altria Group, Inc.'s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007. Management based this assessment on criteria for effective internal control over financial reporting described in "" issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Management's assessment included an evaluation of the design of Altria Group, Inc.'s internal control over financial reporting and testing of the operational effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting. Management reviewed the results of its assessment with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors.
Internal Control  Integrated Framework
Based on this assessment, management determined that, as of December 31, 2007, Altria Group, Inc. maintained effective internal control over financial reporting.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, independent registered public accounting firm, who audited and reported on the consolidated financial statements of Altria Group, Inc. included in this report, has audited the effectiveness of Altria Group, Inc.'s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007, as stated in their report herein.
 
 
January 28, 2008
To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of Altria Group, Inc.:
In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and the related consolidated statements of earnings, stockholders' equity, and cash flows, present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries at December 31, 2007 and 2006, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2007 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, Altria Group, Inc. maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007, based on criteria established in issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Altria Group, Inc.'s management is responsible for these financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Report of Management on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial statements and on Altria Group, Inc.'s internal control over financial reporting based on our integrated audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.
Internal Control - Integrated Framework
As discussed in Notes 16 and 14 to the consolidated financial statements, Altria Group, Inc. changed the manner in which it accounts for pension, postretirement and postemployment plans in fiscal 2006 and the manner in which it accounts for uncertain tax positions in fiscal 2007, respectively.
A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
 
/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
New York, New York
January 28, 2008, except for Notes 19 and 21 which are as of February 4, 2008, and except for the impact of presenting Philip Morris International Inc. as a discontinued operation as discussed in Notes 1 and 4, the impact of the spin-off of Philip Morris International Inc. as discussed in Note 21, and the change in reportable segments as discussed in Notes 1 and 15, all of which are as of June 5, 2008
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    (1) Includes $179 million increase to additional paid-in-capital for the reimbursement from Kraft for Altria stock awards. See Note 1.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 1.   Background and Basis of Presentation:
Background:
Throughout these financial statements, the term "Altria Group, Inc." refers to the consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows of the Altria family of companies, and the term "ALG" refers solely to the parent company. ALG's wholly-owned subsidiaries include Philip Morris USA Inc. ("PM USA"), which is engaged in the manufacture and sale of cigarettes and other tobacco products in the United States and John Middleton, Inc., which is engaged in the manufacture and sale of machine-made cigars and pipe tobacco. Philip Morris Capital Corporation ("PMCC"), another wholly-owned subsidiary, maintains a portfolio of leveraged and direct finance leases. In addition, ALG held a 28.6% economic and voting interest in SABMiller plc ("SABMiller") at December 31, 2007. ALG's access to the operating cash flows of its subsidiaries consists principally of cash received from the payment of dividends from its subsidiaries.
ALG's wholly-owned international tobacco subsidiary as of December 31, 2007, Philip Morris International Inc. ("PMI") is reflected in these revised financial statements as a discontinued operation as a result of the PMI spin-off discussed in Note 21. .
Subsequent Events
On March 30, 2007, Altria Group, Inc. distributed all of its remaining interest in Kraft Foods Inc. ("Kraft") on a pro-rata basis to Altria Group, Inc. stockholders in a tax-free distribution. Altria Group, Inc. has reclassified and reflected the results of Kraft prior to the Kraft distribution date as discontinued operations on the consolidated statements of earnings and the consolidated statements of cash flows for all periods presented. The assets and liabilities related to Kraft were reclassified and reflected as discontinued operations on the consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2006.
For further discussion, please refer to the Kraft Spin-Off discussion below.
In November 2007, Altria Group, Inc. announced that it had signed an agreement to sell its headquarters building in New York City for approximately $525 million and will record a pre-tax gain of approximately $400 million upon closing the transaction. Under the terms of the agreement, Altria Group, Inc. plans to close the sale no later than April 1, 2008.
Kraft Spin-Off:
On March 30, 2007 (the "Kraft Distribution Date"), Altria Group, Inc. distributed all of its remaining interest in Kraft on a pro-rata basis to Altria Group, Inc. stockholders of record as of the close of business on March 16, 2007 (the "Kraft Record Date") in a tax-free distribution. The distribution ratio was 0.692024 of a share of Kraft for each share of Altria Group, Inc. common stock outstanding. Altria Group, Inc. stockholders received cash in lieu of fractional shares of Kraft. Following the distribution, Altria Group, Inc. does not own any shares of Kraft. During the second quarter of 2007, Altria Group, Inc. adjusted its quarterly dividend to $0.69 per share, so that its stockholders who retained their Altria Group, Inc. and Kraft shares would receive, in the aggregate, the same dividend dollars as before the distribution. In August 2007, Altria Group, Inc. increased its quarterly dividend to $0.75 per share.
Holders of Altria Group, Inc. stock options were treated similarly to public stockholders and accordingly, had their stock awards split into two instruments. Holders of Altria Group, Inc. stock options received the following stock options, which, immediately after the spin-off, had an aggregate intrinsic value equal to the intrinsic value of the pre-spin Altria Group, Inc. options:
 
 
 
 
 
The new Kraft option has an exercise price equal to the Kraft market price at the time of the distribution ($31.66) multiplied by the Option Conversion Ratio, which represents the exercise price of the original Altria Group, Inc. option divided by the Altria Group, Inc. market price immediately before the distribution ($87.81). The reduced exercise price of the adjusted Altria Group, Inc. option was determined by multiplying the Altria Group, Inc. market price immediately following the distribution ($65.90) by the Option Conversion Ratio.
Holders of Altria Group, Inc. restricted stock or deferred stock awarded prior to January 31, 2007, retained their existing award and received restricted stock or deferred stock of Kraft Class A common stock. The amount of Kraft restricted stock or deferred stock awarded to such holders was calculated using the same formula set forth above with respect to new Kraft options. All of the restricted stock and deferred stock will vest at the completion of the original restriction period (typically, three years from the date of the original grant). Recipients of Altria Group, Inc. deferred stock awarded on January 31, 2007, did not receive restricted stock or deferred stock of Kraft. Rather, they received additional deferred shares of Altria Group, Inc. to preserve the intrinsic value of the original award.
To the extent that employees of the remaining Altria Group, Inc. received Kraft stock options, Altria Group, Inc. reimbursed Kraft in cash for the Black-Scholes fair value of the stock options received. To the extent that Kraft employees held Altria Group, Inc. stock options, Kraft reimbursed Altria Group, Inc. in cash for the Black-Scholes fair value of the stock options. To the extent that holders of Altria Group, Inc. deferred stock received Kraft deferred stock, Altria Group, Inc. paid to Kraft the fair value of the Kraft deferred stock less the value of projected forfeitures. Based upon the number of Altria Group, Inc. stock awards outstanding at the Kraft Distribution Date, the net amount of these reimbursements resulted in a payment of $179 million from Kraft to Altria Group, Inc. in April 2007. The reimbursement from Kraft is reflected as an increase to the additional paid-in capital of Altria Group, Inc. on the December 31, 2007 consolidated balance sheet.
Kraft was previously included in the Altria Group, Inc. consolidated federal income tax return, and federal income tax contingencies were recorded as liabilities on the balance sheet of ALG. As part of the intercompany account settlement discussed below, ALG reimbursed Kraft in cash for these liabilities, which as of March 30, 2007, were approximately $305 million, plus pre-tax interest of $63 million ($41 million after taxes). ALG also reimbursed Kraft in cash for the federal income tax consequences of the adoption of Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Interpretation No. 48, "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes  an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109" ("FIN 48") (approximately $70 million plus pre-tax interest of $14 million, $9 million after taxes). See Note 14. for a discussion of the FIN 48 adoption and the Tax Sharing Agreement between Altria Group, Inc. and Kraft.
Income Taxes
A subsidiary of ALG previously provided Kraft with certain services at cost plus a 5% management fee. After the Kraft Distribution Date, Kraft undertook these activities, and any remaining limited services provided to Kraft ceased during 2007. All intercompany accounts were settled
 
 
 
 
in cash within 30 days of the Kraft Distribution Date. The settlement of the intercompany accounts (including the amounts discussed above related to stock awards and tax contingencies) resulted in a net payment from Kraft to ALG of $85 million in April 2007.
The distribution resulted in a net decrease to Altria Group, Inc.'s stockholders' equity of $27.4 billion on the Kraft Distribution Date.
Basis of presentation:
The consolidated financial statements include ALG, as well as its wholly-owned subsidiaries. Investments in which ALG exercises significant influence (20%-50% ownership interest), are accounted for under the equity method of accounting. All intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated. The results of Kraft prior to the Kraft Distribution Date have been reclassified and reflected as discontinued operations on the consolidated statements of earnings and statements of cash flows for all periods presented. The assets and liabilities related to Kraft were reclassified and reflected as discontinued operations on the consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2006.
The results of PMI have been reclassified and reflected as discontinued operations on the consolidated balance sheets, statements of earnings and statements of cash flows for all periods presented.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("U.S. GAAP") requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent liabilities at the dates of the financial statements and the reported amounts of net revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. Significant estimates and assumptions include, among other things, pension and benefit plan assumptions, lives and valuation assumptions of goodwill and other intangible assets, marketing programs, income taxes, and the allowance for loan losses and estimated residual values of finance leases. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
Balance sheet accounts are segregated by two broad types of business. Consumer products assets and liabilities are classified as either current or non-current, whereas financial services assets and liabilities are unclassified, in accordance with respective industry practices.
Certain subsidiaries of PMI report their results up to ten days before the end of December, rather than on December 31.
Beginning with the first quarter of 2008, Altria Group, Inc. revised its reportable segments to reflect the change in the way in which Altria Group, Inc.'s management reviews the business as a result of the acquisition of John Middleton, Inc. and the PMI spin-off. Altria Group, Inc.'s revised segments, which are reflected in these financial statements, are Cigarettes and other tobacco products; Cigars; and Financial services. Prior year segment results have also been revised.
 
 
 
 
Note 2.   Summary of Significant Accounting Policies:
Cash and cash equivalents:
Cash equivalents include demand deposits with banks and all highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less.
Depreciation, amortization and goodwill valuation:
Property, plant and equipment are stated at historical cost and depreciated by the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets. Machinery and equipment are depreciated over periods up to 15 years, and buildings and building improvements over periods up to 50 years.
Definite life intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives. Altria Group, Inc. is required to conduct an annual review of goodwill and intangible assets for potential impairment. Goodwill impairment testing requires a comparison between the carrying value and fair value of each reporting unit. If the carrying value exceeds the fair value, goodwill is considered impaired. The amount of impairment loss is measured as the difference between the carrying value and implied fair value of goodwill, which is determined using discounted cash flows. Impairment testing for non-amortizable intangible assets requires a comparison between the fair value and carrying value of the intangible asset. If the carrying value exceeds fair value, the intangible asset is considered impaired and is reduced to fair value. During 2007 and 2006, Altria Group, Inc. completed its annual review of goodwill and intangible assets, and no charges resulted from these reviews.
Goodwill and other intangible assets, net, by segment were as follows (in millions):
 
 
 
 
 
Non-amortizable intangible assets substantially consist of trademarks from Altria Group, Inc.'s December 2007 acquisition of John Middleton, Inc., as well as other acquired trademarks. Amortizable intangible assets consist primarily of customer relationships from the December 2007 acquisition of John Middleton, Inc. There was no pre-tax amortization expense for intangible assets during the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005. Amortization expense for each of the next five years is estimated to be $10 million or less, assuming no additional transactions occur that require the amortization of intangible assets.
Goodwill relates to the December 2007 acquisition of John Middleton, Inc. The movement in goodwill and gross carrying amount of intangible assets is as follows (in millions):
 
The increase in goodwill and intangible assets during 2007 was due to Altria Group, Inc.'s acquisition of John Middleton, Inc. The allocation of purchase price is based upon preliminary estimates and assumptions and is subject to revision when appraisals are finalized in 2008. See Note 5. for a further discussion of the John Middleton, Inc. acquisition.
Acquisitions
Environmental costs:
Altria Group, Inc. is subject to laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. Altria Group, Inc. provides for expenses associated with environmental remediation obligations on an undiscounted basis when such amounts are probable and can be reasonably estimated. Such accruals are adjusted as new information develops or circumstances change.
While it is not possible to quantify with certainty the potential impact of actions regarding environmental remediation and compliance efforts that Altria Group, Inc. may undertake in the future, in the opinion of management, environmental remediation and compliance costs, before taking into account any recoveries from third parties, will not have a material adverse effect on Altria Group, Inc.'s consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
Finance leases:
Income attributable to leveraged leases is initially recorded as unearned income and subsequently recognized as revenue over the terms of the respective leases at constant after-tax rates of return on the positive net investment balances. Investments in leveraged leases are stated net of related nonrecourse debt obligations.
Income attributable to direct finance leases is initially recorded as unearned income and subsequently recognized as revenue over the terms of the respective leases at constant pre-tax rates of return on the net investment balances.
Finance leases include unguaranteed residual values that represent PMCC's estimates at lease inception as to the fair values of assets under lease at the end of the non-cancelable lease terms.
 
 
 
 
The estimated residual values are reviewed annually by PMCC's management based on a number of factors and activity in the relevant industry. If necessary, revisions are recorded to reduce the residual values. Such reviews resulted in decreases of $11 million and $14 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively, to PMCC's net revenues and results of operations. Residual reviews in 2005 resulted in no adjustments.
Foreign currency translation:
Altria Group, Inc. translates the results of operations of its foreign subsidiaries using average exchange rates during each period, whereas balance sheet accounts are translated using exchange rates at the end of each period. Currency translation adjustments are recorded as a component of stockholders' equity. Transaction gains and losses are recorded in the consolidated statements of earnings and were not significant for any of the periods presented.
Guarantees:
Altria Group, Inc. accounts for guarantees in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Interpretation No. 45, "Guarantor's Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others." Interpretation No. 45 requires the disclosure of certain guarantees and requires the recognition of a liability for the fair value of the obligation of qualifying guarantee activities. See Note 19. for a further discussion of guarantees.
Contingencies
Hedging instruments:
Derivative financial instruments are recorded at fair value on the consolidated balance sheets as either assets or liabilities. Changes in the fair value of derivatives are recorded each period either in accumulated other comprehensive earnings (losses) or in earnings, depending on whether a derivative is designated and effective as part of a hedge transaction and, if it is, the type of hedge transaction. Gains and losses on derivative instruments reported in accumulated other comprehensive earnings (losses) are reclassified to the consolidated statements of earnings in the periods in which operating results are affected by the hedged item. Cash flows from hedging instruments are classified in the same manner as the affected hedged item in the consolidated statements of cash flows.
Impairment of long-lived assets:
Altria Group, Inc. reviews long-lived assets, including amortizable intangible assets, for impairment whenever events or changes in business circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may not be fully recoverable. Altria Group, Inc. performs undiscounted operating cash flow analyses to determine if an impairment exists. For purposes of recognition and measurement of an impairment for assets held for use, Altria Group, Inc. groups assets and liabilities at the lowest level for which cash flows are separately identifiable. If an impairment is determined to exist, any related impairment loss is calculated based on fair value. Impairment losses on assets to be disposed of, if any, are based on the estimated proceeds to be received, less costs of disposal.
Income taxes:
Altria Group, Inc. accounts for income taxes in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes." Under SFAS No. 109, deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the difference between the financial statement and tax bases of assets and liabilities, using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. Significant judgment is required in determining income tax provisions and in evaluating tax positions.
 
 
 
 
On January 1, 2007, Altria Group, Inc. adopted the provisions of FIN 48. The Interpretation prescribes a recognition threshold and a measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. For those benefits to be recognized, a tax position must be more-likely-than-not to be sustained upon examination by taxing authorities. The amount recognized is measured as the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. As a result of the January 1, 2007 adoption of FIN 48, Altria Group, Inc. lowered its liability for unrecognized tax benefits by $1,021 million. This resulted in an increase to stockholders' equity of $857 million ($835 million, net of minority interest), a reduction of Kraft's goodwill of $85 million and a reduction of federal deferred tax benefits of $79 million.
Altria Group, Inc. adopted the provisions of FASB Staff Position No. FAS 13-2, "Accounting for a Change or Projected Change in the Timing of Cash Flows Relating to Income Taxes Generated by a Leveraged Lease Transaction" ("FAS 13-2") effective January 1, 2007. This Staff Position requires the revenue recognition calculation to be reevaluated if there is a revision to the projected timing of income tax cash flows generated by a leveraged lease. The adoption of this Staff Position by Altria Group, Inc. resulted in a reduction to stockholders' equity of $124 million as of January 1, 2007.
Inventories:
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. The last-in, first-out ("LIFO") method is used to cost substantially all tobacco inventories. It is a generally recognized industry practice to classify leaf tobacco inventory as a current asset although part of such inventory, because of the duration of the aging process, ordinarily would not be utilized within one year.
Altria Group, Inc. adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 151, "Inventory Costs" prospectively as of January 1, 2006. SFAS No. 151 requires that abnormal idle facility expense, spoilage, freight and handling costs be recognized as current-period charges. In addition, SFAS No. 151 requires that allocation of fixed production overhead costs to inventories be based on the normal capacity of the production facility. The effect of adoption did not have a material impact on Altria Group, Inc.'s consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows.
Marketing costs:
ALG's subsidiaries promote their products with advertising, consumer incentives and trade promotions. Such programs include, but are not limited to, discounts, coupons, rebates, in-store display incentives and volume-based incentives. Advertising costs are expensed as incurred. Consumer incentive and trade promotion activities are recorded as a reduction of revenues based on amounts estimated as being due to customers and consumers at the end of a period, based principally on historical utilization and redemption rates. For interim reporting purposes, advertising and certain consumer incentive expenses are charged to operations as a percentage of sales, based on estimated sales and related expenses for the full year.
Revenue recognition:
The consumer products businesses recognize revenues, net of sales incentives and including shipping and handling charges billed to customers, upon shipment or delivery of goods when title and risk of loss pass to customers. ALG's consumer products businesses also include excise taxes billed to customers in revenues. Shipping and handling costs are classified as part of cost of sales.
 
 
 
 
Software costs:
Altria Group, Inc. capitalizes certain computer software and software development costs incurred in connection with developing or obtaining computer software for internal use. Capitalized software costs are included in property, plant and equipment on the consolidated balance sheets and are amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the software, which do not exceed five years.
Stock-based compensation:
Effective January 1, 2006, Altria Group, Inc. adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 123 (Revised 2004) "Share-Based Payment" ("SFAS No. 123(R)") using the modified prospective method, which requires measurement of compensation cost for all stock-based awards at fair value on date of grant and recognition of compensation over the service periods for awards expected to vest. The fair value of restricted stock and deferred stock is determined based on the number of shares granted and the market value at date of grant. The fair value of stock options is determined using a modified Black-Scholes methodology. The impact of adoption was not material.
The adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) resulted in a cumulative effect gain of $3 million, which is net of $2 million in taxes, in the consolidated statement of earnings for the year ended December 31, 2006. This gain resulted from the impact of estimating future forfeitures on restricted stock and deferred stock in the determination of periodic expense for unvested awards, rather than recording forfeitures only when they occur. The gross cumulative effect was recorded in marketing, administration and research costs for the year ended December 31, 2006.
Altria Group, Inc. previously applied the recognition and measurement principles of Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees," ("APB 25") and provided the pro forma disclosures required by SFAS No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation" ("SFAS No. 123"). No compensation expense for employee stock options was reflected in net earnings in 2005, as all stock options granted under those plans had an exercise price not less than the fair market value of the common stock on the date of the grant. Historical consolidated statements of earnings already include the compensation expense for restricted stock and deferred stock. The following table illustrates the effect on net earnings and earnings per share ("EPS") if Altria Group, Inc. had applied the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123 to measure compensation expense for stock option awards for the year ended December 31, 2005 (in millions, except per share data):
 
 
 
 
Altria Group, Inc. has not granted stock options to employees since 2002. The amount shown above as stock-based compensation expense relates to Executive Ownership Stock Options ("EOSOs"). Under certain circumstances, senior executives who exercised outstanding stock options, using shares to pay the option exercise price and taxes, received EOSOs equal to the number of shares tendered. This feature ceased during 2007. During the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, Altria Group, Inc. granted 0.5 million, 0.7 million and 2.0 million EOSOs, respectively.
Altria Group, Inc. elected to calculate the initial pool of tax benefits resulting from tax deductions in excess of the stock-based employee compensation expense recognized in the statement of earnings ("excess tax benefits") under the FASB Staff Position 123(R)-3, "Transition Election Related to Accounting for the Tax Effects of Share-Based Payment Awards." Excess tax benefits occur when the tax deduction claimed at vesting exceeds the fair value compensation expense accrued under SFAS No. 123(R). Excess tax benefits of $141 million and $195 million were recognized for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, and were presented as financing cash flows. Previously, excess tax benefits were included in operating cash flows. Under SFAS No. 123(R), tax shortfalls occur when actual tax deductible compensation expense is less than cumulative stock-based compensation expense recognized in the financial statements. Tax shortfalls of $8 million at Kraft were recognized for the year ended December 31, 2006, and were recorded in additional paid-in capital.
New Accounting Standards:
In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141 (Revised 2007) "Business Combinations" ("SFAS 141(R)"). SFAS 141(R) is effective for business combinations that close on or after January 1, 2009, the first day of Altria Group, Inc.'s annual reporting period beginning after December 15, 2008. SFAS 141(R) requires the recognition of assets acquired, liabilities assumed and any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree to be measured at fair value as of the acquisition date. Additionally, costs incurred to effect the acquisition are to be recognized separately from the acquisition and expensed as incurred.
Additionally, in December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160 "Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements" ("SFAS 160"). SFAS 160 changes the reporting for
 
 
 
 
minority interests by reporting these as noncontrolling interests within equity. Moreover, SFAS 160 requires that any transactions between an entity and a noncontrolling interest are to be accounted for as equity transactions. SFAS 160 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. SFAS 160 is to be applied prospectively, except for the presentation and disclosure requirements, which shall be applied retrospectively for all periods presented.
Altria Group, Inc. is currently in the process of evaluating the impact of these pronouncements.
Note 3.   Asset Impairment and Exit Costs:
For the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, pre-tax asset impairment and exit costs consisted of the following:
 
The movement in the asset impairment and exit cost liabilities for Altria Group, Inc. for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 was as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
Manufacturing Optimization Program:
In June 2007, Altria Group, Inc. announced plans by its tobacco subsidiaries to optimize worldwide cigarette production by moving U.S.-based cigarette production for non-U.S. markets to PMI facilities in Europe. Due to declining U.S. cigarette volume, as well as PMI's decision to re-source its production, PM USA will close its Cabarrus, North Carolina manufacturing facility and consolidate manufacturing for the U.S. market at its Richmond, Virginia manufacturing center. PMI expects to shift all of its PM USA-sourced production, which approximates 57 billion cigarettes, to PMI facilities in Europe by the third quarter of 2008 and PM USA will close its Cabarrus manufacturing facility by the end of 2010.
As a result of this program, from 2007 through 2011, PM USA expects to incur total pre-tax charges of approximately $670 million, comprised of accelerated depreciation of $143 million (including the above mentioned asset impairment charge of $35 million recorded in 2007), employee separation costs of $353 million and other charges of $174 million, primarily related to the relocation of employees and equipment, net of estimated gains on sales of land and buildings. Approximately $440 million, or 66% of the total pre-tax charges, will result in cash expenditures. PM USA recorded total pre-tax charges of $371 million in 2007 related to this program. These charges were comprised of pre-tax asset impairment and exit costs of $344 million, and $27 million of pre-tax implementation costs associated with the program. The pre-tax implementation costs primarily related to accelerated depreciation and were included in cost of sales in the consolidated statement of earnings for the year ended December 31, 2007. Pre-tax charges of approximately $140 million are expected during 2008 for the program.
Corporate Asset Impairment and Exit Costs:
In 2007, 2006 and 2005, general corporate pre-tax charges were $98 million, $42 million and $49 million, respectively. These charges primarily related to investment banking and legal fees in 2007 associated with the Kraft and PMI spin-offs, as well as the streamlining of various corporate functions in each year.
 
 
 
 
Note 4.  Divestitures:
Discontinued Operations:
As further discussed in Note 21. , on March 28, 2008, Altria Group, Inc. completed the spin-off of PMI to Altria Group, Inc. stockholders in a tax-free distribution. Altria Group, Inc. distributed one share of PMI common stock for every share of Altria Group, Inc. common stock outstanding. Altria Group, Inc. has reflected PMI as discontinued operations in the consolidated balance sheets, statements of earnings and statements of cash flows for all periods presented.
Subsequent Events
As further discussed in Note 1. , on March 30, 2007, Altria Group, Inc. distributed all of its remaining interest in Kraft on a pro-rata basis to Altria Group, Inc. stockholders in a tax-free distribution. Altria Group, Inc. stockholders received 0.692024 of a share of Kraft for each share of Altria Group, Inc. common stock outstanding. Altria Group, Inc. stockholders received cash in lieu of fractional shares of Kraft. The distribution was accounted for as a dividend and as such resulted in a net decrease of $27.4 billion to Altria Group, Inc.'s stockholders' equity on March 30, 2007.
Background and Basis of Presentation
Altria Group, Inc. has reflected the results of Kraft prior to the distribution date as discontinued operations on the consolidated statements of earnings and the consolidated statements of cash flows for all periods presented. The assets and liabilities related to Kraft were reclassified and reflected as discontinued operations on the consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2006.
Summarized financial information for PMI for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 were as follows (in millions):
 
 
 
 
 
Summarized assets and liabilities of PMI as of December 31, 2007 and 2006 were as follows (in millions):
 
Summarized financial information for Kraft for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 were as follows (in millions):
 
 
 
 
 
Summarized assets and liabilities of Kraft as of December 31, 2006 were as follows (in millions):
 
Note 5.  Acquisition:
On December 11, 2007, in conjunction with PM USA's adjacency strategy, Altria Group, Inc. acquired 100% of John Middleton, Inc., a leading manufacturer of machine-made large cigars, for $2.9 billion in cash. The acquisition was financed with existing cash. John Middleton, Inc.'s balance sheet has been consolidated with Altria Group, Inc.'s as of December 31, 2007. Earnings from December 12, 2007 to December 31, 2007, the amounts of which were insignificant, have been included in Altria Group, Inc.'s consolidated operating results.
Assets purchased consist primarily of non-amortizable intangible assets related to acquired brands of $2.6 billion, amortizable intangible assets of $0.1 billion, goodwill of $0.1 billion and other assets of $0.1 billion, partially offset by accrued liabilities assumed in the acquisition. These
 
 
 
 
amounts represent the preliminary allocation of purchase price and are subject to revision when appraisals are finalized in 2008.
Note 6.  Inventories:
The cost of approximately 94% and 95% of inventories in 2007 and 2006, respectively, was determined using the LIFO method. The stated LIFO amounts of inventories were approximately $0.7 billion lower than the current cost of inventories at December 31, 2007 and 2006.
Note 7.  Investment in SABMiller:
At December 31, 2007, ALG had a 28.6% economic and voting interest in SABMiller. ALG's investment in SABMiller is being accounted for under the equity method and was $4.0 billion and $3.7 billion at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. ALG had deferred tax liabilities of $1.3 billion and $1.2 billion related to its investment in SABMiller at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
Summary financial data of SABMiller is as follows:
 
The market value of ALG's investment in SABMiller was $12.1 billion and $9.9 billion at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
In October 2005, SABMiller purchased a 71.8% interest in Bavaria SA, the second-largest brewer in South America, in exchange for the issuance of 225 million SABMiller ordinary shares of common stock. The ordinary shares had a value of approximately $3.5 billion. The remaining shares of Bavaria SA were acquired through a cash tender offer. Following the completion of the share issuance, ALG's economic ownership interest in SABMiller was reduced from 33.9% to 28.7%. In addition, ALG elected to convert all of its non-voting shares to voting shares, and as a result increased its voting interest from 24.9% to 28.7%. The issuance of SABMiller ordinary common shares in exchange for controlling interest in Bavaria SA resulted in a change
 
 
 
 
of ownership gain for ALG of $402 million, net of income taxes, that was recorded in stockholders' equity in the fourth quarter of 2005.
Note 8.   Finance Assets, net:
In 2003, PMCC shifted its strategic focus and is no longer making new investments but is instead focused on managing its existing portfolio of finance assets in order to maximize gains and generate cash flow from asset sales and related activities. Accordingly, PMCC's operating companies income will fluctuate over time as investments mature or are sold. During 2007, 2006 and 2005, proceeds from asset sales, maturities and bankruptcy recoveries totaled $486 million, $357 million and $476 million, respectively, and gains totaled $274 million, $132 million and $72 million, respectively, in operating companies income.
Included in the proceeds for 2007 were partial recoveries of amounts previously charged to earnings in the allowance for losses related to PMCC's airline exposure. The operating companies income associated with these recoveries, which is included in the gains shown above, was $214 million for the year ended December 31, 2007.
At December 31, 2007, finance assets, net, of $6,029 million were comprised of investments in finance leases of $6,221 million and other receivables of $12 million, reduced by the allowance for losses of $204 million. At December 31, 2006, finance assets, net, of $6,503 million were comprised of investments in finance leases of $6,970 million and other receivables of $13 million, reduced by the allowance for losses of $480 million.
A summary of the net investment in finance leases at December 31, before allowance for losses, was as follows (in millions):
 
For leveraged leases, rentals receivable, net, represent unpaid rentals, net of principal and interest payments on third-party nonrecourse debt. PMCC's rights to rentals receivable are subordinate to the third-party nonrecourse debtholders, and the leased equipment is pledged as collateral to the debtholders. The payment of the nonrecourse debt is collateralized by lease payments receivable and the leased property, and is nonrecourse to the general assets of PMCC. As required by U.S. GAAP, the third-party nonrecourse debt of $12.8 billion and $14.5 billion at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, has been offset against the related rentals receivable. There were no leases with contingent rentals in 2007, 2006 and 2005.
 
 
 
 
At December 31, 2007, PMCC's investment in finance leases was principally comprised of the following investment categories: electric power (30%), aircraft (23%), rail and surface transport (22%), manufacturing (14%), and real estate (11%). Investments located outside the United States, which are all dollar-denominated, represent 21% and 19% of PMCC's investments in finance leases in 2007 and 2006, respectively.
PMCC leases one 750 megawatt ("MW") natural gas-fired power plant (located in Pasadena, Texas) to an indirect subsidiary of Calpine Corporation ("Calpine"). Calpine, which has guaranteed the lease, is currently operating under bankruptcy protection. The subsidiary was not included as part of the bankruptcy filing of Calpine. PMCC does not record income on leases when the lessee or its guarantor is in bankruptcy. At December 31, 2007, PMCC's finance asset balance for this lessee was $60 million. Based on PMCC's assessment of the prospect for recovery on the Pasadena plant, a portion of the outstanding finance asset balance has been provided for in the allowance for losses. In July 2007, PMCC's interest in two 265 MW natural gas-fired power plants (located in Tiverton, Rhode Island, and Rumford, Maine), which were part of the bankruptcy filing, were foreclosed upon. These leases were rejected and written off during 2006.
None of PMCC's aircraft lessees are operating under bankruptcy protection at December 31, 2007. One of PMCC's aircraft lessees, Northwest Airlines, Inc. ("Northwest"), exited bankruptcy on May 31, 2007 and assumed PMCC's leveraged leases for three Airbus A-320 aircraft. PMCC's leases for 19 aircraft with Delta Air Lines, Inc. ("Delta") were sold in early 2007.
The activity in the allowance for losses on finance assets for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 was as follows (in millions):
 
The net impact to the allowance for losses in 2007, 2006 and 2005 related primarily to various airline leases. Amounts recovered of $129 million in 2007 related to partial recoveries of amounts previously charged to earnings in the allowance for losses in prior years. In addition, PMCC recovered $85 million related to amounts previously charged to earnings and written-off in the allowance for losses in prior years. In total, these recoveries resulted in additional operating companies income of $214 million for the year ended December 31, 2007. As a result of the $200 million charge in 2005, PMCC's fixed charges coverage ratio did not meet its 1.25:1 requirement under a support agreement with ALG. Accordingly, as required by the support agreement, a support payment of $150 million was made by ALG to PMCC in September 2005. It is possible that additional adverse developments may require PMCC to increase its allowance for losses. Acceleration of taxes on the foreclosures of leveraged leases written-off amounted to approximately $50 million and $80 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively. There were no foreclosures in 2005.
 
 
 
 
Rentals receivable in excess of debt service requirements on third-party nonrecourse debt related to leveraged leases and rentals receivable from direct finance leases at December 31, 2007, were as follows (in millions):
 
Included in net revenues for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, were leveraged lease revenues of $163 million, $301 million and $302 million, respectively, and direct finance lease revenues of $15 million, $8 million and $11 million, respectively. Income tax expense on leveraged lease revenues for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, was $57 million, $107 million and $108 million, respectively.
Income from investment tax credits on leveraged leases and initial direct costs and executory costs on direct finance leases were not significant during the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005.
As discussed further in Note 14. , the Internal Revenue Service has disallowed benefits pertaining to several PMCC leveraged lease transactions for the years 1996 through 1999.
Income Taxes
Note 9.   Short-Term Borrowings and Borrowing Arrangements:
At December 31, 2007, Altria Group, Inc. had no short-term borrowings. At December 31, 2006, Altria Group, Inc. had short-term borrowings of $1 million at an average year-end interest rate of 6.0%.
The fair value of Altria Group, Inc.'s short-term borrowings at December 31, 2006, based upon current market interest rates, approximate the amount disclosed above.
At December 31, 2007, ALG's debt ratings by major credit rating agencies were as follows:
 
ALG has a 364-day revolving credit facility in the amount of $1.0 billion, which expires on March 27, 2008. In addition, ALG maintains a multi-year credit facility in the amount of $4.0 billion, which expires April 15, 2010. The ALG facilities require the maintenance of an earnings to fixed charges ratio, as defined by the agreements, of not less than 2.5 to 1.0. At December 31,
 
 
 
 
2007, the ratio calculated in accordance with the agreements was 19.6 to 1.0. After the effectiveness of the spin-off of PMI, ALG's multi-year credit facility will be reduced from $4.0 billion to $3.5 billion and the earnings to fixed charges ratio will be replaced with a ratio of EBITDA to interest expense of not less than 4.0 to 1.0. In addition, the facility will then require the maintenance of a ratio of debt to EBITDA of not more than 2.5 to 1.0. If the PMI spin-off had occurred as of December 31, 2007, the ratio of EBITDA to interest expense would have been 15.6 to 1.0, and the ratio of debt to EBITDA would have been 0.9 to 1.0.
ALG expects to continue to meet its covenants. These facilities do not include any credit rating triggers or any provisions that could require the posting of collateral. The multi-year facilities enable ALG to reclassify short-term debt on a long-term basis.
At December 31, 2007, credit lines for ALG and the related activity, were as follows (in billions of dollars):
 
 
 
Note 10.   Long-Term Debt:
At December 31, 2007 and 2006, Altria Group, Inc.'s long-term debt consisted of the following:
 
 
 
 
 
Aggregate maturities of Altria Group, Inc.'s long-term debt, are as follows (in millions):
 
Based on market quotes, where available, or interest rates currently available to Altria Group, Inc. for issuance of debt with similar terms and remaining maturities, the aggregate fair value of consumer products and financial services long-term debt, including the current portion of long-term debt, at December 31, 2007 and 2006 was $5.0 billion and $6.0 billion, respectively.
 
Note 11.   Capital Stock:
Shares of authorized common stock are 12 billion; issued, repurchased and outstanding shares were as follows:
 
At December 31, 2007, 77,491,184 shares of common stock were reserved for stock options and other stock awards under Altria Group, Inc.'s stock plans, and 10 million shares of Serial Preferred Stock, $1.00 par value, were authorized, none of which have been issued.
Note 12.   Stock Plans:
Under the Altria Group, Inc. 2005 Performance Incentive Plan (the "2005 Plan"), Altria Group, Inc. may grant to eligible employees stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, deferred stock, and other stock-based awards, as well as cash-based annual and long-term incentive awards. Up to 50 million shares of common stock may be issued under the 2005 Plan. In addition, Altria Group, Inc. may grant up to one million shares of common stock to members of the Board of Directors who are not employees of Altria Group, Inc. under the 2005
 
 
 
 
Stock Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors (the "2005 Directors Plan"). At December 31, 2007, options to purchase 29,536,591 shares of Altria Group, Inc.'s common stock were outstanding. Shares available to be granted under the 2005 Plan and the 2005 Directors Plan at December 31, 2007 were 43,360,958 and 945,798, respectively.
As more fully described in Note 1. , certain modifications were made to stock options, restricted stock and deferred stock as a result of the Kraft spin-off.
Background and Basis of Presentation
Altria Group, Inc. has not granted stock options to employees since 2002. Under certain circumstances, senior executives who exercised outstanding stock options using shares to pay the option exercise price and taxes received EOSOs equal to the number of shares tendered. EOSOs were granted at an exercise price of not less than fair market value on the date of the grant, and became exercisable six months after the grant date. This feature ceased during 2007.
 
Stock Option Plan
In connection with the Kraft spin-off, Altria Group, Inc. employee stock options were modified through the issuance of Kraft employee stock options and the adjustment of the stock option exercise prices for the Altria Group, Inc. awards. For each employee stock option outstanding the aggregate intrinsic value of the option immediately after the spin-off was not greater than the aggregate intrinsic value of the option immediately before the spin-off. Due to the fact that the Black-Scholes fair values of the awards immediately before and immediately after the spin-off were equivalent, as measured in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 123(R), no incremental compensation expense was recorded as a result of the modification of the Altria Group, Inc. awards.
Pre-tax compensation cost and the related tax benefit for stock option awards totaled $9 million and $3 million, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2007. Pre-tax compensation cost and the related tax benefit for stock option awards totaled $17 million and $6 million, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2006. Pre-tax compensation cost for stock option awards included $1 million in 2007 and $4 million in 2006 related to employees of discontinued operations. The fair value of the awards was determined using a modified Black-Scholes methodology using the following weighted average assumptions:
 
 
 
 
 
Altria Group, Inc. stock option activity was as follows for the year ended December 31, 2007:
 
As more fully described in Note 1. , the weighted average exercise prices shown in the table above were reduced as a result of the Kraft spin-off.
Background and Basis of Presentation
The aggregate intrinsic value shown in the table above was based on the December 31, 2007 closing price for Altria Group, Inc.'s common stock of $75.58. The weighted-average grant date fair value of options granted during the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 was $15.55, $14.53 and $14.41, respectively. The total intrinsic value of options exercised during the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 was $454 million, $456 million and $756 million, respectively.
Restricted Stock Plans
Altria Group, Inc. may grant shares of restricted stock and deferred stock to eligible employees, giving them in most instances all of the rights of stockholders, except that they may not sell, assign, pledge or otherwise encumber such shares. Such shares are subject to forfeiture if certain employment conditions are not met. Restricted and deferred stock generally vests on the third anniversary of the grant date.
The fair value of the restricted shares and deferred shares at the date of grant is amortized to expense ratably over the restriction period, which is generally three years. Altria Group, Inc. recorded pre-tax compensation expense related to restricted stock and deferred stock granted to employees of its continuing operations for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 of $80 million, $59 million and $70 million, respectively. The deferred tax benefit recorded related to this compensation expense was $29 million, $22 million and $26 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The pre-tax compensation expense for the year ended December 31, 2006 includes the pre-tax cumulative effect gain of $5 million from the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R). The unamortized compensation expense related to Altria Group, Inc. restricted stock and deferred stock was $90 million at December 31, 2007 and is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 2 years.
 
 
 
 
Altria Group, Inc. restricted stock and deferred stock activity was as follows for the year ended December 31, 2007:
 
In January 2007, Altria Group, Inc. issued 1.7 million shares of deferred stock to eligible U.S.-based and non-U.S. employees. Restrictions on these shares lapse in the first quarter of 2010. The market value per share was $87.36 on the date of grant. Recipients of these Altria Group, Inc. deferred shares did not receive restricted stock or deferred stock of Kraft upon the Kraft spin-off. Rather, they received 0.6 million additional deferred shares of Altria Group, Inc. to preserve the intrinsic value of the original award, and accordingly, the grant date fair value per share, in the table above, related to this grant was reduced.
The grant price information for restricted stock and deferred stock awarded prior to January 31, 2007 reflects historical market prices which are not adjusted to reflect the Kraft spin-off. As discussed more fully in Note 1. , as a result of the Kraft spin-off, holders of restricted stock and deferred stock awarded prior to January 31, 2007 retained their existing award and received restricted stock or deferred stock of Kraft Class A common stock.
Background and Basis of Presentation
The weightedaverage grant date fair value of Altria Group, Inc. restricted stock and deferred stock granted during the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 was $150 million, $146 million and $137 million, respectively, or $65.62, $74.21 and $62.05 per restricted or deferred share, respectively. The total fair value of Altria Group, Inc. restricted stock and deferred stock vested during the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 was $184 million, $215 million and $4 million, respectively.
 
 
 
 
Note 13.   Earnings per Share:
Basic and diluted EPS from continuing and discontinued operations were calculated using the following:
 
For the 2007 computation, there were no antidilutive stock options. For the 2006 and 2005 computations, the number of stock options excluded from the calculation of weighted average shares for diluted EPS because their effects were antidilutive was immaterial.
 
 
 
 
Note 14.   Income Taxes:
Earnings from continuing operations before income taxes, and provision for income taxes consisted of the following for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005:
 
The Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") concluded its examination of Altria Group, Inc.'s consolidated tax returns for the years 1996 through 1999, and issued a final Revenue Agent's Report ("RAR") on March 15, 2006. Altria Group, Inc. agreed with the RAR, with the exception of certain leasing matters discussed below. Consequently, in March 2006, Altria Group, Inc. recorded non-cash tax benefits of $1.0 billion, which principally represented the reversal of tax reserves following the issuance of and agreement with the RAR. Altria Group, Inc. reimbursed $337 million and $450 million in cash to Kraft and PMI, respectively, for their portion of the $1.0 billion related to federal tax benefits, as well as pre-tax interest of $46 million to Kraft. The total tax benefits related to Kraft and PMI, which included the above mentioned federal tax benefits, as well as state tax benefits of $74 million, were reclassified to earnings from discontinued operations. The tax reversal resulted in an increase to earnings from continuing operations of $146 million for the year ended December 31, 2006.
Altria Group, Inc. has agreed with all conclusions of the RAR, with the exception of the disallowance of benefits pertaining to several PMCC leveraged lease transactions for the years 1996 through 1999. PMCC will continue to assert its position regarding these leveraged lease transactions and contest approximately $150 million of tax and net interest assessed and paid with regard to them. The IRS may in the future challenge and disallow more of PMCC's leveraged leases based on Revenue Rulings, an IRS Notice and subsequent case law addressing specific types of leveraged leases (lease-in/lease-out ("LILO") and sale-in/lease-out ("SILO") transactions). PMCC believes that the position and supporting case law described in the RAR, Revenue Rulings and the IRS Notice are incorrectly applied to PMCC's transactions and that its
 
 
 
 
leveraged leases are factually and legally distinguishable in material respects from the IRS's position. PMCC and ALG intend to vigorously defend against any challenges based on that position through litigation. In this regard, on October 16, 2006, PMCC filed a complaint in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York to claim refunds for a portion of these tax payments and associated interest. However, should PMCC's position not be upheld, PMCC may have to accelerate the payment of significant amounts of federal income tax and significantly lower its earnings to reflect the recalculation of the income from the affected leveraged leases, which could have a material effect on the earnings and cash flows of Altria Group, Inc. in a particular fiscal quarter or fiscal year. PMCC considered this matter in its adoption of FIN 48 and FASB Staff Position No. FAS 13-2.
Altria Group, Inc.'s U.S. subsidiaries join in the filing of a U.S. federal consolidated income tax return. The U.S. federal statute of limitations remains open for the year 2000 and onward with years 2000 to 2003 currently under examination by the IRS. State jurisdictions have statutes of limitations generally ranging from 3 to 5 years. Altria Group, Inc. is currently under examination in various states.
As previously discussed in Note 2. , on January 1, 2007, Altria Group, Inc. adopted the provisions of FIN 48. As a result of the January 1, 2007 adoption of FIN 48, Altria Group, Inc. lowered its liability for unrecognized tax benefits by $1,021 million. This resulted in an increase to stockholders' equity of $857 million ($835 million, net of minority interest), a reduction of Kraft's goodwill of $85 million and a reduction of federal deferred tax benefits of $79 million.
Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of unrecognized tax benefits is as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
Unrecognized tax benefits and Altria Group, Inc.'s consolidated liability for tax contingencies were as follows:
 
The amount of unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would impact the effective tax rate at December 31, 2007 was $150 million, along with $32 million affecting deferred taxes, $163 million impacting discontinued operations, and the remainder of $270 million affecting the receivable from Kraft discussed below. The amount of unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would impact the effective tax rate at January 1, 2007 was $198 million, along with $71 million affecting deferred taxes, and the remainder of $784 million impacting discontinued operations.
Altria Group, Inc.'s unrecognized tax benefits decreased to $615 million as of December 31, 2007, principally due to the spin-off of Kraft, as well as the expiration of statutes of limitations and audit closures in state and foreign jurisdictions. For the year ended December 31, 2007, Altria Group, Inc. recognized in its consolidated statement of earnings $13 million of interest and penalties.
Under the Tax Sharing Agreement between Altria Group, Inc. and Kraft, Kraft is responsible for its own pre-spin-off tax obligations. However, due to regulations governing the U.S. federal consolidated tax return, Altria Group, Inc. remains severally liable for Kraft's pre-spin-off federal taxes. As a result, Altria Group, Inc. continues to include $270 million of Kraft's unrecognized tax benefits in its liability for uncertain tax positions, and a corresponding receivable from Kraft of $270 million is included in other assets. Similarly, under the Tax Sharing Agreement between Altria Group, Inc. and PMI, PMI will be responsible for its own pre-spin-off tax obligations.
Altria Group, Inc. recognizes accrued interest and penalties associated with uncertain tax positions as part of the tax provision. As of January 1, 2007, Altria Group, Inc. had $292 million of accrued interest and penalties of which approximately $125 million and $26 million related to Kraft and PMI, respectively. The accrued interest and penalties decreased to $267 million at December 31, 2007, principally as a result of the Kraft spin-off, and the expiration of statutes of limitations and audit closures in state and foreign jurisdictions. The accrued interest and penalties at December 31, 2007 includes $88 million of Kraft federal interest for which Kraft is responsible under the Kraft Tax Sharing Agreement. The receivable from Kraft, which is included in other assets, includes related accrued interest and penalties. The accrued interest and penalties at December 31, 2007 also includes $25 million of PMI federal interest for which PMI will be responsible under the PMI Tax Sharing Agreement.
 
 
 
 
It is reasonably possible that within the next 12 months certain state and foreign examinations will be resolved, which could result in a decrease in unrecognized tax benefits, and interest and penalties of approximately $40 million and $12 million, respectively, of which $8 million and $3 million, respectively, related to PMI.
As previously discussed in Note 2. , Altria Group, Inc. adopted the provisions of FAS 13-2 effective January 1, 2007. The adoption of FAS 13-2 resulted in a reduction to stockholders' equity of $124 million as of January 1, 2007.
Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
The effective income tax rate on pre-tax earnings from continuing operations differed from the U.S. federal statutory rate for the following reasons for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005:
 
The tax provision in 2007 includes net tax benefits of $111 million related to the reversal of tax reserves and associated interest resulting from the expiration of statutes of limitations ($55 million in the third quarter and $56 million in the fourth quarter). The tax provision in 2007 also includes the reversal of tax accruals of $57 million no longer required in the fourth quarter. The tax provision in 2006 includes $146 million of non-cash tax benefits principally representing the reversal of tax reserves after the U.S. IRS concluded its examination of Altria Group, Inc.'s consolidated tax returns for the years 1996 through 1999 in the first quarter of 2006. The tax provision in 2005 includes the impact of the domestic manufacturers' deduction under the American Jobs Creation Act.
 
 
 
 
The tax effects of temporary differences that gave rise to consumer products deferred income tax assets and liabilities consisted of the following at December 31, 2007 and 2006:
 
Financial services deferred income tax liabilities are primarily attributable to temporary differences relating to net investments in finance leases.
 
Note 15.   Segment Reporting:
The products of ALG's subsidiaries include cigarettes and other tobacco products sold in the United States by PM USA, and cigars and pipe tobacco sold by John Middleton, Inc. Another subsidiary of ALG, PMCC, maintains a portfolio of leveraged and direct finance leases.
As discussed in Note 1. , beginning with the first quarter of 2008, Altria Group, Inc. revised its reportable segments. Altria Group, Inc.'s reportable segments are Cigarettes and other tobacco products; Cigars; and Financial services.
Background and Basis of Presentation
Altria Group, Inc.'s management reviews operating companies income to evaluate segment performance and allocate resources. Operating companies income for the segments excludes general corporate expenses. Interest and other debt expense, net (consumer products), and provision for income taxes are centrally managed at the ALG level and, accordingly, such items are not presented by segment since they are excluded from the measure of segment profitability reviewed by Altria Group, Inc.'s management. Information about total assets by segment is not disclosed because such information is not reported to or used by Altria Group, Inc.'s chief operating decision maker. Segment goodwill and other intangible assets, net, are disclosed in Note 2. . The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in Note 2.
Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
 
 
 
 
Segment data were as follows:
 
PM USA's largest customer, McLane Company, Inc., accounted for approximately 26%, 25% and 23% of Altria Group, Inc.'s consolidated net revenues for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. These net revenues were reported in the Cigarettes and other tobacco products segment.
Items affecting the comparability of results from continuing operations were as follows:
 As further discussed in Note 19. , in October 2004, the Fair and Equitable Tobacco Reform Act of 2004 ("FETRA") was signed into law. Under the provisions of FETRA, PM USA was obligated to cover its share of potential losses that the government may incur on the disposition of pool tobacco stock accumulated under the previous tobacco price support program. In 2005, PM USA recorded a $138 million expense for its share of the loss, which is included in the operating companies income of the Cigarettes and other tobacco products segment.
Loss on Tobacco Pool
Contingencies
-  The provisions of FETRA require PM USA, along with other manufacturers and importers of tobacco products, to make quarterly payments that will be used to compensate tobacco growers and quota holders affected by the legislation. Payments made by PM USA under FETRA offset amounts due under the provisions of the National Tobacco Grower Settlement Trust ("NTGST"), a trust formerly established to compensate tobacco growers and quota holders. Disputes arose as to the applicability of FETRA to 2004 NTGST payments. During the third quarter of 2005, a North Carolina Supreme Court ruling determined that FETRA enactment had not triggered the offset provisions during 2004 and that tobacco companies were required to make full payment to the NTGST for the full year of 2004. The ruling, along with FETRA billings from the United States Department of Agriculture ("USDA"), established that FETRA was effective beginning in 2005. Accordingly, during the
Tobacco Quota Buy
Out
 
 
 
 
third quarter of 2005, PM USA reversed a 2004 accrual for FETRA payments in the amount of $115 million, which is included in the operating companies income of the Cigarettes and other tobacco products segment.
 See Note 3. , for a breakdown of these charges by segment.
Asset Impairment and Exit Costs
Asset Impairment and Exit Costs
 As discussed in Note 8. , during 2007, PMCC recorded pre-tax gains of $214 million on the sale of its ownership interests and bankruptcy claims in certain leveraged lease investments in aircraft, which represented a partial recovery, in cash, of amounts that had been previously written down. During 2006, PMCC increased its allowance for losses by $103 million, due to issues within the airline industry. During 2005, PMCC increased its allowance for losses by $200 million, reflecting its exposure to the airline industry, particularly Delta and Northwest, both of which filed for bankruptcy protection during 2005.
Recoveries/Provision from/for Airline Industry Exposure
Finance Assets, net
See Notes 4 and 5, respectively, regarding divestitures and acquisitions.
 
 
 
 
 
Note 16.   Benefit Plans:
In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 158, "Employers' Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans" ("SFAS No. 158"). SFAS No. 158 requires that employers recognize the funded status of their defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans on the consolidated balance sheet and record as a component of other comprehensive income, net of tax, the gains or losses and prior service costs or credits that have not been recognized as components of net periodic benefit cost. Altria Group, Inc. adopted SFAS No. 158, prospectively, on December 31, 2006.
The incremental effect of applying SFAS No. 158 on individual line items in the consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2006 was as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
The amounts recorded in accumulated other comprehensive earnings/losses at December 31, 2007 consisted of the following:
 
 
The amounts recorded in accumulated other comprehensive earnings/losses at December 31, 2006 consisted of the following:
 
 
 
 
 
The movements in other comprehensive earnings/losses during the year ended December 31, 2007 were as follows:
 
Altria Group, Inc. sponsors noncontributory defined benefit pension plans covering substantially all employees. In addition, ALG and its subsidiaries provide health care and other benefits to substantially all retired employees.
The plan assets and benefit obligations of Altria Group, Inc.'s pension plans are measured at December 31 of each year. The benefit obligations of Altria Group, Inc.'s postretirement plans are measured at December 31 of each year.
 
 
 
 
Pension Plans
Obligations and Funded Status
The benefit obligations, plan assets and funded status of Altria Group, Inc.'s pension plans at December 31, 2007 and 2006, were as follows:
 
 
The net pension asset recognized in Altria Group, Inc.'s consolidated balance sheets at December 31, 2007 and 2006, was as follows:
 
The accumulated benefit obligation, which represents benefits earned to date, for the pension plans was $4.6 billion and $4.7 billion at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
For plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets, the projected benefit obligation, accumulated benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets were $211 million, $145 million and $2 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2007, and $219 million, $183 million and $4 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2006. The majority of these relate to plans for salaried employees that cannot be funded under IRS regulations.
 
 
 
 
The following weighted-average assumptions were used to determine Altria Group, Inc.'s benefit obligations under the plans at December 31:
 
The discount rates for Altria Group, Inc.'s plans were developed from a model portfolio of high-quality, fixed-income debt instruments with durations that match the expected future cash flows of the benefit obligations.
Components of Net Periodic Benefit Cost
Net periodic pension cost consisted of the following for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005:
 
During 2007, PM USA's announced closure of its Cabarrus, North Carolina manufacturing facility, and workforce reduction programs resulted in curtailment losses and termination benefits of $37 million. This curtailment prompted a revaluation of the plans at a discount rate of 6.3%, resulting in an increase in prepaid pension assets of approximately $500 million and a corresponding increase, net of income taxes, to stockholders' equity. During 2006 and 2005, employees left Altria Group, Inc. under voluntary early retirement and workforce reduction programs. These events resulted in settlement losses, curtailment losses and termination benefits for the plans in 2006 and 2005 of $15 million and $9 million, respectively.
 
 
 
 
The amounts included in termination, settlement and curtailment in the table above for the year ended December 31, 2007 were comprised of the following changes:
 
For the pension plans, the estimated net loss and prior service cost that are expected to be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive income into net periodic benefit cost during 2008 are $65 million and $8 million, respectively.
The following weighted-average assumptions were used to determine Altria Group, Inc.'s net pension cost for the years ended December 31:
 
Altria Group, Inc.'s expected rate of return on plan assets is determined by the plan assets' historical long-term investment performance, current asset allocation and estimates of future long-term returns by asset class.
ALG and certain of its subsidiaries sponsor deferred profit-sharing plans covering certain salaried, non-union and union employees. Contributions and costs are determined generally as a percentage of pre-tax earnings, as defined by the plans. Certain other subsidiaries of ALG also maintain defined contribution plans. Amounts charged to expense for defined contribution plans totaled $119 million, $119 million and $124 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
Plan Assets
The percentage of fair value of pension plan assets at December 31, 2007 and 2006, was as follows:
 
Altria Group, Inc.'s investment strategy is based on an expectation that equity securities will outperform debt securities over the long term. Accordingly, the composition of Altria Group, Inc.'s U.S. plan assets is broadly characterized as a 70%/30% allocation between equity and debt securities. Beginning in 2008, Altria Group, Inc. decided to change the allocation between
 
 
 
 
equity and debt securities to 55%/45%, reflecting the impact of the changing demographic mix of plan participants on benefit obligations. The strategy utilizes indexed U.S. equity securities, actively managed international equity securities and actively managed investment grade debt securities (which constitute 80% or more of debt securities) with lesser allocations to high-yield and international debt securities.
Altria Group, Inc. attempts to mitigate investment risk by rebalancing between equity and debt asset classes as Altria Group, Inc.'s contributions and monthly benefit payments are made.
Altria Group, Inc. presently makes, and plans to make, contributions, to the extent that they are tax deductible and do not generate an excise tax liability, in order to maintain plan assets in excess of the accumulated benefit obligation of its funded plans. Currently, Altria Group, Inc. anticipates making contributions of $16 million in 2008 to its plans based on current tax law. However, these estimates are subject to change as a result of changes in tax and other benefit laws, as well as asset performance significantly above or below the assumed long-term rate of return on pension assets, or changes in interest rates.
The estimated future benefit payments from the Altria Group, Inc. pension plans at December 31, 2007, were as follows:
 
Postretirement Benefit Plans
Net postretirement health care costs consisted of the following for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005:
 
During 2007, Altria Group, Inc. had curtailment gains related to PM USA's announced closure of its Cabarrus, North Carolina manufacturing facility, which are included in other (income) expense, above. During 2006 and 2005, Altria Group, Inc. instituted early retirement programs. These actions resulted in special termination benefits and curtailment losses in 2006 and 2005, which are included in other (income) expense, above.
 
 
 
 
The amounts included in other (income) expense in the table above for the year ended December 31, 2007 were comprised of the following changes:
 
For the postretirement benefit plans, the estimated net loss and prior service credit that are expected to be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive income into net postretirement health care costs during 2008 are $24 million and $(9) million, respectively.
The following weighted-average assumptions were used to determine Altria Group, Inc.'s net postretirement cost for the years ended December 31:
 
Altria Group, Inc.'s postretirement health care plans are not funded. The changes in the accumulated benefit obligation and net amount accrued at December 31, 2007 and 2006, were as follows:
 
 
The current portion of Altria Group, Inc.'s accrued postretirement health care costs of $117 million and $104 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, is included in other accrued liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets.
 
 
 
 
The following assumptions were used to determine Altria Group, Inc.'s postretirement benefit obligations at December 31:
 
Assumed health care cost trend rates have a significant effect on the amounts reported for the health care plans. A one-percentage-point change in assumed health care cost trend rates would have the following effects as of December 31, 2007:
 
Altria Group, Inc.'s estimated future benefit payments for its postretirement health care plans at December 31, 2007, were as follows:
 
Postemployment Benefit Plans
ALG and certain of its subsidiaries sponsor postemployment benefit plans covering substantially all salaried and certain hourly employees. The cost of these plans is charged to expense over the working life of the covered employees. Net postemployment costs consisted of the following for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005:
 
 
 
 
 
As discussed in Note 3. , certain employees left Altria Group, Inc. under separation programs. These programs resulted in incremental postemployment costs, which are included in other expense, above.
Asset Impairment and Exit Costs
For the postemployment benefit plans, the estimated net loss that is expected to be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive income into net postemployment costs during 2008 is approximately $12 million.
Altria Group, Inc.'s postemployment plans are not funded. The changes in the benefit obligations of the plans at December 31, 2007 and 2006, were as follows:
 
The accrued postemployment costs were determined using a discount rate of 6.2% and 5.7% in 2007 and 2006, respectively, an assumed ultimate annual turnover rate of 0.5% and 0.6% in 2007 and 2006, respectively, assumed compensation cost increases of 4.5% in 2007 and 2006, and assumed benefits as defined in the respective plans. Postemployment costs arising from actions that offer employees benefits in excess of those specified in the respective plans are charged to expense when incurred.
Note 17.  Additional Information:
The amounts shown below are for continuing operations.
 
 
 
 
 
Minimum rental commitments under non-cancelable operating leases in effect at December 31, 2007, were as follows (in millions):
 
 
Note 18.  Financial Instruments:
Derivative Financial Instruments
Derivative financial instruments are used by ALG and its subsidiaries, principally to reduce exposures to market risks resulting from fluctuations in foreign exchange rates by creating offsetting exposures. Altria Group, Inc. is not a party to leveraged derivatives and, by policy, does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. Financial instruments qualifying for hedge accounting must maintain a specified level of effectiveness between the hedging instrument and the item being hedged, both at inception and throughout the hedged period. Altria Group, Inc. formally documents the nature and relationships between the hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk-management objectives, strategies for undertaking the various hedge transactions and method of assessing hedge effectiveness. Additionally, for hedges of forecasted transactions, the significant characteristics and expected terms of the forecasted transaction must be specifically identified, and it must be probable that each forecasted transaction will occur. If it were deemed probable that the forecasted transaction will not occur, the gain or loss would be recognized in earnings currently.
Altria Group, Inc. (primarily PMI) uses forward foreign exchange contracts, foreign currency swaps and foreign currency options to mitigate its exposure to changes in exchange rates from third-party and intercompany, actual and forecasted transactions. The primary currencies to which Altria Group, Inc. (primarily PMI) is exposed include the Japanese yen, Swiss franc, euro, Turkish lira, Russian ruble and Indonesian rupiah. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, Altria Group, Inc. had contracts with aggregate notional amounts of $6.9 billion and $3.2 billion, respectively, of which $6.9 billion and $3.1 billion, respectively, were at PMI. The effective portion of unrealized gains and losses associated with qualifying contracts is deferred as a component of accumulated other comprehensive earnings (losses) until the underlying hedged transactions are reported on Altria Group, Inc.'s consolidated statement of earnings. A portion of Altria Group, Inc.'s foreign currency swaps, while effective as economic hedges, do not qualify for hedge accounting and therefore the unrealized gain (loss) relating to these contracts is reported in Altria Group, Inc.'s consolidated statements of earnings. For the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, the unrealized gain (loss) with regard to the contracts that do not qualify for hedge accounting was insignificant.
In addition, Altria Group, Inc. uses foreign currency swaps to mitigate its exposure to changes in exchange rates related to foreign currency denominated debt. These swaps typically convert fixed-rate foreign currency denominated debt to fixed-rate debt denominated in the functional currency of the borrowing entity, and are accounted for as cash flow hedges. At December 31,
 
 
 
 
2007 and 2006, the notional amounts of foreign currency swap agreements aggregated $1.5 billion and $1.4 billion, respectively.
Altria Group, Inc. also designates certain foreign currency denominated debt and forwards as net investment hedges of foreign operations. During the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, these hedges of net investments resulted in losses, net of income taxes, of $45 million and $164 million, respectively, and during the year ended December 31, 2005 resulted in a gain, net of income taxes, of $369 million. These gains and losses were reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive earnings (losses) within currency translation adjustments.
During the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, ineffectiveness related to fair value hedges and cash flow hedges was not material. Altria Group, Inc. is hedging forecasted transactions for periods not exceeding the next twelve months. At December 31, 2007, Altria Group, Inc. expects an insignificant amount of gains reported in accumulated other comprehensive earnings (losses) to be reclassified to the consolidated statement of earnings within the next twelve months.
Derivative gains or losses reported in accumulated other comprehensive earnings (losses) are a result of qualifying hedging activity. Transfers of gains or losses from accumulated other comprehensive earnings (losses) to earnings are offset by the corresponding gains or losses on the underlying hedged item. Hedging activity affected accumulated other comprehensive earnings (losses), net of income taxes, during the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, as follows (in millions):
 
Credit exposure and credit risk
Altria Group, Inc. is exposed to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by counterparties. Altria Group, Inc. does not anticipate nonperformance within its consumer products businesses. However, see Note 8. regarding certain leases.
Finance Assets, net
Fair value
The aggregate fair value, based on market quotes, of Altria Group, Inc.'s total debt at December 31, 2007, was $5.0 billion, as compared with its carrying value of $4.7 billion. The aggregate fair value, based on market quotes, of Altria Group, Inc.'s total debt at December 31, 2006, was $6.0 billion, as compared with its carrying value of $5.7 billion.
The fair value, based on market quotes, of Altria Group, Inc.'s equity investment in SABMiller at December 31, 2007, was $12.1 billion, as compared with its carrying value of $4.0 billion. The fair value, based on market quotes, of Altria Group, Inc.'s equity investment in SABMiller at December 31, 2006, was $9.9 billion, as compared with its carrying value of $3.7 billion.
 
 
 
 
In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157 "Fair Value Measurements," which will be effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007. This statement defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. Altria Group, Inc. anticipates that the adoption of this statement will not have a material impact on its financial statements.
See Notes 9 and 10 for additional disclosures of fair value for short-term borrowings and long-term debt.
Note 19.  Contingencies:
Legal proceedings covering a wide range of matters are pending or threatened in various United States and foreign jurisdictions against ALG, its subsidiaries and affiliates, including PM USA and its respective indemnitees. Various types of claims are raised in these proceedings, including product liability, consumer protection, antitrust, tax, contraband shipments, patent infringement, employment matters, claims for contribution and claims of competitors and distributors.
 
Types and Number of Cases
Claims related to tobacco products generally fall within the following categories: (i) smoking and health cases alleging personal injury brought on behalf of individual plaintiffs, (ii) smoking and health cases primarily alleging personal injury or seeking court-supervised programs for ongoing medical monitoring and purporting to be brought on behalf of a class of individual plaintiffs, including cases in which the aggregated claims of a number of individual plaintiffs are to be tried in a single proceeding, (iii) health care cost recovery cases brought by governmental (both domestic and foreign) and non-governmental plaintiffs seeking reimbursement for health care expenditures allegedly caused by cigarette smoking and/or disgorgement of profits, (iv) class action suits alleging that the uses of the terms "Lights" and "Ultra Lights" constitute deceptive and unfair trade practices, common law fraud, or violations of the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act ("RICO"), and (v) other tobacco-related litigation described below. Damages claimed in some of the tobacco-related litigation are significant, and in certain cases, range into the billions of dollars. The variability in pleadings in multiple jurisdictions, together with the actual experience of management in litigating claims, demonstrate that the monetary relief that may be specified in a lawsuit bears little relevance to the ultimate outcome. Plaintiffs' theories of recovery and the defenses raised in pending smoking and health, health care cost recovery and Lights/Ultra Lights cases are discussed below.
 
 
 
 
The table below lists the number of certain tobacco-related cases pending in the United States against PM USA and, in some instances, ALG, as of December 31, 2007, December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005, and a page-reference to further discussions of each type of case.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PM USA is also a named defendant in a smoking and health putative class action in Israel, a "Lights" class action in Israel and health care cost recovery actions in Israel and Canada.
Pending and Upcoming Trials
On November 16, 2007, the jury in a flight attendant litigation found in favor of the defendants. In addition, as of December 31, 2007, 11 individual smoking and health cases against PM USA are scheduled for trial through the end of 2008. Cases against other tobacco companies are also scheduled for trial through the end of 2008. Trial dates are subject to change.
Recent Trial Results
Since January 1999, verdicts have been returned in 45 smoking and health, Lights/Ultra Lights and health care cost recovery cases in which PM USA was a defendant. Verdicts in favor of PM USA and other defendants were returned in 28 of the 45 cases. These 28 cases were tried in California (4), Florida (9), Mississippi (1), Missouri (2), New Hampshire (1), New Jersey (1), New York (3), Ohio (2), Pennsylvania (1), Rhode Island (1), Tennessee (2), and West Virginia (1). Plaintiffs' appeals or post-trial motions challenging the verdicts are pending in California, the District of Columbia and Florida. A motion for a new trial has been granted in one of the cases in Florida. In addition, in December 2002, a court dismissed an individual smoking and health case in California at the end of trial.
In July 2005, a jury in Tennessee returned a verdict in favor of PM USA in a case in which plaintiffs had challenged PM USA's retail promotional and merchandising programs under the Robinson-Patman Act.
Of the 17 cases in which verdicts were returned in favor of plaintiffs, eight have reached final resolution. A verdict against defendants in a health care cost recovery case has been reversed and all claims were dismissed with prejudice. In addition, a verdict against defendants in a purported Lights class action in Illinois has been reversed and the case has been dismissed with prejudice. After exhausting all appeals, PM USA has paid six judgments totaling $71,826,707, and interest totaling $33,806,665.
The chart below lists the verdicts and post-trial developments in the nine pending cases that have gone to trial since January 1999 in which verdicts were returned in favor of plaintiffs.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
With respect to certain adverse verdicts currently on appeal, as of December 31, 2007, PM USA has posted various forms of security totaling approximately $193 million, the majority of which have been collateralized with cash deposits, to obtain stays of judgments pending appeals. The cash deposits are included in other assets on the consolidated balance sheets.
Engle Class Action
In July 2000, in the second phase of the smoking and health class action in Florida, a jury returned a verdict assessing punitive damages totaling approximately $145 billion against various defendants, including $74 billion against PM USA. Following entry of judgment, PM USA posted a bond in the amount of $100 million and appealed.
Engle
In May 2001, the trial court approved a stipulation providing that execution of the punitive damages component of the judgment will remain stayed against PM USA and the other participating defendants through the completion of all judicial review. As a result of the stipulation, PM USA placed $500 million into a separate interest-bearing escrow account that, regardless of the outcome of the judicial review, will be paid to the court and the court will determine how to allocate or distribute it consistent with Florida Rules of Civil Procedure. In July 2001, PM USA also placed $1.2 billion into an interest-bearing escrow account, which was returned to PM USA in December 2007. In addition, the $100 million bond related to the case has been discharged. The $1.2 billion escrow account and the deposit of $100 million related to the bonding requirement were included in the December 31, 2006 consolidated balance sheet as other assets. Interest income on the $1.2 billion escrow account, prior to its return to PM USA, was paid to PM USA quarterly and was being recorded as earned in interest and other debt expense, net, in the consolidated statements of earnings. In connection with the stipulation, PM USA recorded a $500 million pre-tax charge in its consolidated statement of earnings for the quarter ended March 31, 2001. In May 2003, the Florida Third District Court of Appeal reversed the judgment entered by the trial court and instructed the trial court to order the decertification of the class. Plaintiffs petitioned the Florida Supreme Court for further review.
Engle
In July 2006, the Florida Supreme Court ordered that the punitive damages award be vacated, that the class approved by the trial court be decertified, and that members of the decertified class could file individual actions against defendants within one year of issuance of the mandate. The court further declared the following Phase I findings are entitled to "res judicata" effect in such individual actions brought within one year of the issuance of the mandate: (i) that smoking causes various diseases; (ii) that nicotine in cigarettes is addictive; (iii) that defendants' cigarettes were defective and unreasonably dangerous; (iv) that defendants concealed or
 
 
 
 
omitted material information not otherwise known or available knowing that the material was false or misleading or failed to disclose a material fact concerning the health effects or addictive nature of smoking; (v) that all defendants agreed to misrepresent information regarding the health effects or addictive nature of cigarettes with the intention of causing the public to rely on this information to their detriment; (vi) that defendants agreed to conceal or omit information regarding the health effects of cigarettes or their addictive nature with the intention that smokers would rely on the information to their detriment; (vii) that all defendants sold or supplied cigarettes that were defective; and (viii) that all defendants were negligent. The court also reinstated compensatory damage awards totaling approximately $6.9 million to two individual plaintiffs and found that a third plaintiff's claim was barred by the statute of limitations.
In August 2006, PM USA sought rehearing from the Florida Supreme Court on parts of its July 2006 opinion, including the ruling (described above) that certain jury findings have res judicata effect in subsequent individual trials timely brought by class members. The rehearing motion also asked, among other things, that legal errors that were raised but not expressly ruled upon in the Third District Court of Appeal or in the Florida Supreme Court now be addressed. Plaintiffs also filed a motion for rehearing in August 2006 seeking clarification of the applicability of the statute of limitations to non-members of the decertified class. In December 2006, the Florida Supreme Court refused to revise its July 2006 ruling, except that it revised the set of Phase I findings entitled to res judicata effect by excluding finding (v) listed above (relating to agreement to misrepresent information), and added the finding that defendants sold or supplied cigarettes that, at the time of sale or supply, did not conform to the representations of fact made by defendants. On January 11, 2007, the Florida Supreme Court issued the mandate from its revised opinion. Defendants then filed a motion with the Florida Third District Court of Appeal requesting that the court address legal errors that were previously raised by defendants but have not yet been addressed either by the Third District or by the Florida Supreme Court. In February 2007, the Third District Court of Appeal denied defendants' motion. In May 2007, defendants' motion for a partial stay of the mandate pending the completion of appellate review was denied by the District Court of Appeal. In May 2007, defendants filed a petition for writ of certiorari with the United States Supreme Court. On October 1, 2007, the United States Supreme Court denied defendants' petition. In November 2007, the United States Supreme Court denied defendants' petition for rehearing from the denial of their petition for writ of certiorari.
Engle
By the January 11, 2008 deadline required by the Florida Supreme Court's decision, approximately 1,282 cases had been served upon PM USA or ALG asserting individual claims on or on behalf of approximately 7,266 plaintiffs. It is possible that additional cases have been filed but not yet recorded on the courts' dockets. Some of these cases have been removed from various Florida state courts to the federal district courts in Florida, while others were filed in federal court. In July 2007, PM USA and other defendants requested that the multi-district litigation panel order the transfer of all such cases pending in the federal courts, as well as any other progeny cases that may be filed, to the Middle District of Florida for pretrial coordination. The panel denied this request in December 2007. In October 2007, attorneys for plaintiffs filed a motion to consolidate all pending and future cases filed in the state trial court in Hillsborough County. The court denied this motion in November 2007.
Engle
 
 
 
 
Scott Class Action
In July 2003, following the first phase of the trial in the class action, in which plaintiffs sought creation of a fund to pay for medical monitoring and smoking cessation programs, a Louisiana jury returned a verdict in favor of defendants, including PM USA, in connection with plaintiffs' medical monitoring claims, but also found that plaintiffs could benefit from smoking cessation assistance. The jury also found that cigarettes as designed are not defective but that the defendants failed to disclose all they knew about smoking and diseases and marketed their products to minors. In May 2004, in the second phase of the trial, the jury awarded plaintiffs approximately $590 million against all defendants jointly and severally, to fund a 10-year smoking cessation program.
Scott
In June 2004, the court entered judgment, which awarded plaintiffs the approximately $590 million jury award plus prejudgment interest accruing from the date the suit commenced. As of February 15, 2007, the amount of prejudgment interest was approximately $444 million. PM USA's share of the jury award and prejudgment interest has not been allocated. Defendants, including PM USA, appealed. Pursuant to a stipulation of the parties, the trial court entered an order setting the amount of the bond at $50 million for all defendants in accordance with an article of the Louisiana Code of Civil Procedure, and a Louisiana statute (the "bond cap law") fixing the amount of security in civil cases involving a signatory to the MSA (as defined below). Under the terms of the stipulation, plaintiffs reserve the right to contest, at a later date, the sufficiency or amount of the bond on any grounds including the applicability or constitutionality of the bond cap law. In September 2004, defendants collectively posted a bond in the amount of $50 million.
In February 2007, the Louisiana Court of Appeal issued a ruling on defendants' appeal that, among other things: affirmed class certification but limited the scope of the class; struck certain of the categories of damages that comprised the judgment, reducing the amount of the award by approximately $312 million; vacated the award of prejudgment interest, which totaled approximately $444 million as of February 15, 2007; and ruled that the only class members who are eligible to participate in the smoking cessation program are those who began smoking before, and whose claims accrued by, September 1, 1988. As a result, the Louisiana Court of Appeal remanded for proceedings consistent with its opinion, including further reduction of the amount of the award based on the size of the new class. In March 2007, the Louisiana Court of Appeal rejected defendants' motion for rehearing and clarification. In January 2008, the Louisiana Supreme Court denied plaintiffs' and defendants' petitions for writ of certiorari. Following the Louisiana Supreme Court's denial of defendants' petition for writ of certiorari, PM USA recorded a provision of $26 million in connection with the case.
Overview
Plaintiffs' allegations of liability in smoking and health cases are based on various theories of recovery, including negligence, gross negligence, strict liability, fraud, misrepresentation, design defect, failure to warn, nuisance, breach of express and implied warranties, breach of special duty, conspiracy, concert of action, violations of deceptive trade practice laws and consumer protection statutes, and claims under the federal and state anti-racketeering statutes. Plaintiffs in the smoking and health actions seek various forms of relief, including
 
 
 
 
compensatory and punitive damages, treble/multiple damages and other statutory damages and penalties, creation of medical monitoring and smoking cessation funds, disgorgement of profits, and injunctive and equitable relief. Defenses raised in these cases include lack of proximate cause, assumption of the risk, comparative fault and/or contributory negligence, statutes of limitations and preemption by the Federal Cigarette Labeling and Advertising Act.
Smoking and Health Class Actions
Since the dismissal in May 1996 of a purported nationwide class action brought on behalf of allegedly addicted smokers, plaintiffs have filed numerous putative smoking and health class action suits in various state and federal courts. In general, these cases purport to be brought on behalf of residents of a particular state or states (although a few cases purport to be nationwide in scope) and raise addiction claims and, in many cases, claims of physical injury as well.
Class certification has been denied or reversed by courts in 57 smoking and health class actions involving PM USA in Arkansas (1), the District of Columbia (2), Florida (2), Illinois (2), Iowa (1), Kansas (1), Louisiana (1), Maryland (1), Michigan (1), Minnesota (1), Nevada (29), New Jersey (6), New York (2), Ohio (1), Oklahoma (1), Pennsylvania (1), Puerto Rico (1), South Carolina (1), Texas (1) and Wisconsin (1). A class remains certified in the class action discussed above.
Scott
There are currently pending two purported class actions against PM USA brought in New York (Caronia, filed in January 2006 in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York) and Massachusetts (Donovan, filed in March 2007 in the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts) on behalf of each state's respective residents who: are age 50 or older; have smoked the brand for 20 pack-years or more; and have neither been diagnosed with lung cancer nor are under examination by a physician for suspected lung cancer. Plaintiffs in these cases seek to impose liability under various product-based causes of action and the creation of a court-supervised program providing members of the purported class Low Dose CT Scanning in order to identify and diagnose lung cancer. Neither claim seeks punitive damages. Plaintiffs' motion for class certification is pending in Caronia.
Marlboro
 
Overview
In health care cost recovery litigation, domestic and foreign governmental entities and non-governmental plaintiffs seek reimbursement of health care cost expenditures allegedly caused by tobacco products and, in some cases, of future expenditures and damages as well. Relief sought by some but not all plaintiffs includes punitive damages, multiple damages and other statutory damages and penalties, injunctions prohibiting alleged marketing and sales to minors, disclosure of research, disgorgement of profits, funding of anti-smoking programs, additional disclosure of nicotine yields, and payment of attorney and expert witness fees.
The claims asserted include the claim that cigarette manufacturers were "unjustly enriched" by plaintiffs' payment of health care costs allegedly attributable to smoking, as well as claims of indemnity, negligence, strict liability, breach of express and implied warranty, violation of a voluntary undertaking or special duty, fraud, negligent misrepresentation, conspiracy, public nuisance, claims under federal and state statutes governing consumer fraud, antitrust, deceptive
 
 
 
 
trade practices and false advertising, and claims under federal and state anti-racketeering statutes.
Defenses raised include lack of proximate cause, remoteness of injury, failure to state a valid claim, lack of benefit, adequate remedy at law, "unclean hands" (namely, that plaintiffs cannot obtain equitable relief because they participated in, and benefited from, the sale of cigarettes), lack of antitrust standing and injury, federal preemption, lack of statutory authority to bring suit, and statutes of limitations. In addition, defendants argue that they should be entitled to "set off" any alleged damages to the extent the plaintiffs benefit economically from the sale of cigarettes through the receipt of excise taxes or otherwise. Defendants also argue that these cases are improper because plaintiffs must proceed under principles of subrogation and assignment. Under traditional theories of recovery, a payor of medical costs (such as an insurer) can seek recovery of health care costs from a third party solely by "standing in the shoes" of the injured party. Defendants argue that plaintiffs should be required to bring any actions as subrogees of individual health care recipients and should be subject to all defenses available against the injured party.
Although there have been some decisions to the contrary, most judicial decisions have dismissed all or most health care cost recovery claims against cigarette manufacturers. Nine federal circuit courts of appeals and six state appellate courts, relying primarily on grounds that plaintiffs' claims were too remote, have ordered or affirmed dismissals of health care cost recovery actions. The United States Supreme Court has refused to consider plaintiffs' appeals from the cases decided by five circuit courts of appeals.
In March 1999, in the first health care cost recovery case to go to trial, an Ohio jury returned a verdict in favor of defendants on all counts. In addition, a $17.8 million verdict against defendants (including $6.8 million against PM USA) was reversed in a health care cost recovery case in New York, and all claims were dismissed with prejudice in February 2005 (). The trial in the health care cost recovery case brought by the City of St. Louis, Missouri and approximately 50 Missouri hospitals, in which PM USA and ALG are defendants, is scheduled to begin in January 2009.
Blue Cross/Blue Shield
Individuals and associations have also sued in purported class actions or as private attorneys general under the Medicare As Secondary Payer statute to recover from defendants Medicare expenditures allegedly incurred for the treatment of smoking-related diseases. Cases brought in New York (), Florida () and Massachusetts () have been dismissed by federal courts, and plaintiffs' appealed in . In August 2007, the United States Court of Appeals for the First Circuit affirmed the district court's dismissal in . In November 2007, plaintiffs filed a petition for writ of certiorari with the United States Supreme Court, which was denied on January 22, 2008.
Mason
Glover
United Seniors Association
United Seniors Association
United Seniors Association
In addition to the cases brought in the United States, health care cost recovery actions have also been brought against tobacco industry participants, and PM USA, in Israel (1), the Marshall Islands (1 dismissed) and Canada (1) and other entities have stated that they are considering filing such actions. In September 2005, in the case in Canada, the Canadian Supreme Court ruled that legislation passed in British Columbia permitting the lawsuit is constitutional, and, as a result, the case which had previously been dismissed by the trial court was permitted to proceed. PM USA and other defendants' challenge to the British Columbia court's exercise of jurisdiction was rejected by the Court of Appeals of British Columbia and, in April 2007, the
 
 
 
 
Supreme Court of Canada denied review of that decision. Several other provinces in Canada have enacted similar legislation or are in the process of enacting similar legislation.
Settlements of Health Care Cost Recovery Litigation
In November 1998, PM USA and certain other United States tobacco product manufacturers entered into the Master Settlement Agreement (the "MSA") with 46 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, Guam, the United States Virgin Islands, American Samoa and the Northern Marianas to settle asserted and unasserted health care cost recovery and other claims. PM USA and certain other United States tobacco product manufacturers had previously settled similar claims brought by Mississippi, Florida, Texas and Minnesota (together with the MSA, the "State Settlement Agreements"). The State Settlement Agreements require that the original participating manufacturers make substantial annual payments of $9.4 billion each year (excluding future annual payments, if any, under the National Tobacco Grower Settlement Trust discussed below), subject to adjustments for several factors, including inflation, market share and industry volume. In addition, the original participating manufacturers are required to pay settling plaintiffs' attorneys' fees, subject to an annual cap of $500 million.
The State Settlement Agreements also include provisions relating to advertising and marketing restrictions, public disclosure of certain industry documents, limitations on challenges to certain tobacco control and underage use laws, restrictions on lobbying activities and other provisions.
Possible Adjustments in MSA Payments for 2003, 2004 and 2005
Pursuant to the provisions of the MSA, domestic tobacco product manufacturers, including PM USA, who are original signatories to the MSA ("OPMs"), are participating in proceedings that may result in downward adjustments to the amounts paid by the OPMs and the other MSA participating manufacturers to the states and territories that are parties to the MSA for the years 2003, 2004 and 2005. The proceedings are based on the collective loss of market share for 2003, 2004 and 2005, respectively, by all manufacturers who are subject to the payment obligations and marketing restrictions of the MSA to non-participating manufacturers ("NPMs") who are not subject to such obligations and restrictions.
In these proceedings, an independent economic consulting firm jointly selected by the MSA parties is required to determine whether the disadvantages of the MSA were a "significant factor" contributing to the collective loss of market share for the year in question. If the firm determines that the disadvantages of the MSA were such a "significant factor," each state may avoid a downward adjustment to its share of the participating manufacturers' annual payments for that year by establishing that it diligently enforced a qualifying escrow statute during the entirety of that year. Any potential downward adjustment would then be reallocated to those states that do not establish such diligent enforcement. PM USA believes that the MSA's arbitration clause requires a state to submit its claim to have diligently enforced a qualifying escrow statute to binding arbitration before a panel of three former federal judges in the manner provided for in the MSA. A number of states have taken the position that this claim should be decided in state court on a state-by-state basis.
In March of 2006, an independent economic consulting firm determined that the disadvantages of the MSA were a significant factor contributing to the participating manufacturers' collective loss of market share for the year 2003. In February 2007, this same firm determined that the disadvantages of the MSA were a significant factor contributing to the participating
 
 
 
 
manufacturers' collective loss of market share for the year 2004. As of October 2007, PM USA is also participating in another such proceeding before the same economic consulting firm to determine whether the disadvantages of the MSA were a significant factor contributing to the participating manufacturers' collective loss of market share for the year 2005. The economic consulting firm is expected to render its final determination on the significant factor issue for 2005 sometime in February 2008. Following the economic consulting firm's determination with respect to 2003, thirty-eight states filed declaratory judgment actions in state courts seeking a declaration that the state diligently enforced its escrow statute during 2003. The OPMs and other MSA-participating manufacturers have responded to these actions by filing motions to compel arbitration in accordance with the terms of the MSA, including filing motions to compel arbitration in eleven MSA states and territories that have not filed declaratory judgment actions. Courts in over 45 states have ruled that the question of whether a state diligently enforced its escrow statute during 2003 is subject to arbitration and only one state court ruling to the contrary currently stands, and it remains subject to appeal. Many of these rulings, including the one ruling against arbitration, remain subject to appeal or further review. Additionally, Ohio filed a declaratory judgment action in state court with respect to the 2004 diligent enforcement issue. The action has been stayed pending the decision about the 2003 payments.
The availability and the precise amount of any NPM Adjustment for 2003 and 2004 will not be finally determined until 2008 or thereafter. The availability and the precise amount of any NPM Adjustment for 2005 will not be finally determined until late 2008 or thereafter. There is no certainty that the OPMs and other MSA-participating manufacturers will ultimately receive any adjustment as a result of these proceedings. If the OPMs do receive such an adjustment through these proceedings, the adjustment would be allocated among the OPMs pursuant to the MSA's provisions, and PM USA's share would likely be applied as a credit against a future MSA payment.
National Grower Settlement Trust
As part of the MSA, the settling defendants committed to work cooperatively with the tobacco-growing states to address concerns about the potential adverse economic impact of the MSA on tobacco growers and quota holders. To that end, in 1999, four of the major domestic tobacco product manufacturers, including PM USA, established the National Tobacco Grower Settlement Trust ("NTGST"), a trust fund to provide aid to tobacco growers and quota holders. The trust was to be funded by these four manufacturers over 12 years with payments, prior to application of various adjustments, scheduled to total $5.15 billion. Provisions of the NTGST allowed for offsets to the extent that industry-funded payments were made for the benefit of growers or quota holders as part of a legislated end to the federal tobacco quota and price support program.
In October 2004, the Fair and Equitable Tobacco Reform Act of 2004 ("FETRA") was signed into law. FETRA provides for the elimination of the federal tobacco quota and price support program through an industry-funded buy-out of tobacco growers and quota holders. The cost of the buy-out, which is estimated at approximately $9.5 billion, is being paid over 10 years by manufacturers and importers of each kind of tobacco product. The cost is being allocated based on the relative market shares of manufacturers and importers of each kind of tobacco product. The quota buy-out payments offset already scheduled payments to the NTGST. However, two of the grower states, Maryland and Pennsylvania, have filed claims in the North Carolina state courts, asserting that the companies which established the NTGST (including PM USA) must
 
 
 
 
continue making payments under the NTGST through 2010 for the benefit of Maryland and Pennsylvania growers (such continuing payments would represent slightly more than one percent of the originally scheduled payments that would have been due to the NTGST for the years 2005 through 2010) notwithstanding the offsets resulting from the FETRA payments. The North Carolina trial court has held in favor of Maryland and Pennsylvania, and the companies (including PM USA) have appealed. In addition to the approximately $9.5 billion cost of the buy-out, FETRA also obligated manufacturers and importers of tobacco products to cover any losses (up to $500 million) that the government incurred on the disposition of tobacco pool stock accumulated under the previous tobacco price support program. PM USA has paid $138 million for its share of the tobacco pool stock losses. The quota buy-out did not have a material adverse impact on ALG's consolidated results in 2007. ALG does not currently anticipate that the quota buy-out will have a material adverse impact on its consolidated results in 2008 and beyond.
Other MSA-Related Litigation
In June 2004, a putative class of California smokers filed a complaint against PM USA and the MSA's other "Original Participating Manufacturers" ("OPMs") seeking damages from the OPMs for post-MSA price increases and an injunction against their continued compliance with the MSA's terms. The complaint alleges that the MSA and related legislation protect the OPMs from competition in a manner that violates federal and state antitrust and consumer protection laws. The complaint also names the California Attorney General as a defendant and seeks to enjoin him from enforcing California's Escrow Statute. In March 2005, the United States District Court for the Northern District of California granted defendants' motion to dismiss the case. On September 26, 2007, the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit affirmed the dismissal.
Without naming PM USA or any other private party as a defendant, manufacturers that have elected not to sign the MSA ("Non-Participating Manufacturers" or "NPMs") and/or their distributors or customers have filed several other legal challenges to the MSA and related legislation. New York state officials are defendants in a lawsuit pending in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York in which cigarette importers allege that the MSA and/or related legislation violates federal antitrust laws and the Commerce Clause of the United States Constitution. In a separate proceeding pending in the same court, plaintiffs assert the same theories against not only New York officials but also the Attorneys General for thirty other states. The United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit has held that the allegations in both actions, if proven, establish a basis for relief on antitrust and Commerce Clause grounds and that the trial courts in New York have personal jurisdiction sufficient to enjoin other states' officials from enforcing their MSA-related legislation. On remand in those two actions, one trial judge preliminarily enjoined New York from enforcing its "allocable share" amendment to the MSA's Model Escrow Statute against the plaintiffs, while another trial judge refused to do so after concluding that the plaintiffs were unlikely to prove their allegations. Summary judgment motions are pending in one of those cases.
In another action, the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit reversed a trial court's dismissal of challenges to MSA-related legislation in Louisiana under the First and Fourteenth Amendments to the United States Constitution. The case will now proceed to motions for summary judgment and, if necessary, a trial. Summary judgment proceedings in another challenge to Louisiana's participation in the MSA and its MSA-related legislation may begin in mid-2008. Yet another proceeding has been initiated before an international arbitration tribunal
 
 
 
 
under the provisions of the North American Free Trade Agreement. Appeals from trial court decisions holding that plaintiffs have failed either to make allegations establishing a claim for relief or to submit evidence supporting those allegations are currently, or will soon be, pending before the United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth and Tenth Circuits. The United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit has affirmed the dismissal of two similar challenges.
Federal Government's Lawsuit
In 1999, the United States government filed a lawsuit in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia against various cigarette manufacturers, including PM USA, and others, including ALG, asserting claims under three federal statutes, the Medical Care Recovery Act ("MCRA"), the Medicare Secondary Payer ("MSP") provisions of the Social Security Act and the civil provisions of RICO. Trial of the case ended in June 2005. The lawsuit sought to recover an unspecified amount of health care costs for tobacco-related illnesses allegedly caused by defendants' fraudulent and tortious conduct and paid for by the government under various federal health care programs, including Medicare, military and veterans' health benefits programs, and the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program. The complaint alleged that such costs total more than $20 billion annually. It also sought what it alleged to be equitable and declaratory relief, including disgorgement of profits which arose from defendants' allegedly tortious conduct, an injunction prohibiting certain actions by the defendants, and a declaration that the defendants are liable for the federal government's future costs of providing health care resulting from defendants' alleged past tortious and wrongful conduct. In September 2000, the trial court dismissed the government's MCRA and MSP claims, but permitted discovery to proceed on the government's claims for relief under the civil provisions of RICO.
The government alleged that disgorgement by defendants of approximately $280 billion is an appropriate remedy. In May 2004, the trial court issued an order denying defendants' motion for partial summary judgment limiting the disgorgement remedy. In February 2005, a panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit held that disgorgement is not a remedy available to the government under the civil provisions of RICO and entered summary judgment in favor of defendants with respect to the disgorgement claim. In April 2005, the Court of Appeals denied the government's motion for rehearing. In July 2005, the government petitioned the United States Supreme Court for further review of the Court of Appeals' ruling that disgorgement is not an available remedy, and in October 2005, the Supreme Court denied the petition.
In June 2005, the government filed with the trial court its proposed final judgment seeking remedies of approximately $14 billion, including $10 billion over a five-year period to fund a national smoking cessation program and $4 billion over a ten-year period to fund a public education and counter-marketing campaign. Further, the government's proposed remedy would have required defendants to pay additional monies to these programs if targeted reductions in the smoking rate of those under 21 are not achieved according to a prescribed timetable. The government's proposed remedies also included a series of measures and restrictions applicable to cigarette business operations  including, but not limited to, restrictions on advertising and marketing, potential measures with respect to certain price promotional activities and research and development, disclosure requirements for certain confidential data and implementation of a monitoring system with potential broad powers over cigarette operations.
 
 
 
 
In August 2006, the federal trial court entered judgment in favor of the government. The court held that certain defendants, including ALG and PM USA, violated RICO and engaged in 7 of the 8 "sub-schemes" to defraud that the government had alleged. Specifically, the court found that:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The court did not impose monetary penalties on the defendants, but ordered the following relief: (i) an injunction against "committing any act of racketeering" relating to the manufacturing, marketing, promotion, health consequences or sale of cigarettes in the United States; (ii) an injunction against participating directly or indirectly in the management or control of the Council for Tobacco Research, the Tobacco Institute, or the Center for Indoor Air Research, or any successor or affiliated entities of each; (iii) an injunction against "making, or causing to be made in any way, any material false, misleading, or deceptive statement or representation or engaging in any public relations or marketing endeavor that is disseminated to the United States public and that misrepresents or suppresses information concerning cigarettes"; (iv) an injunction against conveying any express or implied health message through use of descriptors on cigarette packaging or in cigarette advertising or promotional material, including "lights," "ultra lights" and "low tar," which the court found could cause consumers to believe a cigarette brand is less hazardous than another brand; (v) the issuance of "corrective statements" in various media regarding the adverse health effects of smoking, the addictiveness of smoking and nicotine, the lack of any significant health benefit from smoking "low tar" or "light" cigarettes, defendants' manipulation of cigarette design to ensure optimum nicotine delivery and the adverse health effects of exposure to environmental tobacco smoke; (vi) the disclosure on defendants' public document websites and in the Minnesota document repository of all documents produced to the government in the lawsuit or produced in any future court or administrative action concerning smoking and health until 2021, with certain additional requirements as to documents withheld from production under a claim of privilege or confidentiality; (vii) the disclosure of disaggregated marketing data to the government in the same form and on the same schedule as defendants now follow in disclosing such data to the Federal Trade Commission, for a period of ten years; (viii) certain restrictions on the sale or transfer by defendants of any cigarette brands, brand names, formulas or cigarette businesses within the United States; and (ix) payment of the government's costs in bringing the action.
 
 
 
 
In September 2006, defendants filed notices of appeal to the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. In September 2006, the trial court denied defendants' motion to stay the judgment pending defendants' appeals, and defendants then filed an emergency motion with the Court of Appeals to stay enforcement of the judgment pending their appeals. In October 2006, the government filed a notice of appeal to the Court of Appeals in which it appeals the denial of certain remedies, including the disgorgement of profits and the cessation remedies it had sought. In October 2006, a three-judge panel of the United States Court of Appeals granted defendants' motion and stayed the trial court's judgment pending its review of the decision. Certain defendants, including PM USA and ALG, filed a motion to clarify the trial court's August 2006 Final Judgment and Remedial Order. In March 2007, the trial court denied in part and granted in part defendants' post-trial motion for clarification of portions of the court's remedial order. As noted above, the trial court's judgment and remedial order remain stayed pending the appeal to the Court of Appeals. In May 2007, the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia scheduled briefing of the parties' consolidated appeal to begin in August 2007 and conclude in May 2008.
Overview
Plaintiffs in these class actions (some of which have not been certified as such), allege, among other things, that the uses of the terms "Lights" and/or "Ultra Lights" constitute deceptive and unfair trade practices, common law fraud, or RICO violations, and seek injunctive and equitable relief, including restitution and, in certain cases, punitive damages. These class actions have been brought against PM USA and, in certain instances, ALG, on behalf of individuals who purchased and consumed various brands of cigarettes, including and and Defenses raised in these cases include lack of misrepresentation, lack of causation, injury, and damages, the statute of limitations, express preemption by the Federal Cigarette Labeling and Advertising Act and implied preemption by the policies and directives of the Federal Trade Commission, non-liability under state statutory provisions exempting conduct that complies with federal regulatory directives, and the First Amendment. Seventeen cases are pending in Arkansas (2), Delaware (1), Florida (1), Illinois (1), Maine (1), Massachusetts (1), Minnesota (1), Missouri (1), New Hampshire (1), New Jersey (1), New Mexico (1), New York (1), Oregon (1), Tennessee (1), and West Virginia (2). In addition, there are two cases pending in Israel. Other entities have stated that they are considering filing such actions against ALG and PM USA.
Marlboro Lights, Marlboro Ultra Lights, Virginia Slims Lights
Superslims, Merit Lights
Cambridge Lights.
To date, 11 courts in 12 cases have refused to certify class actions, reversed prior class certification decisions or have entered judgment in favor of PM USA. Trial courts in Arizona, Kansas, New Mexico, Oregon, Washington and New Jersey have refused to certify a class, an appellate court in Florida has overturned class certification by a trial court, the Ohio Supreme Court has overturned class certifications in two cases, the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit has dismissed a purported Lights class action brought in Louisiana federal court (on the grounds that plaintiffs' claims were preempted by the Federal Cigarette Labeling and Advertising Act, a federal trial court in Maine has dismissed a purported class action on federal preemption grounds ( plaintiffs voluntarily dismissed an action in a federal trial court in Michigan after the court dismissed claims asserted under the Michigan
Sullivan)
Good),
 
 
 
 
Unfair Trade and Consumer Protection Act, and the Supreme Court of Illinois has overturned a judgment in favor of a plaintiff class in the case. The United States Court of Appeals for the First Circuit vacated the district court's grant of PM USA's motion for summary judgment in the case on federal preemption grounds and remanded the case to district court. The district court stayed proceedings pending the ruling of the United States Supreme Court on defendants' petition for a writ of certiorari, which was granted on January 18, 2008. An intermediate appellate court in Oregon and the Supreme Court in Washington have denied plaintiffs' motions for interlocutory review of the trial courts' refusals to certify a class. Plaintiffs in the Oregon case failed to appeal by the deadline for doing so and the trial court subsequently entered judgment against plaintiffs on the ground of express preemption under the Federal Cigarette Labeling and Advertising Act. In November, plaintiffs in that case ( filed a notice of appeal of the trial court's decisions with the Oregon Court of Appeals. Plaintiffs in the case in Washington voluntarily dismissed the case with prejudice. Plaintiffs in the New Mexico case renewed their motion for class certification. Plaintiffs in the Florida case () petitioned the Florida Supreme Court for further review, and on January 14, 2008, the Florida Supreme Court denied this petition.
Price
Good
Pearson)
Hines
Trial courts have certified classes against PM USA in Massachusetts (), Minnesota (), Missouri () and New York (. PM USA has appealed or otherwise challenged these class certification orders, and the appeal in is pending. In addition, the United States Supreme Court has reversed the trial and appellate courts' rulings denying plaintiffs' motion to remand the case to state trial court in a purported Lights class action brought in Arkansas (). Developments in these cases include:
Aspinall
Curtis
Craft
Schwab)
Schwab
Watson
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In addition to these cases, in December 2005, in the case which was pending at that time in the United States District Court for the Western District of Arkansas, plaintiffs moved for certification of a class composed of individuals who purchased or brands in Arkansas, California, Colorado, and Michigan. PM USA's motion for summary judgment based on preemption and the Arkansas statutory exemption is pending. Following the filing of this motion, plaintiffs moved to voluntarily dismiss without prejudice, which PM USA opposed. The court then stayed the case pending the United States Supreme Court's decision on a petition for writ of certiorari in the case discussed above. In July 2007, the case was remanded to a state trial court in Arkansas. In August 2007, plaintiffs renewed their motion for class certification. In October 2007, the court denied PM USA's motion to dismiss on procedural grounds and the court entered a case management order. The case is currently stayed pending the outcome of the United States Supreme Court's
Miner
Marlboro Lights
Cambridge Lights
Miner
Watson
 
 
 
 
decision in The United States Supreme Court granted defendants' petition on January 18, 2008. In addition, plaintiffs' motion for class certification is pending in a case in Tennessee.
Good.
:    As of December 31, 2007, two cases were pending in Kansas and New Mexico in which plaintiffs allege that defendants, including PM USA, conspired to fix cigarette prices in violation of antitrust laws. ALG is a defendant in the case in Kansas. Plaintiffs' motions for class certification have been granted in both cases. In February 2005, the New Mexico Court of Appeals affirmed the class certification decision. In June 2006, defendants' motion for summary judgment was granted in the New Mexico case. Plaintiffs in the New Mexico case have appealed. The case in Kansas has been stayed pending the Kansas Supreme Court's decision on defendants' petition regarding certain procedural rulings by the trial court.
Tobacco Price Cases
:    In May 2000 and August 2001, various departments of Colombia and the European Community and 10 Member States filed suits in the United States against ALG and certain of its subsidiaries, including PM USA, and other cigarette manufacturers and their affiliates, alleging that defendants sold to distributors cigarettes that would be illegally imported into various jurisdictions. In February 2002, the federal district court granted defendants' motions to dismiss the actions. In January 2004, the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit affirmed the dismissals of the cases based on the common law Revenue Rule, which bars a foreign government from bringing civil claims in U.S. courts for the recovery of lost taxes. It is possible that future litigation related to cigarette contraband issues may be brought. In this regard, ALG believes that Canadian authorities are contemplating a legal proceeding based on an investigation of ALG entities relating to allegations of contraband shipments of cigarettes into Canada in the early to mid-1990s.
Cigarette Contraband Cases
:    In June 1997 and July 1998, two suits (and) were filed in California state court alleging that domestic cigarette manufacturers, including PM USA and others, have violated California Business and Professions Code Sections 17200 and 17500 regarding unfair, unlawful and fraudulent business practices. Class certification was granted in both cases as to plaintiffs' claims that class members are entitled to reimbursement of the costs of cigarettes purchased during the class periods and injunctive relief. In September 2002, the court granted defendants' motion for summary judgment as to all claims in one of the cases (), and plaintiffs appealed. In October 2004, the California Fourth District Court of Appeal affirmed the trial court's ruling, and also denied plaintiffs' motion for rehearing. In February 2005, the California Supreme Court agreed to hear plaintiffs' appeal. In August 2007, the California Supreme Court affirmed the dismissal of the class action on federal preemption grounds. In December 2007, plaintiffs filed a petition for writ of certiorari with the United States Supreme Court.
Cases Under the California Business and Professions Code
Brown
Daniels
Daniels
Daniels
In September 2004, the trial court in the case granted defendants' motion for summary judgment as to plaintiffs' claims attacking defendants' cigarette advertising and promotion and denied defendants' motion for summary judgment on plaintiffs' claims based on allegedly false affirmative statements. Plaintiffs' motion for rehearing was denied. In March 2005, the court granted defendants' motion to decertify the class based on a recent change in California law, which, in two July 2006 opinions, the California Supreme Court ruled applicable to pending cases. Plaintiffs' motion for reconsideration of the order that decertified the class was denied, and plaintiffs have appealed. In September 2006, an intermediate appellate court affirmed the
Brown
 
 
 
 
trial court's order decertifying the class in . In November 2006, the California Supreme Court accepted review of the appellate court's decision.
Brown
In May 2004, a lawsuit was filed in California state court on behalf of a purported class of all California residents who purchased the brand of cigarettes since July 2000 to the present alleging that defendants, including PM USA, violated California's Business and Professions Code Sections 17200 and 17500 regarding unfair, unlawful and fraudulent business practices, including false and misleading advertising. The complaint also alleges violations of California's Consumer Legal Remedies Act. Plaintiffs seek injunctive relief, disgorgement, restitution, and attorneys' fees. In July 2005, defendants' motion to dismiss was granted; however, plaintiffs' motion for leave to amend the complaint was also granted, and plaintiffs filed an amended complaint in September 2005. In October 2005, the court stayed this action pending the California Supreme Court's rulings on two cases not involving PM USA. In July 2006, the California Supreme Court issued rulings in the two cases and held that a recent change in California law known as Proposition 64, which limits the ability to bring a lawsuit to only those plaintiffs who have "suffered injury in fact" and "lost money or property" as a result of defendant's alleged statutory violations, properly applies to pending cases. In September 2006, the stay was lifted and defendants filed their demurrer to plaintiffs' amended complaint. In March 2007, the court, without ruling on the demurrer, again stayed the action pending rulings from the California Supreme Court in another case involving Proposition 64 that is relevant to PM USA's demurrer.
(Gurevitch)
Merit
:    The IRS concluded its examination of ALG's consolidated tax returns for the years 1996 through 1999, and issued a final Revenue Agent's Report ("RAR") on March 15, 2006. The RAR disallowed benefits pertaining to certain PMCC leveraged lease transactions for the years 1996 through 1999. Altria Group, Inc. has agreed with all conclusions of the RAR, with the exception of the disallowance of benefits pertaining to several PMCC leveraged lease transactions for the years 1996 through 1999. PMCC will continue to assert its position regarding these leveraged lease transactions and contest approximately $150 million of tax and net interest assessed and paid with regard to them. The IRS may in the future challenge and disallow more of PMCC's leveraged leases based on Revenue Rulings, an IRS Notice and subsequent case law addressing specific types of leveraged leases (lease-in/lease-out ("LILO") and sale-in/lease-out ("SILO") transactions). PMCC believes that the position and supporting case law described in the RAR, Revenue Rulings and the IRS Notice are incorrectly applied to PMCC's transactions and that its leveraged leases are factually and legally distinguishable in material respects from the IRS's position. PMCC and ALG intend to vigorously defend against any challenges based on that position through litigation. In this regard, on October 16, 2006, PMCC filed a complaint in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York to claim refunds for a portion of these tax payments and associated interest. However, should PMCC's position not be upheld, PMCC may have to accelerate the payment of significant amounts of federal income tax and significantly lower its earnings to reflect the recalculation of the income from the affected leveraged leases, which could have a material effect on the earnings and cash flows of Altria Group, Inc. in a particular fiscal quarter or fiscal year. PMCC considered this matter in its adoption of FASB Interpretation No. 48 and FASB Staff Position No. FAS 13-2.
IRS Challenges to PMCC Leases
 
 
 
 
 
 
It is possible that there could be adverse developments in pending cases. An unfavorable outcome or settlement of pending tobacco related litigation could encourage the commencement of additional litigation. Although PM USA has historically been able to obtain required bonds or relief from bonding requirements in order to prevent plaintiffs from seeking to collect judgments while adverse verdicts have been appealed, there remains a risk that such relief may not be obtainable in all cases. This risk has been substantially reduced given that 42 states now limit the dollar amount of bonds or require no bond at all.
ALG and its subsidiaries record provisions in the consolidated financial statements for pending litigation when they determine that an unfavorable outcome is probable and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Except as discussed elsewhere in this Note 19. (i) management has not concluded that it is probable that a loss has been incurred in any of the pending tobacco-related cases; (ii) management is unable to estimate the possible loss or range of loss that could result from an unfavorable outcome of any of the pending tobacco-related cases; and (iii) accordingly, management has not provided any amounts in the consolidated financial statements for unfavorable outcomes, if any.
Contingencies:
It is possible that PM USA's or Altria Group, Inc.'s consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position could be materially affected in a particular fiscal quarter or fiscal year by an unfavorable outcome or settlement of certain pending litigation. Nevertheless, although litigation is subject to uncertainty, management believes the litigation environment has substantially improved. ALG and each of its subsidiaries named as a defendant believe, and each has been so advised by counsel handling the respective cases, that it has a number of valid defenses to the litigation pending against it, as well as valid bases for appeal of adverse verdicts against it. All such cases are, and will continue to be, vigorously defended. However, ALG and its subsidiaries may enter into settlement discussions in particular cases if they believe it is in the best interests of ALG's stockholders to do so.
At December 31, 2007, Altria Group, Inc.'s third-party guarantees from continuing operations which are related to divestiture activities, were $22 million. These guarantees have no specified expiration dates. Altria Group, Inc. is required to perform under these guarantees in the event that a third party fails to make contractual payments. Altria Group, Inc. has a liability of $22 million on its consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2007, relating to these guarantees. In the ordinary course of business, certain subsidiaries of ALG have agreed to indemnify a limited number of third parties in the event of future litigation.
 
 
 
 
Note 20.   Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited):
 
The first quarter 2007 market price information in the table above reflects historical market prices which are not adjusted to reflect the Kraft spin-off.
 
 
 
 
Basic and diluted EPS are computed independently for each of the periods presented. Accordingly, the sum of the quarterly EPS amounts may not agree to the total for the year.
During 2007 and 2006, Altria Group, Inc. recorded the following pre-tax charges or (gains) in earnings from continuing operations:
 
As discussed in Note 14. , Altria Group, Inc. has recognized income tax benefits in the consolidated statements of earnings during 2007 and 2006 as a result of various tax events.
Income Taxes
 
 
 
 
:
Note 21.   Subsequent Events
Spin-Off of PMI
On January 30, 2008, the Board of Directors announced Altria Group, Inc.'s plans to spin off all of its interest in PMI to Altria Group, Inc. stockholders in a tax-free distribution. The distribution of all the PMI shares owned by Altria Group, Inc. was made on March 28, 2008 (the "PMI Distribution Date"), to Altria Group, Inc. stockholders of record as of the close of business on March 19, 2008 (the "PMI Record Date"). Altria Group, Inc. distributed one share of PMI common stock for every share of Altria Group, Inc. common stock outstanding as of the PMI Record Date. Following the PMI Distribution Date, Altria Group, Inc. does not own any shares of PMI stock. Altria Group, Inc. intends to adjust its dividend so that its stockholders who retain their Altria Group, Inc. and PMI shares will receive, in the aggregate, the same dividend dollars as before the PMI Distribution Date. Following the distribution, PMI's initial annualized dividend rate will be $1.84 per common share and Altria Group, Inc.'s initial annualized dividend rate will be $1.16 per common share. All decisions regarding dividends are made independently by the Altria Group, Inc. Board of Directors and the PMI Board of Directors, for their respective companies.
Stock Compensation
Holders of Altria Group, Inc. stock options were treated similarly to public stockholders and, accordingly, had their stock awards split into two instruments. Holders of Altria Group, Inc. stock options received the following stock options, which, immediately after the spin-off, had an aggregate intrinsic value equal to the intrinsic value of the pre-spin Altria Group, Inc. options:
 
 
As set forth in the Employee Matters Agreement, the exercise price of each option was developed to reflect the relative market values of PMI and Altria Group, Inc. shares, by allocating the share price of Altria Group, Inc. common stock before the spin-off ($73.83) to PMI shares ($51.44) and Altria Group, Inc. shares ($22.39) and then multiplying each of these allocated values by the Option Conversion Ratio. The Option Conversion Ratio is equal to the exercise price of the Altria Group, Inc. option, prior to any adjustment for the spin-off, divided by the share price of Altria Group, Inc. common stock before the spin-off ($73.83). As a result, the new PMI option and the adjusted Altria Group, Inc. option have an aggregate intrinsic value equal to the intrinsic value of the pre-spin Altria Group, Inc. option.
Holders of Altria Group, Inc. restricted stock or deferred stock awarded prior to January 30, 2008, retained their existing awards and received the same number of shares of restricted or deferred stock of PMI. The restricted stock and deferred stock will not vest until the completion of the original restriction period (typically, three years from the date of the original grant). Recipients of Altria Group, Inc. deferred stock awarded on January 30, 2008, who were employed by Altria Group, Inc. after the PMI Distribution Date, received additional shares of deferred stock
 
 
 
 
of Altria Group, Inc. to preserve the intrinsic value of the award. Recipients of Altria Group, Inc. deferred stock awarded on January 30, 2008, who were employed by PMI after the PMI Distribution Date, received substitute shares of deferred stock of PMI to preserve the intrinsic value of the award.
To the extent that employees of the remaining Altria Group, Inc. received PMI stock options, Altria Group, Inc. reimbursed PMI in cash for the Black-Scholes fair value of the stock options received. To the extent that PMI employees hold Altria Group, Inc. stock options, PMI reimbursed Altria Group, Inc. in cash for the Black-Scholes fair value of the stock options. To the extent that employees of the remaining Altria Group, Inc. received PMI deferred stock, Altria Group, Inc. paid to PMI the fair value of the PMI deferred stock less the value of projected forfeitures. To the extent that PMI employees hold Altria Group, Inc. restricted stock or deferred stock, PMI reimbursed Altria Group, Inc. in cash for the fair value of the restricted or deferred stock less the value of projected forfeitures and any amounts previously charged to PMI for the restricted or deferred stock. Based upon the number of Altria Group, Inc. stock awards outstanding at the PMI Distribution Date, the net amount of these reimbursements resulted in a payment of $449 million from Altria Group, Inc. to PMI ($427 million of which was paid in March 2008).
Other Matters
In connection with the spin-off, PMI paid to Altria Group, Inc. $4.0 billion in special dividends in addition to its normal dividends to Altria Group, Inc. PMI paid $3.1 billion of these special dividends in 2007 and paid the additional $900 million in the first quarter of 2008.
Prior to the PMI spin-off, PMI was included in the Altria Group, Inc. consolidated federal income tax return, and PMI's federal income tax contingencies were recorded as liabilities on the balance sheet of ALG. ALG reimbursed PMI in cash for these liabilities, which were $97 million.
Prior to the PMI spin-off, certain employees of PMI participated in the U.S. benefit plans offered by Altria Group, Inc. After the PMI Distribution Date, the benefits previously provided by Altria Group, Inc. will be provided by PMI. As a result, new plans were established by PMI, and the related plan assets (to the extent that the benefit plans were previously funded) and liabilities were transferred to the PMI plans. The transfer of these benefits resulted in Altria Group, Inc. reducing its benefit plan liabilities by $129 million and increasing its prepaid pension assets by $33 million in its consolidated balance sheet, partially offset by the related deferred tax assets ($23 million) and the corresponding Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 158, "Employers' Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans" adjustment to stockholders' equity ($27 million). Altria Group, Inc. paid PMI a corresponding amount of $112 million in cash, which is net of the related tax benefit.
A subsidiary of ALG previously provided PMI with certain corporate services at cost plus a management fee. After the PMI Distribution Date, PMI independently undertook most of these activities. Any remaining limited services provided to PMI by the ALG service subsidiary under the Transition Services Agreement are expected to cease in 2008. The settlement of the intercompany accounts (including the amounts discussed above related to stock awards, tax contingencies and benefit plans) resulted in a net payment from Altria Group, Inc. to PMI of $332 million. In March 2008, Altria Group, Inc. made an estimated payment of $427 million to
 
 
 
 
PMI, thereby resulting in PMI reimbursing $95 million to Altria Group, Inc. in the second quarter of 2008.
Under the terms of the Distribution Agreement between Altria Group, Inc. and PMI, liabilities concerning tobacco products will be allocated based in substantial part on the manufacturer. PMI will indemnify Altria Group, Inc. and PM USA for liabilities related to tobacco products manufactured by PMI or contract manufactured for PMI by PM USA, and PM USA will indemnify PMI for liabilities related to tobacco products manufactured by PM USA, excluding tobacco products contract manufactured for PMI. Altria Group, Inc. does not have a liability recorded on its condensed consolidated balance sheet at March 31, 2008 as the fair value of this indemnification is insignificant.
Altria Group, Inc. estimates that, if the distribution had occurred on December 31, 2007, it would have resulted in a net decrease to Altria Group, Inc.'s stockholders' equity of approximately $15 billion.
Altria Group, Inc. Tender Offer for Debt
On January 30, 2008, the Board of Directors announced that Altria Group, Inc. will commence a tender offer to purchase for cash all of Altria Group, Inc.'s notes outstanding, including $2.6 billion of domestic notes denominated in U.S. dollars and 1.0 billion in euro-denominated notes. Altria Group, Inc. expects to record a charge in the range of $340 million to $380 million upon completion of the tender offer. In order to finance the tender offer, Altria Group, Inc. has arranged a $4.0 billion, 364-day credit facility. Subsequent to the spin-off, Altria Group, Inc. intends to access the public debt market to refinance debt incurred in connection with the tender offer.
Share Repurchase Programs
On January 30, 2008, the Altria Group, Inc. Board of Directors approved a $7.5 billion two-year share repurchase program which is expected to begin in April, after completion of the PMI spin-off. In addition, the Altria Group, Inc. Board of Directors approved a $13.0 billion two-year share repurchase program for PMI which is expected to begin in May 2008.
 

Exhibit 99.4
Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries
Valuation and Qualifying Accounts
For the Years Ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005
(in millions)
 
a.  Primarily related to an acquisition.
b.  Represents charges for which allowances were created.

Exhibit 99.5
To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of
ALTRIA GROUP, INC.:
Our audits of the consolidated financial statements and of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting referred to in our report dated January 28, 2008, except for Notes 19 and 21 which are as of February 4, 2008, and except for the impact of presenting Philip Morris International Inc. as a discontinued operation as discussed in Notes 1 and 4, the impact of the spin-off of Philip Morris International Inc. as discussed in Note 21 and the change in reportable segments as discussed in Notes 1 and 15, all of which are as of June 5, 2008, appearing in this Current Report on Form 8-K also included an audit of the financial statement schedule appearing in this Form 8-K. In our opinion, this financial statement schedule presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein when read in conjunction with the related consolidated financial statements.
/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
New York, New York
January 28, 2008, except for Notes 19 and 21 which are as of February 4, 2008, and except for the impact of presenting Philip Morris International Inc. as a discontinued operation as discussed in Notes 1 and 4, the impact of the spin-off of Philip Morris International Inc. as discussed in Note 21 and the change in reportable segments as discussed in Notes 1 and 15, all of which are as of June 5, 2008


