FILE:MO/MO-8K-20080130104141.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On January 30, 2008, Altria Group, Inc. ("Altria") entered into a Distribution Agreement (the "Distribution Agreement") with Philip Morris International Inc. ("PMI") in connection with the distribution of 100% of the shares of PMI to Altria's shareholders (the "Distribution"). The Distribution Agreement sets forth the terms of the Distribution and certain agreements governing the relationship between Altria and PMI after the Distribution.
The foregoing description of the Distribution Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the complete terms and conditions of the Distribution Agreement which is attached as Exhibit 2.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On January 30, 2008, Altria issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended December 31, 2007 and the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information in Item 2.02 of this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. The information in Item 2.02 of this Current Report, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing or document.
Item 8.01. Other Events.
On January 30, 2008, Altria announced that its Board of Directors voted to authorize the spin-off of 100% of the shares of PMI to Altria's shareholders. The Distribution will be made on March 28, 2008, to Altria shareholders of record as of 5:00 p.m. New York City Time on March 19, 2008. Altria will distribute one share of PMI for every share of Altria common stock outstanding as of the record date, based on the number of Altria shares outstanding at 5:00 p.m. New York City Time on that date. Altria also announced the individuals who have agreed to serve on the respective Board of Directors of Altria and PMI following the spin-off.
As a result of the PMI spin-off, the date for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders for Altria has been moved to May 28, 2008 in Richmond, Virginia. Shareholders who have not already submitted proposals for consideration at the meeting will have until March 28, 2008 to do so, by following the procedures described in the "2008 Annual Meeting" section on page 66 of Altria's March 23, 2007 proxy statement.
In addition, Altria announced dividend policies, initial dividend rates and share repurchase programs for Altria and PMI, and its intention to commence a tender offer shortly for all outstanding Altria notes.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
DATE: January 30, 2008
 
 
 

Exhibit 2.1
 
 
 
 
THIS DISTRIBUTION AGREEMENT, dated as of January 30, 2008 (as amended and supplemented pursuant to the terms hereof, this "Agreement"), is entered into by and between Altria Group, Inc., a Virginia corporation ("Altria"), and Philip Morris International Inc., a Virginia corporation ("PMI"). In addition, Philip Morris USA Inc., a Virginia corporation ("PM USA"), has entered into this Agreement solely for the purpose of providing the indemnification set forth in Section 3.05.
WHEREAS, Altria currently owns 100% of PMI's issued and outstanding Common Stock;
WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of Altria has determined that it is in the best interest of Altria to distribute its entire ownership interest in PMI through a pro-rata distribution of all of the outstanding shares of PMI Common Stock owned by Altria on the Distribution Date to the holders of Altria Common Stock pursuant to the terms and subject to the conditions of this Agreement (the "Distribution");
WHEREAS, the Distribution is intended to qualify as a tax-free spin-off pursuant to Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"); and
WHEREAS, the parties intend in this Agreement, including the Exhibits and Schedules hereto, and the Other Agreements (as defined below) to set forth the principal arrangements among them regarding the Distribution;
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the mutual covenants herein contained and intending to be legally bound hereby, the parties hereto agree as follows:
1.01 . As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the following meanings (such meanings to be equally applicable to both the singular and plural forms of the terms defined):
General
: American Arbitration Association.
AAA
: any claim, suit, action, arbitration, inquiry, investigation or other proceeding of any nature (whether criminal, civil, legislative, administrative, regulatory, prosecutorial or otherwise) by or before any arbitrator or Governmental Authority.
Action
: with respect to any specified Person, a Person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with,
Affiliate
such specified Person; provided, however, that for purposes of this Agreement, no member of the Altria Group and no officer or director of any member of the Altria Group shall be deemed to be an Affiliate of any member of the PMI Group and vice versa.
: Altria Corporate Services, Inc., a New York corporation, formerly known as Philip Morris Management Corp.
ALCS
: as defined in the preamble to this Agreement.
Altria
: all business and operations (including related joint ventures and alliances) of any member of the Altria Group at any time after the Distribution Date.
Altria Business
: the common stock, par value $0.33
Altria Common Stock
 1
/
3
 per share, of Altria.
: Altria and the Subsidiaries of Altria other than members of the PMI Group.
Altria Group
: except as otherwise specifically provided in any Other Agreements, all Liabilities, whether arising before, at or after the Distribution Date, (i) of or in any way relating, in whole or in part, to any member of the Altria Group or (ii) arising from the conduct of, in connection with or in any way relating to, in whole or in part, the businesses and operations of the Altria Group or the ownership or use of assets or property in connection therewith. Notwithstanding the foregoing, "Altria Group Liabilities" shall exclude (i) all Liabilities of ALCS pursuant to the Transition Services Agreement (because the Transition Services Agreement will govern those Liabilities); (ii) all Liabilities pursuant to the Employee Matters Agreement (because the Employee Matters Agreement will govern those Liabilities); (iii) the PM USA Group Liabilities; (iv) Tobacco Product Claims; and (v) Brand Integrity Claims.
Altria Group Liabilities
: as defined in Section 3.03(a).
Altria Indemnitee
: the United States Arbitration Act, 9 U.S.C. ss.ss 1-16, as the same may be amended from time to time.
Arbitration Act
: any Action arising out of or relating to allegations of cigarette contraband or smuggling, including allegations of money laundering.
Brand Integrity Claim
: any day other than a Saturday, a Sunday or a day on which banking institutions located in the Commonwealth of Virginia or the State of New York are authorized or obligated by Law or executive order to close.
Business Day
: the processing of claims made under the Insurance Policies, including the reporting of claims to the insurance carrier, management and defense of claims and providing for appropriate releases upon settlement of claims.
Claims Administration
: any third party administrator or claims handling agreement of any kind or nature to which any member of any Group is directly or indirectly a party, in effect as of the date hereof, related to the handling of Insured PMI Claims.
Claims Handling Agreement
 
: as defined in the recitals to this Agreement.
Code
: as defined in Section 6.01 hereof.
Dispute
: as defined in the recitals to this Agreement.
Distribution
: as defined in Section 2.04(a) hereof.
Distribution Agent
: March 28, 2008, being the date on which the Distribution becomes effective.
Distribution Date
: as defined in Section 2.04(b) hereof.
Distribution Ratio
: an employee benefits and compensation allocation agreement to be entered into between Altria and PMI substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit A, with such changes as may be mutually agreed to by Altria and PMI.
Employee Matters Agreement
: with respect to any Action or threatened Action, that the outcome or resolution of that Action or threatened Action has either (i) been decided by an arbitrator or Governmental Authority of competent jurisdiction by judgment, order, award or other ruling or (ii) been settled or voluntarily dismissed and, in the case of each of clauses (i) and (ii), the claimants' rights to maintain that Action or threatened Action have been finally adjudicated, waived, discharged or extinguished, and that judgment, order, ruling, award, settlement or dismissal (whether mandatory or voluntary, but if voluntary that dismissal must be final, binding and with prejudice as to all claims specifically pleaded in that Action) is subject to no further appeal, vacatur proceeding or discretionary review.
Finally Determined
: with respect to any currency other than United States dollars as of any date, the average of the bid and asked rates at 9:00 a.m., New York City time, on such date at which such currency may be exchanged for United States dollars as quoted by Citibank, N.A., except that, with respect to any Indemnifiable Liability covered by insurance, the Foreign Exchange Rate for such currency shall be determined as set forth in Section 3.10.
Foreign Exchange Rate
: any federal, national, state, provincial, local, foreign, international or other court, government, department, commission, board, bureau or agency, authority (including, but not limited to, any central bank or taxing authority) or instrumentality (including, but not limited to, any court, tribunal or grand jury).
Governmental Authority
: the Altria Group, the PMI Group or the PM USA Group, as the context requires.
Group
: any Liability that is subject to being indemnified by Altria, PM USA or PMI pursuant to Article III.
Indemnifiable Liability
: as defined in Section 3.07 hereof.
Indemnified Party
: as defined in Section 3.07 hereof.
Indemnifying Party
: a Person who may seek indemnification under this Agreement.
Indemnitee
 
: an amount that an Indemnifying Party is required to pay to an Indemnitee pursuant to Article III.
Indemnity Payment
: all records, books, contracts, instruments, computer data and other data and information.
Information
: with respect to each Insurance Policy, (i) the accounting for retrospectively-rated premiums, defense costs, indemnity payments, deductibles and retentions as appropriate under the terms and conditions of each of the Insurance Policies, (ii) the reporting to excess insurance carriers of any losses or claims which may cause the per-occurrence or aggregate limits of any Insurance Policy to be exceeded and (iii) the distribution of Insurance Proceeds as contemplated by this Agreement.
Insurance Administration
: insurance policies and insurance contracts of any kind that as of the Distribution Date are or have been owned or maintained by, or provide a benefit in favor of, any member of any Group or any of its predecessors, including, without limitation, comprehensive general liability policies, excess liability policies, automobile insurance policies, aviation and aircraft insurance policies, marine cargo and international warehousing insurance policies, employment practices insurance policies, advertisers liability insurance policies, business travel accident insurance policies, commercial television wrap-up coverage policies, worker's compensation insurance policies, property, casualty and business interruption insurance policies, crime/fiduciary insurance policies, fidelity insurance policies, directors and officers liability insurance policies (including any such policy for directors and officers liability which has been purchased to provide occurrence coverage for both continuing and former directors, officers and employees for claims arising from or relating to events, occurrences or other matters prior to or on the Distribution Date). The term "Insurance Policy" expressly excludes any insurance policies relating to Plans to the extent such insurance policies are addressed under the Employee Matters Agreement.
Insurance Policy
: those monies received by or on behalf of an insured from a Third Party insurance carrier or paid by a Third Party insurance carrier on behalf of the insured.
Insurance Proceeds
: any claim with respect to those Liabilities that, individually or in the aggregate, are covered within the terms and conditions of any Insurance Policy, whether or not subject to deductibles, coinsurance, uncollectibility or retrospectively-rated premium adjustments, but only to the extent that such Liabilities are within applicable Insurance Policy limits, including aggregates.
Insured Claims
: any claim with respect to any Liability, damage or injury that occurred prior to the Distribution Date that is against any member of the PMI Group or any employee of any member of the PMI Group; , in the case of any such claim or any claims identified in (i) through (v) below, such Liability or expense (including costs of defense and reasonable attorneys' fees) is or may be insured under one or more of the Insurance Policies. Insured PMI Claims include, without limitation, (i) claims for property or casualty damage or any other Liability or expense with respect to assets of PMI; (ii) claims of Liability or expense arising from business interruption of any PMI Business; (iii) claims against any member of the PMI Group whether or not the PMI Group has or has assumed liability for such claims under this
Insured PMI Claims
provided
that
 
Agreement or any of the Other Agreements; (iv) claims against any member of the Altria Group to the extent any member of the PMI Group has liability for such claims under this Agreement or any of the Other Agreements; and (v) claims involving or against any director, officer, employee, fiduciary or agent of the PMI Group who is entitled or would have been entitled to indemnification by Altria had the Distribution not occurred.
: any Brand Integrity Claim, regardless of the venue in which such Brand Integrity Claim is filed or threatened (i) involving Tobacco Products manufactured, sold, purchased or transferred by a member of the PMI Group (including Tobacco Products manufactured by PM USA pursuant to the Manufacturing Agreement); and (ii) based on allegations regarding conduct that occurred in whole or in part prior to the Distribution Date. International Brand Integrity Claims shall also include all Brand Integrity Claims arising directly or indirectly out of sales of Tobacco Products before August 1, 2007, by Philip Morris Duty Free, Inc., a Delaware corporation, regardless of the venue in which such Brand Integrity Claim is filed or threatened.
International Brand Integrity Claims
: any Tobacco Product Claim filed against a member of the Altria Group outside the U.S. and its territories and possessions based in substantial part as between the PM USA Group and the PMI Group on Tobacco Products (i) manufactured by a member of the PMI Group or (ii) manufactured by PM USA pursuant to the Manufacturing Agreement.
International Tobacco Product Claims
: the intellectual property agreement entered into between PM USA and PMI as of January 1, 2008, in the form attached hereto as Exhibit B.
IP Agreement
: any federal, national, state, provincial, local or foreign statute, ordinance, regulation, code, license, permit, authorization, approval, consent, common law, legal doctrine, order, judgment, decree, injunction or requirement of any Governmental Authority or any order or award of any arbitrator, now or hereafter in effect. "Law" shall specifically include, but shall not be limited to, any state, federal, or foreign statute or common law for deceptive and unfair trade practices, unfair and fraudulent business practices, fraud and the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Practices Act ("RICO") or similar statute.
Law
: means any and all claims, debts, Losses, liabilities, assessments, guarantees, assurances, commitments and obligations, of any kind, character or description (whether absolute, contingent, matured, not matured, liquidated, unliquidated, accrued, known, unknown, direct, indirect, derivative or otherwise or whether based in contract, tort, implied or express warranty, strict liability, criminal or civil statute, or otherwise) whenever arising, including, but not limited to, those arising under or in connection with any Law, and those arising under any contract, guarantee, commitment or undertaking.
Liabilities
: as defined in Section 5.06(a) hereof.
Litigation Matters
: with respect to any Person, all losses, damages (whether compensatory, punitive, consequential, multiple or other), judgments, settlements, equitable or injunctive relief or disgorgements, including, where applicable, all punitive damages and criminal and civil fines and penalties, but excluding damages in respect of actual or alleged lost profits, suffered by such
Losses
 
Person, and including all costs, expenses and interest relating thereto (including, but not limited to, all expenses of investigation, all accountant or attorneys' fees and all other out-of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with an Indemnifiable Liability), regardless of whether any such losses, damages, judgments, settlements, costs, expenses, fines and penalties relate to or arise out of (i) such Person's own alleged or actual negligent conduct or (ii) in connection with Tobacco Product Claims and Brand Integrity Claims, such Person's own alleged or actual grossly negligent conduct, reckless conduct or intentional misconduct.
: collectively, the Amended and Restated Manufacturing and Supply Agreement between Philip Morris Products S.A. and Philip Morris USA Inc. effective as of January 1, 2003 and all predecessor agreements between one or more members of the PMI Group and one or more members of the PM USA Group regarding the manufacturing of Tobacco Products.
Manufacturing Agreement
: as defined in Section 6.02 hereof.
Negotiation Notice
: as defined in Section 9.05 hereof.
Notices
: the Transition Services Agreement, the Employee Matters Agreement, the Tax Sharing Agreement, the IP Agreement, the PMDF Indemnification Agreement (except with respect to indemnification for International Tobacco Product Claims and U.S. Tobacco Product Claims), including any Post-Transfer PMDF Liabilities (as such terms are defined therein) that constitute Tobacco Product Claims, because this Agreement shall govern those claims and supersede such indemnification, the Manufacturing Agreement (except with respect to indemnification, because this Agreement shall govern such matters and supersede such indemnification) and any other agreement entered into in connection with the Distribution.
Other Agreements
: an individual, a partnership, a joint venture, a corporation, a trust, a limited liability company, an unincorporated organization, or a government or any department or agency thereof.
Person
: as defined in the Employee Matters Agreement.
Plan
: as defined in the preamble to the Agreement.
PM USA
: PM USA and the Subsidiaries of PM USA.
PM USA Group
: except as otherwise specifically provided in any Other Agreements, all Liabilities, whether arising before, at or after the Distribution Date arising from the conduct of, in connection with or in any way relating to, in whole or in part, the business and operations of the PM USA Group or the ownership or use of assets or property in connection therewith. Notwithstanding the foregoing, "PM USA Group Liabilities" shall exclude Tobacco Product Claims and Brand Integrity Claims.
PM USA Group Liabilities
: the indemnification agreement entered into between PMI and PM USA dated as of August 1, 2007.
PMDF Indemnification Agreement
 
: as defined in the preamble to this Agreement.
PMI
: all business and operations (including related joint ventures and alliances) of any member of the PMI Group at any time after the Distribution Date.
PMI Business
: the common stock, without par value, of PMI.
PMI Common Stock
: PMI and the Subsidiaries of PMI.
PMI Group
: except as otherwise specifically provided in any Other Agreements, all Liabilities, whether arising before, at or after the Distribution Date, (i) of or in any way relating, in whole or in part, to any member of the PMI Group or (ii) arising from the conduct of, in connection with or in any way relating to, in whole or in part, the businesses and operations of the PMI Group or the ownership or use of assets or property in connection therewith. Notwithstanding the foregoing, "PMI Group Liabilities" shall exclude (i) all Liabilities of the PMI Group pursuant to the Transition Services Agreement (because the Transition Services Agreement will govern those Liabilities); (ii) all Liabilities expressly provided for in the Employee Matters Agreement (because the Employee Matters Agreement will govern those Liabilities); (iii) all Liabilities directly, indirectly or derivatively based on, arising out of or in any way relating to, in whole or in part, the Altria Business or the ownership or use of assets or property in connection therewith; (iv) Tobacco Product Claims; and (v) Brand Integrity Claims.
PMI Group Liabilities
: PMI Liabilities that are subject to indemnification from a Third Party.
PMI Indemnified Liabilities
: as defined in Section 3.04(a).
PMI Indemnitee
: all the corporations, limited liability companies or other entities that are Subsidiaries of PMI.
PMI Subsidiaries
: the transfer agent for PMI's Common Stock.
PMI Transfer Agent
: the rate which Citibank, N.A. (or any successor thereto or other major money center commercial bank agreed to by the parties hereto) announces from time to time as its prime lending rate, as in effect from time to time.
Prime Rate
: as defined in Section 5.06(a) hereof.
Privileged Information
: 5:00 p.m. New York City time on March 19, 2008, being the date for determining the holders of Altria Common Stock entitled to receive shares of PMI Common Stock pursuant to the Distribution.
Record Date
: with respect to any Person, any of such Person's directors, officers, employees, agents, consultants, advisors, accountants, attorneys and representatives.
Representative
: as defined in Section 6.03 hereof.
Rules
: the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.
SEC
 
: the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or any successor statute.
Securities Act
: the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or any successor statute.
Securities Exchange Act
: with respect to any specified Person, any corporation or other legal or other entity of which such Person or any of its Subsidiaries controls or owns, directly or indirectly, more than 50% of the stock or other equity interest entitled to vote on the election of members to the board of directors or similar governing body.
Subsidiary
: as defined in the Tax Sharing Agreement.
Tax
: has the meaning set forth in the Tax Sharing Agreement.
Tax Advisor
: the tax sharing and indemnification agreement which has been or will be entered into on or prior to the Distribution Date between Altria and PMI substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit D, with such changes as may be mutually agreed to by Altria and PMI.
Tax Sharing Agreement
: has the meaning set forth in the Tax Sharing Agreement.
Tax-Free Status
: a Person who is not a party hereto or a Subsidiary thereof.
Third Party
: as defined in Section 3.08.
Third-Party Claim
: any Action brought or threatened before, on or after the Distribution Date, directly or indirectly based on, arising out of or related, in whole or in part, to the advertising or marketing of; the use of, exposure to, health effects or claimed health effects of; or statements or warnings regarding; Tobacco Products manufactured on or before December 31, 2008, regardless whether such Claim alleges adverse health effects; deceptive or unfair trade practices; unfair or fraudulent business practices; fraud or violation of RICO; or any other basis for Liability. For the avoidance of doubt, Tobacco Product Claims shall not include (i) Brand Integrity Claims or (ii) Liabilities resulting from Actions or threatened Actions arising out of or relating to antitrust or competition Law, or commercial disputes with vendors, other suppliers, commercial customers or competitors based on contract Law or otherwise.
Tobacco Product Claims
: cigarettes, cigars, tobacco portions or smokeless tobacco products manufactured by a member of the PMI Group or the PM USA Group.
Tobacco Products
: the transition services agreement to be entered into between ALCS and PMI substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit C, with such changes as may be mutually agreed to by PMI and ALCS, providing for ALCS to make available certain services to the PMI Group and which, when entered into, will supersede the transition services agreement between PMI and ALCS dated as of January 1, 2004.
Transition Services Agreement
: any Brand Integrity Claim, regardless of the venue in which such Brand Integrity Claim is filed or threatened (i) involving Tobacco Products manufactured, sold, purchased or transferred by a member of the PM USA Group (excluding
U.S. Brand Integrity Claims
 
Tobacco Products manufactured by PM USA pursuant to the Manufacturing Agreement) and (ii) based on allegations regarding conduct that occurred in whole or in part prior to the Distribution Date.
: any Tobacco Product Claim filed against a member of the PMI Group in the U.S. and its territories and possessions based in substantial part as between the PM USA Group and the PMI Group on Tobacco Products manufactured by a member of the PM USA Group, excluding any Tobacco Products manufactured by PM USA pursuant to the Manufacturing Agreement.
U.S. Tobacco Product Claims
1.02 . All references in this Agreement to times of the day shall be to New York City time, except as otherwise specifically provided herein.
References to Time
2.01 . Altria's Board of Directors today authorized the Distribution, payable on the Distribution Date to shareholders of record on the Record Date. In connection with such authorization, Altria received, in form and substance satisfactory to it, an opinion from its Tax Advisor regarding the Tax-Free Status.
Distribution
2.02 . In connection with the Distribution, the parties will take the actions set forth in this Section 2.02.
Actions Prior to the Distribution
(a) Altria and PMI will prepare and mail, prior to the Distribution Date, to the holders of Altria Common Stock, such information concerning PMI and the Distribution and such other matters as Altria reasonably determines and as may be required by Law. Each of Altria and PMI will file with the SEC any such documentation that it determines is necessary or desirable to effect the Distribution.
(b) Altria and/or PMI, as appropriate, will take all necessary action to obtain the governmental approvals and material consents that are the subject of Section 2.03(a)(i).
(c) The Other Agreements shall be executed and delivered by the parties thereto.
2.03 .
Conditions to Distribution
(a) The consummation of the Distribution will be subject to the satisfaction of the conditions set forth in this Section 2.03; any determination by Altria regarding the satisfaction of any of such conditions will be conclusive:
(i) All material governmental approvals and material consents necessary to consummate the Distribution shall have been received and continue to be in full force and effect;
 
(ii) No order, injunction, decree or regulation issued by any Governmental Authority or other legal restraint or prohibition preventing the consummation of the Distribution shall be in effect and no other event outside the control of Altria shall have occurred or failed to occur that prevents the consummation of the Distribution;
(iii) The PMI Common Stock to be distributed in the Distribution shall have been accepted for listing on the New York Stock Exchange, subject to official notice of issuance.
(iv) The letter ruling Altria received from the Internal Revenue Service regarding the Tax-Free Status shall not have been revoked or modified in any material respect and Altria shall have received confirmation from its Tax Advisor that its opinion regarding the Tax-Free Status continues in effect as of the Distribution Date;
(v) A Registration Statement on Form 10 registering PMI's Common Stock shall be effective under the Securities Exchange Act, with no stop order in effect with respect thereto, and the Information Statement included therein shall have been mailed to Altria's stockholders; and
(vi) The actions and filings necessary under securities and blue sky laws of the states of the United States and any comparable laws under any foreign jurisdictions shall have been taken and become effective.
(b) In the event any condition set forth in this Section 2.03 shall not have been satisfied or is likely not to be satisfied on or before March 14, 2008, Altria's Board of Directors may postpone the Record Date and/or the Distribution Date in its sole and absolute discretion. In the event the Distribution Date is for any reason postponed more than 120 days after the date hereof, it shall be an additional condition to the Distribution that Altria's Board of Directors shall have redetermined, as of such postponed Distribution Date, that the Distribution satisfies the requirements of the Virginia Stock Corporation Act governing distributions.
2.04 .
Certain Shareholder Matters
(a) Subject to Section 2.03 hereof, on the Distribution Date, Altria will deliver to a distribution agent to be appointed by Altria (the "Distribution Agent") for the benefit of holders of record of Altria Common Stock on the Record Date, one or more stock certificates, endorsed by Altria in blank, representing all of the outstanding shares of PMI Common Stock owned by Altria, and Altria will instruct the Distribution Agent to deliver to the PMI Transfer Agent true, correct and complete copies of the stock and transfer records reflecting the holders of Altria Common Stock entitled to receive shares of PMI Common Stock in connection with the Distribution. Altria will cause its transfer agent to instruct the Distribution Agent to distribute on the Distribution Date or as soon as reasonably practicable thereafter the appropriate number of shares of PMI Common Stock to each such holder or designated transferee(s) of such holder and to credit the appropriate number of such shares to book entry accounts for each such holder or designated transferee. For shareholders who hold Altria Common Stock through a broker or other nominee, their shares of PMI Common Stock will be credited to their respective accounts by such broker or nominee. Altria will cooperate, and will instruct the Distribution Agent to
 
cooperate, with PMI and the PMI Transfer Agent, and PMI will cooperate, and will instruct the PMI Transfer Agent to cooperate, with Altria and the Distribution Agent, in connection with all aspects of the Distribution and all other matters relating to the issuance and delivery of certificates representing, or other evidence of ownership of, the shares of PMI Common Stock to be distributed to the holders of Altria Common Stock in connection with the Distribution.
(b) Subject to Section 2.03 hereof, each holder of Altria Common Stock on the Record Date (or such holder's designated transferee(s)) will be entitled to receive in the Distribution one share of PMI Common Stock for each share of Altria Common Stock held by such holder on the Record Date (the "Distribution Ratio"). Within two Business Days after the Record Date, Altria will inform PMI of the number of shares of Altria Common Stock outstanding on the Record Date and, within one Business Day after receipt of such information, PMI will declare and pay to Altria a stock dividend consisting of the number of shares of PMI Common Stock equal to such number of shares of Altria Common Stock outstanding on the Record Date minus 150 (which is the number of shares of PMI Common Stock to be outstanding on the Record Date, all of which will be held by Altria) in order that the Distribution Ratio be one-for-one.
(c) Until such PMI Common Stock is duly transferred in accordance with applicable Law, PMI will regard the Persons entitled to receive such PMI Common Stock as record holders of PMI Common Stock in accordance with the terms of the Distribution without requiring any action on the part of such Persons. PMI agrees that, subject to any transfers of such stock, (i) each such holder will be entitled to receive all dividends payable on, and exercise voting rights and all other rights and privileges with respect to, the shares of PMI Common Stock then held by such holder, and (ii) each such holder will be entitled, without any action on the part of such holder, to receive one or more certificates representing, or other evidence of ownership of, the shares of PMI Common Stock then held by such holder.
2.05 . All intercompany loans or advances between any member of the Altria Group and any member of the PMI Group, and, except as required by the Other Agreements, all other intercompany balances between such Group members shall be paid by the obligor to the obligee within 30 days after the Distribution Date.
Intercompany Accounts
3.01 . All covenants and agreements of the parties hereto contained in this Agreement and all covenants and agreements of the parties hereto and their respective wholly-owned Subsidiaries contained in the Other Agreements shall survive the Distribution Date in accordance with their respective terms and shall not be merged into any deeds or other transfer or closing instruments or documents. This Article III shall not be applicable to any Indemnifiable Liability (1) related to Taxes which shall be governed by the Tax Sharing Agreement; or (2) which is otherwise expressly provided for in the Other Agreements.
Survival of Agreements
 
3.02 .
Release of Pre-Closing Claims
(a) Except as provided in Section 3.02(c), effective as of the Distribution Date, PMI does hereby, for itself and each other member of the PMI Group, their respective Affiliates, successors and assigns, and all Persons who at any time prior to the Distribution Date have been shareholders, directors, officers, agents or employees of any member of the PMI Group (in each case, in their respective capacities as such), remise, release and forever discharge Altria, the members of the Altria Group, their respective Affiliates, successors and assigns, and all Persons who at any time prior to the Distribution Date have been shareholders, directors, officers, agents or employees of any member of the Altria Group (in each case, in their respective capacities as such), and their respective heirs, executors, administrators, successors and assigns, from any and all Liabilities whatsoever, whether at Law or in equity (including any right of contribution), whether arising under any contract or agreement, by operation of Law or otherwise, existing or arising from any acts or events occurring or failing to occur or alleged to have occurred or to have failed to occur or any conditions existing or alleged to have existed on or before the Distribution Date, including in connection with the transactions and all other activities to implement the Distribution.
(b) Except as provided in Section 3.02(c), effective as of the Distribution Date, Altria does hereby, for itself and each other member of the Altria Group, their respective Affiliates, successors and assigns, and all Persons who at any time prior to the Distribution Date have been shareholders, directors, officers, agents or employees of any member of the Altria Group (in each case, in their respective capacities as such), remise, release and forever discharge PMI, the respective members of the PMI Group, their respective Affiliates, successors and assigns, and all Persons who at any time prior to the Distribution Date have been shareholders, directors, officers, agents or employees of any member of the PMI Group (in each case, in their respective capacities as such), and their respective heirs, executors, administrators, successors and assigns, from any and all Liabilities whatsoever, whether at Law or in equity (including any right of contribution), whether arising under any contract or agreement, by operation of Law or otherwise, existing or arising from any acts or events occurring or failing to occur or alleged to have occurred or to have failed to occur or any conditions existing or alleged to have existed on or before the Distribution Date, including in connection with the transactions and all other activities to implement the Distribution.
(c) Nothing contained in Section 3.02(a) or (b) shall impair any right of any Person to enforce this Agreement or any Other Agreements, in each case in accordance with its terms. Nothing contained in Section 3.02(a) or (b) shall release any Person from:
(i) any Liability, contingent or otherwise, assumed, transferred, assigned or allocated to the Group of which such Person is a member in accordance with, or any other Liability of any member of any Group under, this Agreement, the Tax Sharing Agreement or any Other Agreements;
(ii) any Liability on any intercompany account specified in Section 2.05;
(iii) any Liability that the parties may have with respect to indemnification or contribution pursuant to this Agreement or the Other Agreements for claims brought
 
against the parties by Third Parties, which Liability shall be governed by the provisions of this Article III or, if applicable, the appropriate provisions of the Tax Sharing Agreement and the Other Agreements; or
(iv) any Liability if the release of that Liability would result in the release of an insurance company or other Third Party that is not expressly released by the parties by the terms of this Section 3.02.
(d) PMI shall not make, and shall not permit any member of the PMI Group to make, any claim or demand or commence any Action asserting any claim or demand, including any claim of contribution or any indemnification, against Altria or any member of the Altria Group, or any other Person released pursuant to Section 3.02(a), with respect to any Liabilities released pursuant to Section 3.02(a). Altria shall not, and shall not permit any member of the Altria Group, to make any claim or demand, or commence any Action asserting any claim or demand, including any claim of contribution or any indemnification, against PMI or any member of the PMI Group, or any other Person released pursuant to Section 3.02(b), with respect to any Liabilities released pursuant to Section 3.02(b).
(e) It is the intent of each of Altria and PMI by virtue of the provisions of this Section 3.02 to provide for a full and complete release and discharge of all Liabilities existing or arising from all acts and events occurring or failing to occur or alleged to have occurred or to have failed to occur and all conditions existing or alleged to have existed on or before the Distribution Date, between or among PMI or any member of the PMI Group, on the one hand, and Altria or any member of the Altria Group on the other hand (including any contractual agreements or arrangements existing or alleged to exist between or among any such members on or before the Distribution Date), except as expressly set forth in Section 3.02(c). At any time, at the request of any other party, each party shall cause each member of its respective Group to execute and deliver releases reflecting the provisions hereof.
3.03 .
PMI Indemnification of Altria Group Members for Certain Liabilities
(a) On and after the Distribution Date, PMI shall indemnify and hold harmless each member of the Altria Group and its respective directors, officers and employees (each, an "Altria Indemnitee") from and against any and all Liabilities incurred or suffered by any Altria Indemnitee arising out of or in connection with:
(i) any and all PMI Group Liabilities;
(ii) the breach by PMI of any obligation of PMI under this Agreement;
(iii) any obligation Altria may have to indemnify any Person by reason of the fact that such Person is or was serving at the request of Altria as a director, trustee, partner, officer or employee of any member of the PMI Group or any partner or joint venture of any member of the PMI Group or any trust or employee benefit plan or other enterprise of any member of the PMI Group;
(iv) any International Tobacco Product Claim; and
 
(v) any International Brand Integrity Claim.
(b) On and after the Distribution Date, PMI shall indemnify and hold harmless each Altria Indemnitee from and against any and all Liabilities caused by any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any document filed with the SEC by any member of the Altria Group pursuant to the Securities Act or the Securities Exchange Act, or caused by any omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, in each case to the extent, but only to the extent, that those Liabilities are caused by any such untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission based upon information that is either furnished to any Altria Indemnitee by any member of the PMI Group or incorporated by reference by any Altria Indemnitee from any filings made by any member of the PMI Group with the SEC under the Securities Act or the Securities Exchange Act.
3.04 .
Altria Indemnification of PMI Group Members
(a) On and after the Distribution Date, Altria shall indemnify and hold harmless each member of the PMI Group and their respective directors, officers and employees (each, a "PMI Indemnitee") from and against any and all Liabilities incurred or suffered by any PMI Indemnitee arising out of or in connection with:
(i) any and all Altria Group Liabilities; and
(ii) the breach by Altria of any obligation under this Agreement.
(b) Altria shall indemnify and hold harmless each PMI Indemnitee from and against any and all Liabilities caused by any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any document filed with the SEC by any member of the PMI Group pursuant to the Securities Act or the Securities Exchange Act, or caused by any omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, in each case to the extent, but only to the extent, that those Liabilities are caused by any such untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission based upon information that is either furnished to any PMI Indemnitee by any member of the Altria Group or incorporated by reference by any PMI Indemnitee from any filings made by any member of the Altria Group with the SEC under the Securities Act or the Securities Exchange Act.
3.05 . On and after the Distribution Date, PM USA shall indemnify and hold harmless each PMI Indemnitee from and against any and all Liabilities incurred or suffered by any PMI Indemnitee arising out of or in connection with:
PM USA Indemnification of PMI Group Members
(a) any and all PM USA Group Liabilities;
(b) any U.S. Tobacco Product Claim; and
(c) any U.S. Brand Integrity Claim.
 
3.06 . Any indemnification pursuant to Sections 3.03 through 3.05 shall be (i) increased to take account of any net tax cost incurred by the Indemnified Party arising from the receipt or accrual of an Indemnity Payment hereunder (grossed up for such increase) and (ii) reduced to take account of any net tax benefit realized by the Indemnified Party arising from incurring or paying loss or other liability for which an Indemnity Payment was sought. In computing the amount of any such tax cost or tax benefit, the Indemnified Party shall be deemed to recognize all other items of income, gain, loss, deduction or credit before recognizing any item arising from the receipt or accrual of any Indemnity Payment hereunder. Any Indemnity Payment hereunder shall initially be made without regard to this Section 3.06 and shall be increased or reduced to reflect any such net tax cost (including gross-up) or net tax benefit only after the Indemnified Party has actually realized such cost or benefit. For purposes of this Agreement, an Indemnified Party shall be deemed to have "actually realized" a net tax cost or a net tax benefit to the extent that, and at such time as, the amount of taxes payable by such Indemnified Party is increased above or reduced below, as the case may be, the amount of taxes that such Indemnified Party would be required to pay but for the receipt or accrual of the Indemnity Payment or the incurrence or payment of such loss, as the case may be. The amount of any increase or reduction hereunder shall be adjusted to reflect any Final Determination with respect to the Indemnified Party's liability for taxes, and payments between such Indemnified Parties to reflect such adjustment shall be made if necessary.
Tax Considerations
3.07 . If any Altria Indemnitee or PMI Indemnitee (the "Indemnified Party") determines that it is or may be entitled to indemnification by any party (the "Indemnifying Party") under Article III of this Agreement (other than in connection with any Action subject to Section 3.08), the Indemnified Party shall promptly deliver to the Indemnifying Party a written notice specifying, to the extent reasonably practicable, the basis for its claim for indemnification and, if then reasonably quantifiable, the amount for which the Indemnified Party reasonably believes it is or may be entitled to be indemnified. Within 30 days after receipt of that notice, the Indemnifying Party shall pay the Indemnified Party that amount in cash or other immediately available funds unless the Indemnifying Party objects to the claim for indemnification or the amount of the claim. If the Indemnifying Party does not give the Indemnified Party written notice objecting to that indemnity claim and setting forth the grounds for the objection(s) within that 30-day period, the Indemnifying Party shall be deemed to have acknowledged its liability for that claim and the Indemnified Party may exercise any and all of its rights under applicable Law to collect that amount. If there is a timely objection by the Indemnifying Party, the Indemnifying Party shall pay to the Indemnified Party in cash the amount, if any, that is Finally Determined to be required to be paid by the Indemnifying Party in respect of that indemnity claim within 15 days after that indemnity claim has been so Finally Determined.
Notice and Payment of Direct Claims
3.08 . Promptly after the earlier of receipt of (i) notice that a Third Party has commenced an Action against or otherwise involving any Indemnified Party or (ii) information from a Third Party alleging the existence of a claim against an Indemnified Party, in either case, with respect to which indemnification may be sought under Article III of this Agreement (a "Third-Party Claim"), the Indemnified Party shall give the Indemnifying Party written notice of the Third-Party Claim. The failure of the Indemnified Party to give notice as provided in this Section 3.08 shall not relieve the Indemnifying Party of its
Notice and Defense of Third-Party Claims
 
obligations under this Agreement, except to the extent that the Indemnifying Party is prejudiced by the failure to give notice. Within 30 days after receipt of that notice, the Indemnifying Party may either (i) acknowledge its liability for that indemnification claim and assume and control the defense of that Third-Party Claim at its sole cost and expense by giving written notice to that effect to the Indemnified Party; or (ii) object to the claim for indemnification set forth in the notice delivered by the Indemnified Party pursuant to the first sentence of this Section 3.08; , if the Indemnifying Party does not within that 30-day period give the Indemnified Party written notice objecting to that indemnification claim and setting forth the grounds for the objection(s), the Indemnifying Party shall be deemed to have acknowledged its liability for that indemnification claim. If the Indemnifying Party has acknowledged liability for the indemnification claim with respect to, and assumed the defense of, a Third-Party Claim, the defense of the Indemnified Party shall be controlled by the Indemnifying Party and counsel retained by the Indemnifying Party, which counsel shall at all times during the pendency of the Third-Party Claim be reasonably satisfactory to the Indemnified Party; and the Indemnifying Party may settle or compromise the Third-Party Claim without the prior consent of the Indemnified Party so long as any settlement or compromise of the Third-Party Claim includes an unconditional release of the Indemnified Party from all claims that are the subject of that Third-Party Claim; , the Indemnifying Party may not agree to any such settlement or compromise pursuant to which any Liability shall be admitted or any remedy or relief, other than monetary damages for which the Indemnifying Party shall be responsible under this Agreement, shall be applied to or against the Indemnified Party, without the prior written consent of the Indemnified Party, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, delayed or conditioned. The Indemnified Party shall cooperate at all times in the defense of any Third-Party Claim for which the Indemnifying Party has acknowledged liability. The Indemnifying Party shall pay to the Indemnified Party in cash the amount, if any, for which the Indemnified Party is entitled to be indemnified under this Agreement within 30 days after that Third-Party Claim has been Finally Determined.
provided
that
provided
that
3.09 . If for any reason the indemnification provided for in Section 3.03(b) or Section 3.04(b) is unavailable to any Indemnified Party, or insufficient to hold it harmless, then the Indemnifying Party shall contribute to the amount paid or payable by that Indemnified Party as a result of the untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or omission or alleged omission of a material fact in that proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative fault of the Indemnifying Party, on the one hand, and the Indemnified Party, on the other hand, in connection with those statements or omissions, which relative fault shall be determined by reference to the member of the Altria Group or PMI Group to which those statements or omissions are primarily related, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations.
Contribution
3.10 . If any portion of an Indemnity Payment required to be made hereunder or under any Other Agreements is denominated in a currency other than United States dollars, the amount of such payment, at the election of the Indemnifying Party, may be reimbursed in local currency or shall be translated into United States dollars using the Foreign Exchange Rate for such currency determined in accordance with the following rules: (1) with respect to an Indemnifiable Liability arising from payment by a financial institution under a guarantee, comfort letter, letter of credit, foreign exchange contract or similar instrument, the
Foreign Exchange
 
Foreign Exchange Rate for such currency shall be determined as of the date on which such financial institution is reimbursed; (2) with respect to an Indemnifiable Liability covered by insurance, the Foreign Exchange Rate for such currency shall be the Foreign Exchange Rate employed by the insurance company providing such insurance in settling such Indemnifiable Liability with the Indemnifying Party; and (3) with respect to an Indemnifiable Liability not described in clause (1) or (2) of this Section 3.10, the Foreign Exchange Rate for such currency shall be determined as of the date of payment to a Third Party in the case of such payments or as of the date that notice of the claim with respect to such other Indemnifiable Liability is given to the Indemnitee.
3.11 . Upon indemnification of the Liabilities under this Agreement, the Indemnifying Party shall be subrogated to the rights of the Indemnitee against insurers or other Third Parties with respect to such assumed or indemnified amount. It is expressly agreed that no insurer or any other Third Party shall be (i) entitled to a benefit (as a third-party beneficiary or otherwise) it would not be entitled to receive in the absence of Section 3.03, 3.04 or 3.05 of this Agreement, (ii) relieved of the responsibility to pay any Insured Claims or indemnified claims or any other claims for which it is obligated or (iii) entitled to any subrogation rights with respect to any obligation hereunder. The Indemnitee shall, upon request, provide a formal assignment of a claim against an insurer or other Third Party to the Indemnifying Party with respect to the assumed or indemnified amount or shall otherwise reasonably cooperate at the Indemnifying Party's request and expense, with any attempt by the Indemnifying Party to recoup assumed or indemnified amounts from insurers or other third parties.
Subrogation
3.12 . If an Indemnitee shall receive any amount of Insurance Proceeds or any other monies from a Third Party in connection with an Indemnifiable Liability, then such monies shall be promptly paid to the Indemnifying Party, less the amount of any Indemnifiable Liability incurred by the Indemnitee for which the Indemnifying Party has not yet made the Indemnitee whole. Nothing herein shall permit any Indemnifying Party to delay or refrain from making any payment to any Indemnitee because of the availability or alleged availability of any Insurance Policy or Insurance Proceeds (provided that the foregoing shall not limit the subrogation rights of an Indemnifying Party under Section 3.11). In addition, in no event shall the availability of recovery of an assumed or indemnified amount under an Insurance Policy or other contract relieve the Indemnifying Party of its obligation to make the Indemnitee whole for any deductibles, self-insured retentions, retrospective premiums or other amounts payable by the Indemnitee under the Insurance Policy or other contract with respect to any such recovery.
Insurance Proceeds
3.13 . The terms of this Article III shall represent the Parties' sole and exclusive remedy against one another with respect to Tobacco Product Claims. The Parties shall have no rights against one another pursuant to this Agreement or otherwise with respect to any Tobacco Product Claim filed 25 years or more after the date of this Agreement, even if such Tobacco Product Claim is based in whole or in part on Tobacco Products manufactured on or before December 31, 2008.
Exclusivity and Limitations Regarding Tobacco Product Claims
 
4.01 . In addition to the actions specifically provided for in this Agreement and unless otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement or any Other Agreements, each of the parties hereto shall use its commercially reasonable efforts to take, or cause to be taken, all actions, and to do, or cause to be done, all things reasonably necessary, proper or advisable under applicable Laws, regulations and agreements to consummate and make effective the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, including, without limitation, the allocation of tangible or intangible assets.
Further Assurances
4.02 . If, after the Distribution Date, either party receives payments belonging to the other party, the recipient shall promptly account for and remit same to the other party.
Receivables Collection and Other Payments
5.01 . Prior to or as promptly as practicable after the Distribution Date or from time to time as reasonably requested by the PMI Group, the Altria Group shall deliver to the PMI Group: (i) any corporate books and records of the PMI Group in the possession of the Altria Group; (ii) originals or copies of those corporate books and records of the Altria Group primarily relating to the business of the PMI Group; and (iii) copies (paper or electronic) of all Insurance Policies (A) of any type covering only the PMI Group, (B) shared with the Altria Group covering general, products, advertisers and excess liability for all years, (C) shared with the Altria Group covering property, marine cargo, business travel accident, workers compensation, employers and automobile liability for 2002 through 2007, and (D) shared with the Altria Group covering directors and officers, fiduciary, crime, employment practices and aviation liability for 2007. From and after the Distribution Date, all such books, records and copies (where copies are delivered in lieu of originals), whether or not delivered, shall be the property of the PMI Group; , , that all such Information contained in such books, records or copies relating to the Altria Group shall be subject to the applicable confidentiality provisions and restricted use provisions, if any, contained in this Agreement or the Other Agreements and any confidentiality restrictions imposed by Law. Altria will retain copies of any original books and records delivered to PMI other than PMI-only Insurance Policies and related documents; , , all such Information contained in such books, records or copies (whether or not delivered to the PMI Group) relating to the PMI Group, shall be subject to the applicable confidentiality provisions and restricted use provisions, if any, contained in this Agreement or the Other Agreements and any confidentiality restrictions imposed by Law.
Provision of Corporate Records
provided
however
provided
however
that
5.02 . In addition to the provisions set forth in Section 5.01 above, from and after the Distribution Date and upon commercially reasonable notice, a member of the Altria Group or the PMI Group may request, on behalf of itself or its Representatives, at the expense of the requesting party, commercially reasonable access and duplicating rights
Access to Information
 
during normal business hours to all Information developed or obtained prior to the Distribution Date within such party's possession relating to the requesting party or its businesses, its former businesses, its assets or its Liabilities or the Other Agreements. In each case, the requesting party agrees to cooperate with the other party to minimize the risk of unreasonable interference with the other party's business. The party of which the request is made shall have the right to deny access to the Information if such party determines in its good faith that such denial is in the party's best interests. In the event access is granted to any Information herein or in the Other Agreements to which access is restricted by Law or otherwise, the parties agree to take such actions as are reasonably necessary, proper or advisable to have such restrictions removed or to seek an exemption therefrom or to otherwise provide the requesting party with the benefit of the Information to the same extent such actions would have been taken on behalf of the requesting party had such a restriction not existed and the Distribution not occurred.
5.03 . Notwithstanding any provisions of Section 5.02 to the contrary, after the Distribution Date, (i) each member of the Altria Group and the PMI Group shall use commercially reasonable efforts to provide assistance to the other with respect to any Third-Party Claim and (ii) any member of the Altria Group and the PMI Group shall continue to have access to the common interest and/or joint defense-related work product developed by either Group in connection with the defense of pending or threatened Tobacco Product Claims prior to the Distribution Date. In addition, any member of either Group shall have the right to request in writing that a member of the other Group make available for consultation or witness purposes, its directors, officers, employees, consultants or agents who have expertise or knowledge with respect to the other party's business or products or matters in litigation or alternative dispute resolution to the extent that the requesting party believes any such Persons may reasonably be useful or required in connection with any legal, administrative or other proceedings in which the requesting party may from time to time be involved. Upon such request the affected members of the Groups shall select a Person or Persons to provide the requested assistance after conferring in good faith to determine which Person or Persons should provide such assistance. Upon such determination, the requested party agrees that the designated Person or Persons shall be made available to the requesting party upon commercially reasonable notice to the same extent such requested party would have made such Person available if the Distribution had not occurred. The requesting party agrees to cooperate with the requested party in giving consideration to business demands of such Persons.
Litigation Support and Production of Witnesses
5.04 . Except to the extent otherwise contemplated by this Agreement or any Other Agreements, a party providing Information, consulting, or witness services to the other party under this Article V shall be entitled to receive from the recipient, upon the presentation of invoices therefor, payments for such amounts, relating to supplies, disbursements, travel expenses, and other out-of-pocket expenses (including attorneys' fees and the direct and indirect costs of employees providing, or assisting in providing, Information, consulting and expert witness services in connection with litigation and alternative dispute resolution, but excluding direct and indirect costs of employees who provide Information or are fact witnesses) as may be reasonably incurred in providing such Information, consulting or witness services.
Reimbursement
 
5.05 . Except as otherwise required by Law or agreed in writing, or as otherwise provided in any Other Agreements, each member of the Altria Group and the PMI Group shall retain, for the retention periods set forth in their respective records management programs as in effect on the Distribution Date or such longer period as required by Law, this Agreement or the Other Agreements, all Information in such party's possession substantially relating to the other party or its businesses, its former businesses, its assets or its Liabilities or the Other Agreements.
Retention of Records
5.06 . In furtherance of the rights and obligations of the parties set forth in this Article V:
Privileged Information
(a) Each party hereto acknowledges that: (1) each member of the Altria Group, the PMI Group and the PM USA Group has or may obtain Information that is or may be protected from disclosure pursuant to the attorney-client privilege, the work product doctrine, the common interest and joint defense doctrines or other applicable privileges ("Privileged Information"); (2) actual, threatened or future litigation, investigations, proceedings (including arbitration proceedings), claims or other legal matters have been or may be asserted by or against, or otherwise affect, some or all members of the Altria Group, the PMI Group or the PM USA Group ("Litigation Matters"); (3) members of the Altria Group, the PMI Group and the PM USA Group have or may in the future have a common legal interest in Litigation Matters, in the Privileged Information, and in the preservation of the confidential status of the Privileged Information; and (4) Altria and PMI intend that the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and the Other Agreements and any transfer of Privileged Information in connection herewith or therewith shall not operate as a waiver of any applicable privilege or protection afforded Privileged Information.
(b) Each of Altria and PMI agrees, on behalf of itself and each member of the Group of which it is a member, not to disclose or otherwise waive any privilege or protection attaching to any Privileged Information relating to a member of the other Group or relating to or arising in connection with the relationship between the Groups on or prior to the Distribution Date, without providing prompt written notice to and obtaining the prior written consent of the other.
(c) Upon any member of the Altria Group, the PM USA Group or the PMI Group receiving any subpoena or other compulsory disclosure notice from a court, other Governmental Authority or otherwise that requests disclosure of Privileged Information belonging to a member of another Group, the recipient of the notice shall promptly provide to Altria or PM USA, in the case of receipt by a member of the PMI Group, or to PMI, in the case of receipt by a member of the Altria Group or the PM USA Group, a copy of such notice, the intended response, and all materials or information relating to the other Group that might be disclosed. In the event of a disagreement as to the intended response or disclosure, unless and until the disagreement is resolved as provided in paragraph (b) above, the Altria Group, the PM USA Group and the PMI Group shall cooperate to assert all defenses to disclosure claimed, at the cost and expense of the Group claiming such defense to disclosure, and shall not disclose any disputed documents or information until all legal defenses and claims of privilege have been finally determined.
 
5.07 . From and after the Distribution Date, each of the Altria Group and the PMI Group shall hold, and shall use its commercially reasonable efforts to cause its members to hold, in strict confidence all Information concerning or belonging to the other party obtained by it prior to the Distribution Date or furnished to it by such other party pursuant to this Agreement or the Other Agreements and shall not release or disclose such Information to any other Person, except its Representatives who shall be bound by the provisions of this Section 5.07; provided, however, that the Altria Group and the PMI Group and their respective members may disclose such Information to the extent that (a) disclosure is compelled by subpoena or other compulsory disclosure notice from a court, other Governmental Authority or, in the opinion of Altria's or PMI's counsel (as the case may be), by other requirements of Law, or (b) such party can show that such Information was (1) available to such party after the Distribution Date from Third Party sources other than employees or former employees of either party, their Affiliates, former Affiliates, Representatives or former Representatives, on a nonconfidential basis prior to its disclosure to such party after the Distribution Date by the other party; (2) in the public domain through no fault of such party; (3) lawfully acquired by such party from Third Party sources other than employees or former employees of either party, their Affiliates, former Affiliates, Representatives or former Representatives, after the time that it was furnished to such party pursuant to this Agreement or the Other Agreements; or (4) independently discovered or developed after the Distribution Date by employees of such party. Notwithstanding the foregoing, each of the Altria Group and the PMI Group and their respective members shall be deemed to have satisfied its obligations under this Section 5.07 with respect to any Information if it exercises the same care with regard to such Information as it takes to preserve confidentiality for its own similar Information.
Confidentiality
5.08 . In the event that both a member of the Altria Group and a member of the PMI Group are defendants in the same proceeding, upon reasonable request, the appropriate member or members of each such Group shall enter into a written joint defense agreement in a form reasonably acceptable to such parties.
Joint Defense
6.01 . Any controversy or claim arising out of or relating to this Agreement or any Other Agreements, or the breach thereof (a "Dispute"), shall be resolved by: (i) negotiation between senior executives with the possibility of mediation; and (ii) then binding arbitration. Each party agrees on behalf of itself and each member of its respective Group that the procedures set forth in this Article VI shall be the exclusive means for resolution of any Dispute. The initiation of mediation or arbitration hereunder will toll the applicable statute of limitations for the duration of any such proceedings.
Step Process
6.02 . The parties will first attempt to resolve any Dispute by direct discussions and negotiation, including if either party elects through a written request (a "Negotiation Notice"), negotiation among senior executives of Altria and PMI. Any party asked to participate in such negotiations will use reasonable efforts to make a designated senior executive available promptly to participate in negotiations, with authority to
Management Negotiation and Mediation
 
resolve the matter. The designated senior executives shall consult and negotiate with each other in good faith and, recognizing their mutual interests, attempt to reach a just and equitable solution satisfactory to both parties. If all parties to the Dispute agree, the parties may also attempt to settle the Dispute by a mediation administered by the AAA under its Commercial Mediation Procedures.
6.03 .
Arbitration
(a) If a Dispute is not resolved within 60 days after the Negotiation Notice, any party shall have the right to commence arbitration. In that event, the Dispute shall be resolved by final and binding arbitration administered by the AAA in accordance with its International Arbitration Rules (the "Rules"). The place of arbitration shall be New York, New York. Any Dispute concerning the propriety of the commencement of the arbitration shall be finally settled by such arbitration. Judgment on the award rendered by the arbitrator(s) may be entered in any court having jurisdiction thereof or having jurisdiction over the relevant party or its assets.
(b) The number of arbitrators shall be one if the claims in such Dispute aggregate less than $100 million, and three if the claims in such Dispute aggregate $100 million or more. If the Parties are unable to agree on the amount of the claims, there shall be three arbitrators.
(c) If one arbitrator is to be chosen, the parties agree to seek to reach agreement on the identity of the sole arbitrator within 30 days after the initiation of arbitration. If the parties do not reach agreement on the sole arbitrator within that time period, then the AAA shall appoint the sole arbitrator.
(d) If three arbitrators are to be chosen, the claimant shall appoint an arbitrator in its request for arbitration. The respondent shall appoint an arbitrator within 20 days of the receipt of the request for arbitration. The two arbitrators shall appoint a third arbitrator who shall serve as chair of the tribunal within 30 days after the appointment of the second arbitrator. If any of the three arbitrators is not appointed within the time prescribed above, then the AAA shall appoint that arbitrator.
6.04 . At any time during the resolution of a Dispute between the parties, either party has the right to apply to any court of competent jurisdiction for interim relief, including pre-arbitration attachments or injunctions, necessary to preserve the parties' rights or to maintain the parties' relative positions until such time as the arbitration award is rendered or the Dispute is otherwise resolved.
Injunctive Relief
6.05 . The arbitrator(s) shall have no authority or power to limit, expand, alter, amend, modify, revoke or suspend any condition or provision of this Agreement nor any right or power to award punitive or treble (or other multiple) damages.
Remedies
6.06 . Each party shall bear its own expenses and attorneys' fees in pursuit and resolution of any Dispute. The parties shall share equally the costs and expenses (including the fees of any neutral mediator or arbitrator) of any mediation or arbitration hereunder.
Expenses
 
7.01 . PMI understands and agrees that no member of the Altria Group is, in this Agreement or in any Other Agreements, representing or warranting to the PMI Group in any way as to the PMI Business, or as to any consents or approvals required in connection with the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement. Altria understands and agrees that no member of the PMI Group is, in this Agreement or in any Other Agreements, representing or warranting to the Altria Group in any way as to the Altria Business, or as to any consents or approvals required in connection with the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
No Representations or Warranties
8.01 .
Insurance Policies and Rights
(a) To the extent permitted under the terms of any applicable Insurance Policy, without limiting the availability of subrogation rights as an Indemnifying Party under Section 3.11, the assets of PMI shall include any and all rights of an insured party, including rights of indemnity and the right to be defended by or at the expense of the insurer, and to receive Insurance Proceeds with respect to all Insured PMI Claims under any Insurance Policies. The PMI Group shall be solely responsible for any and all deductibles, self-insured retentions, retrospective premiums, claims handling and other charges owed, including defense costs, under the Insurance Policies with respect to the coverage provided for Insured PMI Claims.
(b) To the extent permitted under the terms of any applicable Insurance Policy, without limiting the availability of subrogation rights as an Indemnifying Party under Section 3.11, the assets of Altria shall include any and all rights of an insured party including rights of indemnity and the right to be defended by or at the expense of the insurer, and to receive Insurance Proceeds under any Insurance Policies other than the rights under any Insurance Policies which are solely assets of PMI. The Altria Group shall be solely responsible for any and all deductibles, self-insured retentions, retrospective premiums, claims handling and other charges, including defense costs, owed under the Insurance Policies with respect to the coverage provided for Insured Claims other than Insured PMI Claims.
(c) Solely for purposes of this Article VIII, "Altria Group" and "PMI Group" shall include their consolidated entities to the extent such entities were in existence on or prior to the Distribution Date.
(d) Nothing in this Agreement is intended to relieve any insurer of any Liability under any Insurance Policy.
8.02 . Consistent with the provisions of Article III, from and after the Distribution Date:
Administration and Reserves
(a) Altria shall be responsible for (1) Insurance Administration of the Insurance Policies with respect to any liabilities of any member of the Altria Group, any assets of the Altria Group or any claims as to which the Altria Group has retained rights of reimbursement or subrogation pursuant to this Agreement or any Other Agreements; and (2) Claims Administration with respect to any liabilities of any member of the Altria Group, any assets of the Altria Group or any claims as to which the Altria Group has retained rights of reimbursement or subrogation pursuant to this Agreement or any Other Agreements. It is understood that the retention of the Insurance Policies by Altria is in no way intended to limit, inhibit or preclude any right to insurance coverage for any Insured Claim or any other rights under the Insurance Policies, including without limitation, claims of PMI and any of its operations, Subsidiaries and Affiliates for insurance coverage, reimbursement, subrogation or otherwise.
 
(b) PMI shall be responsible for (1) Insurance Administration of the Insurance Policies which insure the PMI Group only, and (2) Claims Administration with respect to any liabilities of any member of the PMI Group, any assets of the PMI Group, or any claims as to which the PMI Group has rights of reimbursement or subrogation pursuant to this Agreement or any Other Agreements.
(c) The parties hereto shall cooperate with regards to Insurance Administration, and shall share material information concerning such matters so that both the PMI Group and the Altria Group are aware on a continuing basis of remaining aggregate limits of coverage, deductible payments, retrospective premium payments and other material matters relevant to continued dealings with insurers providing coverage for Liabilities of both Groups.
(d) Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed or deemed to affect in any way the right of Altria to obtain and administer future insurance policies or to enter into future indemnification agreements with Third Parties on whatever terms it believes to be advisable, including the entry into insurance policies covering Altria and its Subsidiaries; , with respect to such future policies or agreements, Altria shall take no action that has an adverse impact on the insurance coverage (and related costs) afforded to PMI under this Article VIII, without the prior written consent of PMI (which shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed).
provided that
8.03 . Except as otherwise provided in Section 3.12, the parties shall use reasonable efforts to ensure that Insurance Proceeds received with respect to claims, costs and expenses under the Insurance Policies shall be paid to Altria with respect to Altria Liabilities and to PMI with respect to the PMI Liabilities.
Allocation of Insurance Proceeds; Cooperation
8.04 . PMI shall reimburse the relevant insurer or the relevant third-party administrator or Altria, as appropriate, to the extent required under any Insurance Policy or Claims Handling Agreement for any services performed after the Distribution Date with respect to any and all Insured PMI Claims which are not Altria Liabilities which are paid, settled, adjusted, defended and/or otherwise handled by such insurer or third-party administrator pursuant to the terms and conditions of such Insurance Policy or Claims Handling Agreement.
Reimbursement of Expenses
8.05 . Except for reduction in coverage resulting from submission and payment of claims, neither party shall take any action to eliminate or reduce
No Reduction of Coverage
 
coverage available to the other party under any Insurance Policy or Claims Handling Agreement for any claims without the prior written consent of the other party (which shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed); , , nothing herein shall affect a party's right to amend the terms of a Claims Handling Agreement or Insurance Policy on renewal or otherwise; and provided that no member of the Altria Group shall have any Liability to any member of the PMI Group if any Insurance Policy is terminated or otherwise ceases to be in effect for any reason (other than a termination in breach of Section 8.02(d)), is unavailable or inadequate to cover any Liability of the PMI Group for any reason.
provided
however
that
8.06 . Effective on the Distribution Date, Altria will take the necessary action to terminate the PMI Group's coverage with respect to occurrences on or after the Distribution Date under the shared insurance policies. Any resulting return of premium or credit will be allocated between the Altria Group and the PMI Group in proportion to their respective contributions to the payment of such premium. Each of the Altria Group and the PMI Group shall be responsible for obtaining its own replacement policies (if so desired) for occurrences on or after the Distribution Date.
Shared Insurance Policies Other Than D&O and Fiduciary Liability
8.07 . Effective on the Distribution Date, the existing Insurance Policy covering directors and officers of the Altria Group and the PMI Group will be converted to a six-year run-off policy. Altria and PMI shall receive credit for premium return under the existing policy. Altria will bear 80%, and PMI will bear 20%, of the expense of the run-off policy. In the event the run-off policy coverage limit is reduced to less than $250 million as the result of payments of claims or claims expense on behalf of either the Altria Group or the PMI Group, the Group or Groups responsible for such reduction shall pay (in proportion to payments or claims expenses received by such party with respect to such coverage) to reinstate the coverage with limits no less than $250 million. Each of the Altria Group and the PMI Group shall be responsible for obtaining its own directors and officers policy for acts or omissions occurring on or after the Distribution Date.
D&O Liability
8.08 . In the event the 1994 D&O Liability Retro Program coverage limit is reduced to less than $150 million as the result of payments of claims or claims expense on behalf of either the Altria Group or the PMI Group, the Group or Groups responsible for such reduction shall pay (in proportion to payments or claims expenses received by such party with respect to such coverage) to reinstate the coverage with limits no less than $150 million. At the Distribution Date, the coverage limits under the 1994 D&O Liability Retro Program were $215 million for non-indemnifiable acts. For the purposes of this Section 8.08, "1994 D&O Liability Retro Program" shall mean all Altria Group D&O liability policies for the period from January 1, 1994 to December 31, 1995 (whether exhausted or not) and all D&O liability policies added subsequent to the policy period but prior to the Distribution Date for the purpose of providing coverage for covered matters reported during the policy period or covered matters reported after the policy period which relate to circumstances reported during the policy period.
1994 D&O Liability Retro Program
8.09 . In the event the Altria/Kraft D&O Liability Runoff Policy coverage limit is reduced to less than $250 million as the result of payments of claims or claims expense on behalf of the PMI Group, PMI will indemnify Altria
Altria/Kraft D&O Liability Runoff Policy
 
for the cost to reinstate the coverage with limits no less than $250 million. At the Distribution Date, the coverage limits under the Altria/Kraft D&O Liability Runoff Policy were $420 million for non-indemnifiable acts. For purposes of this Section 8.09, "Altria/Kraft D&O Liability Runoff Policy" shall mean the six-year D&O runoff policy purchased in connection with the distribution of Kraft Foods Inc., covering claims or circumstances occurring prior to March 30, 2007.
8.10 . Effective on the Distribution Date, the existing Insurance Policy covering directors and officers of the Altria Group and the PMI Group will be converted to a six-year run-off policy. Each of Altria and PMI will be allocated any credit for premium return under the existing policy based on the percentage of the premium payment allocated to such party in the most recent premium payment. Altria and PMI will bear the expense of the run-off policy in the same proportion. In the event the run-off policy coverage limit is reduced to less than $40 million as the result of payments of claims or claims expense on behalf of either the Altria Group or the PMI Group, the Group or Groups responsible for such reduction shall pay (in proportion to payments or claims expenses received by such party with respect to such coverage) to reinstate the coverage with limits no less than $40 million. Each of the Altria Group and the PMI Group shall be responsible for obtaining its own fiduciary liability policy for acts or omissions occurring on or after the Distribution Date.
Fiduciary Liability
8.11 . In the event the Altria/Kraft Fiduciary Liability Runoff Policy coverage limit is reduced to less than $40 million as the result of payments of claims or claims expense on behalf of the PMI Group, PMI will indemnify Altria for the cost to reinstate the coverage with limits no less than $40 million. At the Distribution Date, the coverage limits under the Altria/Kraft Fiduciary Liability Runoff Policy were $75 million for non-indemnifiable acts. For purposes of this Section 8.11, "Altria/Kraft Fiduciary Liability Runoff Policy" means the six-year fiduciary liability runoff policy purchased in connection with the distribution of Kraft Foods Inc., covering claims or circumstances occurring prior to March 30, 2007.
Altria/Kraft Fiduciary Liability Runoff Policy
9.01 . This Agreement, the Exhibits and Schedules hereto, the Other Agreements and the agreements and other documents referred to herein shall constitute the entire agreement between the parties hereto with respect to the subject matter hereof and shall supersede all previous negotiations, commitments and writings with respect to such subject matter, including any agreements regarding indemnification.
Complete Agreement
9.02 . Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, if there shall be a conflict or an inconsistency between the provisions of this Agreement and the provisions of any Other Agreements, the provisions of the Other Agreements shall control over the inconsistent provisions of this Agreement as to matters specifically addressed in the Other Agreements. For the avoidance of doubt, (i) the Tax Sharing Agreement shall govern all matters (including, but not limited to, any indemnities) relating to Taxes or otherwise specifically addressed in such Agreement; (ii) this Agreement shall govern any and all claims for indemnification between the
Other Agreements
 
Parties and their respective Groups, including International Tobacco Product Claims and U.S. Tobacco Product Claims addressed in the PMDF Indemnification Agreement, including any Post-Transfer PMDF Liabilities (as such terms are defined therein) that constitute Tobacco Product Claims; and (iii) the IP Agreement shall govern all matters regarding exchange of Information related to Jointly Funded IP (as defined in the IP Agreement).
9.03 . Altria and PMI shall each be responsible for its expenses incurred in connection with the Distribution.
Expenses
9.04 . This Agreement shall be governed by, construed and interpreted in accordance with the Laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia (other than the Laws regarding choice of Laws and conflicts of Laws) as to all matters, including matters of validity, construction, effect, performance and remedies; provided, however, that the Arbitration Act shall govern the matters described in Sections 6.03 through 6.06.
Governing Law
9.05 . All notices, requests, claims, demands and other communications hereunder (collectively, "Notices") shall be in writing and shall be given (and shall be deemed to have been duly given upon receipt) by delivery in person, by cable, telegram, facsimile, electronic mail or other standard form of telecommunications (provided confirmation is delivered to the recipient the next Business Day in the case of facsimile, electronic mail or other standard form of telecommunications) or by registered or certified mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, addressed as follows:
Notices
 
or to such other address as any party hereto may have furnished to the other parties by a notice in writing in accordance with this Section 9.05.
 
9.06 . This Agreement may be amended, modified or supplemented only by a written agreement signed by both of the parties hereto.
Amendment and Modification
9.07 . This Agreement and all of the provisions hereof shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their successors and permitted assigns, but neither this Agreement nor any of the rights, interests and obligations hereunder shall be assigned by any party hereto without the prior written consent of the other party (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed). Except for the provisions of Article III relating to releases and indemnities, which are also for the benefit of the released parties and the Indemnitees, this Agreement is solely for the benefit of the parties hereto and their Subsidiaries and Affiliates and is not intended to confer upon any other Persons any rights or remedies hereunder.
Successors and Assigns; No Third Party Beneficiaries
9.08 . This Agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
9.09 . The Article and Section headings contained in this Agreement are solely for the purpose of reference, are not part of the agreement of the parties hereto and shall not in any way affect the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement.
Interpretation
9.10 . Any provision of this Agreement that is prohibited or unenforceable in any jurisdiction shall, as to such jurisdiction, be ineffective to the extent of such prohibition or unenforceability without invalidating the remaining provisions hereof. Any such prohibition or unenforceability in any jurisdiction shall not invalidate or render unenforceable such provision in any other jurisdiction. Each party acknowledges that money damages would be an inadequate remedy for any breach of the provisions of this Agreement and agrees that the obligations of the parties hereunder shall be specifically enforceable.
Legal Enforceability
9.11 . Unless otherwise expressly stated, clauses beginning with the term "including" set forth examples only and in no way limit the generality of the matters thus exemplified.
Construction
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed as of the date first above written.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
PHILIP MORRIS INTERNATIONAL SPIN-OFF EFFECTIVE MARCH 28, 2008
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NEW YORK, January 30, 2008  Altria Group, Inc. (NYSE: MO) today issued its 2007 full-year and fourth-quarter results and announced the spin-off of Philip Morris International Inc. (PMI). In conjunction with the PMI spin-off, the company identified the new Altria and PMI Boards of Directors, announced dividend policies, initial dividend rates and share repurchase programs for each company, and provided separate forecasts for 2008 earnings per share from continuing operations for Altria and PMI.
"Today's announcement underscores our long-term commitment to build shareholder value," said Louis C. Camilleri, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Altria. "The PMI spin-off and related actions position our international and domestic tobacco businesses for future success as stand-alone companies with unique and formidable strengths, including leading brands, strong cash flow, experienced leadership and solid growth prospects."
"2007 was a watershed year, with strong underlying earnings growth and a number of strategic actions that further strengthen our tobacco businesses for long-term growth," Mr. Camilleri said. "While we are by all means not immune to the current economic uncertainties, we enter 2008 with solid momentum and I am confident that both Altria and PMI are well positioned to not only weather these uncertainties, but to deliver strong results this year and beyond."
Conference Call
A conference call hosted by Mr. Camilleri with members of the investment community and news media will be webcast at 1:00 p.m. New York City Time on January 30, 2008.Access is available at www.altria.com.
Spin-Off of Philip Morris International (PMI)
The Board of Directors of Altria voted today to authorize the spin-off of 100% of the shares of Philip Morris International (PMI) to Altria's shareholders.
The distribution will be made on March 28, 2008, to Altria shareholders of record as of 5:00 p.m. New York City Time on March 19, 2008 (the "record date").
Altria will distribute one share of PMI for every share of Altria common stock outstanding as of the record date, based on the number of Altria shares outstanding at 5:00 p.m. New York City Time on that date.
After much consideration, Altria's Board of Directors and management determined that PMI's separation from Altria will enhance growth and shareholder value by providing the following benefits:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Altria has been advised that a "when issued" public market for Altria common stock will begin some time before the record date on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) and continue through the distribution date under the symbol "MO wi." "When issued" refers to buying Altria shares without the right to receive PMI shares. Altria common stock will remain outstanding and will continue to trade on the NYSE under the symbol "MO."
Any holder of Altria common stock who sells shares of Altria in the "regular way" market on or before the distribution date will also be selling the right to receive shares of PMI common stock in the spin-off. Holders of Altria common stock are encouraged to consult with their financial advisors regarding the specific implications of selling Altria common stock on or before the distribution date.
Currently, there is no public market for PMI's common stock. It is anticipated that PMI will be listed for trading on the NYSE under the symbol "PM." The company anticipates that trading in PMI common stock will commence on a "when issued" basis shortly before the record date under the symbol "PM wi."
On the first trading day following the distribution date, "when issued" trading will end and "regular way" trading will begin for PMI common stock. PMI cannot predict the trading price for its common stock following the distribution.
Altria has received a private letter ruling from the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and an opinion of counsel that the distribution of PMI common stock to Altria shareholders qualifies as a tax-free distribution for U.S. federal income tax purposes.
 
Non-U.S. shareholders may be subject to tax on the distribution in jurisdictions other than the U.S. In this regard, Altria has received advice from some foreign tax authorities and advisors, and anticipates that the distribution will be tax-free in Canada, Norway and Sweden, but subject to tax in Denmark, France, Germany, Ireland, Japan, the Netherlands and Switzerland. Altria is awaiting final advice from the U.K. tax authorities.
It is extremely important that shareholders consult their tax advisors regarding the particular consequences of the distribution in their situation, including the applicability and effect of any U.S. federal, state, local and foreign tax laws.
Registered shareholders in the U.S. and Canada who would like more information should contact Computershare Trust Company by email at altria@computershare.com or by phone at 1-866-538-5172. Registered shareholders outside the U.S. and Canada should call 1-781-575-3572.
If you hold Altria shares through a broker, bank or other nominee, please contact your financial institution directly or call D.F. King & Co. at 1-800-290-6431.
Additional information including answers to frequently asked questions (FAQs) will be available in a special section of the Altria website beginning at about 12:00 noon New York City Time today at www.altria.com/pmispinoff.
Board of Directors
Set forth below are the individuals who have agreed to serve on the respective Board of Directors of Altria and PMI following the spin-off.
Altria's Board of Directors post-spin will include four continuing members from the current Altria Board of Directors. They are Elizabeth E. Bailey, Robert E.R. Huntley, Thomas W. Jones and George Muoz. They will be joined by four new directors: Thomas F. Farrell II, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Dominion Resources, Inc., Gerald L. Baliles, Director of the Miller Center of Public Affairs at the University of Virginia and former Governor of Virginia, Dinyar S. Devitre, who will step down as Chief Financial Officer of Altria following the spin-off, and Michael E. Szymanczyk, who will serve as Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Altria.
PMI's Board of Directors post-spin will include five members who will step down from the current Altria Board of Directors. They are Harold Brown, Mathis Cabiallavetta, J. Dudley Fishburn, Lucio A. Noto and Stephen M. Wolf. In addition, Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer of Fiat S.p.A. and Carlos Slim Hel will join the PMI Board of Directors at the time of the PMI spin-off, and Graham Mackay, Chief Executive Officer of SABMiller, has agreed to join the PMI Board of Directors later in 2008. Louis C. Camilleri will serve as Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of PMI following his resignation from those posts at Altria.
 
John S. Reed has elected to retire from the Altria Board of Directors. He is one of the longest-serving members of the Board of Directors and has provided outstanding leadership throughout his more than 30 years of distinguished service to the company and its shareholders.
As a result of the PMI spin-off, the date for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders for Altria has been moved to May 28, 2008 in Richmond, Virginia. Shareholders who have not already submitted proposals for consideration at the meeting have until March 28, 2008 to do so, by following the procedures described in the "2008 Annual Meeting" section on page 66 of Altria's March 23, 2007 proxy statement.
Dividends
The Board of Directors of Altria today reaffirmed its intention to adjust Altria's dividend immediately following the distribution of PMI shares so that Altria shareholders who retain their PMI shares will receive, in the aggregate, the same annual cash dividend rate of $3.00 per share that existed before the spin-off.
Altria is expected to pay a dividend at the initial rate of $0.29 per share per quarter, or $1.16 per common share on an annualized basis. Altria has established a dividend policy that anticipates a payout ratio of approximately 75% post-spin.
PMI is expected to pay a dividend at the initial rate of $0.46 per share per quarter, or $1.84 per common share on an annualized basis. PMI has established a dividend policy that anticipates a payout ratio of approximately 65% post-spin.
Payment of future cash dividends will be at the discretion of the Boards of Directors of Altria and PMI.
Share Repurchase Programs
The Board of Directors today approved share repurchase programs as follows:
For Altria, a new $7.5 billion two-year share repurchase program was authorized and is expected to begin in April, after completion of the spin-off.
For PMI, a $13.0 billion two-year share repurchase program was authorized and is expected to begin in early May, consistent with SEC regulations.
 
Tender Offer for Altria Notes
Altria will commence a tender offer and consent solicitation shortly in connection with the spin-off to purchase for cash all of Altria's notes outstanding, including $2.6 billion of domestic notes denominated in U.S. dollars and 1.0 billion in euro-denominated notes.
While Altria believes that the proposed distribution is not prohibited by the indentures, it believes it is desirable to eliminate any uncertainty by amending the indentures with the consent of note holders.
In order to finance the tender offer, Altria has arranged a $4.0 billion, 364-day credit facility. Subsequent to the spin-off, Altria intends to access the public debt market to refinance debt incurred in connection with the tender offer.
PMI Form 10
PMI has filed a Form 10, which includes a preliminary Information Statement, subject to completion, with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). PMI plans to file an updated Form 10 with the SEC on or about February 8, 2008. The update will include PMI's audited financial statements for 2007, management's discussion and analysis of operations and a discussion of PMI's governance and compensation. In addition, the Form 10 will include pro-forma financial information, which gives effect to the following:
 
 
 
 
 
PMI plans to file reported and pro-forma amounts as follows:
 
 
Following the effectiveness of the Form 10, the company will mail an Information Statement shortly after the record date to all holders of Altria common stock as of the record date. The Information Statement will include the procedures by which the distribution will be effected and other details of the transaction, together with comprehensive data on PMI.
Investor Presentation
In connection with the spin-off, the company announced that it will hold an investor presentation on March 11, 2008 in New York City. The presentation will be webcast beginning at approximately 8:30 a.m. until 1:00 p.m. New York City Time and will be available at www.altria.com.
Following opening remarks from Louis C. Camilleri, Altria and PMI will give presentations on their growth strategies, capital structure, cost savings and productivity initiatives, opportunities and outlook, followed by a question-and-answer session.
Presenting for Altria will be Michael E. Szymanczyk and David Beran, who will become Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and Chief Financial Officer, respectively, following the spin-off.
Presenting for PMI will be Andr Calantzopoulos and Hermann Waldemer, who will become Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer, respectively, following the spin-off.
2008 Full-Year Forecast for Altria and PMI
Altria (excluding PMI) forecasts that 2008 adjusted full-year diluted earnings per share from continuing operations will grow to a range of $1.63 to $1.67, representing a growth rate of approximately 9% to 11% for the full-year 2008 from a base of $1.50 per share in 2007, which is shown in Table 1 below. This projection reflects a higher effective tax rate, the contribution of income from recently acquired John Middleton, Inc. and the impact of share repurchases. Earnings per share growth is expected to be stronger in the second half of 2008.
 
PMI forecasts adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations at current exchange rates will increase to a range of $3.11 to $3.17 for the full-year 2008, reflecting a growth rate of approximately 12% to 14% from the pro-forma adjusted base of $2.78 per share in 2007, as shown in Table 1.
Table 1
 
Note: While PMI will be required to file these pro-forma 2007 results with the SEC, Altria is prohibited under current SEC guidelines from imputing interest income on the transferred cash.
These forecasts exclude the impact of any potential future acquisitions or divestitures, Altria's gain on the sale of its headquarters in New York City, charges related to the tender offer for Altria's notes and a number of other factors, including the items shown above in Table 1. The factors described in the Forward-Looking and Cautionary Statements section of this release represent continuing risks to these projections.
As described in "Note 15. Segment Reporting" of Altria's 2006 Annual Report, management reviews operating companies income, which is defined as operating income before corporate expenses and amortization of intangibles, to evaluate segment performance and allocate resources. Management believes it is appropriate to disclose this measure to help investors analyze business performance and trends. For a reconciliation of operating companies income to operating income, see the Condensed Statements of Earnings contained in this release.
Altria's 2007 reported results and previous-year results reflect Kraft Foods Inc. (Kraft) as a discontinued operation. As such, net revenues and operating companies income for Kraft are excluded from the company's results, while the net earnings impact is included as a single line item.
 
All references in this news release are to continuing operations, unless otherwise noted. References to international tobacco market shares are PMI estimates based on a number of sources.
2007 Diluted EPS From Continuing Operations
For the full year 2007, diluted earnings per share from continuing operations were down 2.3% to $4.33, including items detailed on Schedule 8, versus $4.43 for the full year 2006. Adjusted for items detailed in Table 2 below, diluted earnings per share were up 8.1% to $4.38, versus $4.05 for 2006.
Fourth-quarter 2007 diluted earnings per share from continuing operations were down 9.6% to $1.03, including items detailed on the attached Schedule 7, versus $1.14 in the year-ago period. Adjusted for items detailed in Table 2, fourth-quarter 2007 diluted earnings per share were up 5.3% to $1.00 versus $0.95 in the year-earlier period, which included a $488 million gain from PMI's reorganization of its tobacco and beer equity holdings in the Dominican Republic.
Table 2
 
Acquisitions and Divestitures
During the first quarter of 2007, PMI acquired an additional 50.2% stake in Lakson Tobacco Company Ltd. (Lakson) in Pakistan, and completed a mandatory tender offer for the remaining shares, which increased PMI's total ownership interest in Lakson from 40% to approximately 98%, for $383 million.
During the fourth quarter of 2007, PMI completed the acquisition of an additional 30% stake in its Mexican tobacco business from its joint venture partner, Grupo Carso, S.A.B. de C.V.
 
PMI previously held a 50% stake in its Mexican tobacco business and the transaction brought PMI's stake to 80%. Grupo Carso retains a 20% stake in the business. The transaction had a value of approximately $1.1 billion.
On December 11, 2007 Altria announced that it had completed the acquisition of 100% of John Middleton, Inc. (Middleton), a leading manufacturer of machine-made large cigars, from privately held Bradford Holdings, Inc. for $2.9 billion in cash. The net cost of the acquisition, after deducting approximately $700 million in present value tax benefits arising from the terms of the transaction, is $2.2 billion. The acquisition was financed with existing cash and is expected to be modestly accretive to Altria's 2008 earnings and generate an attractive double-digit economic return. It had no material impact on Altria's 2007 fourth-quarter and full-year earnings.
2007 Full-Year Results
Revenues net of excise taxes increased 5.8% to $38.1 billion for the full-year 2007, driven by increases in both U.S. tobacco and international tobacco.
Operating income increased 2.7% to $13.2 billion, reflecting the items described in the attached reconciliation on Schedule 6, including higher results from operations of $512 million and favorable currency of $471 million.
Earnings from continuing operations decreased 1.8% to $9.2 billion, reflecting the items mentioned above and a higher tax rate in 2007, partially offset by a decrease in interest expense in 2007 due to lower debt outstanding. The company's effective tax rate was 31.5% for the full-year 2007 versus 27.2% for 2006. Full-year 2007 results included favorable tax adjustments of $251 million or $0.12 per share, primarily due to the reversal of tax reserves and other tax accruals no longer required and the reduction of the German corporate tax rate, versus favorable tax adjustments of $757 million or $0.35 per share for the full-year 2006.
Net earnings, including discontinued operations, decreased 18.6% to $9.8 billion, reflecting the Kraft spin-off and other items mentioned above. Diluted earnings per share, including discontinued operations as detailed on Schedule 4, decreased 19.1% to $4.62.
2007 Fourth-Quarter Results
Revenues net of excise taxes increased 7.4% to $9.3 billion for the fourth quarter of 2007, largely driven by international tobacco.
Operating income decreased 6.4% to $3.0 billion, reflecting the items described in the attached reconciliation on Schedule 3, primarily the impact of the 2006 Dominican Republic transaction, partially offset by higher results from operations of $143 million and favorable currency of $150 million.
 
Earnings from continuing operations decreased 9.1% to $2.2 billion, reflecting the items mentioned above as well as a higher tax rate in the fourth quarter of 2007 versus the year-earlier period, partially offset by lower interest expense.
Net earnings, including discontinued operations, decreased 26.1% to $2.2 billion, reflecting the impact of the Kraft spin-off and the factors mentioned above. Diluted earnings per share, including discontinued operations as detailed on Schedule 1, decreased 26.4% to $1.03.
2007 Full-Year and Fourth-Quarter Results
Philip Morris USA Inc. (PM USA), Altria's U.S. tobacco business, achieved strong retail share results for the full year and fourth quarter of 2007, driven by , which increased its retail market share 0.5 points to 41.0% for the full-year 2007 and 0.8 points to 41.2% in the fourth quarter.
Marlboro
Full-year revenues net of excise taxes increased 1.2% to $15.0 billion for Altria's U.S. tobacco segment, which includes both PM USA and John Middleton, Inc. (Middleton). Fourth-quarter revenues net of excise taxes increased 0.5% to $3.7 billion.
For the full-year 2007, U.S. tobacco operating companies income decreased 6.1% to $4.5 billion compared to 2006. The decrease was primarily driven by lower volume, increased resolution expenses, investments in support of PM USA's smokeless products, $371 million of pre-tax charges in 2007 related to asset impairment, exit and implementation costs for the previously announced closure of the Cabarrus cigarette manufacturing facility and a $26 million provision for the case in Louisiana. Those factors were partially offset by lower wholesale promotional allowance rates and lower selling, general and administrative costs. U.S. tobacco operating companies income would have increased by 1.9% for the full-year 2007 when adjusted for the items shown in the table below.
Scott
In the fourth quarter of 2007, U.S. tobacco operating companies income decreased 3.2% to $1.1 billion compared to the year-earlier period. The decrease was driven by lower volume, investments in support of PM USA's smokeless products, increased resolution expenses, $31 million of pre-tax charges in 2007 primarily related to asset impairment, exit and implementation costs for closure of the Cabarrus facility and the provision for the case. Those factors were partially offset by lower wholesale promotional allowance rates and lower selling, general and
Scott
 
administrative costs. U.S. tobacco operating companies income would have increased 1.0% for the fourth quarter of 2007 compared to the year-earlier period when adjusted for the items shown in the table below.
 
 
PM USA's full-year 2007 cigarette shipment volume of 175.1 billion units was 4.6% lower than the previous year, but was estimated to be down approximately 3.6% when adjusted for changes in trade inventories and calendar differences. For the full year 2007, PM USA estimates a decline of about 4% in total cigarette industry volume. In the fourth quarter, PM USA's cigarette shipment volume of 41.7 billion units was 7.8% lower than the prior-year period, but was estimated to be down approximately 3.3% when adjusted for changes in trade inventories and calendar differences.
Cigarette volume performance by brand for PM USA is summarized in the table below:
 
 
 
For the full-year 2007, retail share gains for and of 0.5 points and 0.1 point, respectively, were partially offset by losses of 0.1 share point each for , and the non-focus brands. In the fourth quarter of 2007, share gains for of 0.8 points were partially offset by losses of 0.1 share point each for and , as shown in the table below:
Marlboro
Parliament
Virginia Slims
Basic
Marlboro
Virginia Slims
Basic
 
 
PM USA is focused on developing new and innovative products that are based on a deep understanding of adult tobacco consumers. During 2007, PM USA launched Smooth, Virginia Blend and six other new cigarette line extensions. These new products contributed to PM USA's retail share growth for the year, and in the fourth quarter of 2007 generated more than one share point of business.
Marlboro
Marlboro
Smooth utilizes an innovative menthol application process to create a uniquely different smoking experience, and helped drive 's performance as the industry's fastest-growing menthol brand. Also contributing to 's growth was Virginia Blend, a single-leaf, non-menthol blend that reinforces the brand's flavor heritage. In addition, PM USA introduced packings in select geographies, offering a unique, contemporary product in the discount category.
Marlboro
Marlboro
Marlboro
Marlboro
Marlboro
L&M
As part of its adjacency growth strategy to develop new revenue and income sources for the future, PM USA initiated a test market of Snus in the Dallas/Fort Worth area
Marlboro
 
beginning in August 2007. Due to initial favorable reaction by adult consumers, wholesalers and retailers to the Snus test market, PM USA announced plans to expand the test market to the Indianapolis area in early 2008. In addition, PM USA began test marketing Moist Smokeless Tobacco in the Atlanta area in October 2007. Moist Smokeless Tobacco is designed to provide a premium quality product at an attractive price for adult moist smokeless tobacco consumers. Based on the encouraging initial consumer and trade response, PM USA is expanding the Moist Smokeless Tobacco test market to include additional counties in the greater Atlanta area in early 2008.
Marlboro
Marlboro
Marlboro
Marlboro
As previously mentioned, Altria completed the acquisition of Middleton on December 11, 2007. Middleton's results had no material impact on Altria's fourth-quarter and full-year earnings. For the full-year 2007, Middleton's volume, revenues net of excise taxes and operating companies income were in line with estimates provided when the acquisition was announced on November 1, 2007. Middleton participates in the machine-made large cigar segment, which had estimated volume of 5.3 billion units in 2007. The segment is estimated to have grown volumes at a compound annual rate of approximately 4% over the 2003 to 2007 period.
Retail market share for Middleton's leading brand increased 2.2 share points in 2007 to 25.2% of the machine-made large cigar segment. Retail share performance is based on data from the most recent IRI Syndicated Reviews Database (November 2007 year-to-date), which is a tracking service that uses a sample of stores to project market share performance across multiple product categories, including cigars.
Black & Mild
2007 Full-Year and Fourth-Quarter Results
Philip Morris International Inc. (PMI), Altria's international tobacco business, achieved strong income results for the full year and fourth quarter of 2007.
Reported revenues net of excise taxes for the full-year 2007 of $22.8 billion were up 9.6%. In the fourth quarter, revenues net of excise taxes grew 11.6% to $5.5 billion.
Operating companies income increased 5.5% to $8.9 billion for the full-year 2007, due primarily to higher pricing, favorable currency of $471 million and productivity and cost savings, partially offset by the impact of the 2006 gain on the Dominican Republic transaction and higher marketing and R&D. Operating companies income grew 12.5% for the full-year 2007 when adjusted for the impact of the Dominican Republic transaction and other items shown in the table below.
 
For the fourth quarter, operating companies income decreased 10.0% to $2.0 billion, due primarily to the impact of the Dominican Republic transaction in the fourth quarter of 2006 as well as unfavorable mix, partially offset by higher pricing and favorable currency of $150 million. Operating companies income grew 15.5% for the fourth quarter of 2007 when adjusted for the impact of the Dominican Republic transaction and other items shown in the table below.
 
 
Cigarette shipment volume, as shown in the table below, increased 2.2% or 18.6 billion units, to 850.0 billion units for the full year 2007, due to the acquisition of Lakson in Pakistan. Excluding Lakson and the acquisition of local trademarks in Mexico effective November 1, 2007, cigarette shipments were down 0.7% or 5.6 billion units, due mainly to lower shipments in Germany and Poland and the unfavorable impact of timing and trade inventory movements, primarily in Japan and Mexico. Partially offsetting the decline were strong gains in Argentina, Egypt, Indonesia, Korea and Ukraine, as well as favorable timing in Italy. Absent acquisitions and the net impact of unfavorable timing and inventory movements, PMI shipments were essentially flat in 2007.
In the fourth quarter, cigarette shipment volume increased 3.7% or 7.1 billion units to 198.4 billion units, due to acquisition volume from Lakson and local trademarks in Mexico, as well as gains in Argentina, Colombia, Egypt, Indonesia, Korea and Russia and favorable timing in Italy, partially offset by lower volume in Poland and the United Kingdom and unfavorable timing, primarily in Japan and Mexico. Excluding the impact of acquisitions in Pakistan and
 
Mexico, cigarette shipment volume was down 0.4% or 700 million units. Absent the above mentioned acquisitions and the net impact of unfavorable timing and inventory movements, PMI shipments rose 1.7% in the fourth quarter, reflecting improving trends and strengthened business fundamentals.
 
 
PMI's full-year 2007 market share performance improved versus the year-ago period in many markets including: Argentina, Australia, Austria, Brazil, Egypt, Finland, Greece, Hungary, Israel, Italy, Korea, Mexico, the Netherlands, the Philippines, Portugal, Singapore, Sweden and Ukraine.
PMI's fourth-quarter 2007 market share performance improved versus the year-ago period in Argentina, Australia, Austria, Brazil, Dominican Republic, Egypt, Finland, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Israel, Italy, Korea, the Netherlands, Slovak Republic, Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan and Ukraine.
For the full-year 2007, cigarette shipment volume of 311.2 billion units was down 1.5%, due mainly to timing in Mexico and unfavorable distributor inventory movements in Japan, partially offset by gains in Argentina, Bulgaria, Indonesia, Korea and Russia. Absent timing and inventory distortions in Japan, Mexico and other markets, shipments were down slightly at 0.2% in 2007. market share was up in Argentina, Brazil, Egypt, Greece, Hungary, Indonesia, Israel, Korea, the Philippines, Poland, Russia and Ukraine.
Marlboro
Marlboro
Marlboro
In the fourth quarter, total cigarette shipment volume of 72.4 billion units was down 1.4%, due primarily to the timing and inventory distortions mentioned above, partially offset by gains in Argentina, Indonesia and Russia. Absent timing and inventory distortions in Japan, Mexico and other markets, cigarette shipments were up 1.0% in the fourth quarter of 2007 versus the year-earlier period.
Marlboro
Marlboro
 
Shipment volume for PMI's other international brands grew by 1.5% or 4.8 billion units to 327 billion units for the full-year 2007, driven by gains in , , the brand,,, and , partially offset by lower volume for and .
Parliament
Virginia Slims
Philip Morris
Merit
Chesterfield
Bond Street
Muratti
L&M
Lark
During 2007, PMI continued to build strong brand equity through innovation. Notable new product introductions included in Kazakhstan, Korea, Romania, Russia, Taiwan and Ukraine, and kretek in Indonesia. , a new short cigarette developed to deliver more full-flavor taste, was recently launched nationally in Turkey. In the rapidly growing menthol segment, andwere successfully launched in Hong Kong, and was introduced in Japan.Other innovations in 2007 included in Japan, in Russia, Ukraine, Kazakhstan and Greece, in Japan and a new, smoother tasting in Russia, Ukraine and Romania. Also, a new packaging design and communication platform for was recently implemented in Eastern Europe. In the other tobacco products (OTP) segment in Germany, and were introduced in the fine cut category.
Marlboro Filter Plus
Marlboro
Marlboro Intense
Marlboro Fresh Mint
Marlboro Crisp Mint
Marlboro Ice Mint
Parliament Platinum
Virginia Slims Uno
Virginia Slims Noire
L&M
Chesterfield
Next Tobacco Block
L&M Tobacco Block
2007 Full-Year and Fourth-Quarter Results
In the European Union (EU), operating companies income grew 18.7% to $4.2 billion in 2007, primarily driven by higher pricing and favorable currency of $417 million. Operating companies income grew 17.1% for the full-year 2007 when adjusted for the impact of the items shown in the table below.
In the fourth quarter, operating companies income grew 17.4% to $917 million, driven by higher pricing and favorable currency of $123 million. Operating companies income grew 18.5% for the quarter when adjusted for the items shown in the table below.
 
 
The total cigarette market in the EU declined 0.7% in 2007. PMI's cigarette shipment volume in the EU of 257.1 billion units was down 0.7% for the full-year 2007, as declines in Germany and Poland and unfavorable distributor inventory movements in France were partially offset by increased shipments in Hungary and the Baltics and the impact of favorable inventory movements in Italy. Cigarette market share in the EU at 39.3% was down 0.1 point for the full-year 2007 versus 2006, primarily due to the Czech Republic. Absent distorted trade inventories in the Czech Republic, market share in the EU is estimated to have been 39.4% for the full-year 2007.
PMI's cigarette shipment volume of 57.2 billion units declined 0.2% in the fourth quarter. The total market in the EU increased 0.2% or 390 million units versus the fourth quarter of 2006. PMI's market share in the EU at 39.2% was down 0.3 points. Adjusted for the impact of trade inventories in the Czech Republic, PMI share in the EU is estimated to have been 39.5% in the fourth quarter of 2007.
In France, for the full-year 2007 the total market declined 1.5%, due to higher pricing. PMI's cigarette shipments were down 4.8% versus 2006. Market share for PMI of 42.4% was down 0.3 points, with down 0.7 share points to 30.2%, reflecting the temporary impact of crossing the 5.00 per pack threshold. In the mid-price segment, the brand gained 0.3 points to 6.2%. PMI achieved sequential improvement in market share every month since September.
Marlboro
Philip Morris
In Germany, the cigarette market declined 4.0% for the full-year 2007, due mainly to the tax-driven price increase in October 2006. PMI's in-market cigarette sales were down 5.0% and market share of 36.5% declined 0.4 points due to lower share, partially offset by share gains for. PMI's cigarette shipments were down 4.6% versus 2006. Market share in the fourth quarter was up 1.4 points to 37.6%.
Marlboro
L&M
In Italy, the total market was down 1.1% for the full-year 2007, while PMI's in-market sales rose 0.4%. PMI's cigarette market share of 54.6% grew 0.8 points, driven by
Chesterfield
 
and . Share for in Italy of 22.8% was essentially unchanged. PMI's full-year 2007 cigarette shipments were up 2.9%, due mainly to favorable timing of shipments compared to 2006.
Merit
Marlboro
In Poland, consumer price sensitivity within the low-price segment following significant tax-driven price increases led to a total cigarette market decline of 3.5% for the full-year 2007, as consumers switched to other tobacco products. PMI's market share was down 1.0 point to 39.0%, primarily reflecting share declines for its low-price and local 70mm brands. However, market share rose 0.4 points to 8.5%. PMI's cigarette shipments in Poland declined 6.0% for the full-year 2007, but profits more than doubled due to improved pricing and product mix.
Marlboro
In Spain, the total cigarette market was down 1.2% for the full-year 2007, while PMI's market share of 32.1% was down slightly. share declined 0.6 points to 16.5%, partially offset by gains for ,and thebrand. Cigarette shipments in Spain rose 0.7% in 2007 and operating companies income climbed close to 40%.
Marlboro
Chesterfield
L&M
Philip Morris
2007 Full-Year and Fourth-Quarter Results
In Eastern Europe, Middle East & Africa (EEMA), PMI's operating companies income increased 17.5% to $2.4 billion for the full year 2007, due mainly to higher pricing, improved volume/mix and favorable currency of $90 million. Operating companies income grew 18.0% for the full year 2007 when adjusted for the impact of the items shown in the table below.
In the fourth quarter, operating companies income for the segment increased 21.1% to $516 million, due mainly to higher pricing, lower costs and favorable currency of $25 million. Operating companies income grew 20.6% for the fourth quarter of 2007 when adjusted for the impact of the items shown in the table below.
 
 
Full-year 2007 cigarette shipment volume of 291.3 billion units was up 0.9% as gains in Algeria, Bulgaria, Egypt and Ukraine were partially offset by declines in Romania, Russia, Serbia and Turkey. In the fourth quarter of 2007, cigarette shipment volume of 65.1 billion units was up 1.9%, driven by solid gains in Eastern Europe, Turkey and the Middle East, partially offset by lower duty-free shipments.
In Egypt, PMI's cigarette shipments rose 25.6% for the full-year 2007, while market share advanced 1.9 points to 12.0%, driven by ,and .
Marlboro
L&M
Merit
In Russia, shipment volume declined 2.0% for the full-year 2007, as lower volume for was partially offset by the continued growth of higher-margin brands, including ,, and . PMI market share of 26.6% was unchanged. Improved brand mix and better pricing resulted in income growth of 24%. In September 2007, PMI replaced the entire brand family with a completely new, smoother tasting product line-up in response to changing adult consumer preferences.
L&M
Marlboro
Parliament
Chesterfield
Muratti
L&M
In Turkey, the total market was down slightly by 0.4% for the full-year 2007 versus 2006, while PMI's market share declined 2.1 points to 40.4%, due mainly to the decline of lower-margin brands in PMI's portfolio. Although PMI's shipments were down 1.6%, income grew in the double digits, driven by strong pricing and growth in premium brand volume.
In Ukraine, shipments grew 4.7% for the full-year 2007 and market share rose 0.8 points to 33.9%, driven by adult consumer uptrading to ,and . Profit growth was robust at more than 25%.
Marlboro
Parliament
Chesterfield
2007 Full-Year and Fourth-Quarter Results
In Asia, operating companies income decreased 3.6% to $1.8 billion for the full-year 2007, primarily due to lower volume in Japan and unfavorable currency of $36 million, partially
 
offset by favorable pricing. Operating companies income decreased 3.1% for the full-year 2007 when adjusted for the impact of the items shown in the table below.
In the fourth quarter, operating companies income decreased 5.6% to $390 million, primarily due to lower volume in Japan, partially offset by favorable pricing. Operating companies income decreased 6.8% for the fourth quarter of 2007 when adjusted for the impact of the items shown in the table below.
 
 
PMI's full-year 2007 cigarette shipments of 211.7 billion units rose 8.8%, reflecting the acquisition of Lakson in Pakistan and higher volume in Indonesia and Korea, partially offset by a decline in Japan. Excluding the Lakson volume, shipments were down 3.2% or 6.2 billion units, reflecting the negative impact of inventory movements and the lower in-market sales in Japan in the fourth quarter of 2007. In the fourth quarter of 2007, PMI's cigarette shipment volume of 51.0 billion units rose 9.7%, due to acquisition volume in Pakistan and gains in Indonesia, Korea and Thailand, partially offset by Japan. Excluding acquisition volume in Pakistan, volume was down 5.1%.
In Indonesia, the total cigarette market was up 3.9% for the full-year 2007. PMI market share was down slightly to 28.0%, reflecting the share decline of and , due to a temporary stick-price disadvantage versus competitive brands, partially offset by the growth of , which gained 0.4 points to 4.0%. PMI's cigarette shipments grew 2.8% while shipments rose 14.7%, driven by focused marketing and improved distribution and the July 2007 kretek launch.
A Mild
Dji Sam Soe
Marlboro
Marlboro
Marlboro
In Japan, the total cigarette market declined 4.8% or 13.0 billion units for the full-year 2007, due primarily to the impact of the 2006 mid-year excise tax-driven price increase. PMI's
 
in-market sales were down 6.2% and market share declined 0.4 points to 24.3%, due mainly to . 's share at 9.9% was flat for the full-year 2007, but up 0.2 points in the fourth quarter of 2007 versus the year-earlier period. For the full-year 2007, cigarette shipment volume was down 12.6%, reflecting lower in-market sales and a reduction in distributor inventory durations at year-end 2007 versus 2006.
Lark
Marlboro
In Korea, the total market was up 4.6% for the full-year 2007. PMI's shipments rose 20.3% and market share increased 1.3 points to 9.9%. The share increase was driven by , and and benefited from recent new line extensions, including. Income was significantly higher in 2007.
Marlboro
Parliament
Virginia Slims
Marlboro Filter Plus
2007 Full-Year and Fourth-Quarter Results
In Latin America, operating companies income decreased 48.4% to $520 million in 2007, due mainly to the impact of the 2006 Dominican Republic transaction, partially offset by higher pricing in 2007. Operating companies income increased 14.5% for the full-year 2007 when adjusted for the impact of the items shown in the table below.
In the fourth quarter of 2007, operating companies income decreased 69.5% to $187 million, due mainly to the impact of the 2006 Dominican Republic transaction in the year-earlier period, partially offset by higher pricing. Operating companies income increased 55.8% for the fourth quarter of 2007 when adjusted for the impact of the items shown in the table below.
 
 
 
Full-year 2007 cigarette shipment volume of 89.9 billion units was up 0.8%, as higher volume in Argentina more than offset declines in Mexico and the Dominican Republic. Fourth quarter 2007 cigarette shipment volume of 25.1 billion units was up 6.4%, driven by gains in Argentina, Brazil, Colombia and acquisition volume in Mexico. Excluding local brands acquired in Mexico, full-year 2007 volume was down 0.3%, while fourth-quarter 2007 volume was up 2.5%.
In Argentina, the total cigarette market grew 3.0% for the full-year 2007. PMI's market share increased 2.6 points to a record 68.9%, driven by and the brand. PMI shipments grew 7.1% and profits advanced more than 40%.
Marlboro
Philip Morris
In Mexico, the total market declined 6.3% for the full-year 2007, due to lower consumption following the price increases in January and October 2007, as well as an unfavorable comparison with the prior year, which included trade purchases in advance of the January 2007 tax-driven price increase. PMI's market share gain of 0.8 points to a record 64.3% was fueled by and .'s share at 47.7% was flat versus the prior year.
Benson & Hedges
Delicados
Marlboro
2007 Full-Year and Fourth-Quarter Results
Philip Morris Capital Corporation (PMCC) reported operating companies income of $421 million for the full-year 2007 and $89 million for the fourth quarter of 2007, versus $176 million for the full-year 2006 and $38 million for the fourth quarter of 2006. Results for the full-year 2007 include cash recoveries of $214 million related to certain airline leases previously written down, versus a provision of $103 million in 2006. Results for the fourth quarter of 2007 reflect higher asset management gains versus the same period in 2006.
Consistent with its strategic shift in 2003, PMCC is focused on managing its existing portfolio of finance assets in order to maximize gains and generate cash flow from asset sales and related activities. PMCC is no longer making new investments and expects that its operating companies income will fluctuate over time as investments mature or are sold.
Altria Group, Inc. Profile
As of December 31, 2007, Altria owned 100% of Philip Morris International Inc., Philip Morris USA Inc., John Middleton, Inc. and Philip Morris Capital Corporation, and
 
approximately 28.6% of SABMiller plc. The brand portfolio of Altria's tobacco operating companies includes such well-known names as , , , and. Altria recorded 2007 net revenues from continuing operations of $73.8 billion.
Marlboro
L&M
Parliament
Virginia Slims
Black & Mild
Trademarks and service marks mentioned in this release are the registered property of, or licensed by, the subsidiaries of Altria Group, Inc.
A complete copy of Altria's audited 2007 financial statements will be available through Altria's website after they are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on or about February 4, 2008. If you do not have Internet access but would like to receive a copy of the 2007 audited financial statements for Altria, please call toll-free (800) 367-5415 in the U.S. and Canada to request a copy.
Forward-Looking and Cautionary Statements
This press release contains projections of future results and other forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties and are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The following important factors could cause actual results and outcomes to differ materially from those contained in such forward-looking statements.
Altria Group, Inc.'s tobacco subsidiaries (Philip Morris USA Inc., John Middleton, Inc. and Philip Morris International Inc.) are subject to intense price competition; changes in consumer preferences and demand for their products; fluctuations in levels of customer inventories; the effects of foreign economies and local economic and market conditions; unfavorable currency movements and changes to income tax laws. Their results are dependent upon their continued ability to promote brand equity successfully; to anticipate and respond to new consumer trends; to develop new products and markets and to broaden brand portfolios in order to compete effectively with lower-priced products; and to improve productivity.
Altria Group, Inc.'s tobacco subsidiaries continue to be subject to litigation, including risks associated with adverse jury and judicial determinations, and courts reaching conclusions at variance with the company's understanding of applicable law and bonding requirements in the limited number of jurisdictions that do not limit the dollar amount of appeal bonds; legislation, including actual and potential excise tax increases; discriminatory excise tax structures; increasing marketing and regulatory restrictions; the effects of price increases related to excise tax increases and concluded tobacco litigation settlements on consumption rates and consumer preferences within price segments; health concerns relating to the use of tobacco products and
 
exposure to environmental tobacco smoke; governmental regulation; privately imposed smoking restrictions; and governmental and grand jury investigations.
Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries are subject to other risks detailed from time to time in its publicly filed documents, including its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2006 and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2007. Altria Group, Inc. cautions that the foregoing list of important factors is not complete and does not undertake to update any forward-looking statements that it may make.
 
 
Schedule 1        
 
 
Schedule 2        
 
 
Schedule 3        
 
 
Schedule 4        
 
(*) The segment detail of excise taxes on products sold is shown in the Net Revenues page.
(**) Basic and diluted earnings per share are computed for each of the periods presented. Accordingly, the sum of the quarterly earnings per share amounts may not agree to the year-to-date amounts.
Schedule 5        
 
 
Schedule 6        
 
Schedule 7        
 
Schedule 8        
 
 
(*) Basic and diluted earnings per share are computed for each of the periods presented. Accordingly, the sum of the quarterly earnings per share amounts may not agree to the year-to-date amounts.
Schedule 9        
 


