FILE:MO/MO-8K-20080731085317.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On July 31, 2008, Altria Group, Inc. ("Altria") issued an earnings press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2008. A copy of the earnings press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information in Item 2.02 of this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. The information in Item 2.02 of this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing or document.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
DATE: July 31, 2008
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
RICHMOND, Va, July 31, 2008  Altria Group, Inc. (NYSE: MO) today announced second-quarter reported diluted earnings per share (EPS) from continuing operations of $0.45 versus $0.34 in the second quarter of 2007, up 32.4% versus the prior year. This quarter's reported results were impacted primarily by lower pre-tax charges related to the closure of Philip Morris USA's (PM USA) Cabarrus, North Carolina manufacturing facility, solid operating companies income (OCI) performance by PM USA and John Middleton Co. (Middleton), and lower general corporate and interest expenses. Adjusted diluted EPS from continuing operations increased 12.2% to $0.46 versus $0.41 in the prior-year period.
"During the second quarter, Altria delivered strong earnings per share growth, reflecting our commitment to deliver substantial shareholder return," said Michael E. Szymanczyk, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Altria Group, Inc. "Altria is reaffirming its 2008 earnings per share guidance, reflecting confidence in the strength of our businesses."
"PM USA delivered solid income growth and achieved strong retail share results, driven by , and John Middleton's cigar business delivered strong income, volume and share performance," Mr. Szymanczyk said. "Altria also continued to realize cost savings from its corporate restructuring program."
Marlboro
Conference Call
A conference call with members of the investment community and news media will be webcast on July 31, 2008 at 9:00 a.m. Eastern Time.Access to the webcast is available at www.altria.com.
2008 Full-Year Forecast
Altria reaffirms its 2008 EPS guidance. Altria forecasts that 2008 adjusted full-year diluted EPS from continuing operations will be in the range of $1.63 to $1.67. This range represents a 9% to 11% growth rate in EPS from an adjusted base of $1.50 per share in 2007 as shown in Schedule 7. Altria continues to expect full-year operating companies income growth from continuing operations in the mid-single digits on both a reported and adjusted basis. The factors described in the Forward-Looking and Cautionary Statements section of this release represent continuing risks to these projections.
2008 Second-Quarter Results Excluding Special Items
Adjusted for the items shown in Table 1 below, second-quarter adjusted diluted EPS from continuing operations increased 12.2% versus the prior-year period to $0.46.
 
 
Adjusted for the items shown in Table 2 below, adjusted diluted EPS from continuing operations increased 10.8% in the first half of 2008 versus the prior-year period to $0.82.
 
Share Repurchase Program
Altria began repurchasing shares as part of its previously announced share repurchase program. Altria spent $1.2 billion and repurchased 53.5 million shares of stock at an average price of $21.81 in the second quarter of 2008.
As described in "Note 15. Segment Reporting" of Altria's 2007 Annual Report, management reviews operating companies income, which is defined as operating income before corporate expenses and amortization of intangibles, to evaluate segment performance and allocate resources. Management believes it is appropriate to disclose this measure to help investors analyze business performance and trends. For a reconciliation of operating companies income to operating income, see the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Earnings contained in this release.
Altria's reporting segments are Cigarettes and other tobacco products, manufactured and sold by PM USA; Cigars, manufactured and sold by Middleton; and Financial services, provided by Philip Morris Capital Corporation (PMCC).
All references in this news release are to continuing operations, unless otherwise noted.
2008 Second-Quarter Results
Net revenues increased 4.0% to $5.1 billion. Operating income increased 30.7% to $1.3 billion, primarily driven by lower pre-tax charges related to the closure of PM USA's Cabarrus,
 
North Carolina cigarette manufacturing facility, increased operating companies income and lower general corporate expenses. In the second quarter of 2007, Altria had a cash recovery from PMCC's assets that had been previously written down, which positively impacted operating income in that quarter.
Earnings from continuing operations increased 30.1% to $930 million, reflecting the items mentioned above as well as decreased interest expense due to lower debt outstanding, partially offset by higher income taxes.
Net earnings, including discontinued operations, decreased 58.0% to $930 million due to the Philip Morris International (PMI) spin-off. Diluted EPS, as detailed on Schedule 1, was $0.45.
2008 Second-Quarter Results
PM USA's net revenues increased 2.2% to $4.9 billion. Revenues net of excise taxes increased 3.8% to approximately $4.1 billion, primarily driven by lower wholesale promotional allowance rates, partially offset by lower volume. Following the PMI spin-off in March 2008, PM USA began reporting revenues and costs of sales for contract volume manufactured for PMI consistent with all other sales to third parties. PM USA's second-quarter revenues included $107 million from contract volume manufactured for PMI under an agreement that is expected to terminate before the end of this year. As shown in Table 3 below, PM USA's adjusted revenues net of excise taxes and contract volume manufactured for PMI increased 1.0% to approximately $4.0 billion.
 
PM USA's operating companies income increased 33.2% to $1.3 billion, due to lower pre-tax charges related to the closure of the Cabarrus, North Carolina cigarette manufacturing facility, as well as lower wholesale promotional allowance rates, partially offset by lower
 
volume, increased resolution expenses, and costs related to the reduction of contract volume manufactured for PMI. Adjusted for items related to the Cabarrus, North Carolina facility closure, PM USA's second-quarter 2008 operating companies income increased by 3.8% to approximately $1.4 billion as shown in Table 4 below.
 
* Adjusted OCI margins are calculated as adjusted operating companies income, divided by adjusted PM USA revenues net of excise taxes and contract volume manufactured for PMI.
PM USA's domestic cigarette shipment volume of 43.6 billion units was 4.5% lower than the prior-year period, but was estimated to be down approximately 3.5% when adjusted for changes in trade inventories. PM USA estimates that total cigarette industry volume declined approximately 4% in the second quarter. For the first half of 2008, PM USA's domestic cigarette volume of 83.7 billion units was 2.9% lower than the prior-year period, but was estimated to be down approximately 3.5% when adjusted for changes in trade inventories. For the full-year 2008, PM USA estimates a total cigarette industry volume decline of approximately 3% to 3.5%.
Cigarette volume performance by brand for PM USA is summarized in Table 5 below.
 
* Unit volume includes units sold as well as promotional units, and excludes Puerto Rico, U.S. Territories, Overseas Military, Philip Morris Duty Free Inc. and contract manufacturing for PMI.
** Calculation based on millions of units.
 
As shown in Table 6 below, PM USA achieved strong retail cigarette share results in the second quarter of 2008, driven by , which increased its retail share by 0.8 share points versus the prior-year period to a record 41.8%.
Marlboro
 
* Retail share performance is based on data from the Information Resources, Inc. (IRI)/Capstone Total Retail Panel, which is a tracking service that uses a sample of stores to project market share performance in retail stores selling cigarettes. The panel was not designed to capture sales through other channels, including the Internet and direct mail.
PM USA continues to test market Snus, which is a spit-free, smokeless tobacco pouch product designed especially for adult smokers, in Dallas, Texas and Indianapolis, Indiana. In addition, PM USA continues to test market Moist Smokeless Tobacco, which is designed to provide a premium quality product at an attractive price for adult moist smokeless tobacco consumers, in the greater Atlanta, Georgia area.
Marlboro
Marlboro
2008 Second-Quarter Results
Middleton's second-quarter net revenues were $101 million. Revenues net of excise taxes were $85 million. Operating companies income in the second quarter was $50 million, which includes a pre-tax charge of $1 million for integration costs. Middleton's second-quarter cigar shipment volume grew 11.0% versus the prior-year period to 355 million units, driven by its leading brand .
Black & Mild
 
Middleton's second-quarter retail share increased 2.6 share points versus the prior-year period to 27.8% of the machine-made large cigar segment, driven by
Black & Mild
1
. Second-quarter retail share for increased 2.9 share points versus the prior-year period to 27.0% of the machine-made large cigar segment.
Black & Mild
At the end of the first quarter of 2008, PM USA's Sales Force began representing Middleton's brands at retail. PM USA's Sales Force efforts increased 's retail distribution and visibility, which contributed to Middleton's strong volume and share gains in the second quarter.
Black & Mild
2008 Second-Quarter Results
PMCC reported operating companies income of $30 million for the second quarter of 2008 versus $139 million for the prior-year period. Operating companies income was lower due to a 2007 cash recovery of $78 million from assets that had been previously written down, as well as lower asset management gains and lease revenues in 2008.
PMCC remains focused on managing its portfolio of leased assets to maximize gains and cash flows from income generating assets, as well as asset sales and related activities. PMCC is not making new investments and expects that its operating companies income will vary over time as investments mature or are sold.
Altria Group, Inc. Profile
As of June 30, 2008, Altria owned 100% of each of PM USA, Middleton and PMCC, and approximately 28.5% of SABMiller plc. The brand portfolio of Altria's tobacco operating companies includes such well-known names as , , and. Altria recorded 2007 net revenues from continuing operations of approximately $18.7 billion.
Marlboro
Parliament
Virginia Slims, Basic
Black & Mild
Trademarks and service marks referenced in this release are the property of, or licensed by, Altria Group, Inc. or its subsidiaries.
 
 
 
Forward-Looking and Cautionary Statements
This press release contains projections of future results and other forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties and are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The following important factors could cause actual results and outcomes to differ materially from those contained in such forward-looking statements.
Altria's tobacco subsidiaries (PM USA and Middleton) are subject to intense price competition; changes in consumer preferences and demand for their products; fluctuations in raw material availability, quality and cost; fluctuations in levels of customer inventories; the effects of global, national and local economic and market conditions; changes to income tax laws; legislation, including actual and potential excise tax increases; increasing marketing and regulatory restrictions; the effects of price increases related to excise tax increases and concluded tobacco litigation settlements on consumption rates and consumer preferences within price segments; health concerns relating to the use of tobacco products and exposure to environmental tobacco smoke; governmental regulation; privately imposed smoking restrictions; and governmental and grand jury investigations. Their results are dependent upon their continued ability to promote brand equity successfully; to anticipate and respond to new consumer trends; to develop new products and markets and to broaden brand portfolios in order to compete effectively; and to improve productivity.
Altria's subsidiaries continue to be subject to litigation, including risks associated with adverse jury and judicial determinations, courts reaching conclusions at variance with the company's understanding of applicable law and bonding requirements in the limited number of jurisdictions that do not limit the dollar amount of appeal bonds.
Altria and its subsidiaries are subject to other risks detailed from time to time in its publicly filed documents, including its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2008. Altria cautions that the foregoing list of important factors is not complete and does not undertake to update any forward-looking statements that it may make.
CONTACT:
Clifford B. Fleet
Vice President, Investor Relations
804-484-8222
Daniel R. Murphy
Director, Investor Relations
804-484-8222
SOURCE: Altria Group, Inc.
 
Schedule 1
 
 
Schedule 2
 
 
(*)  The segment detail of excise taxes on products sold is shown in Schedule 4.
(**)  Basic and diluted earnings per share are computed independently for each period. Accordingly, the sum of the quarterly earnings per share amounts may not agree to the year-to-date amounts.
Schedule 4
 
Schedule 5
 
Schedule 6
 
 
Schedule 7
 
 
 
 
(*) Diluted earnings per share are computed independently for each period. Accordingly, the sum of the quarterly earnings per share amounts may not agree to the total for the year.
Schedule 8
 


