FILE:MO/MO-8K-20081222172833.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
364-Day Bridge Loan Agreement
In connection with the acquisition of UST, Inc. ("UST") by Altria Group, Inc. ("Altria"), Altria entered into a 364-Day Bridge Loan Agreement (the "Bridge Loan Agreement") on December 19, 2008 with the lenders named therein, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. ("JPMCB") and Goldman Sachs Credit Partners L.P., as administrative agents, Citicorp North America, Inc., Barclays Bank PLC, Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., Santander Investment Securities Inc., HSBC Securities (USA) Inc. and The Bank of Nova Scotia, as syndication agents, and Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Barclays Bank PLC, Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., Santander Investment Securities Inc., HSBC Securities (USA) Inc. and The Bank of Nova Scotia, as co-arrangers. The Bridge Loan Agreement provides for borrowings up to an aggregate principal amount of $5.08 billion at prevailing interest rates which will be based, in part, on Altria's long-term senior unsecured debt rating and requires that commitments thereunder be reduced or any borrowings thereunder be repaid by an amount equal to 100% of the net proceeds of any specified capital markets financing transaction (such as the issuance of Altria's 7.125% Notes due 2010, which is described in more detail below under Item 8.01), as described in the Bridge Loan Agreement. The Bridge Loan Agreement expires 364 days from the date the UST acquisition is consummated. Altria's obligations under the Bridge Loan Agreement are guaranteed by Philip Morris USA Inc. ("PM USA"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Altria.
The Bridge Loan Agreement requires that Altria maintain (i) a ratio of consolidated debt to consolidated EBITDA of not more than 3.0 to 1 and (ii) a ratio of consolidated EBITDA to consolidated interest expense of not less than 4.0 to 1.
The description of the Bridge Loan Agreement above is a summary and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Bridge Loan Agreement, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 10.1 to this report and incorporated herein by reference.
 
The information described above under "Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement" is hereby incorporated by reference.
 
Amendment to 5-Year Revolving Credit Agreement
On December 19, 2008, Altria received consents to amend its 5-Year Revolving Credit Agreement (the "5-Year Revolver") from the requisite lenders thereunder. The amendment increases Altria's maximum ratio of debt to consolidated EBITDA to 3.0 to 1, which is an increase from the previous maximum ratio of 2.5 to 1. Except as set forth in the amendment, the terms and conditions of the 5-Year Revolver remain unchanged.
The lenders under both the 5-Year Revolver and the Bridge Loan Agreement and their affiliates have various relationships with Altria and its subsidiaries involving the provision of financial services, including cash management, investment banking and trust services.
Issuance of 7.125% Notes due 2010
On December 22, 2008, Altria issued $775,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its 7.125% Notes due 2010 (the "Notes"). The Notes were issued pursuant to an Indenture (the "Indenture"), dated as of November 4, 2008, among Altria, PM USA, and Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, as trustee (the "Trustee"). The Notes are guaranteed by PM USA. PM USA's guarantee was issued pursuant to the Indenture, and evidenced by a guarantee agreement made by PM USA in favor of the Trustee for the Notes (the "Guarantee Agreement").
The Notes will be Altria's senior unsecured obligations and will rank equally in right of payment with all of Altria's existing and future senior unsecured indebtedness. The Guarantee Agreement will be PM USA's senior unsecured obligation and will rank equally in right of payment with all of PM USA's existing and future senior unsecured indebtedness.
 
On December 18, 2008, Altria and PM USA entered into a Terms Agreement (the "Terms Agreement") with Barclays Capital Inc., Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., Goldman, Sachs & Co., HSBC Securities (USA) Inc., J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., Santander Investment Securities Inc. and Scotia Capital (USA) Inc., as representatives of the several underwriters named therein (the "Underwriters"), pursuant to which Altria agreed to issue and sell the Notes to the Underwriters on the terms and conditions specified therein. The provisions of an Underwriting Agreement, dated as of November 4, 2008 (the "Underwriting Agreement"), are incorporated by reference in the Terms Agreement.
Interest on the Notes is payable on June 22 and December 22 of each year, commencing June 22, 2009, to holders of record on the preceding June 7 or December 7, as the case may be. The Notes will mature on June 22, 2010.
Altria has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission a Prospectus dated November 4, 2008 (Registration No. 333-155009) and a Prospectus Supplement dated December 18, 2008 in connection with the public offering of the Notes.
As noted under Item 1.01 above, the Bridge Loan Agreement requires that commitments thereunder be reduced or any borrowings thereunder be repaid by an amount equal to 100% of the net proceeds of any specified capital markets financing transaction. Consequently, commitments under the Bridge Loan Agreement will be reduced by an amount equal to the net proceeds (after expenses) from Altria's offering of the Notes.
The descriptions of the Underwriting Agreement, the Terms Agreement and the Guarantee Agreement are qualified in their entirety by the terms of such agreements themselves. Please refer to such agreements and the form of Notes, each of which is incorporated herein by reference and attached to this report as Exhibits 1.1, 1.2, 4.1 and 4.2, respectively.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
DATE: December 22, 2008
 
 
 

Exhibit 1.2
December 18, 2008
A G, I.
LTRIA
ROUP
NC
P M USA I.
HILIP
ORRIS
NC
6601 West Broad Street
Richmond, Virginia 23230
 
Dear Ladies and Gentlemen:
On behalf of the several Underwriters named in Schedule A hereto and for their respective accounts, we offer to purchase, on and subject to the terms and conditions of the Underwriting Agreement relating to Debt Securities and Warrants to Purchase Debt Securities dated as of November 4, 2008 in connection with Altria Group, Inc.'s and Philip Morris USA Inc.'s registration statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-155009) and which is incorporated herein by reference (the ""), the following securities ("") on the following terms:
Underwriting Agreement
Securities
Title:
7.125% Notes due 2010 (the "").
Notes
Principal Amount:
$775,000,000
Interest Rate:
7.125% per annum from December 22, 2008, payable semiannually in arrears on June 22 and December 22, commencing June 22, 2009, to holders of record on the preceding June 7 or December 7, as the case may be.
Maturity:
June 22, 2010.
 
Currency of Denomination:
United States Dollars ($).
Currency of Payment:
United States Dollars ($).
Form and Denomination:
Book-entry form only represented by one or more global securities deposited with The Depository Trust Company, including its participants Clearstream or Euroclear, or their respective designated custodian, in denominations of $2,000 and $1,000 integral multiples thereof.
Interest Rate Adjustment:
The interest rate payable on the Notes will be subject to adjustment from time to time if the rating assigned to the Notes by Moody's Investors Service, Inc. or Standard & Poor's Ratings Services is downgraded (or subsequently upgraded) as and to the extent set forth under the caption "Description of NotesInterest Rate Adjustment" in the prospectus supplement.
Change of Control:
Upon the occurrence of both (i) a change of control of the Company and (ii) the Notes ceasing to be rated investment grade by each of Moody's Investors Service, Inc., Standard & Poor's Ratings Services and Fitch Ratings within a specified period, the Company will be required to make an offer to purchase the Notes at a price equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of repurchase as and to the extent set forth under the caption "Description of NotesRepurchase Upon Change of Control Triggering Event" in the prospectus supplement.
Conversion Provisions:
None.
Optional Tax Redemption:
The Company may redeem all, but not part, of the Notes upon the occurrence of specified tax events described under the caption "Description of NotesRedemption for Tax Reasons" in the prospectus supplement.
Option to Elect Repayment:
None.
 
Sinking Fund:
None.
Guarantor:
Philip Morris USA Inc.
In addition to the Events of Default set forth in the Indenture, dated as of November 4, 2008 (the "") among the Company, the Guarantor and Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, as and to the extent set forth under the caption "Description of NotesSubsidiary Guarantee" in the prospectus supplement, each of the following will constitute an Event of Default (within the meaning of the Indenture) with respect to the Notes: (i) the Guarantor or a court takes certain actions relating to bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization of the Guarantor, and (ii) the Guarantor's guarantee with respect to the Notes is determined to be unenforceable or invalid or for any reason ceases to be in full force and effect as permitted by the Indenture of the Guarantee Agreement, or the Guarantor repudiates its obligations under such guarantee.
Indenture
Listing:
None.
Delayed Delivery Contracts:
None.
Payment of Additional Amounts:
In addition, the Company shall pay Additional Amounts to holders as and to the extent set forth under the caption "Description of NotesPayment of Additional Amounts" in the prospectus supplement.
Purchase Price:
99.75% of the principal amount of the Notes, plus accrued interest, if any, from December 22, 2008.
Expected Reoffering Price:
100.00% of the principal amount of the Notes, plus accrued interest, if any, from December 22, 2008.
Names and Addresses of Representatives of the Several Underwriters:
Barclays Capital Inc.
745 Seventh Avenue
 
New York, New York 10019
Citigroup Global Markets Inc.
388 Greenwich Street
New York, New York 10013
Deutsche Bank Securities Inc.
60 Wall Street
New York, New York 10005
Goldman, Sachs & Co.
85 Broad Street
New York, New York 10004
HSBC Securities (USA) Inc.
HSBC Tower 3
452 5
th
Avenue
New York, New York 10018
J.P. Morgan Securities Inc.
383 Madison Avenue, Floor 28
New York, New York 10179
Santander Investment Securities Inc.
45 E. 53
rd
Street, 14
th
Floor
New York, New York 10022
Scotia Capital (USA) Inc.
One Liberty Plaza
165 Broadway, 25
th
Floor
New York, New York 10006
The respective principal amounts of the Debt Securities to be severally purchased by each of the Underwriters are set forth opposite their names in Schedule A hereto.
Except as set forth below, the provisions of the Underwriting Agreement are incorporated herein by reference and the following provisions are hereby added thereto and made a part thereof:
1. For purposes of the Underwriting Agreement, the "" is 4:30 P.M. New York City time, on the date of this Terms Agreement.
Applicable Time
2. For purposes of Section 5(d)(xi) of the Underwriting Agreement, the descriptions of contracts and other documents referred to in such counsel's opinion shall include, but not be limited to, the information appearing under the captions "The Company," "Description of Debt
 
Securities," "Description of Guarantees of Debt Securities," "Description of Notes," and "Underwriting" in the prospectus supplement.
3. For purposes of Section 6 of the Underwriting Agreement, the only information furnished to the Company and Philip Morris USA Inc. by the Underwriters for use in the prospectus supplement consists of the following information: the concession and reallowance figures appearing in the third paragraph under the caption "Underwriting" in the prospectus supplement and the information contained in the fifth and sixth paragraphs under the caption "Underwriting" in the prospectus supplement.
4. Section 5 of the Underwriting Agreement is hereby amended by adding the following additional conditions precedent:
"(l) On or prior to the date of the Terms Agreement, the Representatives, and counsel for the Underwriters, shall have received a letter from Ernst & Young LLP, UST Inc.'s independent accountants, in form and substance satisfactory to the Representatives, dated the date of the Applicable Time, confirming that as of the date of their report and during the period covered by such financial statements on which they reported, they were an independent registered public accounting firm with respect to UST Inc. within the meaning of the Act and the applicable rules and regulations thereunder adopted by the Commission and the PCAOB and, stating, as of the date of such letter (or with respect to matters involving changes or developments since the respective dates as of which specified financial information is given or incorporated in the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus, as of a date not more than three days prior to the date of such letter), the conclusions and findings of such firm or firms with respect to the financial statements and certain financial information contained in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus and the Pricing Disclosure Package.
(m) The Representatives shall have received a letter in form and substance satisfactory to the Representatives, dated the Closing Date, of Ernst & Young LLP, UST Inc.'s independent accountants, which confirms the conclusion and findings set forth in the letter or letters of such firm delivered pursuant to the requirements of subsection (l) of this Section, except that the specified date referred to in such subsection will be a date not more than three days prior to the Closing Date for purposes of this subsection."
The Closing will take place at 9:00 A.M., New York City time, on December 22, 2008, at the offices of Hunton & Williams LLP, 200 Park Avenue, New York, New York 10166.
The Securities will be made available for checking and packaging at the offices of Hunton & Williams LLP, 200 Park Avenue, New York, New York 10166 at least 24 hours prior to the Closing Date.
 
Please signify your acceptance by signing the enclosed response to us in the space provided and returning it to us.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Filed Pursuant to Rule 433
Registration No. 333-155009
December 18, 2008
 
 
Note: A securities rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time.
The issuer has filed a registration statement (including a prospectus) with the SEC for the offering to which this communication relates. Before you invest, you should read the prospectus in that registration statement and other documents the issuer has filed with the SEC for more complete information about the issuer and this offering. You may get these documents for free by visiting EDGAR on the SEC Web site at www.sec.gov. Alternatively, the issuer, any underwriter or any dealer participating in the offering will arrange to send you the prospectus if you request it by calling Barclays Capital Inc. toll free at 1-888-227-2275 (ext. 2663), Citigroup Global Markets Inc. toll free at 1-877-858-5407, Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. toll free at 1-800-503-4611, Goldman, Sachs & Co. toll free at 1-866-471-2526, HSBC Securities (USA) Inc. toll free at 1-866-811-8049, J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. collect at 1-212-834-4533, Santander Investment Securities Inc. collect at 212-350-3500 and Scotia Capital (USA) Inc. toll free at 1-800-372-3930.

Exhibit 4.1
GUARANTEE, dated as of December 22, 2008 (as amended from time to time, this ""), made by Philip Morris USA Inc., a Virginia corporation (the ""), in favor of Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, as trustee ("") for the registered holders (the "") of the 7.125% Notes due 2010 (collectively, the "") of Altria Group, Inc., a Virginia corporation (the "").
Guarantee
Guarantor
Trustee
Holders
Debt Securities
Issuer
SECTION 1. . (a) The Guarantor hereby unconditionally guarantees the punctual payment when due, whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise, of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Debt Securities (the ""), according to the terms of the Debt Securities and as more fully described in the Indenture (as amended, modified or otherwise supplemented from time to time, the ""), dated as of November 4, 2008, among the Issuer, the Guarantor and the Trustee, and any other amounts payable by the Guarantor under the Indenture.
Guarantee
Obligations
Indenture
(b) It is the intention of the Guarantor that this Guarantee not constitute a fraudulent transfer or conveyance for purposes of Bankruptcy Law, the Uniform Fraudulent Conveyance Act, the Uniform Fraudulent Transfer Act or any similar federal or state law to the extent applicable to this Guarantee. To effectuate the foregoing intention, the amount guaranteed by the Guarantor under this Guarantee shall be limited to the maximum amount as will, after giving effect to such maximum amount and all other contingent and fixed liabilities of the Guarantor that are relevant under such laws, result in the Obligations of the Guarantor under this Guarantee not constituting a fraudulent transfer or conveyance. For purposes hereof, "Bankruptcy Law" means Title 11, U.S. Code, or any similar federal or state law for the relief of debtors.
SECTION 2. . The Guarantor guarantees that the Obligations will be paid strictly in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, regardless of any law, regulation or order now or hereafter in effect in any jurisdiction affecting any of such terms or the rights of Holders of the Debt Securities with respect thereto. The liability of the Guarantor under this Guarantee shall be absolute and unconditional irrespective of:
Guarantee Absolute
(i) any lack of validity, enforceability or genuineness of any provision of the Indenture, the Debt Securities or any other agreement or instrument relating thereto;
(ii) any change in the time, manner or place of payment of, or in any other term of, all or any of the Obligations, or any other amendment or waiver of or any consent to departure from the Indenture;
(iii) any exchange, release or non-perfection of any collateral, or any release or amendment or waiver of or consent to departure from any other guarantee, for all or any of the Obligations; or
(iv) any other circumstance that might otherwise constitute a defense available to, or a discharge of, the Issuer or a guarantor.
SECTION 3. . The Guarantor covenants and agrees that its obligation to make payments of the Obligations hereunder constitutes an unsecured obligation of the Guarantor ranking (a)  with all existing and future senior indebtedness of the Guarantor and (b) senior in right of payment to all existing and future subordinated indebtedness of the Guarantor.
Subordination
pari passu
SECTION 4. . (a) The Guarantor hereby waives promptness, diligence, notice of acceptance and any other notice with respect to this Guarantee and any requirement that the Trustee, or the Holders of any Debt Securities protect, secure, perfect or insure any security interest or lien or any property subject thereto or exhaust any right or take any action against the Issuer or any other Person or any collateral.
Waiver; Subrogation
(b) The Guarantor hereby irrevocably waives any claims or other rights that it may now or hereafter acquire against the Issuer that arise from the existence, payment, performance or enforcement of the Guarantor's obligations under this Guarantee or the Indenture, including, without limitation, any right of subrogation, reimbursement, exoneration, contribution or indemnification and any right to participate in any claim or remedy of the Trustee, or the Holders of any Debt Securities against the Issuer or any collateral, whether or not such claim, remedy or right arises in equity or under contract, statute or common law, including, without limitation, the right to take or receive from the Issuer, directly or indirectly, in cash or other property or by set-off or in any other manner, payment or security on account of such claim, remedy or right. If any amount shall be paid to the Guarantor in violation of the preceding sentence at any time prior to the cash payment in full of the Obligations and all other amounts payable under this Guarantee, such amount shall be held in trust for the benefit of the Trustee and the Holders of any Debt Securities and shall forthwith be paid to the Trustee, to be credited and applied to the Obligations and all other amounts payable under this Guarantee, whether matured or unmatured, in accordance with the terms of the Indenture and this Guarantee, or be held as collateral for any Obligations or other amounts payable under this Guarantee thereafter arising. The Guarantor acknowledges that it will receive direct and indirect benefits from the financing arrangements contemplated by the Indenture and this Guarantee and that the waiver set forth in this Section 4 is knowingly made in contemplation of such benefits.
SECTION 5. . No failure on the part of the Trustee or any Holder of the Debt Securities to exercise, and no delay in exercising, any right hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof; nor shall any single or partial exercise of any right hereunder preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right. The remedies herein provided are cumulative and not exclusive of any remedies provided by law.
No Waiver; Remedies
SECTION 6. . This Guarantee is a continuing guarantee and shall (a) remain in full force and effect until the earliest to occur of (i) the date, if any, on which the Guarantor shall consolidate with or merge into the Issuer or any successor thereto, (ii) the date, if any, on which the Issuer or any successor thereto shall consolidate with or merge into the Guarantor, (iii) payment in full of the Obligations, and (iv) the rating of the Issuer's long term senior unsecured debt by Standard & Poor's of A or higher, (b) be binding upon the Guarantor, its successors and assigns, and (c) inure to the benefit of and be
Continuing Guarantee; Transfer of Interest
 
enforceable by any Holder of Debt Securities, the Trustee, and by their respective successors, transferees, and assigns.
SECTION 7. . This Guarantee shall continue to be effective or be reinstated, as the case may be, if at any time any payment of any of the Obligations is rescinded or must otherwise be returned by any Holder of the Debt Securities or the Trustee upon the insolvency, bankruptcy or reorganization of the Issuer or otherwise, all as though such payment had not been made.
Reinstatement
SECTION 8. . The Guarantor may amend this Guarantee at any time for any purpose without the consent of the Trustee or any Holder of the Debt Securities; , that if such amendment adversely affects (a) the rights of the Trustee or (b) any Holder of the Debt Securities, the prior written consent of the Trustee (in the case of (b), acting at the written direction of the Holders of more than 50% in aggregate principal amount of Debt Securities) shall be required.
Amendment
provided, however
SECTION 9. . This Guarantee shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
Governing Law
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Guarantor has caused this Guarantee to be duly executed and delivered by its officer thereunto duly authorized as of the date first above written.
 
 

Exhibit 4.2
REGISTERED
No.
 
THIS NOTE IS A GLOBAL SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE THEREOF. UNLESS AND UNTIL IT IS EXCHANGED IN WHOLE OR IN PART FOR NOTES IN CERTIFICATED FORM, THIS NOTE MAY NOT BE TRANSFERRED EXCEPT AS A WHOLE BY THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY (THE "DEPOSITARY") TO A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY OR BY THE DEPOSITARY OR ANY SUCH NOMINEE TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE OF SUCH SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY. UNLESS THIS NOTE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITARY TO THE COMPANY OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY NOTE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITARY (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITARY), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
ALTRIA GROUP, INC., a Virginia corporation (hereinafter called the "Company", which term includes any successor corporation under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to Cede & Co. or registered assigns, the principal sum of $ on June 22, 2010, and to pay interest thereon from December 22, 2008 or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, semi-annually in arrears on June 22 and December 22 in each year, commencing June 22, 2009 at the rate of 7.125% per annum until the principal hereof is paid or made available for payment.
                    
The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in the Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Note (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest, which shall be June 7 or December 7 (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, next preceding such Interest Payment Date. Any such interest not so punctually paid or duly provided for shall forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date and may be paid to the Person in whose name this Note (or one or more
Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee for the Notes, notice whereof shall be given to Holders of Notes not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or may be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Notes may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in said Indenture.
Payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on this Note will be made at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, in such coin or currency of the United States of America, as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts; , , that at the option of the Company payment of interest may be made by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall appear on the Securities Register or by wire transfer at such place and to such account at a banking institution in the United States as may be designated in writing to the Trustee at least 15 days prior to the date for payment by the person entitled thereto. All payments of principal, premium, if any, and interest in respect of this Note will be made by the Company in immediately available funds.
provided
however
Additional provisions of this Note are contained on the reverse hereof, and such provisions shall have the same effect as though fully set forth in this place.
Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by or on behalf of the Trustee for the Notes by manual signature, this Note shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture, or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, ALTRIA GROUP, INC. has caused this instrument to be duly executed.
Dated:
 
This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein described in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
This Note is one of a duly authorized issue of debentures, notes or other evidences of indebtedness (hereinafter called the "Securities") of the Company of the series hereinafter specified, which series is limited in aggregate principal amount to $775,000,000 (except as provided in the Indenture hereinafter mentioned), all such Securities issued and to be issued under an Indenture, dated as of November 4, 2008, among the Company, Philip Morris USA Inc., as Guarantor, and Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, as Trustee (herein called the "Indenture"), to which Indenture and all other indentures supplemental thereto reference is hereby made for a statement of the rights and limitations of rights thereunder of the Holders of the Securities and of the rights, obligations, duties and immunities of the Trustee for each series of Securities and of the Company, and the terms upon which the Securities are and are to be authenticated and delivered. As provided in the Indenture, the Securities may be issued in one or more series, which different series may be issued in various aggregate principal amounts, may mature at different times, may bear interest, if any, at different rates, may be subject to different redemption provisions, if any, may be subject to different sinking, purchase or analogous funds, if any, may be subject to different covenants and Events of Default and may otherwise vary as in the Indenture provided or permitted. This Note is one of a series of the Securities designated therein as 7.125 % Notes due 2010 (the "Notes").
Guarantee
The Notes have the benefit of the unconditional guarantee by the Guarantor to pay the principal of, and premium, if any, and interest, if any, on the Notes, according to the terms of and as more fully described in the Indenture and the related Guarantee Agreement executed by the Guarantor on the date hereof.
Interest Rate Adjustment
The interest rate payable on the Notes will be subject to adjustments from time to time if either Moody's Investors Service, Inc., a subsidiary of Moody's Corporation, and its successors ("Moody's"), or Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., and its successors ("S&P"), or, in either case, any Substitute Rating Agency (as defined below) thereof downgrades (or subsequently upgrades) the debt rating assigned to the Notes, in the manner described below.
If the rating from Moody's (or any Substitute Rating Agency thereof) of the Notes is decreased to a rating set forth in the immediately following table, the interest rate on the Notes will increase such that it will equal the interest rate payable on the Notes on their Issue Date plus the percentage set forth opposite the ratings from the table below:
 
If the rating from S&P (or any Substitute Rating Agency thereof) of the Notes is decreased to a rating set forth in the immediately following table, the interest rate on the Notes will increase such that it will equal the interest rate payable on the Notes on their Issue Date plus the percentage set forth opposite the ratings from the table below:
 
 
If at any time the interest rate on the Notes has been adjusted upward and either Moody's or S&P (or, in either case, a Substitute Rating Agency thereof), as the case may be, subsequently increases its rating of the Notes to any of the threshold ratings set forth above, the interest rate on the Notes will be decreased such that the interest rate for the Notes equals the interest rate payable on the Notes on their Issue Date plus the percentages set forth opposite the ratings from the tables above in effect immediately following the increase. If Moody's (or any Substitute Rating Agency thereof) subsequently increases its rating of the Notes to Baa3 (or its equivalent, in the case of a Substitute Rating Agency) or higher, and S&P (or any Substitute Rating Agency thereof) increases its rating to BBB- (or its equivalent, in the case of a Substitute Rating Agency) or higher the interest rate on the Notes will be decreased to the interest rate payable on the Notes on their Issue Date. In addition, the interest rates on the Notes will permanently cease to be subject to any adjustment described above (notwithstanding any subsequent decrease in the ratings by either or both of Moody's and S&P) if the Notes become rated A3 and A- (or the equivalent of either such rating, in the case of a Substitute Rating Agency) or higher by Moody's and S&P (or, in either case, a Substitute Rating Agency thereof), respectively (or one of these ratings if the Notes are only rated by one rating agency).
Each adjustment required by any decrease or increase in a rating set forth above, whether occasioned by the action of Moody's or S&P (or, in either case, a Substitute Rating Agency thereof), shall be made independent of any and all other adjustments. In no event shall (1) the interest rate for the Notes of a series be reduced to below the interest rate payable on their Issue Date or (2) the total increase in the interest rate on the Notes exceed 2.00% above the interest rate payable on the Notes on their Issue Date.
No adjustments in the interest rate of the Notes shall be made solely as a result of a rating agency ceasing to provide a rating of the Notes. If at any time fewer than two rating agencies provide a rating of the Notes for a reason beyond the Company's control, the Company will use its commercially reasonable efforts to obtain a rating of the Notes from a Substitute Rating Agency, to the extent one exists, and if a Substitute Rating Agency exists, for purposes of determining any increase or decrease in the interest rate on the Notes pursuant to the tables above (a) such Substitute Rating Agency will be substituted for the last rating agency to provide a rating of the Notes but which has since ceased to provide such rating, (b) the relative rating scale used by such Substitute Rating Agency to assign ratings to senior unsecured debt will be determined in good faith by an independent investment banking institution of national standing appointed by the Company and, for purposes of determining the applicable ratings included in the applicable table above with respect to such Substitute Rating Agency, such ratings will be deemed to be the equivalent ratings used by Moody's or S&P, as applicable, in such table and (c) the interest rate on the Notes will increase or decrease, as the case may be, such that the interest rate equals the interest rate payable on the notes of such series on their Issue Date plus the appropriate percentage, if any, set forth opposite the rating from such Substitute Rating Agency in the applicable table above (taking into account the provisions of clause (b) above) (plus any applicable percentage resulting from a decreased rating by the other rating agency). For so long as only one rating agency provides a rating of the Notes, any subsequent increase or decrease in the interest rate of the Notes necessitated by a reduction or increase in the rating by the agency providing the rating shall be twice the percentage set forth in the applicable table above. For so long as none of Moody's, S&P or a Substitute Rating Agency provides a rating of the Notes, the interest rate on the Notes will increase to, or remain at, as the case may be, 2.00% above the interest rate payable on the notes of such series on their Issue Date.
Any interest rate increase or decrease described above will take effect from the first day of the interest period during which a rating change requires an adjustment in the interest rate. If Moody's or S&P (or, in either case, a Substitute Rating Agency thereof) changes its rating of the Notes more than once during any particular interest period, the last change by such agency will control for purposes of any interest rate increase or decrease with respect to the Notes described above relating to such rating agency's action.
Promptly after any change in the interest rate payable on the Notes as provided above, the Company shall provide the Trustee an Officers' Certificate to the effect that the interest rate payable on the Notes has changed in accordance with this provision and setting forth the amount of the related increase or decrease and the new interest rate payable on the Notes and shall provide notice of the same to Holders.
If the interest rate payable on the Notes is increased as described above, the term "interest," as used with respect to the Notes, will be deemed to include any such additional interest unless the context otherwise requires.
Repurchase Upon Change of Control Triggering Event
If a Change of Control Triggering Event (as defined below) occurs, unless the Company has exercised its option to redeem the Notes, Holders may require the Company to repurchase all or any part (equal to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof) of their Notes pursuant to an offer (the "Change of Control Offer") of payment in cash equal to 101% of the
aggregate principal amount of Notes repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on the Notes repurchased, but not including, the date of repurchase (a "Change of Control Payment").
Within 30 days following any Change of Control Triggering Event or, at the Company's option, prior to any Change of Control (as defined below), but after public announcement of the transaction that constitutes or may constitute the Change of Control, the Company will mail a notice to Holders describing the transaction that constitutes or may constitute the Change of Control Triggering Event and offering to repurchase the Notes on the date specified in the notice, which date will be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed (a "Change of Control Payment Date"). The notice, if mailed prior to the date of consummation of the Change of Control, will state that the Change of Control Offer is conditioned on the Change of Control Triggering Event occurring on or prior to the Change of Control Payment Date.
On the Change of Control Payment Date, the Company will, to the extent lawful:
 
 
 
The Paying Agent will promptly mail to each Holder of properly tendered Notes the Change of Control Payment for the Notes, and the Trustee will promptly authenticate and mail (or cause to be transferred by book-entry) to each Holder a new note equal in principal amount to any unpurchased portion of any Notes surrendered; that each new note will be in a principal amount of $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess of that amount.
provided
The Company will not be required to make a Change of Control Offer upon the occurrence of a Change of Control Triggering Event if a third party makes such an offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements set for an offer made by the Company, and the third party repurchases all Notes properly tendered and not withdrawn under its offer. In addition, the Company will not repurchase any Notes if there has occurred and is continuing on the Change of Control Payment Date an Event of Default under the Indenture, other than a default in the payment of the Change of Control Payment upon a Change of Control Triggering Event.
For purposes of the Change of Control Offer provisions of the Notes, the following definitions will be applicable:
"Change of Control" means the occurrence of any of the following:
(1) the direct or indirect sale, lease, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger or consolidation), in one or more series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the Company's assets and the assets of its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, to any "person," other than to the Company or one of its Subsidiaries;
(2) the consummation of any transaction (including, without limitation, any merger or consolidation) the result of which is that any person becomes the beneficial owner (as defined in Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the Company's outstanding Voting Stock or other Voting Stock into which the Company's Voting Stock is reclassified, consolidated, exchanged or changed, measured by voting power rather than the number of shares;
(3) the Company consolidates with, or merges with or into, any person, or any person consolidates with, or merges with or into, the Company, in any such event pursuant to a transaction in which any of the Company's outstanding Voting Stock is converted into or exchanged for cash, securities or other property, other than any such transaction where the shares of the Company's Voting Stock outstanding immediately prior to such transaction constitute, or are converted into or exchanged for, a majority of the Voting Stock of the surviving person or any direct or indirect parent company of the surviving person immediately after giving effect to such transaction;
(4) the first day on which a majority of the members of the Company's Board of Directors are not Continuing Directors; or
(5) the adoption of a plan relating to the Company's liquidation or dissolution (other than the Company's liquidation into a newly formed holding company).
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a transaction will not be deemed to involve a Change of Control if (i) the Company becomes a direct or indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of a holding company and (ii) (A) the direct or indirect holders of the Voting Stock of such holding company immediately following that transaction are substantially the same as the holders of the Company's Voting Stock immediately prior to that transaction or (B) immediately following that transaction no person (other than a holding company) is the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the Voting Stock of such holding company.
"Change of Control Triggering Event" means the occurrence of both (1) a Change of Control and (2) a Ratings Event.
"Continuing Directors" means, as of any date of determination, any member of the Company's Board of Directors who (1) was a member of such Board of Directors on the Issue Date of the Notes or (2) was nominated for election, elected or appointed to such Board of Directors with the approval of a majority of the Continuing Directors who were members of such Board of Directors at the time of such nomination, election or appointment (either by a specific vote or by approval of the Company's proxy statement in which such member was named a nominee for election as a director, without objection to such nomination).
"Fitch" means Fitch Ratings Ltd., a subsidiary of Fimalac, S.A., and its successors.
"Investment Grade" means a rating equal to or higher than Baa3 (or the equivalent) by Moody's; a rating equal to or higher than BBB- (or the equivalent) by S&P or Fitch; and the equivalent investment grade credit rating from any Replacement Rating Agency or Rating Agencies selected by the Company.
"person" has the meaning given thereto in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act.
"Rating Agencies" means (1) each of Moody's, S&P and Fitch; and (2) if any of Moody's, S&P or Fitch ceases to rate the Notes or fails to make a rating of the Notes publicly available for reasons outside of the Company's control, a Substitute Rating Agency.
"Ratings Event" means the Notes cease to be rated Investment Grade by each of the Rating Agencies on any day within the 60-day period (which 60-day period will be extended so long as the rating of the Notes is under publicly announced consideration for a possible downgrade by any of the Rating Agencies) after the earlier of (1) the occurrence of a Change of Control and (2) public notice of the occurrence of a Change of Control or the Company's intention to effect a Change of Control.
"Substitute Rating Agency" means a "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" within the meaning of Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(F) under the Exchange Act selected by the Company (as certified by the Company's Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer) as a replacement agency for Moody's, S&P or Fitch, or all of them, as the case may be.
"Voting Stock" means, with respect to any specified "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) as of any date, the capital stock of such person that is at the time entitled to vote generally in the election of the board of directors of such person.
Payment of Additional Amounts
Section 1010 of the Indenture shall be applicable to the Notes, except that the term "Holder" when used in Section 1010 of the Indenture, shall mean the beneficial owners of a Note or any person holding on behalf of or for the account of the beneficial owner of a Note.
Optional Tax Redemption
The Company may redeem the Notes prior to maturity in whole, but not in part, on not more than 60 days' notice and not less than 30 days' notice at a redemption price equal to the principal amount of such Notes plus any accrued interest and additional amounts to the date fixed for redemption if:
 
 
and the Company in its business judgment determines that such obligations cannot be avoided by the use of reasonable measures available to the Company.
If the Company exercises its option to redeem the Notes, the Company will deliver to the Trustee a certificate signed by an authorized officer stating that it is entitled to redeem the Notes and the written opinion of independent legal counsel if required.
Defeasance
The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of the entire principal of all the Securities of any series upon compliance by the Company with certain conditions set forth therein.
Events of Default
In addition to the Events of Default described in Section 501 of the Indenture, each of the following will constitute an Event of Default with respect to the Notes:
 
 
If an Event of Default (other than an Event of Default described in Section 501(4) or 501(5) of the Indenture) with respect to the Notes shall occur and be continuing, then either the Trustee or the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Notes then Outstanding may declare the entire principal amount of the Notes due and payable in the manner and with effect provided in the Indenture. If an Event of Default specified in Section 501(4) or 501(5) occurs with respect to the Company, all of the unpaid principal amount and accrued interest then Outstanding shall become and be immediately due and payable in the manner with the effect provided in the Indenture without any declaration or other act by the Trustee or any Holder.
ipso facto
Notwithstanding anything in the immediately preceding paragraph to the contrary, to the extent elected by the Company, the sole remedy for an Event of Default relating to the failure by the Company to comply with the obligation to provide certain reports and information as set forth in Section 704 of the Indenture will, for the first 120 days after the occurrence of such an Event of Default, consist exclusively of the right for Holders to receive additional interest on the Notes equal to 0.25% per annum of the principal amount of the Notes. If the Company so elects, such additional interest will be payable in the same manner and on the same dates as the stated Interest Payment Dates on the Notes. The additional interest will accrue on all outstanding Notes from and including the date on which such Event of Default first occurs to, but not including, the 120th day thereafter (or such earlier date on which such Event of Default shall have been cured or waived by Holders as provided in Section 513 of the Indenture). On such 120th day after such Event of Default (if the Event of Default relating to such obligation is not cured or waived by Holders as provided in Section 513 of the Indenture prior to such 120th day), such additional interest will cease to accrue and the Notes will be subject to acceleration as provided in the paragraph above. In the event the Company does not elect to pay the additional interest upon such Event of Default in accordance with this paragraph, the Notes will be subject to acceleration as provided in the paragraph above.
Amendments
The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Guarantor with the consent of the Holders of more than 50% in aggregate principal amount of the
Outstanding Securities of each series of Securities then Outstanding affected thereby. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of specified percentages in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of any series at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of all the Securities of such series, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences with respect to such series. Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Note shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Note and of any Note issued upon the transfer hereof or in exchange or in lieu hereof whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Note.
Payment
No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Note or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on this Note at the times, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein and in the Indenture prescribed.
Transfer, Registration and Exchange
As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, this Note is transferable on the Security Register of the Company, upon surrender of this Note for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Company to be maintained for that purpose in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, or at any other office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar duly executed by the Holder hereof or his or her attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Notes, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
The Notes are issuable only in registered form in denominations of $2,000 and any integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, Notes are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Notes of a like tenor and of a different authorized denomination, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same.
No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
The Company, the Trustee for the Notes and any agent of the Company or such Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Note is registered as the owner hereof for the purpose of receiving payment as herein provided and for all other purposes, whether or not this Note be overdue, and neither the Company, such Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
 
Certain of the Company's obligations under the Indenture with respect to Notes may be terminated if the Company irrevocably deposits with the Trustee money or Government Obligations sufficient to pay and discharge the entire indebtedness on all Notes, as provided in the Indenture.
This Note shall for all purposes be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
Certain terms used in this Note which are defined in the Indenture have the meanings set forth therein.
FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned hereby sells, assigns and transfers unto
PLEASE INSERT SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER OR OTHER IDENTIFYING NUMBER OF ASSIGNEE
 

Exhibit 5.1
 
December 18, 2008
Altria Group, Inc.
Philip Morris USA Inc.
6601 West Broad Street
Richmond, Virginia 23230
Re:
Legality of Securities Issued under Registration Statement on Form S-3
Ladies and Gentlemen:
We have acted as special counsel to Altria Group, Inc., a Virginia corporation (the "Company"), and Philip Morris USA Inc., a Virginia corporation and a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company (the "Guarantor"), in connection with (1) the registration of an indeterminate amount of debt securities of the Company (the "Debt Securities"), guarantees of the Debt Securities by the Guarantor and warrants to purchase Debt Securities, as set forth in the Registration Statement on Form S-3 (Registration No. 333-155009) (the "Registration Statement") filed by the Company and the Guarantor on November 4, 2008 with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Act"), and (2) the Company's offering and sale of $775,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its 7.125% Notes due 2010 (the "Notes"). The Notes will be fully and unconditionally guaranteed as to payment of principal, premium, if any, and interest by the Guarantor (the "Guarantee").
The Notes are being offered and sold as described in the prospectus, dated November 4, 2008, contained in the Registration Statement, and the prospectus supplement thereto, dated December 18, 2008 (collectively, the "Prospectus"). The Notes will be issued pursuant to an indenture (the "Indenture"), dated as of November 4, 2008, among the Company, the Guarantor and Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, as trustee (the "Trustee"). The Guarantee will be issued pursuant to the Indenture as evidenced by a guarantee agreement (the "Guarantee Agreement") made by the Guarantor in favor of the Trustee.
This opinion is being furnished in accordance with the requirements of Item 16 of Form S-3 and Item 601(b)(5)(i) of Regulation S-K.
We have examined originals or reproductions or certified copies of such records of the Company and the Guarantor, certificates of officers of the Company and the Guarantor and of public officials and such other documents as we have deemed relevant and necessary for the purpose of rendering this opinion, including, among other things:
Altria Group, Inc.
Philip Morris USA Inc.
December 18, 2008
Page 2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For purposes of the opinions expressed below, we have assumed: (i) the authenticity of all documents submitted to us as originals; (ii) the conformity to the originals of all documents submitted to us as certified or photostatic copies and the authenticity of the originals of such documents; (iii) the legal capacity of natural persons; (iv) the genuineness of all signatures; and (v) the due authorization, execution and delivery of all documents by all parties and the validity, binding effect and enforceability thereof (other than the due authorization, execution and delivery of documents by the Company and the Guarantor and the validity, binding effect and enforceability thereof upon the Company and the Guarantor).
We do not purport to express an opinion on any laws other than those of the Commonwealth of Virginia, the State of New York and the federal laws of the United States of America.
Altria Group, Inc.
Philip Morris USA Inc.
December 18, 2008
Page 3
 
Based upon the foregoing and subject to the qualifications set forth below, we are of the opinion that:
1. The Notes, when issued in accordance with the terms thereof and of the Indenture, will be the valid, binding and enforceable obligations of the Company, entitled to the benefits of the Indenture.
2. The Guarantee, when issued in accordance with the terms thereof, the Indenture and the applicable Guarantee Agreement, will be valid, binding and enforceable obligations of the Guarantor.
The opinions set forth above are subject to the qualification that the validity and enforcement of the Company's obligations under the Indenture and the Notes and the Guarantor's obligations under the Guarantee and the underlying Guarantee Agreement may be subject to (i) the effects of bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent conveyance, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws now or hereafter in effect relating to or affecting creditors' rights generally, (ii) general principles of equity (whether considered in a proceeding at law or in equity) and (iii) concepts of materiality, unconscionability, reasonableness, impracticability or impossibility of performance and any implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing.
We hereby consent to (a) the filing of this opinion with the Commission as an exhibit to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K, (b) the incorporation by reference of this opinion into the Registration Statement and (c) the reference to our firm under the heading "Legal Matters" in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus. By giving such consent, we do not admit that we are within the category of persons whose consent is required under Section 7 of the Act or the rules and regulations of the Commission promulgated thereunder.
Altria Group, Inc.
Philip Morris USA Inc.
December 18, 2008
Page 4
 
This opinion is limited to the matters stated in this letter, and no opinions may be implied or inferred beyond the matters expressly stated in this letter. This opinion is given as of the date hereof and we assume no obligation to advise you after the date hereof of facts or circumstances that come to our attention or changes in the law, including judicial or administrative interpretations thereof, that occur which could affect the opinions contained herein.
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ALTRIA GROUP, INC., a Virginia corporation (""), the banks, financial institutions and other institutional lenders (the "") listed on the signature pages hereof, and JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A. ("") and GOLDMAN SACHS CREDIT PARTNERS L.P. (""), as administrative agents (each, in such capacity, an ""), CITICORP NORTH AMERICA, INC., BARCLAYS BANK PLC, DEUTSCHE BANK SECURITIES INC., SANTANDER INVESTMENT SECURITIES INC., HSBC SECURITIES (USA) INC. and THE BANK OF NOVA SCOTIA, as syndication agents (each, in such capacity, a "") and CITIGROUP GLOBAL MARKETS INC., BARCLAYS BANK PLC, DEUTSCHE BANK SECURITIES INC., SANTANDER INVESTMENT SECURITIES INC., HSBC SECURITIES (USA) INC. and THE BANK OF NOVA SCOTIA, as co-arrangers (each, in such capacity, a "") for the Lenders (as hereinafter defined), agree as follows:
Altria
Initial Lenders
JPMCB
Goldman Sachs
Administrative Agent
Syndication Agent
Co-Arranger
Section 1.01. . As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the following meanings (such meanings to be equally applicable to both the singular and plural forms of the terms defined):
Certain Defined Terms
"" means the acquisition by Altria of all of the outstanding capital stock of Target pursuant to the Merger Agreement.
Acquisition
"" means the date on which the Acquisition is consummated.
Acquisition Closing Date
"" means an advance by a Lender to Altria as part of a Borrowing and refers to a Base Rate Advance or a LIBO Rate Advance (each of which shall be a "" of Advance).
Advance
Type
"" means each Administrative Agent, each Syndication Agent and each Co-Arranger.
Agents
"" means for the relevant date a percentage equal to the percentage set forth below:
Applicable Duration Fee Rate
 
"" means for any Advance for the period specified below during which such Advance remains outstanding a percentage per annum equal to the percentage set forth below determined by reference to the lower of (i) the rating of Altria's long-term senior unsecured debt from Standard & Poor's and (ii) the rating of Altria's long-term senior unsecured debt from Moody's, in each case in effect from time to time during such period:
Applicable Interest Rate Margin
 
"" means, with respect to each Lender, such Lender's Domestic Lending Office or Eurodollar Lending Office.
Applicable Lending Office
"" means the sale, transfer, license, lease or other disposition of any property by any Person, including any sale and leaseback transaction and any sale of capital stock (other than any issuance by such Person of its own capital stock, but including an issuance of capital stock by a Subsidiary of such Person), but excluding:
Asset Sale
(a) the sale, transfer, license, lease or other disposition (collectively, "") of inventory, plants, equipment and other property (including cash and cash equivalents) in the ordinary course of business or specifically disclosed prior to the Effective Date in Altria's or any of its Subsidiaries' publicly-available filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and
Transfers
 
(b) any Transfer that results in Net Cash Proceeds of less than $100,000,000 per Transfer or related or series of Transfers and that, together with all other Transfers during the same fiscal year excluded under this clause (b) results in Net Cash Proceeds of not greater than $250,000,000.
"" means an assignment and acceptance entered into by a Lender and an Eligible Assignee, and accepted by JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, in substantially the form of Exhibit C hereto.
Assignment and Acceptance
"" means a fluctuating interest rate per annum in effect from time to time, which rate per annum shall at all times be equal to the higher of:
Base Rate
(i) the rate of interest announced publicly by JPMCB in New York, New York, from time to time, as JPMCB's prime rate; and
(ii) 1/2 of one percent per annum above the Federal Funds Effective Rate.
"" means an Advance that bears interest as provided in Section 2.04(a)(i).
Base Rate Advance
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.04(a)(i).
Base Rate Interest
"" means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System of the United States (or any successor).
Board
"" means a borrowing consisting of simultaneous Advances of the same Type made by each of the Lenders pursuant to Section 2.01.
Borrowing
"" means a day of the year on which banks are not required or authorized by law to close in New York City and, if the applicable Business Day relates to any LIBO Rate Advances, on which dealings are carried on in the London interbank market and banks are open for business in London.
Business Day
"" means the sale for cash or cash equivalents, in a public offering registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or an offering exempt from registration pursuant to Section 4(2), Rule 144A or Regulation S thereunder, of capital stock issued by Altria or notes, debentures or other debt securities issued by or guaranteed by Altria having a maturity in excess of one year, offered in the domestic or foreign capital markets.
Capital Markets Financing Transaction
"" means as to any Lender (i) the Dollar amount set forth opposite such Lender's name on Schedule I hereto or (ii) if such Lender has entered into an Assignment and Acceptance, the Dollar amount set forth for such Lender in the Register maintained by JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, pursuant to Section 8.07(d), in each case as such amount may be reduced pursuant to Section 2.09(b).
Commitment
 
"" means, for any accounting period, the consolidated net earnings (or loss) of Altria and its Subsidiaries plus, without duplication and to the extent included as a separate item on Altria's consolidated statements of earnings or consolidated statements of cash flows in the case of clauses (a) through (e) for such period, the sum of (a) provision for income taxes, (b) interest and other debt expense, net, (c) depreciation expense, (d) amortization of intangibles, (e) any extraordinary, unusual or non-recurring expenses or losses or any similar expense or loss subtracted from "Gross profit" in the calculation of "Operating income" and (f) the portion of loss included on Altria's consolidated statements of earnings of any Person (other than a Subsidiary of Altria) in which Altria or any of its Subsidiaries has an ownership interest and any cash that is actually received by Altria or such Subsidiary from such Person in the form of dividends or similar distributions, and , without duplication, the sum of (x) to the extent included as a separate item on Altria's consolidated statements of earnings for such period, any extraordinary, unusual or non-recurring income or gains or any similar income or gain added to "Gross profit" in the calculation of "Operating income," and (y) the portion of income included on Altria's consolidated statements of earnings of any Person (other than a Subsidiary of Altria) in which Altria or any of its Subsidiaries has an ownership interest, except to the extent that any cash is actually received by Altria or such Subsidiary from such Person in the form of dividends or similar distributions, all as determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States for such period, except that if there has been a material change in an accounting principle as compared to that applied in the preparation of the financial statements of Altria and its Subsidiaries as at and for the year ended December 31, 2007, then such new accounting principle shall not be used in the determination of Consolidated EBITDA. A material change in an accounting principle is one that, in the year of its adoption, changes Consolidated EBITDA for any quarter in such year by more than 10%.
Consolidated EBITDA
minus
"" means, for any accounting period, total interest expense of Altria and its Subsidiaries with respect to all outstanding Debt of Altria and its Subsidiaries during such period, all as determined on a consolidated basis for such period and in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States for such period, except that if there has been a material change in an accounting principle as compared to that applied in the preparation of the financial statements of Altria and its Subsidiaries as at and for the year ended December 31, 2007, then such new accounting principle shall not be used in the determination of Consolidated Interest Expense. A material change in an accounting principle is one that, in the year of its adoption, changes Consolidated Interest Expense for any quarter in such year by more than 10%.
Consolidated Interest Expense
"" means the total assets appearing on a consolidated balance sheet of Altria and its Subsidiaries, less goodwill and other intangible assets and the minority interests of other Persons in such Subsidiaries, all as determined in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, except that if there has been a material change in an accounting principle as compared to that applied in the preparation of the financial statements of Altria and its Subsidiaries as at and for the year ended December 31, 2007, then such new accounting principle shall not be used in the determination of Consolidated Tangible Assets. A
Consolidated Tangible Assets
 
material change in an accounting principle is one that, in the year of its adoption, changes Consolidated Tangible Assets at any quarter in such year by more than 10%.
"," "" and "" each refers to a conversion of Advances of one Type into Advances of the other Type pursuant to Section 2.06, 2.07 or 2.12.
Convert
Conversion
Converted
"" means, without duplication, (a) indebtedness for borrowed money or for the deferred purchase price of property or services, whether or not evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes or similar instruments, (b) obligations as lessee under leases that, in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, are recorded as capital leases, (c) obligations as an account party or applicant under letters of credit (other than trade letters of credit incurred in the ordinary course of business) to the extent such letters of credit are drawn and not reimbursed within five Business Days of such drawing, (d) the aggregate principal (or equivalent) amount of financing raised through outstanding securitization financings of accounts receivable, and (e) obligations under direct or indirect guaranties in respect of, and obligations (contingent or otherwise) to purchase or otherwise acquire, or otherwise to assure a creditor against loss (including by way of (i) granting a security interest or other Lien on property or (ii) having a reimbursement obligation under or in respect of a letter of credit or similar arrangement (to the extent such letter of credit is not collateralized by assets (other than Operating Assets) having a fair value equal to the amount of such reimbursement obligation), in either case in respect of, indebtedness or obligations of any other Person of the kinds referred to in clause (a), (b), (c) or (d) above). For the avoidance of doubt, the following shall not constitute "Debt" for purposes of this Agreement: (A) any obligation that is fully non-recourse to Altria or any of its Subsidiaries, (B) intercompany debt of Altria or any of its Subsidiaries, (C) any appeal bond or other arrangement to secure a stay of execution on a judgment or order, provided that any such appeal bond or other arrangement issued by a third party in connection with such arrangement shall constitute Debt to the extent Altria or any of its Subsidiaries has a reimbursement obligation to such third party that is not collateralized by assets (other than Operating Assets) having a fair value equal to the amount of such reimbursement obligation, (D) unpaid judgments, or (E) defeased indebtedness.
Debt
"" shall mean any debt facility with a term exceeding 364 days entered into by Altria after the Effective Date in the commercial bank market, other than (a) the issuance of commercial paper or other short-term debt programs, (b) any domestic or foreign working capital facility and (c) any credit agreement replacing Altria's 5-Year Revolving Credit Agreement dated as of April 15, 2005 in an aggregate amount not exceeding $3,500,000,000.
Debt Facility
"" means any event specified in Section 6.01 that would constitute an Event of Default but for the requirement that notice be given or time elapse or both.
Default
"" and the "" sign each means lawful currency of the United States of America.
Dollars
$
 
"" means, with respect to any Lender, the office of such Lender specified as its "Domestic Lending Office" opposite its name on Schedule I hereto or in the Assignment and Acceptance pursuant to which it became a Lender, or such other office of such Lender as such Lender may from time to time specify to Altria and JPMCB, as Administrative Agent.
Domestic Lending Office
"" has the meaning specified in Section 3.01.
Effective Date
"" means (i) a commercial bank organized under the laws of the United States, or any State thereof, and having total assets in excess of $10,000,000,000; (ii) a commercial bank organized under the laws of any other country which is a member of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (or any successor) (""), or a political subdivision of any such country, and having total assets in excess of $10,000,000,000, provided that such bank is acting through a branch or agency located in the country in which it is organized or another country which is also a member of the OECD or the Cayman Islands; (iii) the central bank of any country which is a member of the OECD; (iv) a commercial finance company or finance Subsidiary of a corporation organized under the laws of the United States, or any State thereof, and having total assets in excess of $6,000,000,000; (v) an insurance company organized under the laws of the United States, or any State thereof, and having total assets in excess of $10,000,000,000; (vi) any Lender; (vii) an affiliate of any Lender; and (viii) any other bank, commercial finance company, insurance company or other Person approved in writing by Altria, which approval shall be notified to JPMCB, as Administrative Agent.
Eligible Assignee
OECD
"" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time, and the regulations promulgated and rulings issued thereunder.
ERISA
"" means any Person that for purposes of Title IV of ERISA is a member of Altria's controlled group, or under common control with Altria, within the meaning of Section 414 of the Internal Revenue Code.
ERISA Affiliate
"" means (a) (i) the occurrence with respect to a Plan of a reportable event, within the meaning of Section 4043 of ERISA, unless the 30-day notice requirement with respect thereto has been waived by the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (or any successor) (""), or (ii) the requirements of subsection (1) of Section 4043(b) of ERISA (without regard to subsection (2) of such section) are met with respect to a contributing sponsor, as defined in Section 4001(a)(13) of ERISA, of a Plan, and an event described in paragraph (9), (10), (11), (12) or (13) of Section 4043(c) of ERISA is reasonably expected to occur with respect to such Plan within the following 30 days; (b) the application for a minimum funding waiver with respect to a Plan; (c) the provision by the administrator of any Plan of a notice of intent to terminate such Plan, pursuant to Section 4041(a)(2) of ERISA (including any such notice with respect to a plan amendment referred to in Section 4041(e) of ERISA); (d) the cessation of operations at a facility of Altria or any of its ERISA Affiliates in the circumstances described in Section 4062(e) of ERISA; (e) the withdrawal by Altria or any of its ERISA Affiliates from a Multiple Employer Plan during a plan year for which it was a substantial
ERISA Event
PBGC
 
employer, as defined in Section 4001(a)(2) of ERISA; (f) the conditions set forth in Section 302(f)(1)(A) and (B) of ERISA to the creation of a lien upon property or rights to property of Altria or any of its ERISA Affiliates for failure to make a required payment to a Plan are satisfied; (g) the adoption of an amendment to a Plan requiring the provision of security to such Plan, pursuant to Section 307 of ERISA; or (h) the termination of a Plan by the PBGC pursuant to Section 4042 of ERISA, or the occurrence of any event or condition described in Section 4042 of ERISA that constitutes grounds for the termination of, or the appointment of a trustee to administer, a Plan.
"" has the meaning assigned to that term in Regulation D of the Board, as in effect from time to time.
Eurocurrency Liabilities
"" means, with respect to any Lender, the office of such Lender specified as its "Eurodollar Lending Office" opposite its name on Schedule I hereto or in the Assignment and Acceptance pursuant to which it became a Lender (or, if no such office is specified, its Domestic Lending Office), or such other office of such Lender as such Lender may from time to time specify to Altria and JPMCB, as Administrative Agent.
Eurodollar Lending Office
"" for any Interest Period, for all LIBO Rate Advances comprising part of the same Borrowing, means the reserve percentage applicable two Business Days before the first day of such Interest Period under regulations issued from time to time by the Board for determining the maximum reserve requirement (including, without limitation, any emergency, supplemental or other marginal reserve requirement) for a member bank of the Federal Reserve System in New York City with respect to liabilities or assets consisting of or including Eurocurrency Liabilities (or with respect to any other category of liabilities that includes deposits by reference to which the interest rate on LIBO Rate Advances is determined) having a term equal to such Interest Period.
Eurodollar Rate Reserve Percentage
"" has the meaning specified in Section 6.01.
Event of Default
"" means the Bankruptcy Reform Act of 1978, as amended from time to time.
Federal Bankruptcy Code
"" means, for any day, the weighted average (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the next 1/100 of 1%) of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers, as published on the next succeeding Business Day by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, or, if such rate is not so published for any day that is a Business Day, the average (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the next 1/100 of 1%) of the quotations for such day for such transactions received by JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, from three Federal funds brokers of recognized standing selected by it.
Federal Funds Effective Rate
"" means the guarantee agreement dated as of the Effective Date issued by the Guarantor in favor of the Lenders, substantially in the form of Exhibit G hereto.
Guarantee
 
"" means Philip Morris USA Inc., a Virginia corporation.
Guarantor
"" means withholding for United States income taxes, United States back-up withholding taxes and United States withholding taxes.
Home Jurisdiction Withholding Taxes
"" means, for each LIBO Rate Advance comprising part of the same Borrowing, the period commencing on the date of such LIBO Rate Advance or the date of Conversion of any Base Rate Advance into such LIBO Rate Advance or the last day of the preceding Interest Period applicable to such Advance and ending on the last day of the period selected by Altria pursuant to the provisions below. The duration of each such Interest Period shall be one, two, three or six months, as Altria may select upon notice received by JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, not later than 11:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the third Business Day prior to the first day of such Interest Period; , , that:
Interest Period
provided
however
(a) Altria may not select any Interest Period that ends after the Termination Date;
(b) whenever the last day of any Interest Period would otherwise occur on a day other than a Business Day, the last day of such Interest Period shall be extended to occur on the next succeeding Business Day, that if such extension would cause the last day of such Interest Period to occur in the next following calendar month, the last day of such Interest Period shall occur on the immediately preceding Business Day; and
provided
(c) whenever the first day of any Interest Period occurs on a day of an initial calendar month for which there is no numerically corresponding day in the calendar month that succeeds such initial calendar month by the number of months equal to the number of months in such Interest Period, such Interest Period shall end on the last Business Day of such succeeding calendar month.
"" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time, and the regulations promulgated and the rulings issued thereunder.
Internal Revenue Code
"" means (a) the account of JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, maintained by JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, at JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., Loan and Agency, 1111 Fannin Street, Account No. 9008113381H0301, Reference: Altria, Attention: Maria Escobar, or (b) such other account of JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, as is designated in writing from time to time by JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, to Altria and the Lenders for such purpose.
JPMCB's Administrative Agent Account
"" means the Initial Lenders and their respective successors and permitted assignees.
Lenders
"" means an interest rate per annum equal to either:
LIBO Rate
 
(a) the offered rate per annum at which deposits in Dollars appear on Reuters Page LIBOR01 (or any successor page) as of 11:00 A.M. (London time) two Business Days before the first day of such Interest Period, or
(b) if the LIBO Rate does not appear on Reuters Page LIBOR01 (or any successor page), then the LIBO Rate will be determined by taking the average (rounded upward to the nearest whole multiple of 1/16 of 1% per annum, if such average is not such a multiple) of the rates per annum at which deposits in Dollars are offered by the principal office of each of the Reference Banks in London, England to prime banks in the London interbank market at 11:00 A.M. (London time) two Business Days before the first day of such Interest Period for an amount substantially equal to the amount that would be the Reference Banks' respective ratable shares of such Borrowing outstanding during such Interest Period and for a period equal to such Interest Period, as determined by JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, , , to the provisions of Section 2.07.
subject
however
"" means an Advance that bears interest as provided in Section 2.04(a)(ii).
LIBO Rate Advance
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.04(a)(ii).
LIBO Rate Interest
"" has the meaning specified in Section 5.02(a).
Lien
"" means any Subsidiary (a) more than 50% of the voting securities of which is owned directly or indirectly by Altria, (b) which is organized and existing under, or has its principal place of business in, the United States or any political subdivision thereof, Canada or any political subdivision thereof, any country which is a member of the European Union on the date hereof (other than Greece, Portugal or Spain) or any political subdivision thereof, or Switzerland, Norway or Australia or any of their respective political subdivisions, and (c) which has at any time total assets (after intercompany eliminations) exceeding $1,000,000,000.
Major Subsidiary
"" means margin stock, as such term is defined in Regulation U.
Margin Stock
"" means the Agreement and Plan of Merger among Altria, Armchair Merger Sub, Inc. and Target dated as of September 7, 2008, as amended by Amendment No. 1 dated as of October 2, 2008.
Merger Agreement
"" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc., and any successor to its rating agency business.
Moody's
"" means a multiemployer plan, as defined in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA, to which Altria or any ERISA Affiliate is making or accruing an obligation to make contributions, or has within any of the preceding five plan years made or accrued an obligation to make contributions, such plan being maintained pursuant to one or more collective bargaining agreements.
Multiemployer Plan
"" means a single employer plan, as defined in Section 4001(a)(15) of ERISA, that (a) is maintained for employees of Altria or any ERISA
Multiple Employer Plan
 
Affiliate and at least one Person other than Altria and the ERISA Affiliates or (b) was so maintained and in respect of which Altria or any ERISA Affiliate could have liability under Section 4064 or 4069 of ERISA in the event such plan has been or were to be terminated.
"" means:
Net Cash Proceeds
(a) with respect to any Asset Sale (i) all cash proceeds actually paid to or actually received by Altria or one or more of its wholly-owned Subsidiaries (or other Subsidiaries to the extent that Altria has the ability to compel the distribution or transfer of such cash proceeds from such Subsidiary to Altria or one of Altria's wholly-owned Subsidiaries), in each case, from a Person other than Altria or one of its Subsidiaries in respect of such Asset Sale (including any cash proceeds received as income or other proceeds from any non-cash proceeds of any Asset Sale as and when received),
, without duplication and only to the extent not already deducted in arriving at the amount referred to in clause (i) above, (ii) the sum of (A) the amount, if any, of all taxes (other than income taxes) and all income taxes (as estimated in good faith by a senior financial or senior accounting officer of Altria giving effect to the overall tax position of Altria and its Subsidiaries), and customary fees, brokerage fees, commissions, costs and other expenses, that are incurred in connection with such Asset Sale and are payable by Altria or one or more of its Subsidiaries,
less
(B) appropriate amounts that must be set aside as a reserve in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America against any liabilities reasonably estimated to be payable and associated with such Asset Sale, and
(C) any payments to be made by Altria or one or more of its Subsidiaries as agreed between Altria or such Subsidiaries, as applicable, and the purchaser of any assets subject to an Asset Sale in connection therewith, and
(b) with respect to any Capital Markets Financing Transaction, all cash proceeds received by Altria or one or more of its wholly-owned Subsidiaries (or other Subsidiaries to the extent that Altria has the ability to compel the distribution or transfer of such cash proceeds from such Subsidiary to Altria or one of Altria's wholly-owned Subsidiaries) from a Person other than Altria or one of its Subsidiaries in respect of such Capital Markets Financing Transaction (including cash proceeds as and when subsequently received at any time in respect of such Capital Markets Financing Transaction from non-cash consideration initially received or otherwise),
underwriting discounts and commissions or placement fees, investment banking fees, legal fees, consulting fees, accounting fees and other customary fees and expenses directly incurred by Altria or one or more of its wholly-owned Subsidiaries, as applicable, in connection therewith.
less
"" means a promissory note of Altria payable to the order of any Lender, delivered pursuant to a request made under Section 2.16(a) in substantially the form of
Note
 
Exhibit A hereto, evidencing the aggregate indebtedness of Altria to such Lender resulting from the Advances made by Lender to Altria.
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.02(a).
Notice of Borrowing
"" means, for any accounting period, any assets included in the consolidated balance sheet of Altria and its Subsidiaries as "Inventories," or "Property, plant and equipment" or "Receivables" for such period.
Operating Assets
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.14(b).
Other Taxes
"" has the meaning specified in Section 8.13.
Patriot Act
"" means an individual, partnership, corporation (including a business trust), joint stock company, trust, unincorporated association, joint venture, limited liability company or other entity, or a government or any political subdivision or agency thereof.
Person
"" means a Single Employer Plan or a Multiple Employer Plan.
Plan
"" means JPMCB, Goldman Sachs, Citicorp North America, Inc., Barclays Bank PLC, Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., HSBC Securities (USA) Inc. and Scotia Capital.
Reference Banks
"" has the meaning specified in Section 8.07(d).
Register
"" means Regulation A of the Board, as in effect from time to time.
Regulation A
"" means Regulation U of the Board, as in effect from time to time.
Regulation U
"" means at any time Lenders owed at least 50.1% of the then aggregate unpaid principal amount of the Advances owing to Lenders, or, if no such principal amount is then outstanding, Lenders having at least 50.1% of the Commitments.
Required Lenders
"" means a single employer plan, as defined in Section 4001(a)(15) of ERISA, that (a) is maintained for employees of Altria or any ERISA Affiliate and no Person other than Altria and the ERISA Affiliates or (b) was so maintained and in respect of which Altria or any ERISA Affiliate could have liability under Section 4069 of ERISA in the event such plan has been or were to be terminated.
Single Employer Plan
"" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., and any successor to its rating agency business.
Standard & Poor's
"" of any Person means any corporation of which (or in which) more than 50% of the outstanding capital stock having voting power to elect a majority of the Board of Directors of such corporation (irrespective of whether at the time capital stock of any other class or classes of such corporation shall or might have voting power upon the occurrence of any contingency) is at the time directly or indirectly owned or
Subsidiary
 
controlled by such Person, by such Person and one or more of its other Subsidiaries or by one or more of such Person's other Subsidiaries.
"" means UST Inc., a Delaware corporation.
Target
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.14(a).
Taxes
"" means the earlier of (a) 364 days from the Acquisition Closing Date and (b) the date of termination in whole of the Commitments pursuant to Section 2.09(b) or 6.02.
Termination Date
Section 1.02. . In this Agreement in the computation of periods of time from a specified date to a later specified date, the word "from" means "from and including" and the words "to" and "until" each mean "to but excluding."
Computation of Time Periods
Section 1.03. . All accounting terms not specifically defined herein shall be construed in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, except that if there has been a material change in an accounting principle affecting the definition of an accounting term as compared to that applied in the preparation of the financial statements of Altria as of and for the year ended December 31, 2007, then such new accounting principle shall not be used in the determination of the amount associated with that accounting term. A material change in an accounting principle is one that, in the year of its adoption, changes the amount associated with the relevant accounting term for any quarter in such year by more than 10%.
Accounting Terms
Section 2.01. . Each Lender severally agrees, on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth, to make Advances in U.S. dollars to Altria on the Acquisition Closing Date in an aggregate amount not to exceed such Lender's Commitment.
The Obligation to Make Advances
Section 2.02. . (a) . To request a Borrowing, Altria shall give notice not later than (x) 11:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the third Business Day prior to the date of the proposed Borrowing in the case of a Borrowing consisting of LIBO Rate Advances, or (y) 9:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the date of the proposed Borrowing in the case of a Borrowing consisting of Base Rate Advances, to JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, which shall give to each Lender prompt notice thereof. Each such notice of a Borrowing (a "") shall be by telephone, confirmed immediately in writing, by registered mail or telecopier in substantially the form of Exhibit B hereto, specifying therein the requested:
Making the Advances
Notice of Borrowing
Notice of Borrowing
(i) date of such Borrowing,
(ii) Type of Advances comprising such Borrowing,
(iii) aggregate amount of such Borrowing, and
 
(iv) in the case of a Borrowing consisting of LIBO Rate Advances, the initial Interest Period for each such Advance. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, Altria may not select LIBO Rate Advances for any Borrowing if the obligation of the Lenders to make LIBO Rate Advances shall then be suspended pursuant to Section 2.06(b) or 2.12.
(b) . Each Lender shall, before 11:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the date of such Borrowing, make available for the account of its Applicable Lending Office to JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, at JPMCB's Administrative Agent Account, in same day funds, such Lender's ratable portion of such Borrowing. After receipt of such funds by JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, and upon fulfillment of the applicable conditions set forth in Article III, JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, will make such funds available to Altria no later than 12:00 P.M. (New York City time) on the date of such Borrowing at the address of JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, referred to in Section 8.02 or at such other location as agreed by Altria and JPMCB, as Administrative Agent.
Funding Advances
(c) . Each Notice of Borrowing shall be irrevocable and binding on Altria. In the case of any Borrowing that the related Notice of Borrowing specifies is to be comprised of LIBO Rate Advances, Altria shall indemnify each Lender against any loss, cost or expense incurred by such Lender as a result of any failure to fulfill on or before the date specified in such Notice of Borrowing for such Borrowing the applicable conditions set forth in Article III, including, without limitation, any loss (excluding loss of anticipated profits), cost or expense incurred by reason of the liquidation or reemployment of deposits or other funds acquired by such Lender to fund the Advance to be made by such Lender as part of such Borrowing when such Advance, as a result of such failure, is not made on such date.
Irrevocable Notice
(d) . Unless JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, shall have received notice from a Lender prior to 11:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the day of any Borrowing that such Lender will not make available to JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, such Lender's ratable portion of such Borrowing, JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, may assume that such Lender has made such portion available to JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, on the date of such Borrowing in accordance with Section 2.02(b) and JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, may, in reliance upon such assumption, make available to Altria on such date a corresponding amount. If and to the extent that such Lender shall not have so made such ratable portion available to JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, such Lender and Altria severally agree to repay to JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, forthwith on demand such corresponding amount together with interest thereon, for each day from the date such amount is made available to Altria until the date such amount is repaid to JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, at:
Lender's Ratable Portion
(i) in the case of Altria, the higher of (A) the interest rate applicable at the time to Advances comprising such Borrowing and (B) the cost of funds incurred by JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, in respect of such amount, and
(ii) in the case of such Lender, the Federal Funds Effective Rate.
 
If such Lender shall repay to JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, such corresponding amount, such amount so repaid shall constitute such Lender's Advance as part of such Borrowing for purposes of this Agreement.
(e) . The failure of any Lender to make the Advance to be made by it as part of any Borrowing shall not relieve any other Lender of its obligation, if any, hereunder to make its Advance on the date of such Borrowing, but no Lender shall be responsible for the failure of any other Lender to make the Advance to be made by such other Lender on the date of any Borrowing.
Independent Lender Obligations
Section 2.03. . Altria shall repay to JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, for the ratable account of the Lenders on the Termination Date the unpaid principal amount of the Advances then outstanding.
Repayment of Advances
Section 2.04. . (a) . Altria shall pay interest on the unpaid principal amount of each Advance to each Lender from the date of such Advance until such principal amount shall be paid in full, at the following rates per annum:
Interest on Advances
Scheduled Interest
(i) . During such periods as such Advance is a Base Rate Advance, a rate per annum equal at all times to the sum of (x) the Base Rate in effect from time to time (y) the Applicable Interest Rate Margin (the sum of (x) and (y), the ""), payable in arrears monthly on the 20
Base Rate Advances
plus
Base Rate Interest
th
day of each month and on the date such Base Rate Advance shall be Converted or paid in full; that on any day that Base Rate Advances are outstanding, the Base Rate Interest payable on such Advances shall be no less than the LIBO Rate Interest that would be payable on such day for a LIBO Rate Advance with a one month interest period that would commence on such day; , , that for the purposes of this Section 2.04(a)(i) references to "two Business Days before" appearing in the definition of LIBO Rate shall be replaced with "the same day as".
provided
provided
further
(ii) . During such periods as such Advance is a LIBO Rate Advance, a rate per annum equal at all times during each Interest Period for such Advance to the sum of (x) the LIBO Rate for such Interest Period for such Advance (y) the Applicable Interest Rate Margin (the sum of (x) and (y), the ""), payable in arrears on the last day of such Interest Period and, if such Interest Period has a duration of more than three months, on each day that occurs during such Interest Period every three months from the first day of such Interest Period, and on the date such LIBO Rate Advance shall be Converted or paid in full.
LIBO Rate Advances
plus
LIBO Rate Interest
(b) . Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default, Altria shall pay interest on the unpaid principal amount of each Advance owing to each Lender, payable in arrears on the dates referred to in Section 2.04(a)(i) or Section 2.04(a)(ii), at a rate per annum equal at all times to 1% per annum above the rate per annum required to be paid on such Advance.
Default Interest
Section 2.05. . Altria shall pay to each Lender, so long as such Lender shall be required under regulations of the Board to maintain
Additional Interest on LIBO Rate Advances
 
reserves with respect to liabilities or assets consisting of or including Eurocurrency Liabilities, additional interest on the unpaid principal amount of each LIBO Rate Advance of such Lender to Altria, from the date of such Advance until such principal amount is paid in full, at an interest rate per annum equal at all times to the remainder obtained by subtracting (i) the LIBO Rate for the Interest Period for such Advance from (ii) the rate obtained by dividing such LIBO Rate by a percentage equal to 100% minus the Eurodollar Rate Reserve Percentage of such Lender for such Interest Period, payable on each date on which interest is payable on such Advance. Such additional interest shall be determined by such Lender and notified to Altria through JPMCB, as Administrative Agent.
Section 2.06. . (a) . If Altria shall fail to select the duration of any Interest Period for any LIBO Rate Advances in accordance with the provisions contained in the definition of the term "Interest Period," JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, will forthwith so notify Altria and the Lenders, and such Advances will automatically, on the last day of the then existing Interest Period therefor, Convert into Base Rate Advances.
Conversion of Advances
Conversion Upon Absence of Interest Period
(b) . Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of any Event of Default under Section 6.01(a), JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, or the Required Lenders may elect that (i) each LIBO Rate Advance be, on the last day of the then existing Interest Period therefor, Converted into Base Rate Advances and (ii) the obligation of the Lenders to make, or to Convert Advances into, LIBO Rate Advances be suspended.
Conversion Upon Event of Default
(c) . Subject to the provisions of Sections 2.07(c) and 2.12, Altria may convert all Advances of one Type constituting the same Borrowing into Advances of the other Type on any Business Day, upon notice given to JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, not later than 11:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the third Business Day prior to the date of the proposed Conversion; , , that the Conversion of a LIBO Rate Advance into a Base Rate Advance may be made on, and only on, the last day of an Interest Period for such LIBO Rate Advance. Each such notice of a Conversion shall, within the restrictions specified above, specify
Voluntary Conversion
provided
however
(i) the date of such Conversion;
(ii) the Advances to be Converted; and
(iii) if such Conversion is into LIBO Rate Advances, the duration of the Interest Period for each such Advance.
Section 2.07. . (a) . JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, shall determine the LIBO Rate by using the methods described in the definition of the term "LIBO Rate," and shall give prompt notice to Altria and Lenders of each such LIBO Rate.
LIBO Rate Determination
Methods to Determine LIBO Rate
(b) . In the event that the LIBO Rate cannot be determined by the method described in clause (a) of the definition of "LIBO Rate," each Reference Bank agrees to furnish to JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, timely information for the purpose of
Role of Reference Banks
 
determining the LIBO Rate in accordance with the method described in clause (b) of the definition thereof. If any one or more of the Reference Banks shall not furnish such timely information to JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, for the purpose of determining a LIBO Rate, JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, shall determine such interest rate on the basis of timely information furnished by the remaining Reference Banks. If fewer than two Reference Banks furnish timely information to JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, for determining the LIBO Rate for any LIBO Rate Advances then:
(i) JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, shall forthwith notify Altria and the Lenders that the interest rate cannot be determined for such LIBO Rate Advance;
(ii) with respect to each LIBO Rate Advance, such Advance will, on the last day of the then existing Interest Period therefor, be prepaid by Altria or be automatically Converted into a Base Rate Advance; and
(iii) the obligation of the Lenders to make LIBO Rate Advances or to Convert Base Rate Advances into LIBO Rate Advances shall be suspended until JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, shall notify Altria and the Lenders that the circumstances causing such suspension no longer exist.
JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, shall give prompt notice to Altria and the Lenders of the applicable interest rate determined by JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, for purposes of Section 2.04(a)(i) or 2.04(a)(ii), and the rate, if any, furnished by each Reference Bank for the purpose of determining LIBO Rate Interest under Section 2.04(a)(ii) or the applicable LIBO Rate.
(c) . If, with respect to any LIBO Rate Advances, the Required Lenders notify JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, that (i) they are unable to obtain matching deposits in the London interbank market at or about 11:00 A.M. (London time) on the second Business Day before the making of a Borrowing in sufficient amounts to fund their respective LIBO Rate Advances as a part of such Borrowing during the Interest Period therefor or (ii) the LIBO Rate for any Interest Period for such Advances will not adequately reflect the cost to such Required Lenders of making, funding or maintaining their respective LIBO Rate Advances for such Interest Period, JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, shall forthwith so notify Altria and the Lenders, whereupon (A) Altria will, on the last day of the then existing Interest Period therefor, either (x) prepay such Advances or (y) Convert such Advances into Base Rate Advances and (B) the obligation of the Lenders to make, or to Convert Base Rate Advances into, LIBO Rate Advances shall be suspended until JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, shall notify Altria and the Lenders that the circumstances causing such suspension no longer exist. In the case of clause (ii) above, each Lender shall certify its cost of funds for each Interest Period to JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, and Altria as soon as practicable (but in any event not later than 10 Business Days after the last day of such Interest Period).
Inadequate LIBO Rate
Section 2.08. . Altria agrees to pay to JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, for the ratable account of each Lender a duration fee at the Applicable Duration Fee Rate on the amount of such Lender's outstanding Advances on the date that is (i) 90 days after the Acquisition Closing Date, (ii) 90 days after payment under (i) above, and (iii) the later of 180
Duration Fee
 
days after payment under (i) above and December 1, 2009, which fee shall be payable, in each case, on such date.
Section 2.09. . (a) . Altria shall have the right, upon at least one Business Day's notice to JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, to terminate in whole or reduce ratably in part the unused portions of the respective Commitments of the Lenders; that each partial reduction shall be in the aggregate amount of no less than $50,000,000.
Termination or Reduction of the Commitments
Optional Termination or Reduction of the Commitments
provided
(b) . (i) In the event that there shall be a Capital Markets Financing Transaction, Asset Sale or borrowing under a Debt Facility, Commitments shall be reduced in an aggregate amount equal to 100% of the Net Cash Proceeds, rounded to the nearest million (with $500,000 being rounded upward), of such Capital Markets Financing Transaction or Asset Sale or the aggregate amount of such Debt Facility borrowing, on the next succeeding Business Day following receipt by Altria or one of its Subsidiaries of such Net Cash Proceeds or Debt Facility borrowings.
Mandatory Reduction of the Commitments
(ii) The aggregate Commitments shall be automatically and permanently reduced to zero immediately following the funding of the Borrowing on the Acquisition Closing Date.
Section 2.10. . (a) . Altria may, in the case of any LIBO Rate Advance, upon at least three Business Days' notice to JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, or, in the case of any Base Rate Advance, upon notice given to JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, not later than 9:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the date of the proposed prepayment, in each case stating the proposed date and aggregate principal amount of the prepayment, and if such notice is given Altria shall, prepay the outstanding principal amount of the Advances comprising part of the same Borrowing in whole or ratably in part, together with accrued interest to the date of such prepayment on the principal amount prepaid; , , that (x) each partial prepayment shall be in an aggregate principal amount of no less than $50,000,000 or the remaining balance if less than $50,000,000 and (y) in the event of any such prepayment of a LIBO Rate Advance, Altria shall be obligated to reimburse the Lenders in respect thereof pursuant to Section 8.04(b).
Prepayments
Optional Prepayment of Advances
provided
however
(b) . (i) In the event that there shall be a Capital Markets Financing Transaction, Asset Sale or borrowing under a Debt Facility, Altria shall repay outstanding Advances in an aggregate amount equal to 100% of the Net Cash Proceeds, rounded to the nearest million (with $500,000 being rounded upward), of such Capital Markets Financing Transaction or Asset Sale or the aggregate amount of such Debt Facility borrowing received by Altria or one of its Subsidiaries, (x) in the case of LIBO Rate Advances, on the last day of the current Interest Period for such Advances (but in any event, no more than 60 days after the receipt by Altria or one of its Subsidiaries of such Net Cash Proceeds or Debt Facility borrowing) and (y) in the case of Base Rate Advances, on the third Business Day following receipt by Altria or one of its Subsidiaries of such Net Cash Proceeds or Debt Facility borrowing.
Mandatory Prepayment
(ii) Each prepayment made pursuant to this Section 2.10(b) shall be made together with any interest accrued to the date of such prepayment on the principal
 
amounts prepaid and, in the case of any prepayment of a LIBO Rate Advance on a date other than the last day of an Interest Period or at its maturity, any additional amounts which Altria shall be obligated to reimburse to the Lenders in respect thereof pursuant to Section 8.04(b). Altria shall give prompt notice to JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, of any prepayment required under this Section 2.10(b) and JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, shall give prompt notice of such prepayment to the Lenders. Prepayments under this Section 2.10(b) shall be allocated first to Base Rate Advances, ratably; any excess amount shall then be allocated to LIBO Rate Advances, in such manner as Altria shall determine.
Section 2.11. . (a) . If, due to either (i) the introduction of or any change (other than any change by way of imposition or increase of reserve requirements to the extent such change is included in the Eurodollar Rate Reserve Percentage) in or in the interpretation of any law or regulation or (ii) the compliance with any guideline or request from any central bank or other governmental authority (whether or not having the force of law), there shall be any increase in the cost to any Lender of agreeing to make or making, funding or maintaining LIBO Rate Advances (excluding for purposes of this Section 2.11 any such increased costs resulting from (i) Taxes or Other Taxes (as to which Section 2.14 shall govern) and (ii) changes in the basis of taxation of overall net income or overall gross income by the United States or by the foreign jurisdiction or state under the laws of which such Lender is organized or has its Applicable Lending Office or any political subdivision thereof), then Altria shall from time to time, upon demand by such Lender (with a copy of such demand to JPMCB, as Administrative Agent), pay to JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, for the account of such Lender additional amounts sufficient to compensate such Lender for such increased cost; , , that before making any such demand, each Lender agrees to use reasonable efforts (consistent with its internal policy and legal and regulatory restrictions) to designate a different Applicable Lending Office if the making of such a designation would avoid the need for, or reduce the amount of, such increased cost and would not, in the reasonable judgment of such Lender, be otherwise disadvantageous to such Lender. A certificate as to the amount of such increased cost, submitted to Altria and JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, by such Lender, shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error.
Increased Costs
Costs from Change in Law or Authorities
provided
however
(b) . In the event that, after the date hereof, the implementation of or any change in any law or regulation, or any guideline or directive (whether or not having the force of law) or the interpretation or administration thereof by any central bank or other authority charged with the administration thereof, imposes, modifies or deems applicable any capital adequacy or similar requirement (including, without limitation, a request or requirement which affects the manner in which any Lender allocates capital resources to its commitments, including its obligations hereunder) and as a result thereof, in the sole opinion of such Lender, the rate of return on such Lender's capital as a consequence of its obligations hereunder is reduced to a level below that which such Lender could have achieved but for such circumstances, but reduced to the extent that Borrowings are outstanding from time to time, then in each such case, upon demand from time to time Altria shall pay to such Lender such additional amount or amounts as shall compensate such Lender for such reduction in rate of return; that, in the case of each Lender, such additional amount or amounts shall not exceed 0.15 of 1% per annum of such Lender's Commitment. A certificate of such Lender as to any such additional amount or amounts shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent
Reduction in Lender's Rate of Return
provided
 
manifest error. Except as provided below, in determining any such amount or amounts each Lender may use any reasonable averaging and attribution methods. Notwithstanding the foregoing, each Lender shall take all reasonable actions to avoid the imposition of, or reduce the amounts of, such increased costs, that such actions, in the reasonable judgment of such Lender, will not be otherwise disadvantageous to such Lender, and, to the extent possible, each Lender will calculate such increased costs based upon the capital requirements for its Commitment hereunder and not upon the average or general capital requirements imposed upon such Lender.
provided
Section 2.12. . Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, if any Lender shall notify JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, that the introduction of or any change in, or in the interpretation of, any law or regulation makes it unlawful, or any central bank or other governmental authority asserts that it is unlawful, for any Lender or its Eurodollar Lending Office to perform its obligations hereunder to make LIBO Rate Advances or to fund or maintain LIBO Rate Advances, (a) each LIBO Rate Advance will automatically, upon such demand, be Converted into a Base Rate Advance, and (b) the obligation of the Lenders to make LIBO Rate Advances or to Convert Base Rate Advances into LIBO Rate Advances shall be suspended, until JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, shall notify Altria and the Lenders that the circumstances causing such suspension no longer exist; , , that before making any such demand, each Lender agrees to use reasonable efforts (consistent with its internal policy and legal and regulatory restrictions) to designate a different Eurodollar Lending Office if the making of such a designation would allow such Lender or its Eurodollar Lending Office to continue to perform its obligations to make LIBO Rate Advances or to continue to fund or maintain LIBO Rate Advances and would not, in the judgment of such Lender, be otherwise disadvantageous to such Lender.
Illegality
provided
however
Section 2.13. . (a) . Altria shall make each payment hereunder, without set-off or counterclaim, not later than 11:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the day when due to JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, at JPMCB's Administrative Agent Account in same day funds. JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, will promptly thereafter cause to be distributed like funds relating to the payment of principal or interest or fees ratably (other than amounts payable pursuant to Section 2.11, 2.14 or 8.04(b)) to the Lenders for the account of their respective Applicable Lending Offices, and like funds relating to the payment of any other amount payable to any Lender to such Lender for the account of its Applicable Lending Office, in each case to be applied in accordance with the terms of this Agreement. From and after the effective date of an Assignment and Acceptance pursuant to Section 8.07, JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, shall make all payments hereunder in respect of the interest assigned thereby to the Lender assignee thereunder, and the parties to such Assignment and Acceptance shall make all appropriate adjustments in such payments for periods prior to such effective date directly between themselves.
Payments and Computations
Time and Distribution of Payments
(b) . All computations of interest based on JPMCB's prime rate shall be made by JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, on the basis of a year of 365 or 366 days, as the case may be. All computations of interest based on the LIBO Rate or the Federal Funds Effective Rate and of fees shall be made by JPMCB, as Administrative Agent and all computations of interest pursuant to Section 2.04 shall be made by a Lender, on the basis of a
Computation of Interest and Fees
 
year of 360 days, in each case for the actual number of days (including the first day but excluding the last day) occurring in the period for which such interest or fees are payable. Each determination by JPMCB, as Administrative Agent (or, in the case of Section 2.04 by a Lender), of an interest rate hereunder shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error.
(c) . Whenever any payment hereunder shall be stated to be due on a day other than a Business Day, such payment shall be made on the next succeeding Business Day, and such extension of time shall in such case be included in the computation of payment of interest or fees, as the case may be; , , that if such extension would cause payment of interest on or principal of LIBO Rate Advances to be made in the next following calendar month, such payment shall be made on the immediately preceding Business Day.
Payment Due Dates
provided
however
(d) . Unless JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, receives notice from Altria prior to the date on which any payment is due to the Lenders hereunder that Altria will not make such payment in full, JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, may assume that Altria has made such payment in full to JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, on such date and JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, may, in reliance upon such assumption, cause to be distributed to each Lender on such due date an amount equal to the amount then due such Lender. If and to the extent Altria has not made such payment in full to JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, each Lender shall repay to JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, forthwith on demand such amount distributed to such Lender together with interest thereon, for each day from the date such amount is distributed to such Lender until the date such Lender repays such amount to JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, at the Federal Funds Effective Rate.
Presumption of Payment by Altria
Section 2.14. . (a) Any and all payments by Altria hereunder shall be made, in accordance with Section 2.13, free and clear of and without deduction for any and all present or future taxes, levies, imposts, deductions, charges or withholdings, and all liabilities with respect thereto, , (i) in the case of each Lender and JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, taxes imposed on its net income, and franchise taxes imposed on it, by the jurisdiction under the laws of which such Lender or JPMCB, as Administrative Agent (as the case may be), is organized or any political subdivision thereof, (ii) in the case of each Lender, taxes imposed on its net income, and franchise taxes imposed on it, by the jurisdiction of such Lender's Applicable Lending Office or any political subdivision thereof, (iii) in the case of each Lender and JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, taxes imposed on its net income, franchise taxes imposed on it, and any tax imposed by means of withholding to the extent such tax is imposed solely as a result of a present or former connection (other than the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement or a Note) between the Lender or JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, as the case may be, and the taxing jurisdiction, and (iv) in the case of each Lender and JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, taxes imposed by the United States by means of withholding tax if and to the extent that such taxes shall be in effect and shall be applicable on the date hereof to payments to be made to such Lender's Applicable Lending Office or to JPMCB, as Administrative Agent (all such non-excluded taxes, levies, imposts, deductions, charges, withholdings and liabilities in respect of payments hereunder being hereinafter referred to as ""). If Altria shall be required by law to deduct any Taxes from or in respect of any sum payable hereunder to any Lender or JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, (i) the sum payable shall be increased as may be necessary so that after
Taxes
excluding
Taxes
 
making all required deductions (including deductions applicable to additional sums payable under this Section 2.14) such Lender or JPMCB, as Administrative Agent (as the case may be), receives an amount equal to the sum it would have received had no such deductions been made, (ii) Altria shall make such deductions and (iii) Altria shall pay the full amount deducted to the relevant taxation authority or other authority in accordance with applicable law.
(b) In addition, Altria shall pay any present or future stamp or documentary taxes or any other excise or property taxes, charges or similar levies that arise from any payment made hereunder or from the execution, delivery or registration of, performing under, or otherwise with respect to, this Agreement (hereinafter referred to as "").
Other Taxes
(c) Altria shall indemnify each Lender and JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, for and hold it harmless against the full amount of Taxes or Other Taxes (including, without limitation, Taxes and Other Taxes imposed by any jurisdiction on amounts payable under this Section 2.14) paid by such Lender or JPMCB, as Administrative Agent (as the case may be), and any liability (including penalties, interest and expenses) arising therefrom or with respect thereto, whether or not such Taxes or Other Taxes were correctly or legally asserted. This indemnification shall be made within 30 days from the date such Lender or JPMCB, as Administrative Agent (as the case may be), makes written demand therefor.
(d) Within 30 days after the date of any payment of Taxes, Altria shall furnish to JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, at its address referred to in Section 8.02, the original or a certified copy of a receipt evidencing such payment. If Altria determines that no Taxes are payable in respect thereof, Altria shall, at the request of JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, furnish or cause the payor to furnish, JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, and each Lender an opinion of counsel reasonably acceptable to JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, stating that such payment is exempt from Taxes.
(e) Each Lender, on or prior to the date of its execution and delivery of this Agreement in the case of each Initial Lender and on the date of the Assignment and Acceptance pursuant to which it becomes a Lender in the case of each other Lender, shall provide each of JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, and Altria with any form or certificate that is required by any taxing authority (including, if applicable, two original Internal Revenue Service Forms W-9, W-8BEN or W-8ECI, as appropriate, or any successor or other form prescribed by the Internal Revenue Service), certifying that such Lender is exempt from or entitled to a reduced rate of Home Jurisdiction Withholding Taxes on payments pursuant to this Agreement. Thereafter, each such Lender shall provide additional forms or certificates (i) to the extent a form or certificate previously provided has become inaccurate or invalid or has otherwise ceased to be effective or (ii) as requested in writing by Altria or JPMCB, as Administrative Agent. Unless Altria and JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, have received forms or other documents satisfactory to them indicating that payments hereunder are not subject to Home Jurisdiction Withholding Taxes or are subject to Home Jurisdiction Withholding Taxes at a rate reduced by an applicable tax treaty, Altria or JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, shall withhold taxes from such payments at the applicable statutory rate in the case of payments to or for any Lender.
(f) Any Lender claiming any additional amounts payable pursuant to this Section 2.14 agrees to use reasonable efforts (consistent with its internal policy and legal and regulatory
 
restrictions) to select or change the jurisdiction of its Applicable Lending Office if the making of such a selection or change would avoid the need for, or reduce the amount of, any such additional amounts that may thereafter accrue and would not, in the reasonable judgment of such Lender, be otherwise economically disadvantageous to such Lender.
(g) No additional amounts will be payable pursuant to this Section 2.14 with respect to (i) any Home Jurisdiction Withholding Taxes that would not have been payable had the Lender provided the relevant forms or other documents pursuant to Section 2.14(e); or (ii) in the case of an Assignment and Acceptance by a Lender to an Eligible Assignee, any Home Jurisdiction Withholding Taxes that exceed the amount of such Home Jurisdiction Withholding Taxes that are imposed prior to such Assignment and Acceptance, unless such Assignment and Acceptance resulted from the demand of Altria.
(h) If any Lender or JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, as the case may be, obtains a refund of any Tax for which payment has been made pursuant to this Section 2.14, which refund in the good faith judgment of such Lender or JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, as the case may be (and without any obligation to disclose its tax records), is allocable to such payment made under this Section 2.14, the amount of such refund (together with any interest received thereon and reduced by reasonable costs incurred in obtaining such refund) promptly shall be paid to Altria to the extent payment has been made in full by Altria pursuant to this Section 2.14.
Section 2.15. . If any Lender shall obtain any payment (whether voluntary, involuntary, through the exercise of any right of set-off, or otherwise) on account of the Advances owing to it (other than pursuant to Section 2.11, 2.14 or 8.04(b)) in excess of its ratable share of payments on account of the Advances obtained by all the Lenders, such Lender shall forthwith purchase from the other Lenders such participations in the Advances made by them as shall be necessary to cause such purchasing Lender to share the excess payment ratably with each of them; , , that if all or any portion of such excess payment is thereafter recovered from such purchasing Lender, such purchase from each Lender shall be rescinded and such Lender shall repay to the purchasing Lender the purchase price to the extent of such recovery together with an amount equal to such Lender's ratable share (according to the proportion of (i) the amount of such Lender's required repayment to (ii) the total amount so recovered from the purchasing Lender) of any interest or other amount paid or payable by the purchasing Lender in respect of the total amount so recovered. Altria agrees that any Lender so purchasing a participation from another Lender pursuant to this Section 2.15 may, to the fullest extent permitted by law, exercise all its rights of payment (including the right of set-off) with respect to such participation as fully as if such Lender were the direct creditor of Altria in the amount of such participation.
Sharing of Payments, Etc
provided
however
Section 2.16. . (a) . Each Lender shall maintain in accordance with its usual practice an account or accounts evidencing the indebtedness of Altria to such Lender resulting from each Advance owing to such Lender from time to time, including the amounts of principal and interest payable and paid to such Lender from time to time hereunder in respect of Advances. Altria shall, upon notice by any Lender to Altria (with a copy of such notice to JPMCB, as Administrative Agent) to the effect that a Note is required or appropriate in order for such Lender to evidence (whether for purposes of pledge, enforcement or otherwise) the Advances owing to, or to be made by, such Lender, promptly
Evidence of Debt
Lender Records; Notes
 
execute and deliver to such Lender a Note payable to the order of such Lender in a principal amount up to the Commitment of such Lender.
(b) . The Register maintained by JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, pursuant to Section 8.07(d) shall include a control account, and a subsidiary account for each Lender, in which accounts (taken together) shall be recorded as follows:
Record of Borrowings, Payables and Payments
(i) the date and amount of each Borrowing made hereunder, the Type of Advances comprising such Borrowing and, if appropriate, the Interest Period applicable thereto;
(ii) the terms of each Assignment and Acceptance delivered to and accepted by it;
(iii) the amount of any principal or interest due and payable or to become due and payable from Altria to each Lender hereunder; and
(iv) the amount of any sum received by JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, from Altria hereunder and each Lender's share thereof.
(c) . Entries made in good faith by JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, in the Register pursuant to Section 2.16(b), and by each Lender in its account or accounts pursuant to Section 2.16(a), shall be evidence of the amount of principal and interest due and payable or to become due and payable from Altria to, in the case of the Register, each Lender and, in the case of such account or accounts, such Lender, under this Agreement, absent manifest error; , , that the failure of JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, or such Lender to make an entry, or any finding that an entry is incorrect, in the Register or such account or accounts shall not limit or otherwise affect the obligations of Altria under this Agreement.
Evidence of Payment Obligations
prima
facie
provided
however
Section 2.17. . The proceeds of the Advances shall be available (and Altria agrees that it shall use such proceeds) for financing of the Acquisition and related transactions.
Use of Proceeds
Section 3.01. . This Agreement shall become effective on and as of the first date (the "") on which the following conditions precedent have been satisfied:
Conditions Precedent to Effectiveness
Effective Date
(a) Altria shall have notified each Lender and JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, in writing as to the proposed Effective Date.
 
(b) On the Effective Date, the following statements shall be true and JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, shall have received for the account of each Lender a certificate signed by a duly authorized officer of Altria, dated the Effective Date, stating that:
(i) the representations and warranties contained in Section 4.01 are correct on and as of the Effective Date, and
(ii) no event has occurred and is continuing that constitutes a Default or Event of Default.
(c) JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, shall have received on or before the Effective Date the following, each dated such day, in form and substance satisfactory to JPMCB, as Administrative Agent:
(i) Certified copies of the resolutions of the Board of Directors of Altria approving this Agreement, and of all documents evidencing other necessary corporate action and governmental approvals, if any, with respect to this Agreement.
(ii) A certificate of the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of Altria certifying the names and true signatures of the officers of Altria authorized to sign this Agreement and the other documents to be delivered hereunder.
(iii) Favorable opinions of counsel (which may be in-house counsel) for Altria, substantially in the form of Exhibits D-1 and D-2 hereto.
(iv) An executed Guarantee.
(v) Certified copies of the resolutions of the Board of Directors of the Guarantor approving the Guarantee, and of all documents evidencing other necessary corporate action and governmental approvals, if any, with respect to the Guarantee.
(vi) A certificate of the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Guarantor certifying the names and true signatures of the officers of the Guarantor authorized to sign the Guarantee and the other documents to be delivered in connection therewith.
(vii) Favorable opinion of counsel (which may be in-house counsel) for Guarantor, substantially in the form of Exhibit D-3 hereto.
(d) This Agreement shall have been executed by Altria, JPMCB and Goldman Sachs, as Administrative Agents, Citicorp North America, Inc., Barclays Bank PLC, Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., Santander Investment Securities Inc., HSBC Securities (USA) Inc. and The Bank of Nova Scotia, as Syndication Agents, and Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Barclays Bank PLC, Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., Santander Investment Securities Inc., HSBC Securities (USA) Inc. and The Bank of Nova Scotia, as Co-Arrangers, and JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, shall have been notified by each Initial Lender that such Initial Lender has executed this Agreement.
 
JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, shall notify Altria and the Initial Lenders of the date which is the Effective Date upon satisfaction of all of the conditions precedent set forth in this Section 3.01. For purposes of determining compliance with the conditions specified in this Section 3.01, each Lender shall be deemed to have consented to, approved or accepted or to be satisfied with each document or other matter required thereunder to be consented to or approved by or acceptable or satisfactory to the Lenders unless an officer of JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, responsible for the transactions contemplated by this Agreement shall have received notice from such Lender prior to the date that Altria, by notice to the Lenders, designates as the proposed Effective Date, specifying its objection thereto.
Section 3.02. . The obligation of each Lender to make an Advance is subject to the following conditions precedent:
Conditions Precedent to Borrowing
(a) the Effective Date shall have occurred;
(b) the Acquisition shall have been consummated substantially simultaneously with the making of the Advances comprising the Borrowing, on the terms set forth in the Merger Agreement by the "End Date" referred to therein, without any waivers of conditions, amendments, consents or changes that are material and adverse to Altria or the Lenders (it being agreed that the extension of the "End Date" referred to therein under the conditions and to the date contemplated thereby will not constitute such a change) that have not been approved by the Administrative Agents (such approval not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed);
(c) there shall not have occurred any "Company Material Adverse Effect," as defined in the Merger Agreement (but only to the extent Altria would have the right under the Merger Agreement not to consummate the Acquisition);
(d) Altria shall have paid, or made arrangements satisfactory to JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, for the payment of, fees and expenses due and payable on or prior to the Acquisition Closing Date;
(e) the Acquisition Closing Date shall not have occurred prior to January 2, 2009; and
(f) on the date of such Borrowing the following statements shall be true (and the acceptance by Altria of the proceeds of such Borrowing shall be a representation by Altria that):
(i) the representations and warranties contained in Section 4.01 (except the representations set forth in the last sentence of subsection (e) and in subsection (f) thereof (other than clause (i) thereof)) are correct on and as of the date of such Borrowing, before and after giving effect to such Borrowing and to the application of the proceeds therefrom, as though made on and as of such date; and
(ii) after giving effect to the application of the proceeds of all Borrowings on such date (together with any other resources of Altria applied together therewith) and after giving effect to the Acquisition, no event has occurred and is continuing, or would result from such Borrowing, that constitutes a Default or Event of Default.
 
Section 4.01. . Altria represents and warrants as follows:
Representations and Warranties of Altria
(a) It is a corporation duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of Virginia.
(b) The execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement and the Notes to be delivered by it, and the consummation of the Acquisition, are within its corporate powers, have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action, and do not contravene (i) its charter or by-laws or (ii) in any material respect, any law, rule, regulation or order of any court or governmental agency or any contractual restriction binding on or affecting it.
(c) No authorization or approval or other action by, and no notice to or filing with, any governmental authority or regulatory body is required for the due execution, delivery and performance by it of this Agreement or the Notes to be delivered by it.
(d) This Agreement is, and each of the Notes to be delivered by it when delivered hereunder will be, a legal, valid and binding obligation of Altria enforceable against Altria in accordance with its terms, subject to the effect of any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent conveyance, reorganization, moratorium and other laws affecting creditors' rights generally and subject, as to enforceability, to general principles of equity (regardless of whether enforcement is sought in a proceeding in equity or at law) and an implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing.
(e) As reported in Altria's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2008, the unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets of Altria and its Subsidiaries as of September 30, 2008 and the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of earnings of Altria and its Subsidiaries for the quarter then ended fairly present, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Altria and its Subsidiaries as at such date and the consolidated results of the operations of Altria and its Subsidiaries for the quarter ended on such date, all in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Except as disclosed in Altria's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2008, and in any Current Report on Form 8-K filed subsequent to September 30, 2008 but prior to the Effective Date, since September 30, 2008 there has been no material adverse change in such position or operations.
(f) There is no pending or threatened action or proceeding affecting it or any of its Subsidiaries before any court, governmental agency or arbitrator (a "") (i) that purports to affect the legality, validity or enforceability of this Agreement or (ii) except for Proceedings disclosed in Altria's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2008, June 30, 2008 and September 30, 2008, any Current Report on Form 8-K filed subsequent to September 30, 2008 but prior to the Effective Date and, with respect to Proceedings commenced after the date
Proceeding
 
of the most recent such document but prior to the Effective Date, a certificate delivered to the Lenders, that may materially adversely affect the financial position or results of operations of Altria and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole.
(g) None of the proceeds of any Advance will be used, directly or indirectly, for the purpose of purchasing or carrying any Margin Stock or for the purpose of reducing or retiring any indebtedness which was originally incurred to purchase or carry any Margin Stock or for any other purpose that would constitute the Advances as a "purpose credit" within the meaning of Regulation U and, in each case, would constitute a violation of Regulation U.
Section 5.01. . So long as any Advance shall remain unpaid or any Lender shall have any Commitment hereunder, Altria will:
Affirmative Covenants
(a) . Comply, and cause each Major Subsidiary to comply, in all material respects, with all applicable laws, rules, regulations and orders (such compliance to include, without limitation, complying with ERISA and paying before the same become delinquent all taxes, assessments and governmental charges imposed upon it or upon its property except to the extent contested in good faith), noncompliance with which would materially adversely affect the financial condition or operations of Altria and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole.
Compliance with Laws, Etc
(b) .
Maintenance of Ratios
(i) . Maintain a ratio of aggregate consolidated Debt as of the last day of the most recent fiscal quarter for which consolidated financial statements have been delivered pursuant to Section 5.01(c)(i) or (ii) hereof to Consolidated EBITDA for the four consecutive fiscal quarter period ending on such date of not more than 3.0 to 1.0.
Maintenance of Ratio of Debt to EBITDA
(ii) . Maintain a ratio of Consolidated EBITDA for the four most recent fiscal quarters for which consolidated financial statements have been delivered pursuant to Section 5.01(c)(i) or (ii) hereof to Consolidated Interest Expense for such four most recent fiscal quarters of not less than 4.0 to 1.0.
Maintenance of Ratio of Consolidated EBITDA to Consolidated Interest Expense
(c) . Furnish to the Lenders:
Reporting Requirements
(i) as soon as available and in any event within 60 days after the end of each of the first three quarters of each fiscal year of Altria, an unaudited interim condensed consolidated balance sheet of Altria and its Subsidiaries as of the end of such quarter and unaudited interim condensed consolidated statements of earnings of Altria and its Subsidiaries for the period commencing at the end of the previous fiscal year and ending with the end of such quarter, certified by the chief financial officer of Altria;
 
(ii) as soon as available and in any event within 100 days after the end of each fiscal year of Altria, a copy of the consolidated financial statements for such year for Altria and its Subsidiaries, audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (or other independent auditors which, as of the date of this Agreement, are one of the "big four" accounting firms);
(iii) all reports which Altria sends to any of its shareholders, and copies of all reports on Form 8-K (or any successor forms adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission) which Altria files with the Securities and Exchange Commission;
(iv) as soon as possible and in any event within five days after the occurrence of each Event of Default and each Default, continuing on the date of such statement, a statement of the chief financial officer or treasurer of Altria setting forth details of such Event of Default or Default and the action which Altria has taken and proposes to take with respect thereto;
(v) within 60 days of the end of each fiscal quarter of Altria, a statement of the chief financial officer or treasurer of Altria certifying compliance with the requirements of Section 5.01(b) and setting forth the relevant calculations; and
(vi) such other historical information respecting the condition or operations, financial or otherwise, of Altria or any Major Subsidiary as any Lender through JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, may from time to time reasonably request.
In lieu of furnishing the Lenders the items referred to in clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) above, Altria may make such items available on the internet at www.altria.com (which website includes an option to subscribe to a free service alerting subscribers by e-mail of new Securities and Exchange Commission filings) or any successor or replacement website thereof, or by similar electronic means.
(d) . Suspend share repurchases in the event that, and for so long as, (i) aggregate Commitments and outstanding Advances exceed $3,000,000,000 and (ii) the credit rating of Altria's long-term senior unsecured debt is (A) BBB by Standard & Poor's or Baa2 by Moody's and placed on negative credit watch by such rating agency or (B) below BBB by Standard & Poor's or Baa2 by Moody's.
Share Repurchase
Section 5.02. . So long as any Advance shall remain unpaid or any Lender shall have any Commitment hereunder, Altria will not:
Negative Covenants
(a) . Create or suffer to exist, or permit any Major Subsidiary to create or suffer to exist, any lien, security interest or other charge or encumbrance (other than operating leases and licensed intellectual property), or any other type of preferential arrangement (""), upon or with respect to any of its properties, whether now owned or hereafter acquired, or assign, or permit any Major Subsidiary to assign, any right to receive income, in each case to secure or provide for the payment of any Debt of any Person, other than:
Liens, Etc
Liens
(i) Liens upon or in property acquired or held by it or any Major Subsidiary in the ordinary course of business to secure the purchase price of such
 
property or to secure indebtedness incurred solely for the purpose of financing the acquisition of such property;
(ii) Liens existing on property at the time of its acquisition (other than any such lien or security interest created in contemplation of such acquisition);
(iii) Liens existing on the date hereof securing Debt;
(iv) Liens on property financed through the issuance of industrial revenue bonds in favor of the holders of such bonds or any agent or trustee therefor;
(v) Liens existing on property of any Person acquired by Altria or any Major Subsidiary;
(vi) Liens securing Debt in an aggregate amount not in excess of 15% of Consolidated Tangible Assets;
(vii) Liens upon or with respect to Margin Stock;
(viii) Liens in favor of Altria or any Major Subsidiary;
(ix) Liens in connection with leasing, sale and leaseback and structured finance transactions conducted in the ordinary course of business of Philip Morris Capital Corporation, that any such Liens that secure the payment of Debt are without recourse to the general credit or assets of Altria and its Major Subsidiaries;
provided
(x) precautionary Liens provided by Altria or any Major Subsidiary in connection with the sale, assignment, transfer or other disposition of assets by Altria or such Major Subsidiary which transaction is determined by the Board of Directors of Altria or such Major Subsidiary to constitute a "sale" under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States; or
(xi) any extension, renewal or replacement of the foregoing, that (A) such Lien does not extend to any additional assets (other than a substitution of like assets), and (B) the amount of Debt secured by any such Lien is not increased.
provided
(b) . Consolidate with or merge into, or convey or transfer its properties and assets substantially as an entirety to, any Person, or permit any Subsidiary directly or indirectly owned by it to do so, unless, immediately after giving effect thereto, no Default or Event of Default would exist and, in the case of any merger or consolidation to which it is a party, the surviving corporation is Altria or was a Subsidiary of Altria immediately prior to such merger or consolidation, which is organized and existing under the laws of the United States of America or any State thereof, or the District of Columbia. The surviving corporation of any merger or consolidation involving Altria shall assume all of Altria's obligations under this Agreement (including without limitation with respect to Altria's obligations, the covenants set forth in Article V) by the execution and delivery of an instrument in form and substance satisfactory to the Required Lenders.
Mergers, Etc
 
Section 6.01. . Each of the following events (each an "") shall constitute an Event of Default:
Events of Default
Event of Default
(a) Altria shall fail to pay any principal of any Advance when the same becomes due and payable; or Altria shall fail to pay interest on any Advance, or fail to pay any fee under Section 2.08, within ten days after the same becomes due and payable; or
(b) Any representation or warranty made or deemed to have been made by Altria herein or by Altria (or any of their respective officers) in connection with this Agreement shall prove to have been incorrect in any material respect when made or deemed to have been made; or
(c) Altria shall fail to perform or observe (i) any term, covenant or agreement contained in Section 5.01(b), 5.01(d) or 5.02(b), (ii) any term, covenant or agreement contained in Section 5.02(a) if such failure shall remain unremedied for 15 days after written notice thereof shall have been given to Altria by JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, or any Lender or (iii) any other term, covenant or agreement contained in this Agreement on its part to be performed or observed if such failure shall remain unremedied for 30 days after written notice thereof shall have been given to Altria by JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, or any Lender; or
(d) Altria or any Major Subsidiary shall fail to pay any principal of or premium or interest on any Debt which is outstanding in a principal amount of at least $100,000,000 in the aggregate (but excluding Debt arising under this Agreement) of Altria or such Major Subsidiary (as the case may be), when the same becomes due and payable (whether by scheduled maturity, required prepayment, acceleration, demand or otherwise), and such failure shall continue after the applicable grace period, if any, specified in the agreement or instrument relating to such Debt unless adequate provision for any such payment has been made in form and substance satisfactory to the Required Lenders; or any Debt of Altria or any Major Subsidiary which is outstanding in a principal amount of at least $100,000,000 in the aggregate (but excluding Debt arising under this Agreement) shall be declared to be due and payable, or required to be prepaid (other than by a scheduled required prepayment), redeemed, purchased or defeased, or an offer to prepay, redeem, purchase or defease such Debt shall be required to be made, in each case prior to the stated maturity thereof unless adequate provision for the payment of such Debt has been made in form and substance satisfactory to the Required Lenders; or
(e) Altria or any Major Subsidiary shall generally not pay its debts as such debts become due, or shall admit in writing its inability to pay its debts generally, or shall make a general assignment for the benefit of creditors; or any proceeding shall be instituted by or against Altria or any Major Subsidiary seeking to adjudicate it a bankrupt or insolvent, or seeking liquidation, winding up, reorganization, arrangement, adjustment, protection, relief, or composition of it or its debts under any law relating to bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization or relief of debtors, or seeking the entry of an order for relief or the appointment of a receiver, trustee, or other similar official for it or for any substantial part of its property, and, in the case of
 
any such proceeding instituted against it (but not instituted by it), either such proceeding shall remain undismissed or unstayed for a period of 60 days or any of the actions sought in such proceeding (including, without limitation, the entry of an order for relief against it or the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian or other similar official for it or for any of its property constituting a substantial part of the property of Altria and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole) shall occur; or Altria or any Major Subsidiary shall take any corporate action to authorize any of the actions set forth above in this subsection (e); or
(f) Any judgment or order for the payment of money in excess of $100,000,000 shall be rendered against Altria or any Major Subsidiary and there shall be any period of 60 consecutive days during which a stay of enforcement of such unsatisfied judgment or order, by reason of a pending appeal or otherwise, shall not be in effect; that such 60-day stay period shall be extended for a period not to exceed an additional 120 days if (i) Altria or such Major Subsidiary is contesting such judgment or enforcement of such judgment in good faith, unless, with respect only to judgments or orders rendered outside the United States, such action is not reasonably required to protect its respective assets from levy or garnishment, and (ii) no assets with a fair market value in excess of $100,000,000 of Altria or such Major Subsidiary have been levied upon or garnished to satisfy such judgment; , , that such 60-day stay period shall be further extended for any judgment or order rendered outside the United States until such time as the conditions in clauses (i) or (ii) are no longer satisfied; or
provided
provided
further
(g) Altria or any ERISA Affiliate shall incur, or shall be reasonably likely to incur, liability in excess of $500,000,000 in the aggregate as a result of one or more of the following: (i) the occurrence of any ERISA Event; (ii) the partial or complete withdrawal of Altria or any ERISA Affiliate from a Multiemployer Plan; or (iii) the reorganization or termination of a Multiemployer Plan; , , that no Default or Event of Default under this Section 6.01(g) shall be deemed to have occurred if Altria or any ERISA Affiliate shall have made arrangements satisfactory to the PBGC or the Required Lenders to discharge or otherwise satisfy such liability (including the posting of a bond or other security).
provided
however
Section 6.02. . If an Event of Default occurs or is continuing, then JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, shall at the request, or may with the consent, of the Required Lenders, by notice to Altria:
Lenders' Rights upon Event of Default
(a) declare the obligation of each Lender to make Advances to be terminated, whereupon the same shall forthwith terminate, and
(b) declare all the Advances then outstanding, all interest thereon and all other amounts payable under this Agreement to be forthwith due and payable, whereupon the Advances then outstanding, all such interest and all such amounts shall become and be forthwith due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or further notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by Altria;
, , that in the event of an actual or deemed entry of an order for relief with respect to Altria under the Federal Bankruptcy Code, (i) the obligation of each Lender to make Advances shall automatically be terminated and (ii) the Advances then outstanding, all such interest and all such amounts shall automatically become and be due and payable, without
provided
however
 
presentment, demand, protest or any notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by Altria.
Section 7.01. . Each Lender hereby appoints and authorizes the Administrative Agents to take such action as agent on its behalf and to exercise such powers and discretion under this Agreement as are delegated to the Administrative Agents by the terms hereof, together with such powers and discretion as are reasonably incidental thereto. As to any matters not expressly provided for by this Agreement (including, without limitation, enforcement or collection of the Notes), the Administrative Agents shall not be required to exercise any discretion or take any action, but shall be required to act or to refrain from acting (and shall be fully protected in so acting or refraining from acting) upon the instructions of the Required Lenders, and such instructions shall be binding upon all Lenders and all holders of Notes; , , that no Administrative Agent shall be required to take any action that exposes such Administrative Agent to personal liability or that is contrary to this Agreement or applicable law. Each of the Administrative Agents agrees to give to each Lender prompt notice of each notice given to it by Altria as required by the terms of this Agreement or at the request of Altria, and any notice provided pursuant to Section 5.01(c)(iv). No Administrative Agent shall have, by reason hereof, a fiduciary relationship in respect of any Lender; and nothing herein, expressed or implied, is intended to or shall be so construed as to impose upon any Administrative Agent any obligations in respect hereof except as expressly set forth herein.
Authorization and Action
provided
however
Section 7.02. Neither the Administrative Agents nor any of their directors, officers, agents or employees shall be liable for any action taken or omitted to be taken by it or them under or in connection with this Agreement, except for its or their own gross negligence or willful misconduct. Without limitation of the generality of the foregoing, the Administrative Agents:
Administrative Agents' Reliance, Etc.
(a) may treat the Lender that made any Advance as the holder of the Debt resulting therefrom until JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, receives and accepts an Assignment and Acceptance entered into by such Lender, as assignor, and an Eligible Assignee, as assignee, as provided in Section 8.07;
(b) may consult with legal counsel (including counsel for Altria), independent public accountants and other experts selected by it and shall not be liable for any action taken or omitted to be taken in good faith by it in accordance with the advice of such counsel, accountants or experts;
(c) make no warranty or representation to any Lender and shall not be responsible to any Lender for any statements, warranties or representations (whether written or oral) made in or in connection with this Agreement;
 
(d) shall not have any duty to ascertain or to inquire as to the performance or observance of any of the terms, covenants or conditions of this Agreement on the part of Altria or to inspect the property (including the books and records) of Altria;
(e) shall not be responsible to any Lender for the due execution, legality, validity, enforceability, genuineness, sufficiency or value of this Agreement or any other instrument or document furnished pursuant hereto; and
(f) shall incur no liability under or in respect of this Agreement by acting upon any notice, consent, certificate or other instrument or writing (which may be by telecopier, telegram or telex) believed by it to be genuine and signed or sent by the proper party or parties.
Section 7.03. . With respect to its Commitment and the Advances made by it, each of JPMCB and Goldman Sachs shall have the same rights and powers under this Agreement as any other Lender and may exercise the same as though it were not an Administrative Agent; and the term "Lender" or "Lenders" shall, unless otherwise expressly indicated, include JPMCB and Goldman Sachs in their individual capacities. JPMCB and Goldman Sachs and their affiliates may accept deposits from, lend money to, act as trustee under indentures of, accept investment banking engagements from and generally engage in any kind of business with, Altria, any of its Subsidiaries and any Person who may do business with or own securities of Altria or any such Subsidiary, all as if JPMCB and Goldman Sachs were not Administrative Agents and without any duty to account therefor to the Lenders.
JPMCB, Goldman Sachs and Affiliates
Section 7.04. . Each Lender acknowledges that it has, independently and without reliance upon either Administrative Agent, any Syndication Agent, any Co-Arranger, or any other Lender and based on the financial statements referred to in Section 4.01 and such other documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Agreement. Each Lender also acknowledges that it will, independently and without reliance upon any Administrative Agent, Syndication Agent, Co-Arranger, or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit decisions in taking or not taking action under this Agreement.
Lender Credit Decision
Section 7.05. . The Lenders agree to indemnify each Administrative Agent (to the extent not reimbursed by Altria), ratably according to the respective principal amounts of the Advances then owing to each of them (or if no Advances are at the time outstanding, ratably according to the respective amounts of their Commitments), from and against any and all liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses or disbursements of any kind or nature whatsoever that may be imposed on, incurred by, or asserted against such Administrative Agent in any way relating to or arising out of this Agreement or any action taken or omitted by such Administrative Agent under this Agreement (collectively, the ""), that no Lender shall be liable for any portion of the Indemnified Costs to the extent resulting from such Administrative Agent's gross negligence or willful misconduct as found in a final, non-appealable judgment by a court of competent jurisdiction. Without limitation of the foregoing, each Lender agrees to reimburse such Administrative Agent promptly upon demand for its ratable share of any out-of-pocket expenses (including counsel fees) incurred by such Administrative Agent in connection with the
Indemnification
Indemnified Costs
provided
 
preparation, execution, delivery, administration, modification, amendment or enforcement (whether through negotiations, legal proceedings or otherwise) of, or legal advice in respect of rights or responsibilities under, this Agreement, to the extent that such Administrative Agent is not reimbursed for such expenses by Altria. In the case of any investigation, litigation or proceeding giving rise to any Indemnified Costs, this Section 7.05 applies whether any such investigation, litigation or proceeding is brought by any Administrative Agent, any Lender or a third party.
Section 7.06. . An Administrative Agent may resign at any time by giving written notice thereof to the Lenders and Altria and may be removed at any time with or without cause by the Required Lenders. Upon the resignation or removal of JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, Goldman Sachs, as Administrative Agent, shall succeed to and become vested with all the rights, powers, discretion, privileges and duties of JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, and JPMCB, as Administrative Agent shall be discharged from its duties and obligations under this Agreement. Upon any other such resignation or removal which results in there being no Administrative Agent hereunder, the Required Lenders shall have the right to appoint a successor Administrative Agent. If no successor Administrative Agent shall have been so appointed by the Required Lenders, and shall have accepted such appointment, within 30 days after the retiring Administrative Agent's giving of notice of resignation or the Required Lenders' removal of the retiring Administrative Agent, then the retiring Administrative Agent may, on behalf of the Lenders, appoint a successor Administrative Agent, which shall be a commercial bank organized under the laws of the United States of America or of any State thereof and having a combined capital and surplus of at least $500,000,000. Upon the acceptance of any appointment as Administrative Agent hereunder by a successor Administrative Agent, such successor Administrative Agent shall thereupon succeed to and become vested with all the rights, powers, discretion, privileges and duties of the retiring Administrative Agent, and the retiring Administrative Agent shall be discharged from its duties and obligations under this Agreement. After any retiring Administrative Agent's resignation or removal hereunder as Administrative Agent, the provisions of this Article VII shall inure to its benefit as to any actions taken or omitted to be taken by it while it was Administrative Agent under this Agreement.
Successor Administrative Agents
Section 7.07. . Citicorp North America, Inc., Barclays Bank PLC, Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., Santander Investment Securities Inc., HSBC Securities (USA) Inc. and Scotia Capital, have been designated as Syndication Agents, and Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Barclays Capital, Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., Santander Investment Securities Inc., HSBC Securities (USA) Inc. and Scotia Capital have been designated as Co-Arrangers under this Agreement, but the use of such titles does not impose on any of them any duties or obligations greater than those of any other Lender.
Syndication Agents and Co-Arrangers
Section 8.01. . No amendment or waiver of any provision of this Agreement, nor consent to any departure by Altria therefrom, shall in any event be effective unless the same shall be in writing and signed by the Required Lenders, and then such waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the specific purpose for which
Amendments, Etc
 
given; , , that no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by all the Lenders affected thereby, do any of the following: (a) waive any of the conditions specified in Sections 3.01 and 3.02, (b) increase the Commitments of the Lenders or subject the Lenders to any additional obligations, (c) reduce the principal of, or interest on, the Advances or any fees or other amounts payable hereunder, (d) postpone any date fixed for any payment of principal of, or interest on, the Advances or any fees or other amounts payable hereunder, (e) change the percentage of the Commitments or of the aggregate unpaid principal amount of the Advances, or the number of Lenders, that shall be required for the Lenders or any of them to take any action hereunder, or (f) amend this Section 8.01; and that no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, in addition to the Lenders required above to take such action, affect the rights or duties of JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, under this Agreement or any Advance.
provided
however
provided
further
Section 8.02. . (a) . Unless otherwise specified herein, all notices and other communications provided for hereunder shall be in writing (including electronic communication) and mailed, telecopied, or delivered, as follows:
Notices, Etc
Addresses
if to Altria:
Altria Group, Inc.
6601 West Broad Street
Richmond, Virginia 23230
Attention: Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Fax number: (804) 484-8265;
with a copy to:
Altria Client Services Inc.
6601 West Broad Street
Richmond, Virginia 23230
Attention: Treasury Management  Back Office
Fax number: (804) 274-4596;
if to any Initial Lender, at its Domestic Lending Office specified opposite its name on Schedule I hereto;
if to any other Lender, at its Domestic Lending Office specified in the Assignment and Acceptance pursuant to which it became a Lender;
if to JPMCB, as Administrative Agent:
c/o JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.
270 Park Avenue, 4
th
Floor
New York, New York 10017
Attention: Linda A. Carper
Fax number: (212) 270-3279;
 
with a copy to:
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.
Loan and Agency
1111 Fannin Street, 10
th
Floor
Houston, Texas 77002
Attention: Maria R. Escobar - Fax number: (713) 750-2782
and Tokunbo Tayo - Fax number: (713) 750-2782;
or as to Altria or JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, at such other address as shall be designated by such party in a written notice to the other parties and, as to each other party, at such other address as shall be designated by such party in a written notice to Altria and JPMCB, as Administrative Agent.
(b) . All such notices and communications shall, when mailed or telecopied, be effective when deposited in the mail or telecopied, respectively, except that notices and communications to JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, pursuant to Article II, III or VII shall not be effective until received by JPMCB, as Administrative Agent. Delivery by telecopier of an executed counterpart of any amendment or waiver of any provision of this Agreement or of any Exhibit hereto to be executed and delivered hereunder shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart thereof.
Effectiveness of Notices
Section 8.03. . No failure on the part of any Lender or JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, to exercise, and no delay in exercising, any right hereunder or under any Note shall operate as a waiver thereof; nor shall any single or partial exercise of any such right preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right. The remedies herein provided are cumulative and not exclusive of any remedies provided by law.
No Waiver; Remedies
Section 8.04. . (a) . Altria agrees to pay on demand all reasonable costs and expenses in connection with the preparation, execution, delivery, administration (excluding any cost or expenses for administration related to the overhead of JPMCB, as Administrative Agent), modification and amendment of this Agreement and the documents to be delivered hereunder, including, without limitation, the reasonable fees and out-of-pocket expenses of counsel for JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, with respect thereto and with respect to advising JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, as to its rights and responsibilities under this Agreement, and all costs and expenses of the Lenders and JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, if any (including, without limitation, reasonable counsel fees and expenses of the Lenders and JPMCB, as Administrative Agent), in connection with the enforcement (whether through negotiations, legal proceedings or otherwise) of this Agreement and the other documents to be delivered hereunder.
Costs and Expenses
Administrative Agent; Enforcement
(b) . If any payment of principal of any LIBO Rate Advance is made other than on the last day of the Interest Period for such Advance or at its maturity, as a result of a payment pursuant to Section 2.10, acceleration of the maturity of the Advances pursuant to Section 6.02, an assignment made as a result of a demand by Altria pursuant to Section 8.07(a) or for any other reason, Altria shall, upon demand by any Lender (with a copy of such demand to JPMCB, as Administrative Agent), pay to JPMCB, as
Prepayment of LIBO Rate Advances
 
Administrative Agent, for the account of such Lender any amounts required to compensate such Lender for any additional losses, costs or expenses which it may reasonably incur as a result of such payment, including, without limitation, any loss (excluding loss of anticipated profits), cost or expense incurred by reason of the liquidation or reemployment of deposits or other funds acquired by any Lender to fund or maintain such Advance. Without prejudice to the survival of any other agreement of Altria hereunder, the agreements and obligations of Altria contained in Section 2.02(c), 2.05, 2.11, 2.14 and this Section 8.04(b) shall survive the payment in full of principal and interest hereunder.
(c) . Altria agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Administrative Agents, the Joint Lead Arrangers, and each Lender and each of their respective affiliates, control persons, directors, officers, employees, attorneys and agents (each, an "") from and against any and all claims, damages, losses, liabilities and expenses (including, without limitation, reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel) which may be incurred by or asserted against any Indemnified Party, in each case in connection with or arising out of, or in connection with the preparation for or defense of, any investigation, litigation, or proceeding (i) related to the Acquisition or any other transaction or proposed transaction (whether or not consummated) in which any proceeds of any Borrowing are applied or are proposed to be applied, directly or indirectly, by Altria, whether or not such Indemnified Party is a party to such transaction or (ii) related to this Agreement or the credit facility established hereby, or to any actions or omissions of Altria, any of its Subsidiaries or affiliates or any of its or their respective officers, directors, employees or agents in connection therewith, in each case whether or not an Indemnified Party is a party thereto and whether or not such investigation, litigation or proceeding is brought by Altria or any other Person; , , that Altria shall not be required to indemnify any such Indemnified Party from or against any portion of such claims, damages, losses, liabilities or expenses that is found in a final, non-appealable judgment by a court of competent jurisdiction to have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnified Party.
Indemnification
Indemnified Party
provided
however
Section 8.05. . Upon (i) the occurrence and during the continuance of any Event of Default and (ii) the making of the request or the granting of the consent specified by Section 6.02 to authorize JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, to declare the Advances due and payable pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02, each Lender is hereby authorized at any time and from time to time, to the fullest extent permitted by law, to set off and apply any and all deposits (general or special, time or demand, provisional or final) at any time held and other indebtedness at any time owing by such Lender to or for the credit or the account of Altria against any and all of the obligations of Altria now or hereafter existing under this Agreement, whether or not such Lender shall have made any demand under this Agreement and although such obligations may be unmatured. Each Lender shall promptly notify Altria after any such set-off and application, that the failure to give such notice shall not affect the validity of such set-off and application. The rights of each Lender and its affiliates under this Section 8.05 are in addition to other rights and remedies (including, without limitation, other rights of set-off) that such Lender and its affiliates may have.
Right of Set-Off
provided
Section 8.06. . This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of Altria, JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, Goldman Sachs, as Administrative Agent and each Lender and their respective successors and assigns, except that Altria shall not
Binding Effect
 
have the right to assign its rights hereunder or any interest herein without the prior written consent of the Lenders.
Section 8.07. . (a) . Each Lender may and, if demanded by Altria upon at least five Business Days' notice to such Lender and JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, will assign to one or more Persons all or a portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including, without limitation, all or a portion of its Commitment and the Advances owing to it), to the following:
Assignments and Participations
Assignment of Lender Obligations
subject
(i) each such assignment shall be of a constant, and not a varying, percentage of all rights and obligations under this Agreement;
(ii) the amount of the Commitment of the assigning Lender being assigned pursuant to each such assignment (determined as of the date of the Assignment and Acceptance with respect to such assignment) shall in no event be less than $10,000,000 (subject to reduction at the sole discretion of Altria) and shall be an integral multiple of $1,000,000;
(iii) each such assignment shall be to an Eligible Assignee;
(iv) each such assignment made as a result of a demand by Altria pursuant to this Section 8.07(a) shall be arranged by Altria after consultation with JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, and shall be either an assignment of all of the rights and obligations of the assigning Lender under this Agreement or an assignment of a portion of such rights and obligations made concurrently with another such assignment or other such assignments which together cover all of the rights and obligations of the assigning Lender under this Agreement;
(v) no Lender shall be obligated to make any such assignment as a result of a demand by Altria pursuant to this Section 8.07(a) unless and until such Lender shall have received one or more payments from either Altria or one or more Eligible Assignees in an aggregate amount at least equal to the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the Advances owing to such Lender, together with accrued interest thereon to the date of payment of such principal amount and all other amounts payable to such Lender under this Agreement; and
(vi) the parties to each such assignment shall execute and deliver to JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, for its acceptance and recording in the Register, an Assignment and Acceptance, together with a processing and recordation fee of $3,500, that, if such assignment is made as a result of a demand by Altria under this Section 8.07(a), Altria shall pay or cause to be paid such $3,500 fee.
provided
Upon such execution, delivery, acceptance and recording, from and after the effective date specified in each Assignment and Acceptance, (x) the assignee thereunder shall be a party hereto and, to the extent that rights and obligations hereunder have been assigned to it pursuant to such Assignment and Acceptance, have the rights and obligations of a Lender hereunder and (y) the assigning Lender thereunder shall, to the extent that rights and obligations hereunder have been
 
assigned by it pursuant to such Assignment and Acceptance, relinquish its rights (other than those provided under Section 8.04) and be released from its obligations under this Agreement (and, in the case of an Assignment and Acceptance covering all or the remaining portion of an assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, such Lender shall cease to be a party hereto), other than Section 8.11.
(b) . By executing and delivering an Assignment and Acceptance, the assigning Lender thereunder and the assignee thereunder confirm to and agree with each other and the other parties hereto as follows: (i) other than as provided in such Assignment and Acceptance, such assigning Lender makes no representation or warranty and assumes no responsibility with respect to any statements, warranties or representations made in or in connection with this Agreement or the execution, legality, validity, enforceability, genuineness, sufficiency or value of this Agreement or any other instrument or document furnished pursuant hereto; (ii) such assigning Lender makes no representation or warranty and assumes no responsibility with respect to the financial condition of Altria or the performance or observance by Altria of any of its obligations under this Agreement or any other instrument or document furnished pursuant hereto; (iii) such assignee confirms that it has received a copy of this Agreement, together with copies of the financial statements referred to in Section 4.01 and such other documents and information as it has deemed appropriate to make its own credit analysis and decision to enter into such Assignment and Acceptance; (iv) such assignee will, independently and without reliance upon JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, such assigning Lender or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit decisions in taking or not taking action under this Agreement; (v) such assignee confirms that it is an Eligible Assignee; (vi) such assignee represents that (A) the source of any funds it is using to acquire the assigning Lender's interest or to make any Advance is not and will not be plan assets as defined under the regulations of the Department of Labor of any Plan subject to Title I of ERISA or Section 4975 of the Internal Revenue Code or (B) the assignment or Advance is not and will not be a non-exempt prohibited transaction as defined in Section 406 of ERISA; (vii) such assignee appoints and authorizes JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, to take such action as agent on its behalf and to exercise such powers and discretion under this Agreement as are delegated to JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, by the terms hereof, together with such powers and discretion as are reasonably incidental thereto; and (viii) such assignee agrees that it will perform in accordance with their terms all of the obligations that by the terms of this Agreement are required to be performed by it as a Lender.
Assignment and Acceptance
(c) . Upon its receipt of an Assignment and Acceptance executed by an assigning Lender, together with any Note or Notes subject to such assignment, JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, shall, if such Assignment and Acceptance has been completed and is in substantially the form of Exhibit C hereto, (i) accept such Assignment and Acceptance and (ii) record the information contained therein in the Register.
Agent's Acceptance
(d) . JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, shall maintain at its address referred to in Section 8.02 a copy of each Assignment and Acceptance delivered to and accepted by it and a register for the recordation of the names and addresses of the Lenders and the Commitment of, and principal amount of the Advances owing to, each Lender from time to time (the ""). The entries in the Register shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest
Register
Register
 
error, and Altria, JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, and the Lenders may treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Register as a Lender hereunder for all purposes of this Agreement. The Register shall be available for inspection by Altria or any Lender at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice.
(e) . Each Lender may sell participations to one or more banks or other entities in or to all or a portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including, without limitation, all or a portion of its Commitment, the Advances owing to it and any Note or Notes held by it), to the following:
Sale of Participation
subject
(i) such Lender's obligations under this Agreement (including, without limitation, its Commitment to Altria hereunder) shall remain unchanged,
(ii) such Lender shall remain solely responsible to the other parties hereto for the performance of such obligations,
(iii) Altria, JPMCB, as Administrative Agent, and the other Lenders shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Lender in connection with such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, and
(iv) no participant under any such participation shall have any right to approve any amendment or waiver of any provision of this Agreement, or any consent to any departure by Altria therefrom, except to the extent that such amendment, waiver or consent would reduce the principal of, or interest on, the Advances or any fees or other amounts payable hereunder, in each case to the extent subject to such participation, or postpone any date fixed for any payment of principal of, or interest on, the Advances or any fees or other amounts payable hereunder, in each case to the extent subject to such participation.
(f) . Any Lender may, in connection with any assignment or participation or proposed assignment or participation pursuant to this Section 8.07, disclose to the assignee or participant or proposed assignee or participant, any information relating to Altria furnished to such Lender by or on behalf of Altria; that, prior to any such disclosure, the assignee or participant or proposed assignee or participant shall agree to preserve the confidentiality of any confidential information relating to Altria received by it from such Lender by signing a confidentiality agreement substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit E or with terms no less restrictive than the provisions of Exhibit E.
Disclosure of Information
provided
(g) . Notwithstanding any other provision set forth in this Agreement, any Lender may at any time create a security interest in all or any portion of its rights under this Agreement (including, without limitation, the Advances owing to it and any Note or Notes held by it) in favor of any Federal Reserve Bank in accordance with Regulation A.
Regulation A Security Interest
Section 8.08. . This Agreement and the Notes shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
Governing Law
Section 8.09. . This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and by different parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of
Execution in Counterparts
 
which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page to this Agreement by telecopier shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Agreement.
Section 8.10. . (a) . Each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably and unconditionally submits, for itself and its property, to the nonexclusive jurisdiction of any New York state court or federal court of the United States of America sitting in New York City, and any appellate court from any thereof, in any action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement, or for recognition or enforcement of any judgment, and each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably and unconditionally agrees that all claims in respect of any such action or proceeding may be heard and determined in any such New York state court or, to the extent permitted by law, in such federal court. Altria hereby irrevocably consents to the service of process in any action or proceeding in such courts by the mailing thereof by any parties hereto by registered or certified mail, postage prepaid, to Altria at its address specified pursuant to Section 8.02. Each of the parties hereto agrees that a final judgment in any such action or proceeding shall be conclusive and may be enforced in other jurisdictions by suit on the judgment or in any other manner provided by law. Nothing in this Agreement shall affect any right that any party may otherwise have to serve legal process in any other manner permitted by law or to bring any action or proceeding relating to this Agreement or the Notes in the courts of any jurisdiction.
Jurisdiction, Etc
Submission to Jurisdiction; Service of Process
(b) . Each of the parties hereto irrevocably and unconditionally waives, to the fullest extent it may legally and effectively do so, any objection that it may now or hereafter have to the laying of venue of any suit, action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the Notes in any New York state or federal court. Each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent permitted by law, the defense of an inconvenient forum to the maintenance of such action or proceeding in any such court.
Waivers
Section 8.11. . None of the Agents nor any Lender shall disclose any confidential information relating to Altria to any other Person without the consent of Altria, other than (a) to such Agent's or such Lender's affiliates and their officers, directors, employees, agents and advisors and, as contemplated by Section 8.07(f), to actual or prospective assignees and participants, and then, in each such case, only on a confidential basis; , , that such actual or prospective assignee or participant shall have been made aware of this Section 8.11 and shall have agreed to be bound by its provisions as if it were a party to this Agreement, (b) as required by any law, rule or regulation or judicial process, and (c) as requested or required by any state, federal or foreign authority or examiner regulating banks or banking or other financial institutions. Altria agrees that no confidentiality undertaking previously entered into by any Agent or Lender or any of its affiliates shall prohibit any disclosure expressly permitted to be made by, and in accordance with, Section 8.07(f) and this Section 8.11.
Confidentiality
provided
however
Section 8.12. . This Agreement and the Notes represent the agreement of Altria, the Administrative Agents and the Lenders with respect to the subject matter hereof, and there are no promises, undertakings, representations or warranties by the Administrative Agents, Altria or any Lender relative to the subject matter hereof not expressly set forth or referred to herein or in the Notes other than the matters referred to in Section 8.04(a)
Integration
 
and except for confidentiality agreements entered into by each Lender in connection with this Agreement.
Section 8.13. . Each Administrative Agent and each Lender hereby notifies Altria that pursuant to the requirements of the USA Patriot Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001)) (the ""), it is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies Altria and the Guarantor, which information includes the names and addresses of Altria and the Guarantor and other information that will allow such Lender to identify Altria and the Guarantor in accordance with the Patriot Act.
USA Patriot Act Notice
Patriot Act
Section 8.14. . Each Administrative Agent, each Lender and their Affiliates (collectively, solely for purposes of this paragraph, the "Lenders"), may have economic interests that conflict with those of Altria. Altria agrees that nothing in this Agreement will be deemed to create an advisory, fiduciary or agency relationship or fiduciary or other implied duty between the Lenders and Altria, its stockholders or its Affiliates. Altria further acknowledges and agrees that it is responsible for making its own independent judgment with respect to this Agreement and the process leading thereto. Altria agrees that it will not claim that any Lender has rendered advisory services of any nature or respect, or owes a fiduciary or similar duty to Altria, in connection with this Agreement or the process leading thereto.
No Fiduciary Duty
 
EXHIBIT A - FORM OF NOTE
Dated: _______________, 200_
U.S.$_________________
FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned, ALTRIA GROUP, INC., a Virginia corporation (the ""), HEREBY PROMISES TO PAY to the order of __________ (the "") for the account of its Applicable Lending Office on the Termination Date (each as defined in the Bridge Loan Agreement referred to below) the principal sum of U.S.$[amount of the Lender's Commitment in figures] or, if less, the aggregate principal amount of the Advances outstanding on the Termination Date made by the Lender to Altria pursuant to the 364-Day Bridge Loan Agreement, dated as of December 19, 2008 (as amended or modified from time to time, the ";" the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined) among Altria, the Lender and certain other Lenders party thereto, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent, Goldman Sachs Credit Partners L.P., as Administrative Agent, Citicorp North America, Inc., Barclays Bank PLC, Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., Santander Investment Securities Inc., HSBC Securities (USA) Inc. and The Bank of Nova Scotia, as Syndication Agents, and Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Barclays Bank PLC, Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., Santander Investment Securities Inc., HSBC Securities (USA) Inc. and The Bank of Nova Scotia, as Co-Arrangers, for the Lender and such other lenders.
Altria
Lender
Bridge Loan Agreement
Altria promises to pay interest on the unpaid principal amount of each Advance from the date of such Advance until such principal amount is paid in full, at such interest rate, and payable at such times, as are specified in the Bridge Loan Agreement.
Both principal and interest in respect of each Advance are payable in Dollars to JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent, for the account of the Lender at its office at JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., Account No. 9008113381H0301, Reference Altria, Attention: Maria Escobar, in same day funds. Each Advance owing to the Lender by Altria pursuant to the Bridge Loan Agreement, and all payments made on account of principal thereof, shall be recorded by the Lender and, prior to any transfer hereof, endorsed on the grid attached hereto which is part of this Promissory Note.
This Promissory Note is one of the Notes referred to in, and is entitled to the benefits of, the Bridge Loan Agreement. The Bridge Loan Agreement, among other things, (i) provides for the making of Advances by the Lender to Altria in an aggregate amount not to exceed at any time outstanding the Dollar amount first above mentioned, the indebtedness of Altria resulting from each such Advance being evidenced by the Bridge Loan Agreement and this Promissory Note, and (ii) contains provisions for acceleration of the maturity hereof upon the happening of certain stated events and also for prepayments on account of principal hereof prior to the maturity hereof upon the terms and conditions therein specified.
This Promissory Note shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
 
 
 
 
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent
for the Lenders party
to the Bridge Loan Agreement
referred to below
Attention: _______________
Ladies and Gentlemen:
ALTRIA GROUP, INC., refers to the 364-Day Bridge Loan Agreement, dated as of December 19, 2008 (as amended or modified from time to time, the "", the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), among Altria Group, Inc., the Lenders party thereto, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent, Goldman Sachs Credit Partners L.P., as Administrative Agent, Citicorp North America, Inc., Barclays Bank PLC, Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., Santander Investment Securities Inc., HSBC Securities (USA) Inc. and The Bank of Nova Scotia, as Syndication Agents, and Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Barclays Bank PLC, Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., Santander Investment Securities Inc., HSBC Securities (USA) Inc. and The Bank of Nova Scotia, as Co-Arrangers, for such Lenders, and hereby gives you notice, irrevocably, pursuant to Section 2.02 of the Bridge Loan Agreement that the undersigned hereby requests a Borrowing under the Bridge Loan Agreement, and in that connection sets forth below the information relating to such Borrowing (the "") as required by Section 2.02(a) of the Bridge Loan Agreement:
Bridge Loan Agreement
Proposed Borrowing
(i) The date of the Proposed Borrowing is _______________, 200_.
(ii) The Type of Advances comprising the Proposed Borrowing is [Base Rate Advances] [LIBO Rate Advances].
(iii) The aggregate amount of the Proposed Borrowing is U.S.$[].
            
[(iv) The initial Interest Period for each LIBO Rate Advance made as part of the Proposed Borrowing is ______ month(s).]
The undersigned hereby certifies that the following statements are true on the date hereof, and will be true on the date of the Proposed Borrowing:
(A) the representations and warranties contained in Section 4.01 of the Bridge Loan Agreement (except the representations set forth in the last sentence of subsection (e) and in subsection (f) thereof (other than clause (i) thereof)) are correct on and as of the date of such Borrowing, before and after giving effect to
such Borrowing and to the application of the proceeds therefrom, as though made on and as of such date;
(B) after giving effect to the application of the proceeds of all Borrowings on such date (together with any other resources of Altria applied together therewith) and after giving effect to the Acquisition, no event has occurred and is continuing, or would result from such Borrowing, that constitutes a Default or Event of Default; and
(C) the aggregate principal amount of the Proposed Borrowing and all other Borrowings to be made on the same day under the Bridge Loan Agreement is within the aggregate unused Commitments of the Lenders.
 
 
EXHIBIT C - FORM OF
ASSIGNMENT AND ACCEPTANCE
Reference is made to the 364-Day Bridge Loan Agreement, dated as of December 19, 2008 (as amended or modified from time to time, the "", the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), among Altria Group, Inc., a Virginia corporation, the Lenders party thereto and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent, Goldman Sachs Credit Partners L.P., as Administrative Agent, Citicorp North America, Inc., Barclays Bank PLC, Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., Santander Investment Securities Inc., HSBC Securities (USA) Inc. and The Bank of Nova Scotia, as Syndication Agents, and Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Barclays Bank PLC, Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., Santander Investment Securities Inc., HSBC Securities (USA) Inc. and The Bank of Nova Scotia, as Co-Arrangers, for such Lenders.
Bridge Loan Agreement
The "Assignor" and the "Assignee" referred to on Schedule 1 hereto agree as follows:
1. The Assignor hereby sells and assigns to the Assignee, and the Assignee hereby purchases and assumes from the Assignor, an interest in and to the Assignor's rights and obligations under the Bridge Loan Agreement as of the date hereof equal to the percentage interest specified on Schedule 1 hereto of the Assignor's outstanding rights and obligations under the Bridge Loan Agreement. After giving effect to such sale and assignment, the Assignee's Commitment and the amount of the Advances owing to the Assignee will be as set forth on Schedule 1 hereto. Each of the Assignor and the Assignee represents and warrants that it is authorized to execute and deliver this Assignment and Acceptance.
2. The Assignor (i) represents and warrants that it is the legal and beneficial owner of the interest being assigned by it hereunder and that such interest is free and clear of any adverse claim; (ii) makes no representation or warranty and assumes no responsibility with respect to any statements, warranties or representations made in or in connection with the Bridge Loan Agreement or the execution, legality, validity, enforceability, genuineness, sufficiency or value of the Bridge Loan Agreement or any other instrument or document furnished pursuant thereto; and (iii) makes no representation or warranty and assumes no responsibility with respect to the financial condition of Altria or the performance or observance by Altria of any of its obligations under the Bridge Loan Agreement or any other instrument or document furnished pursuant thereto.
3. The Assignee (i) confirms that it has received a copy of the Bridge Loan Agreement, together with copies of the financial statements referred to in Section 4.01 thereof and such other documents and information as it has deemed appropriate to make its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Assignment and Acceptance; (ii) agrees that it will, independently and without reliance upon JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent, any other Agent, the Assignor or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit decisions in taking or not taking action under the Bridge Loan Agreement; (iii) represents that (A) the source of any funds it is using to acquire the Assignor's interest or to make any Advance is not and will not be plan assets as defined under the regulations of the Department of Labor of any Plan subject to Title I of ERISA or Section 4975 of the Code or (B) the assignment or Advance is not and will be not be a non-exempt prohibited transaction as defined in Section 406 of ERISA; (iv) appoints and
authorizes JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent, to take such action as agent on its behalf and to exercise such powers and discretion under the Bridge Loan Agreement as are delegated to JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent, by the terms thereof, together with such powers and discretion as are reasonably incidental thereto; (v) agrees that it will perform in accordance with their terms all of the obligations that by the terms of the Bridge Loan Agreement are required to be performed by it as a Lender; and (vi) confirms that it is an Eligible Assignee.
4. This Assignment and Acceptance will be delivered to JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent, for acceptance and recording by JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent, following its execution. The effective date for this Assignment and Acceptance (the "") shall be the date of acceptance hereof by JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent, unless otherwise specified on Schedule 1 hereto.
Effective Date
5. Upon such acceptance and recording by JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent, as of the Effective Date, (i) the Assignee shall be a party to the Bridge Loan Agreement and, to the extent provided in this Assignment and Acceptance, have the rights and obligations of a Lender thereunder and (ii) the Assignor shall, to the extent provided in this Assignment and Acceptance, relinquish its rights and be released from its obligations under the Bridge Loan Agreement.
6. Upon such acceptance and recording by JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent, from and after the Effective Date, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent, shall make all payments under the Bridge Loan Agreement in respect of the interest assigned hereby (including, without limitation, all payments of principal, interest and facility fees with respect thereto) to the Assignee. The Assignor and Assignee shall make all appropriate adjustments in payments under the Bridge Loan Agreement for periods prior to the Effective Date directly between themselves.
7. This Assignment and Acceptance shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
8. This Assignment and Acceptance may be executed in any number of counterparts and by different parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement. Delivery of an executed counterpart of Schedule 1 to this Assignment and Acceptance by telecopier shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Assignment and Acceptance.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Assignor and the Assignee have caused Schedule 1 to this Assignment and Acceptance to be executed by their officers thereunto duly authorized as of the date specified thereon.
 
 
 
 
Accepted this
__________ day of _______________, 200_
JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A., as Administrative Agent
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT D-1 - FORM OF
OPINION OF COUNSEL
FOR ALTRIA
[Effective Date]
To each of the Lenders party
to the Bridge Loan Agreement referred to below
Ladies and Gentlemen:
This opinion is furnished to you pursuant to Section 3.01(c)(iii) of the 364-Day Bridge Loan Agreement, dated as of December 19, 2008 (the ""), among Altria Group, Inc., the Lenders party thereto, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent, Goldman Sachs Credit Partners L.P., as Administrative Agent, Citicorp North America, Inc., Barclays Bank PLC, Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., Santander Investment Securities Inc., HSBC Securities (USA) Inc. and The Bank of Nova Scotia, as Syndication Agents, and Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Barclays Bank PLC, Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., Santander Investment Securities Inc., HSBC Securities (USA) Inc. and The Bank of Nova Scotia, as Co-Arrangers, for such Lenders. Terms defined in the Bridge Loan Agreement are used herein as therein defined.
Bridge Loan Agreement
We have acted as counsel for Altria in connection with the preparation, execution and delivery of the Bridge Loan Agreement.
In that connection, we have examined the following documents:
(1) The Bridge Loan Agreement.
(2) The documents furnished by Altria pursuant to Article III of the Bridge Loan Agreement.
(3) The Articles of Incorporation of Altria and all amendments thereto (the "").
Charter
(4) The by-laws of Altria and all amendments thereto (the "").
By-laws
We have also examined the originals, or copies certified to our satisfaction, of such corporate records of Altria, certificates of public officials and of officers of Altria, and agreements, instruments and other documents, as we have deemed relevant and necessary as a basis for the opinions expressed below. As to questions of fact material to such opinions, we have, when relevant facts were not independently established by us, relied upon the representations of Altria set forth in the Bridge Loan Agreement and upon certificates of Altria or its officers or of public officials. Whenever the phrase "to our knowledge" is used herein, it refers to the actual knowledge of the attorneys of the firm involved in the representation of Altria
 
in connection with the Bridge Loan Agreement, without independent investigation. We have assumed the due execution and delivery, pursuant to due authorization, of the Bridge Loan Agreement by the Initial Lenders, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent, Goldman Sachs Credit Partners L.P., as Administrative Agent, Citicorp North America, Inc., Barclays Bank PLC, Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., Santander Investment Securities Inc., HSBC Securities (USA) Inc. and The Bank of Nova Scotia, as Syndication Agents, and Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Barclays Bank PLC, Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., Santander Investment Securities Inc., HSBC Securities (USA) Inc. and The Bank of Nova Scotia, as Co-Arrangers.
Our opinions expressed below are limited to the law of the State of New York, the Commonwealth of Virginia and the Federal law of the United States.
Based upon the foregoing and upon such investigation as we have deemed necessary, we are of the following opinion:
1. Altria is a corporation duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia.
2. The execution, delivery and performance by Altria of the Bridge Loan Agreement and the Notes, and the consummation of the transactions contemplated thereby, are within Altria's corporate powers, have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action, and do not contravene (i) the Charter or the By-laws or (ii) any law, rule or regulation applicable to Altria (including, without limitation, Regulation X of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System) or (iii) to our knowledge, any contractual restriction binding on or affecting Altria. The Bridge Loan Agreement and any Notes delivered on the date hereof have been duly executed and delivered on behalf of Altria.
3. No authorization, approval or other action by, and no notice to or filing with, any governmental authority or regulatory body or any other third party is required for the due execution, delivery and performance by Altria of the Bridge Loan Agreement and the Notes.
4. The Bridge Loan Agreement is the legal, valid and binding obligation of Altria enforceable against Altria in accordance with its terms. The Notes issued on the date hereof, if any, are the legal, valid and binding obligations of Altria, enforceable against Altria in accordance with their respective terms.
The opinion set forth in paragraph 4 above is subject to the effect of any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent conveyance, reorganization, moratorium or other laws affecting creditors' rights generally and to the effect of general principles of equity (regardless of whether enforcement is sought in a proceeding in equity or at law) and an implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing.
We express no opinion with respect to:
 
(A) The effect of any provision of the Bridge Loan Agreement which is intended to permit modification thereof only by means of an agreement in writing by the parties thereto;
(B) The effect of any provision of the Bridge Loan Agreement insofar as it provides that any Person purchasing a participation from a Lender or other Person may exercise set-off or similar rights with respect to such participation or that any Lender or other Person may exercise set-off or similar rights other than in accordance with applicable law;
(C) The effect of any provision of the Bridge Loan Agreement imposing penalties or forfeitures;
(D) The enforceability of any provision of the Bridge Loan Agreement to the extent that such provision constitutes a waiver of illegality as a defense to performance of contract obligations; or
(E) The effect of any provision of the Bridge Loan Agreement relating to indemnification or exculpation in connection with violations of any securities laws or relating to indemnification, contribution or exculpation in connection with willful, reckless or criminal acts or gross negligence of the indemnified or exculpated Person or the Person receiving contribution.
In connection with the provisions of the Bridge Loan Agreement which relate to forum selection (including, without limitation, any waiver of any objection to venue or any objection that a court is an inconvenient forum), we note that, under NYCPLR  510, a New York State court may have discretion to transfer the place of trial, and, under 28 U.S.C.  1404(a), a United States District Court has discretion to transfer an action from one Federal court to another.
This opinion is being furnished to you pursuant to Section 3.01(c)(iii) of the Bridge Loan Agreement, is solely for the benefit of you and your counsel, and is not intended for, and may not be relied upon by, any other person or entity without our prior written consent. We undertake no duty to inform you of events occurring subsequent to the date hereof.
Very truly yours,
 
EXHIBIT D-2 - FORM OF
OPINION OF COUNSEL
FOR ALTRIA
[Effective Date]
To each of the Lenders party
to the Bridge Loan Agreement referred to below
Ladies and Gentlemen:
This opinion is furnished to you pursuant to Section 3.01(c)(iii) of the 364-Day Bridge Loan Agreement, dated as of December 19, 2008 (the ""), among Altria Group, Inc. (""), the Lenders party thereto, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent, Goldman Sachs Credit Partners L.P., as Administrative Agent, Citicorp North America, Inc., Barclays Bank PLC, Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., Santander Investment Securities Inc., HSBC Securities (USA) Inc. and The Bank of Nova Scotia, as Syndication Agents, and Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Barclays Bank PLC, Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., Santander Investment Securities Inc., HSBC Securities (USA) Inc. and The Bank of Nova Scotia, as Co-Arrangers, for such Lenders. Terms defined in the Bridge Loan Agreement are used herein as therein defined.
Bridge Loan Agreement
Altria
I have acted as counsel for Altria in connection with the preparation, execution and delivery of the Bridge Loan Agreement.
In that connection, I have examined originals, or copies certified to my satisfaction, of such corporate records of Altria, certificates of public officials and of officers of Altria, and agreements, instruments and other documents, as I have deemed relevant and necessary as a basis for the opinions expressed below. As to questions of fact material to such opinions, I have, when relevant facts were not independently established by me, relied upon certificates of Altria or its officers or of public officials.
Based upon the foregoing and upon such investigation as I have deemed necessary, I am of the opinion that, to the best of my knowledge, (i) there is no pending or threatened action or proceeding against Altria or any of its Subsidiaries before any court, governmental agency or arbitrator (a "") that purports to affect the legality, validity, binding effect or enforceability of the Bridge Loan Agreement or the Notes, if any, or the consummation of the transactions contemplated thereby, and (ii) except for Proceedings disclosed in the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Altria for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2008, June 30, 2008 and September 30, 2008 and any Current Reports on Form 8-K filed subsequent to September 30, 2008 but prior to December 19, 2008, or, with respect to Proceedings commenced after the date of the most recent such document but prior to December 19, 2008, a certificate delivered to the Lenders and attached hereto, there are no Proceedings that are likely to have a materially adverse effect upon the financial position or results of operations of Altria and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole.
Proceeding
Very truly yours,
EXHIBIT D-3 - FORM OF
OPINION OF COUNSEL
FOR GUARANTOR
To each of the Lenders party
to the Bridge Loan Agreement referred to below
Ladies and Gentlemen:
This opinion is furnished to you pursuant to Section 3.01(c)(vii) of the 364-Day Bridge Loan Agreement, dated as of December 19, 2008 (the ""), among Altria Group, Inc. (""), the Lenders party thereto and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent, Goldman Sachs Credit Partners L.P., as Administrative Agent, Citicorp North America, Inc., Barclays Bank PLC, Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., Santander Investment Securities Inc., HSBC Securities (USA) Inc. and The Bank of Nova Scotia, as Syndication Agents, and Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Barclays Bank PLC, Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., Santander Investment Securities Inc., HSBC Securities (USA) Inc. and The Bank of Nova Scotia, as Co-Arrangers, for such Lenders in connection with the issuance of a guarantee dated December 19, 2008 ("") made by Philip Morris USA Inc. ("") in favor of the Lenders. Terms defined in the Bridge Loan Agreement are used herein as therein defined.
Bridge Loan Agreement
Altria
Guarantee
PM USA
We have acted as counsel for PM USA in connection with the preparation, execution and delivery of the Guarantee and are furnishing this opinion at the request of PM USA.
In that connection, we have examined the following documents:
(1) The Bridge Loan Agreement.
(2) The Articles of Incorporation of PM USA and all amendments thereto (the "").
Charter
(3) The by-laws of PM USA and all amendments thereto (the "").
By-laws
(4) The resolutions of PM USA authorizing the Guarantee.
(5) The Guarantee.
We have also examined the originals, or copies certified to our satisfaction, of such corporate records of PM USA, certificates of public officials and of officers of PM USA, and agreements, instruments and other documents, as we have deemed relevant and necessary as a basis for the opinions expressed below. As to questions of fact material to such opinions, we have, when relevant facts were not independently established by us, relied upon the
representations of PM USA set forth in the Guarantee and upon certificates of PM USA or its officers or of public officials. Whenever the phrase "to our knowledge" is used herein, it refers to the actual knowledge of the attorneys of the firm involved in the representation of PM USA in connection with the Guarantee, without independent investigation.
Our opinions expressed below are limited to the law of the State of New York, the Commonwealth of Virginia and the Federal law of the United States.
Based upon the foregoing and upon such investigation as we have deemed necessary, we are of the following opinion:
1. PM USA is a corporation duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia.
2. The execution, delivery and performance by PM USA of the Guarantee are within PM USA's corporate powers, have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action, and do not contravene: (i) the Charter or the By-laws or (ii) any law, rule or regulation applicable to PM USA or (iii) to our knowledge, any contractual restriction binding on or affecting PM USA. The Guarantee delivered on the date hereof has been duly executed and delivered on behalf of PM USA.
3. The Guarantee is the legal, valid and binding obligation of PM USA enforceable against PM USA in accordance with its terms.
The opinion set forth in paragraph 3 above is subject to the effect of any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent conveyance, reorganization, moratorium or other laws affecting creditors' rights generally and to the effect of general principles of equity (regardless of whether enforcement is sought in a proceeding in equity or at law) and an implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing.
We express no opinion with respect to:
(A) The enforceability of any provision of the Guarantee to the extent that such provision constitutes a waiver of illegality as a defense to performance of contract obligations; or
(B) The effect of any provision of the Guarantee to the extent that such provision constitutes a guarantee relating to indemnification or exculpation in connection with violations of any securities laws or relating to indemnification, contribution or exculpation in connection with willful, reckless or criminal acts or gross negligence of the indemnified or exculpated Person or the Person receiving contribution.
This opinion is being furnished to you in connection with Section 3.01(c)(vii) of the Bridge Loan Agreement, is solely for the benefit of you and your counsel, and is not intended for, and may not be relied upon by, any other person or entity without our prior written consent. We undertake no duty to inform you of events occurring subsequent to the date hereof.
Very truly yours,
 
EXHIBIT E - FORM OF
CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENT
 
 
 
In connection with the New Bridge Facility for Altria Group, Inc. (the ""), you will be receiving certain information which is non-public, confidential or proprietary in nature. That information and any other information, regardless of form, whether oral, written or electronic, concerning the Company, its subsidiaries or the New Bridge Facility furnished to you by [NAME OF LENDER], the Company, Altria Client Services, Inc. ("") or any of their respective Representatives in connection with the New Bridge Facility (at any time on, before or after the date of this Agreement), together with analyses, compilations or other materials prepared by you or your Representatives which contain or otherwise reflect such information or your review of, advice concerning or interest in the New Bridge Facility is hereinafter referred to as the "." As used herein, "" refers to affiliates, directors, officers, employees, agents, auditors, attorneys, consultants or other advisors, and references to the Company or Altria Client Services shall be deemed to include each of their respective affiliates. In consideration of your receipt of the Information, you agree that:
Company
Altria Client Services
Information
Representatives
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
THIS AGREEMENT IS IN ADDITION TO AND, EXCEPT AS PROVIDED ABOVE, DOES NOT SUPERSEDE THE CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENTS CONTAINED IN ANY CREDIT AGREEMENTS OF THE COMPANY OR ITS AFFILIATES TO WHICH YOU ARE A PARTY.
IT IS UNDERSTOOD AND AGREED THAT THE COMPANY, ALTRIA CLIENT SERVICES, [NAME OF LENDER] AND THEIR RESPECTIVE REPRESENTATIVES MAY RELY ON THIS EXPRESS AGREEMENT.
ACCEPTED AND AGREED as of the date written above:
[NAME OF BANK]
 
EXHIBIT G -
FORM OF GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
GUARANTEE, dated as of ______________, 200__ (as amended from time to time, this ""), made by Philip Morris USA Inc., a Virginia corporation (the ""), in favor of the Lenders (the "") party to the 364-Day Bridge Loan Agreement, dated as of December 19, 2008 (as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the "") among Altria Group, Inc. (""), such Lenders and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent (""), Goldman Sachs Credit Partners L.P., as Administrative Agent, Citicorp North America, Inc., Barclays Bank PLC, Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., Santander Investment Securities Inc., HSBC Securities (USA) Inc. and The Bank of Nova Scotia, as Syndication Agents, and Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Barclays Bank PLC, Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., Santander Investment Securities Inc., HSBC Securities (USA) Inc. and The Bank of Nova Scotia, as Co-Arrangers. Capitalized terms used in this Agreement and not otherwise defined herein have the meanings specified in the Bridge Loan Agreement.
Guarantee
Guarantor
Lenders
Bridge Loan Agreement
Altria
JPMorgan Chase
SECTION 1. . (a) The Guarantor hereby unconditionally guarantees the punctual payment when due, whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise, of all the obligations of Altria now or hereafter existing under the Bridge Loan Agreement, whether for principal, interest, fees, expenses or otherwise (such obligations being referred to herein as the "").
Guarantee
Obligations
(b) It is the intention of the Guarantor that this Guarantee not constitute a fraudulent transfer or conveyance for purposes of Bankruptcy Law, the Uniform Fraudulent Conveyance Act, the Uniform Fraudulent Transfer Act or any similar federal or state law to the extent applicable to this Guarantee. To effectuate the foregoing intention, the amount guaranteed by the Guarantor under this Guarantee shall be limited to the maximum amount as will, after giving effect to such maximum amount and all other contingent and fixed liabilities of the Guarantor that are relevant under such laws, result in the Obligations of the Guarantor under this Guarantee not constituting a fraudulent transfer or conveyance. For purposes hereof, "Bankruptcy Law" means Title 11, U.S. Code, or any similar federal or state law for the relief of debtors.
SECTION 2. . The Guarantor guarantees that the Obligations will be paid strictly in accordance with the terms of the Bridge Loan Agreement, regardless of any law, regulation or order now or hereafter in effect in any jurisdiction affecting any of such terms or the rights of JPMorgan Chase, as Administrative Agent, or the Lenders with respect thereto. The liability of the Guarantor under this Guarantee shall be absolute and unconditional irrespective of:
Guarantee Absolute
(i) any lack of validity, enforceability or genuineness of any provision of the Bridge Loan Agreement or any other agreement or instrument relating thereto;
(ii) any change in the time, manner or place of payment of, or in any other term of, all or any of the Obligations, or any other amendment or waiver of or any consent to departure from the Bridge Loan Agreement;
(iii) any exchange, release or non-perfection of any collateral, or any release or amendment or waiver of or consent to departure from any other guarantee, for all or any of the Obligations; or
(iv) any other circumstance that might otherwise constitute a defense available to, or a discharge of, Altria or a guarantor.
SECTION 3. . The Guarantor covenants and agrees that its obligation to make payments of the Obligations hereunder constitutes an unsecured obligation of the Guarantor ranking (a)  with all existing and future senior indebtedness of the Guarantor and (b) senior in right of payment to all existing and future subordinated indebtedness of the Guarantor.
Subordination
pari passu
SECTION 4. . (a) The Guarantor hereby waives promptness, diligence, notice of acceptance and any other notice with respect to this Guarantee and any requirement that JPMorgan Chase, as Administrative Agent, or any Lender protect, secure, perfect or insure any security interest or lien or any property subject thereto or exhaust any right or take any action against Altria or any other Person or any collateral.
Waiver; Subrogation
(b) The Guarantor hereby irrevocably waives any claims or other rights that it may now or hereafter acquire against Altria that arise from the existence, payment, performance or enforcement of the Guarantor's obligations under this Guarantee or the Bridge Loan Agreement, including, without limitation, any right of subrogation, reimbursement, exoneration, contribution or indemnification and any right to participate in any claim or remedy of JPMorgan Chase, as Administrative Agent, or any Lender against Altria or any collateral, whether or not such claim, remedy or right arises in equity or under contract, statute or common law, including, without limitation, the right to take or receive from Altria, directly or indirectly, in cash or other property or by set-off or in any other manner, payment or security on account of such claim, remedy or right. If any amount shall be paid to the Guarantor in violation of the preceding sentence at any time prior to the cash payment in full of the Obligations and all other amounts payable under this Guarantee, such amount shall be held in trust for the benefit of JPMorgan Chase, as Administrative Agent, and the Lenders and shall forthwith be paid to JPMorgan Chase, as Administrative Agent, to be credited and applied to the Obligations and all other amounts payable under this Guarantee, whether matured or unmatured, in accordance with the terms of the Bridge Loan Agreement and this Guarantee, or be held as collateral for any Obligations or other amounts payable under this Guarantee thereafter arising. The Guarantor acknowledges that it will receive direct and indirect benefits from the financing arrangements contemplated by the Bridge Loan Agreement and this Guarantee and that the waiver set forth in this Section 4(b) is knowingly made in contemplation of such benefits.
SECTION 5. . No failure on the part of JPMorgan Chase, as Administrative Agent, or any Lender to exercise, and no delay in exercising, any right hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof; nor shall any single or partial exercise of any right hereunder preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right. The remedies herein provided are cumulative and not exclusive of any remedies provided by law.
No Waiver; Remedies
 
SECTION 6. . This Guarantee is a continuing guarantee and shall (a) remain in full force and effect until the earliest to occur of (i) the date, if any, on which the Guarantor shall consolidate with or merge into Altria or any successor thereto, (ii) the date, if any, on which Altria or any successor thereto shall consolidate with or merge into the Guarantor, (iii) payment in full of the Obligations, and (iv) the rating of Altria's long term senior unsecured debt by Standard & Poor's of A or higher, (b) be binding upon the Guarantor, its successors and assigns, and (c) inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by any Lender or Administrative Agent, and by their respective successors, transferees, and assigns.
Continuing Guarantee; Transfer of Interest
SECTION 7. . This Guarantee shall continue to be effective or be reinstated, as the case may be, if at any time any payment of any of the Obligations is rescinded or must otherwise be returned by JPMorgan Chase, as Administrative Agent, or any Lender upon the insolvency, bankruptcy or reorganization of Altria or otherwise, all as though such payment had not been made.
Reinstatement
SECTION 8. . The Guarantor may amend this Guarantee at any time for any purpose without the consent of JPMorgan Chase, as Administrative Agent, or any of the Lenders; , that if such amendment adversely affects the rights of any Lender, the prior written consent of such Lender shall be required.
Amendment
provided, however
SECTION 9. . This Guarantee shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
Governing Law
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Guarantor has caused this Guarantee to be duly executed and delivered by its officer thereunto duly authorized as of the date first above written.
 
 


