FILE:MO/MO-8K-20080303171216.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
On February 27, 2008, Altria Group, Inc. ("Altria") issued a press release attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto, which is incorporated herein by reference, reporting the pricing terms for the previously announced cash tender offers and consent solicitations (collectively, the "Tender Offers") by Altria and its subsidiary, Altria Finance (Cayman Islands) Ltd. ("Altria Finance"), for any and all of (i) Altria's outstanding notes and debentures denominated in US dollars (the "USD Notes") and (ii) Altria Finance's bearer bonds denominated in Euros (the "EUR Bonds" and, together with the USD Notes, the "Notes").
On February 29, 2008, Altria issued a press release attached as Exhibit 99.2 hereto, which is incorporated herein by reference, reporting the expiration and results of the Tender Offers. Altria's tender offers and consent solicitations for the USD Notes expired at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on Friday, February 29, 2008 and Altria Finance's tender offer and consent solicitation for the EUR Bonds expired at 5:00 p.m., Frankfurt time, on Friday, February 29, 2008.
This Current Report on Form 8-K shall not constitute an offer to purchase nor a solicitation of acceptance of the offer to purchase the Notes, which were made only pursuant to the applicable Offer to Purchase and Consent Solicitation Statement, as amended, of Altria and Altria Finance, as applicable.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
DATE: March 3, 2008
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 Altria Group, Inc. (NYSE: MO) today announced the pricing terms for the previously announced cash tender offers and consent solicitations by Altria and its subsidiary, Altria Finance (Cayman Islands) Ltd. ("Altria Finance"), for any and all of Altria's outstanding notes and debentures denominated in U.S. dollars ("USD Notes") and Altria Finance's bearer bonds denominated in Euros ("EUR Bonds"), in each case listed in the tables below (collectively, "Notes").
NEW YORK, NY FEBRUARY 27, 2008
USD Notes
EUR Bonds
The total consideration for each $1,000 principal amount of USD Notes or each 1,000
(1)
principal amount of EUR Bonds (the "Total Consideration"), as applicable, validly tendered and not withdrawn prior to the expiration of the tender offers and consent solicitations at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on Friday, February 29, 2008, in the case of the tender offers and consent solicitations for the USD Notes, and 5:00 p.m., Frankfurt time, on Friday, February 29, 2008, in the case of the tender offer and consent solicitation for the EUR Bonds, unless extended or earlier terminated (each, an "Expiration Date"), equals the present value of the Notes, calculated as described in the offer documents based on:
 
The Total Consideration for each series of Notes includes the consent payment for each $1,000 principal amount of USD Notes or each 1,000
(1)
principal amount of EUR Bonds, as applicable, specified in the tables above. In addition, holders whose Notes are purchased in the tender offers will be paid accrued and unpaid interest on their purchased Notes to, but not including, the payment date for such purchased Notes. Holders who validly deliver consents without tendering the related Notes prior to the applicable Expiration Date will be eligible to receive only the consent payment specified in the tables above. Altria and Altria Finance expect that payment for Notes accepted for payment pursuant to the tender offers and consents accepted for payment pursuant to the consent solicitations will be made on March 5, 2008, subject to the terms and conditions of the tender offers and consent solicitations.
As of 5:00 p.m., Frankfurt time, on February 27, 2008, Altria Finance had received tenders of EUR Bonds and tenders of consents without the tender of the related EUR Bonds representing 40.97% of the outstanding aggregate principal amount of the EUR Bonds. Altria Finance intends to accept for payment (1) all EUR Bonds validly tendered and not validly withdrawn pursuant to the tender offer and (2) all consents validly delivered without the tender of the related EUR Bonds and not validly revoked pursuant to the consent solicitation prior to the Expiration Date for its tender offer and consent solicitation, regardless of whether it receives consents in respect of a majority in outstanding aggregate principal amount of the EUR Bonds and Altria enters into the supplemental guarantee prior to such Expiration Date.
Each of the tender offers and consent solicitations remains open and is scheduled to expire on the applicable Expiration Date.
Altria's tender offers and consent solicitations are being made pursuant to the terms and conditions set forth in Altria's Offer to Purchase and Consent Solicitation Statement, dated January 31, 2008, and the related Letter of Transmittal and Consent for the USD Notes, as amended by Altria's press releases, dated February 8, 2008 and February 13, 2008. Altria Finance's tender offer and consent solicitation is being made pursuant to the terms and conditions set forth in Altria Finance's Offer to Purchase and Consent Solicitation Statement for the EUR Bonds, dated January 31, 2008, as amended by Altria's press release, dated February 13, 2008.
Please refer to the tender offer and consent solicitation documents for the complete terms of the tender offers and consent solicitations. Each of the tender offers and consent solicitations is subject to the satisfaction or waiver of certain conditions, as specified in the tender offer and consent solicitation documents.
Note:
 
Information Relating to Tender Offers and Consent Solicitations
Goldman, Sachs & Co. and Citi are the Dealer Managers for the USD Notes tender offers and Solicitation Agents for the USD Notes consent solicitations. Investors with questions regarding the tender offers and consent solicitations for the USD Notes may contact Goldman, Sachs & Co. at (212) 357-4692 or (800) 828-3182 (toll-free) and Citi at (800) 558-3745 (toll-free). Global Bondholder Services Corporation is the Information Agent and Depositary for the tender offers and consent solicitations for the USD Notes and can be contacted at the following numbers: banks and brokers (212) 430-3774 (collect), all others (866) 470-3700 (toll-free).
Goldman Sachs International and Deutsche Bank AG, London Branch are the Dealer Managers for the EUR Bonds tender offer and Solicitation Agents for the EUR Bonds consent solicitation. Investors with questions regarding the tender offer and consent solicitation for the EUR Bonds may contact Goldman Sachs International at +44 (0) 20 7774 4686 and Deutsche Bank AG, London Branch at +44 (0) 20 7545 8011. Deutsche Bank AG, London Branch is the Tender Agent for the tender offer and consent solicitation for the EUR Bonds and can be contacted at +44 (0) 20 7547 5000.
This press release is neither an offer to sell nor a solicitation of offers to buy any of these securities. The tender offers and consent solicitations are being made only pursuant to the offer documents, including the applicable Offer to Purchase and Consent Solicitation Statement distributed by Altria or Altria Finance, as the case may be. The tender offers and consent solicitations are not being made to holders of Notes in any jurisdiction in which the making or acceptance thereof would not be in compliance with the securities, blue sky or other laws of such jurisdiction. None of Altria, Altria Finance, the Dealer Managers, the Solicitation Agents, the Depositary, the Information Agent, Tender Agent, the Fiscal Agent or the Trustee makes any recommendation in connection with the tender offers or the consent solicitations. Please refer to the offer documents for a description of offer terms, conditions, disclaimers, and risk factors.
The distribution of the Offer to Purchase and Consent Solicitation Statement for Altria Finance's tender offer and consent solicitation in certain jurisdictions may be restricted by law. Persons into whose possession Altria Finance's Offer to Purchase and Consent Solicitation Statement comes are required by Altria Finance and the Dealer Managers to inform themselves about and to observe any such restrictions.
United Kingdom
The communication of the Offer to Purchase and Consent Solicitation Statement for Altria Finance's tender offer and consent solicitation is not being made and the document has not been approved by an authorized person for the purpose of Section 21 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 ("FSMA"). Accordingly, the Offer to Purchase and Consent Solicitation Statement for Altria Finance's tender offer and consent solicitation is not being distributed to, and must not be passed on to, the public in the United Kingdom. The communication of the Offer to Purchase and Consent Solicitation Statement for Altria Finance's tender offer and consent solicitation or any other document issued in connection with Altria Finance's tender offer and consent solicitation is directed only at those persons in the United Kingdom falling within the definition of Investment Professionals (as defined in Article 19(5) of the FSMA (Financial Promotion) Order 2001 (the "Order") or persons who are within Article 49 (2)(a) to (d) of the Order or any person to whom it may otherwise lawfully be made (all such persons together being referred to as "relevant persons"). The Offer to Purchase and Consent Solicitation Statement (or any other document issued in connection with Altria Finance's tender offer and consent solicitation) must not be acted upon or relied upon by persons who are not relevant persons. All applicable provisions of the FSMA must be complied with in respect of anything done in relation to the EUR Bonds in, from or otherwise involving the United Kingdom.
 
Belgium
In Belgium, Altria Finance's tender offer and consent solicitation will not, directly or indirectly, be made to, or for the account of, any person other than to qualifying institutional investors referred to in article 3, 2
of the Belgian royal decree of 7 July 1999 on the Public Nature of Financial Transactions, each acting on their own account. This press release and the Offer to Purchase and Consent Solicitation Statement for Altria Finance's tender offer and consent solicitation have not been and will not be submitted to nor approved by the Belgian Banking, Finance and Insurance Commission (Commission Bancaire, Financire et des Assurances/Commissie voor het Bank, Financie en Assurantiewezen) and accordingly may not be used in connection with any offer in Belgium, except as may otherwise be permitted by law.
France
Altria Finance's tender offer and consent solicitation are not being made, directly or indirectly, to the public in the Republic of France. The Offer to Purchase and Consent Solicitation Statement for Altria Finance's tender offer and consent solicitation or any other offering material relating thereto may not be distributed to the public in the Republic of France and only qualified investors (investisseurs qualifis), as defined in and in accordance with Articles L.411-1 and L.411-2 of the French Code montaire et financier and Decree No. 98-880 dated 1 October 1998 are eligible to accept Altria Finance's tender offer and consent solicitation. Neither this press release nor the Offer to Purchase and Consent Solicitation Statement for Altria Finance's tender offer and consent solicitation has been submitted for clearance to the Autorit des Marchs Financiers.
Italy
Altria Finance's tender offer and consent solicitation are not being made in the Republic of Italy. The tender offer and consent solicitation, this press release and the Offer to Purchase and Consent Solicitation Statement for Altria Finance's tender offer and consent solicitation have not been submitted to the clearance procedure of the Commissione Nazionale per le Societ e la Borsa (CONSOB) or the Bank of Italy pursuant to Italian laws and regulations. Accordingly, holders of EUR Bonds are hereby notified that, to the extent such holders are Italian residents or persons located in the Republic of Italy, Altria Finance's tender offer and consent solicitation is not available to them and they may not tender their EUR Bonds or deliver consents and, as such, any Electronic Tender Instruction received from such persons shall be ineffective and void, and neither the Offer to Purchase and Consent Solicitation Statement for Altria Finance's tender offer and consent solicitation nor any other offering material relating to the tender offer, the consent solicitation or the EUR Bonds may be distributed or made available in the Republic of Italy.
Altria Group, Inc. Profile
As of December 31, 2007, Altria owned 100% of Philip Morris International Inc., Philip Morris USA Inc., John Middleton, Inc. and Philip Morris Capital Corporation, and approximately 28.6% of SABMiller plc. The brand portfolio of Altria's tobacco operating companies includes such well-known names as , , , and . Altria recorded 2007 net revenues from continuing operations of $73.8 billion.
Marlboro
L&M
Parliament
Virginia Slims
Black & Mild
Trademarks and service marks mentioned in this release are the registered property of, or licensed by, the subsidiaries of Altria Group, Inc.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Please refer to Altria Group, Inc.'s Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2007 for a discussion of the risks and uncertainties to which Altria is subject.
 

Exhibit 99.2
 Altria Group, Inc. (NYSE: MO) today announced the expiration and results of the previously announced cash tender offers and consent solicitations by Altria and its subsidiary, Altria Finance (Cayman Islands) Ltd. ("Altria Finance"), for any and all of Altria's outstanding notes and debentures denominated in U.S. dollars ("USD Notes") and Altria Finance's bearer bonds denominated in Euros ("EUR Bonds"), in each case listed in the tables below (collectively, "Notes").
NEW YORK, NY FEBRUARY 29, 2008
The tender offers and consent solicitations expired at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on Friday, February 29, 2008, in the case of the tender offers and consent solicitations for the USD Notes, and 5:00 p.m., Frankfurt time, on Friday, February 29, 2008, in the case of the tender offer and consent solicitation for the EUR Bonds (in each case, an "Expiration Date"). The tender offers and consent solicitations are expected to result in first quarter 2008 charges of approximately $400 million. Of this amount, approximately $100 million are tender and consent-related premiums.
The following table presents the results of the tender offers and consent solicitations for the USD Notes as of the Expiration Date therefor:
USD Notes
Pursuant to the terms and conditions set forth in Altria's Offer to Purchase and Consent Solicitation Statement, dated January 31, 2008, and the related Letter of Transmittal and Consent for the USD Notes, as amended by Altria's press releases, dated February 8, 2008 and February 13, 2008, Altria has accepted for payment (1) all USD Notes validly tendered and not validly withdrawn pursuant to the tender offers and (2) all consents validly delivered without the tender of the related USD Notes and not validly revoked pursuant to the consent solicitations prior to the Expiration Date therefor.
As previously announced, Altria received the requisite consents to enter into supplemental indentures to amend the indentures governing the USD Notes, and Altria and the trustee have executed and delivered such supplemental indentures. The amendments set forth in the supplemental indentures became operative upon Altria's acceptance of the USD Notes and consents listed above for payment.
The following table presents the results of the tender offers and consent solicitations for the EUR Bonds as of the Expiration Date therefor:
EUR Bonds
Pursuant to the terms and conditions set forth in Altria Finance's Offer to Purchase and Consent Solicitation Statement, dated January 31, 2008, for the EUR Bonds, as amended by Altria's press releases, dated February 13, 2008 and February 27, 2008, Altria Finance has accepted for payment (1) all EUR Bonds validly tendered and not validly withdrawn pursuant to the tender offer and (2) all consents validly delivered consents without the tender of the related EUR Bonds and not validly revoked pursuant to the consent solicitation prior to the Expiration Date therefor.
Altria and Altria Finance expect that payment for Notes validly tendered pursuant to the tender offers and consents validly delivered pursuant to the consent solicitations will be made on March 5, 2008.
Altria's tender offers and consent solicitations were made pursuant to the terms and conditions set forth in Altria's Offer to Purchase and Consent Solicitation Statement, dated January 31, 2008, and the related Letter of Transmittal and Consent for the USD Notes, as amended by Altria's press releases, dated February 8, 2008 and February 13, 2008. Altria Finance's tender offer and consent solicitation was made pursuant to the terms and conditions set forth in Altria Finance's Offer to Purchase and Consent Solicitation Statement, dated January 31, 2008, for the EUR Bonds, as amended by Altria's press releases, dated February 13, 2008 and February 27, 2008.
Please refer to the tender offer and consent solicitation documents for the complete terms of the tender offers and consent solicitations.
 
Information Relating to Tender Offers and Consent Solicitations
Goldman, Sachs & Co. and Citi acted as the Dealer Managers for the USD Notes tender offers and Solicitation Agents for the USD Notes consent solicitations. Investors with questions regarding the tender offers and consent solicitations for the USD Notes may contact Goldman, Sachs & Co. at (212) 357-4692 or (800) 828-3182 (toll-free) and Citi at (212) 723-6106 or (800) 558-3745 (toll-free). Global Bondholder Services Corporation is the Information Agent and Depositary for the tender offers and consent solicitations for the USD Notes and can be contacted at the following numbers: banks and brokers (212) 430-3774 (collect), all others (866) 470-3700 (toll-free).
Goldman Sachs International and Deutsche Bank AG, London Branch acted as the Dealer Managers for the EUR Bonds tender offer and Solicitation Agents for the EUR Bonds consent solicitation. Investors with questions regarding the tender offer and consent solicitation for the EUR Bonds may contact Goldman Sachs International at +44 (0) 20 7774 4686 and Deutsche Bank AG, London Branch at +44 (0) 20 7545 8011. Deutsche Bank AG, London Branch is the Tender Agent for the tender offer and consent solicitation for the EUR Bonds and can be contacted at +44 (0) 20 7547 5000.
This press release is neither an offer to sell nor a solicitation of offers to buy any of these securities. The tender offers and consent solicitations have been made only pursuant to the offer documents, including the applicable Offer to Purchase and Consent Solicitation Statement distributed by Altria or Altria Finance, as the case may be. Please refer to the offer documents for a description of offer terms, conditions, disclaimers, and risk factors.
Altria Group, Inc. Profile
As of December 31, 2007, Altria owned 100% of Philip Morris International Inc., Philip Morris USA Inc., John Middleton, Inc. and Philip Morris Capital Corporation, and approximately 28.6% of SABMiller plc. The brand portfolio of Altria's tobacco operating companies includes such well-known names as , , , and . Altria recorded 2007 net revenues from continuing operations of $73.8 billion.
Marlboro
L&M
Parliament
Virginia Slims
Black & Mild
Trademarks and service marks mentioned in this release are the registered property of, or licensed by, the subsidiaries of Altria Group, Inc.
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Please refer to Altria Group, Inc.'s Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2007 for a discussion of the risks and uncertainties to which Altria is subject.
 


