FILE:MO/MO-8K-20090626093027.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
On June 26, 2009, Altria Group, Inc. ("Altria") announced that Murray S. Kessler, Vice Chair of Altria and President and Chief Executive Officer of UST LLC ("UST"), will leave the company at the end of June, having overseen the completion of the key elements of UST's integration into Altria.
A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
DATE: June 26, 2009
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Contact: ALCS Media Relations
(804) 484-8897
RICHMOND, Va.June 26, 2009  Altria Group, Inc. (Altria) today announced that Murray S. Kessler, Vice Chair of Altria and President and Chief Executive Officer of UST LLC (UST), will leave the company at the end of June, having overseen the completion of the key elements of UST's integration into Altria. Following Altria's acquisition of UST, Mr. Kessler agreed to stay on to oversee the integration and help complete the transition.
Since closing the transaction in January, Altria has successfully completed several important integration milestones, including:
 
 
 
"Thanks to Murray's leadership, the integration of UST and its subsidiaries into the Altria family of companies has gone smoothly," said Michael E. Szymanczyk, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Altria, "and we remain on-track to deliver an estimated $300 million in integration cost savings by 2011. We thank Murray for his efforts and wish him well in the future."
"The UST integration has gone exceptionally well thanks to a tremendous team effort by all involved," said Mr. Kessler. "I am confident that USSTC and Ste. Michelle Wine Estates are in great hands and have a bright future." Upon Mr. Kessler's departure, Dan Butler, President of USSTC, will report to Craig Johnson, Executive Vice President, Altria, who will continue to lead
PM USA as its President and also will provide oversight to Altria's other tobacco operating companies and the newly created sales and distribution and consumer engagement companies.
About Altria
Altria directly or indirectly owns 100% of each of Philip Morris USA (PM USA), U.S. Smokeless Tobacco Company (USSTC), John Middleton Co. (Middleton), Ste. Michelle Wine Estates (SMWE), and Philip Morris Capital Corporation (PMCC). In addition, Altria holds a continuing economic and voting interest in SABMiller plc. The brand portfolios of Altria's tobacco operating companies include such well-known names as Marlboro, Copenhagen, Skoal and Black & Mild. SMWE produces and markets premium wines sold under 20 different labels including Chateau Ste. Michelle, Columbia Crest, Stag's Leap Wine Cellars and Erath, as well as exclusively distributes and markets Antinori products in the United States. Trademarks and service marks related to Altria or its operating companies referenced in this release are the property of, or licensed by, Altria or its subsidiaries. More information about Altria is available at .
www.altria.com
 


