FILE:MO/MO-8K-20090129172532.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On January 27, 2009, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of Altria Group, Inc. (the "Company") approved the grant of shares of restricted stock under the 2005 Performance Incentive Plan to the following executive officers in the amounts indicated below:
(e) Restricted Stock.
 
The restricted stock awards vest three years from the grant date. A form of restricted stock agreement is attached as Exhibit 10.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference herein.
. On January 27, 2009, the Compensation Committee approved the following base salaries, effective March 1, 2009, for the following executive officers, in the amounts indicated below:
Base Salaries
 
In addition, the Compensation Committee approved the promotion of Mr. Craig A. Johnson from Band C to Band B recognizing his recently assumed role as Executive Vice President of Altria Group, Inc. and President of Philip Morris USA Inc. Effective February 1, 2009, Mr. Johnson's new base salary will be $740,000.
On January 27, 2009, the Compensation Committee approved annual incentive awards for 2008, payable in cash, to the following executive officers, as follows:
Annual Incentive Awards.
 
The maximum award amounts for the 2008 annual incentive awards were determined based on a performance incentive pool equal to 0.7% of the 2008 adjusted net earnings of the Company. Adjusted net earnings of the Company is defined as the net earnings before extraordinary items, discontinued operations and the cumulative effect of accounting changes and excluding certain other items designated by the Compensation Committee. In addition, individual award amounts are limited to the shareholder-approved maximum defined in the 2005 Performance Incentive Plan of $10.0 million.
Future Programs
On January 27, 2009, the Compensation Committee approved the formula for determining the maximum award amounts for 2009 annual incentive awards. The formula reflects the Company's intention to qualify, to the extent possible, cash compensation paid to officers as tax deductible, subject to the deductibility limitations of Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code.
Under the formula, the maximum award amounts are determined based on a performance incentive pool equal to 0.7% of 2009 adjusted net earnings. Adjusted net earnings of the Company is defined as the net earnings before extraordinary items, discontinued operations and the cumulative effect of accounting changes and excluding certain other items designated by the Compensation Committee. In addition, individual award amounts are limited to the shareholder-approved maximum defined in the 2005 Performance Incentive Plan: $10.0 million for the annual incentive award.
At the conclusion of 2009, the performance pool will be calculated and divided among the covered officers. The Chairman and Chief Executive Officer's maximum award under the plan is limited to one-third of the pool, and the remaining covered officers each will be eligible for a maximum award equal to one-sixth of the remaining pool, in each case, subject to the individual maximums defined in the 2005 Performance Incentive Plan.
In addition, on January 27, 2009, the Compensation Committee approved a formula for determining the maximum award amounts for 2010 restricted stock awards. The formula reflects the Company's intention to qualify, to the extent possible, stock awards made to officers as tax deductible, subject to the deductibility limitations of Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code.
Under the formula, the maximum restricted stock award grant value amounts for the 2010 restricted stock awards are determined based on a performance incentive pool equal to 1.0% of the adjusted net earnings of the Company. Adjusted net earnings of the Company is defined as the net earnings before extraordinary
items, discontinued operations and the cumulative effect of accounting changes and excluding certain other items designated by the Compensation Committee. In addition, individual awards are limited to the shareholder-approved maximum defined in the 2005 Performance Incentive Plan of one million shares.
At the conclusion of 2009, the performance pool for the 2010 restricted stock awards will be calculated and divided among the covered officers. The Chairman and Chief Executive Officer's maximum award is equal to one-third of the pool and the remaining covered officers each will be eligible for a maximum award up to an equal share of the remaining pool, in each case, subject to the individual maximum defined in the 2005 Performance Incentive Plan.
A form of restricted stock agreement is attached as Exhibit 10.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference herein.
For security purposes, the Compensation Committee requires Mr. Szymanczyk to use Company aircraft for all air travel, whether personal or business. On January 27, 2009, the Compensation Committee approved a $300,000 annual limit of personal aircraft usage for 2009. Mr. Szymanczyk will reimburse the Company for personal aircraft usage from January 1, 2009 through December 31, 2009 in excess of $300,000 pursuant to a time sharing agreement between Mr. Szymanczyk and the Company.
The time sharing agreement is attached as Exhibit 10.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference herein.
The Company will provide additional information regarding the compensation of its executive officers in its proxy statement for the 2009 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, which will be issued in April.
 
(d) Exhibits
10.1     Form of Restricted Stock Agreement
10.2     Time Sharing Agreement
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
DATE: January 29, 2009
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
ALTRIA GROUP, INC. (the "Company"), a Virginia corporation, hereby grants to the employee identified in the 2009 Restricted Stock Award section of the Award Statement (the "Employee") under the Altria Group, Inc. 2005 Performance Incentive Plan (the "Plan") a Restricted Stock Award (the "Award") dated January 27, 2009, with respect to the number of shares set forth in the 2009 Restricted Stock Award section of the Award Statement (the "Shares") of the Common Stock of the Company (the "Common Stock"), all in accordance with and subject to the following terms and conditions:
1. . The Shares shall be evidenced by a book entry account maintained by the Company's Transfer Agent for the Common Stock. Upon the vesting of Shares, no certificates will be issued except upon a separate written request made to such Transfer Agent or other agent as determined by the Company.
Book Entry Registration
2. . Subject to Section 3 below, the restrictions on the Shares shall lapse and the Shares shall vest on the Vesting Date set forth in the 2009 Restricted Stock Award section of the Award Statement (the "Vesting Date"), provided that the Employee remains an employee of the Company (or a subsidiary or affiliate) during the entire period (the "Restriction Period") commencing on the Award Date set forth in the Award Statement and ending on the Vesting Date.
Restrictions
3. . In the event of the termination of the Employee's employment with the Company (and with all subsidiaries and affiliates of the Company) prior to the Vesting Date due to death or Disability, or upon the Employee reaching eligibility for Normal Retirement, the restrictions on the Shares shall lapse and the Shares shall become fully vested on the date of death, Disability, or eligibility for Normal Retirement.
Termination of Employment During Restriction Period
If the Employee's employment with the Company (and with all subsidiaries and affiliates of the Company) is terminated for any reason other than death or Disability prior to the end of the Restriction Period, the Employee shall forfeit all rights to the Shares. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company may, in its sole discretion, waive the restrictions on, and the vesting requirements for, the Shares.
4. . During the Restriction Period, the Employee shall have the rights to vote the Shares and to receive any cash dividends payable with respect to the Shares, as paid, less applicable withholding taxes (it being understood that such dividends will generally be taxable as ordinary compensation income during such Restriction Period).
Voting and Dividend Rights
5. . This Award and the Shares (until they become unrestricted pursuant to the terms hereof) are non-transferable and may not be assigned, hypothecated or otherwise pledged and shall not be subject to execution, attachment or similar process. Upon any attempt to effect any such disposition, or upon the levy of any such process, the Award shall immediately become null and void and the Shares shall be forfeited.
Transfer Restrictions
6. . The Company is authorized to satisfy the actual minimum statutory withholding taxes arising from the granting or vesting of this Award, as the case may be, by deducting the number of shares having an aggregate value equal to the amount of withholding taxes due from the total number of shares awarded or the number of shares vesting or otherwise becoming subject to current taxation. The Company is also authorized to satisfy the actual withholding taxes arising from the granting
Withholding Taxes
or vesting of this Award, or hypothetical withholding tax amounts if the Employee is covered under a Company tax equalization policy, as the case may be, by the remittance of the required amounts from any proceeds realized upon the open-market sale of vested Shares by the Employee. Shares deducted from this Award in satisfaction of actual minimum withholding tax requirements shall be valued at the Fair Market Value of the Shares on the date as of which the amount giving rise to the withholding requirement first became includible in the gross income of the Employee under applicable tax laws. If the Employee is covered by a Company tax equalization policy, the Employee also agrees to pay to the Company any additional hypothetical tax obligation calculated and paid in accordance with such tax equalization policy.
7. . If any of the Shares shall vest upon the death of the Employee, they shall be registered in the name of the estate of the Employee except that, to the extent permitted by the Compensation Committee, if the Company shall have theretofore received in writing a beneficiary designation, the Shares shall be registered in the name of the designated beneficiary.
Death of Employee
8. . Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, if the Board of Directors of the Company or an appropriate Committee of the Board determines that, as a result of a restatement of the Company's financial statements, the Employee has received greater compensation in connection with the Award than would been received absent the incorrect financial statements, the Board or Committee, in its discretion, may take such action with respect to this Award as it deems necessary or appropriate to address the events that gave rise to the restatement and to prevent its recurrence. Such action may include, to the extent permitted by applicable law, causing the full or partial cancellation of this Award and, with respect to Shares that have vested, requiring the Employee to repay to the Company the full or partial Fair Market Value of the Award determined at the time of vesting, and the Employee agrees by accepting this Award that the Board or Committee may make such a cancellation, impose such a repayment obligation, or take other necessary or appropriate actions in such circumstances.
Board Authorization in the Event of Restatement
9. . The terms and provisions of the Plan (a copy of which will be furnished to the Employee upon written request to the Office of the Secretary, Altria Group, Inc., 6601 West Broad Street, Richmond, Virginia 23230) are incorporated herein by reference. To the extent any provision of this Award is inconsistent or in conflict with any term or provision of the Plan, the Plan shall govern. Capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein have the meaning set forth in the Plan. In the event of any merger, share exchange, reorganization, consolidation, recapitalization, reclassification, distribution, stock dividend, stock split, reverse stock split, split-up, spin-off, issuance of rights or warrants or other similar transaction or event affecting the Common Stock after the date of this Award, the Board of Directors of the Company is authorized, to the extent it deems appropriate, to make adjustments to the number and kind of shares of stock subject to this Award, including the substitution of equity interests in other entities involved in such transactions, to provide for cash payments in lieu of Shares, and to determine whether continued employment with any entity resulting from such a transaction will or will not be treated as continued employment with the Company and its subsidiaries and affiliates, in each case subject to any Board or Committee action specifically addressing any such adjustments, cash payments, or continued employment treatment.
Other Terms and Provisions
For purposes of this Agreement, (a) the term "Disability" means permanent and total disability as determined under procedures established by the Company for purposes of the Plan, and (b) the term "Normal Retirement" means retirement from active employment under a pension plan of the Company or any subsidiary or affiliate of the Company or under an employment contract with the Company or any subsidiary or affiliate of the Company on or after the date specified as the normal retirement age in the pension plan or employment contract, if any, under which the Employee is at that time accruing pension benefits for his or her current service (or, in the absence of a specified normal retirement age, the age at which pension benefits under such plan or contract become payable without reduction for early commencement and without any requirement of a particular period of prior service). In
 
any case in which (i) the meaning of "Normal Retirement" is uncertain under the definition contained in the prior sentence or (ii) a termination of employment at or after age 65 would not otherwise constitute "Normal Retirement," an Employee's termination of employment shall be treated as a "Normal Retirement" under such circumstances as the Committee, in its sole discretion, deems equivalent to retirement. Generally, for purposes of this Agreement, (x) a "subsidiary" includes only any company in which the Company, directly or indirectly, has a beneficial ownership interest of greater than 50 percent and (y) an "affiliate" includes only any company that (A) has a beneficial ownership interest, directly or indirectly, in the Company of greater than 50 percent or (B) is under common control with the Company through a parent company that, directly or indirectly, has a beneficial ownership interest of greater than 50 percent in both the Company and the affiliate.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Restricted Stock Agreement has been duly executed as of January 27, 2009.
 
 

Exhibit 10.2
THIS TIME SHARING AGREEMENT (the "Agreement") is made and entered into this 28th day of January, 2009, by and between Altria Client Services Inc., with an address of 6601 West Broad Street; Richmond, VA 23230 ("Operator") and Michael E. Szymanczyk, with an address of 6601 West Broad Street; Richmond, VA 23230 ("User").
WITNESSETH, that
WHEREAS, Operator owns the aircraft more particularly described on attached hereto (collectively, the "Aircraft");
Exhibit A
WHEREAS, Operator employs a fully qualified flight crew to operate the Aircraft; and
WHEREAS, Operator desires to lease said Aircraft with flight crew to User and User desires to lease said Aircraft and flight crew from Operator on a time sharing basis pursuant to Section 91.501(b)(6) of the Federal Aviation Regulations (the "FARs").
NOW THEREFORE, Operator and User declaring their intention to enter into and be bound by this Agreement, and for the good and valuable consideration set forth below, hereby covenant and agree as follows:
1. Operator agrees to lease the Aircraft to User pursuant to the provisions of FAR 91.501(b)(6) and to provide a fully qualified flight crew for all operations on a non-continuous basis commencing on the first date set forth hereinabove and continuing unless and until terminated. Either party may terminate this Agreement by giving thirty (30) days written notice to the other party.
2. User shall pay Operator for each flight conducted under this Agreement the actual expenses of each specific flight, including the actual expense of any "deadhead" flights made for User, as authorized by FAR Part 91.501(d). The expenses authorized by FAR Part 91.501(d) include:
 
In addition, User shall pay Operator for each such flight and "deadhead" flight the costs of engine maintenance, aircraft cleaning, and, if applicable, any contracted (temporary) flight crew, which cost shall not exceed 100% of the expenses listed in subparagraph (a) of this paragraph, as authorized by FAR 91.501(d).
3. User agrees to pay any federal transportation excise tax ("FET") due on the fees set forth in paragraph 2 above. FET is currently imposed at a rate of 7.5% of the amount paid for taxable transportation, with an additional fee of $3.60 per passenger per segment. For certain international flights, the tax is instead imposed as a per passenger international facilities fee currently at the rate of $16.10 per passenger per arrival to or departure from the United States. In addition, there are special rules for flights to and from Alaska and Hawaii. The per passenger fees are periodically updated by the IRS. Operator shall include the appropriate FET amount on each invoice. Operator shall be responsible for collecting, reporting and remitting FET to the U.S. Internal Revenue Service.
4. Operator will pay all expenses related to the operation of the Aircraft when incurred. Operator will provide an invoice to User for the fees described herein within 30 days of the last flight of a particular trip. User shall pay Operator for said expenses within thirty (30) days of receipt of the invoice therefore.
5. User will provide Operator with requests for flight time and proposed flight schedules as far in advance of any given flight as possible. Requests for flight time and proposed flight schedules shall be made in compliance with Operator's scheduling procedures. In addition to proposed schedules and flight times, User shall provide at least the following information for each proposed flight at some time prior to scheduled departure as required by Operator or Operator's flight crew.
 
 
6. Operator shall pay all expenses related to the ownership and operation of the Aircraft and shall employ, pay for and provide to User a qualified flight crew for each flight made under this Agreement.
7. Operator shall be solely responsible for securing maintenance, preventive maintenance and required or otherwise necessary inspections on the Aircraft, and shall take such requirements into account in scheduling the Aircraft. No period of maintenance, preventive maintenance or inspection shall be delayed or postponed for the purpose of scheduling the Aircraft, unless said maintenance or inspection can be safely conducted at a later time in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, and within the sound discretion of the pilot in command.
8. In accordance with applicable FARs, the flight crew will exercise all of its duties and responsibilities in regard to the safety of each flight conducted hereunder. User specifically agrees that the pilot in command, in his sole discretion, may terminate any flight, refuse to commence any flight, or take other action which in the considered judgment of the pilot in command is necessitated by considerations of safety.
9. Operator will provide such additional insurance coverage as User shall request or require; provided, however, that the cost of such additional insurance may be borne by User as set forth in paragraph 2(d) hereof.
10. User warrants that:
 
 
11. Neither this Agreement nor either party's interest herein shall be assignable to any other party. This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto, their heirs, representatives and successors.
12. No provision of this Agreement may be amended unless such amendment is agreed to in writing and signed by the parties.
 
13. Nothing herein shall be construed to create a partnership, joint venture, franchise, employer-employee relationship or to create any relationship of principal and agent.
14. This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia, without regard to its choice of law provisions.
15. TRUTH IN LEASING STATEMENT UNDER SECTION 91.23 OF THE FEDERAL AVIATION REGULATIONS.
(A)    ALTRIA CLIENT SERVICES INC. ("OPERATOR") HEREBY CERTIFIES THAT THE AIRCRAFT HAVE BEEN INSPECTED AND MAINTAINED WITHIN THE 12 MONTH PERIOD PRECEDING THE DATE OF THIS AGREEMENT IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE PROVISIONS OF FAR PART 91 AND ALL APPLICABLE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE MAINTENANCE AND INSPECTION THEREUNDER HAVE BEEN MET.
(B)    ALTRIA CLIENT SERVICES INC. ("OPERATOR") AGREES, CERTIFIES AND KNOWINGLY ACKNOWLEDGES THAT WHEN THE AIRCRAFT ARE OPERATED UNDER THIS AGREEMENT, IT SHALL BE KNOWN AS, CONSIDERED, AND SHALL IN FACT BE THE OPERATOR OF THE AIRCRAFT.
(C)    THE PARTIES UNDERSTAND THAT AN EXPLANATION OF FACTORS AND PERTINENT FEDERAL AVIATION REGULATIONS BEARING ON OPERATIONAL CONTROL CAN BE OBTAINED FROM THE LOCAL FLIGHT STANDARDS DISTRICT OFFICE.
(D)    OPERATOR CERTIFIES THAT IT SHALL COMPLY WITH THE TRUTH-IN-LEASING REQUIREMENTS DEFINED IN ATTACHED HERETO.
EXHIBIT B
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused the signatures of their authorized representatives to be affixed below on the day and year first above written. The persons signing below warrant their authority to sign.
 
 
 
 
 
Federal Aviation Administration
Aircraft Registration Branch
ATTN: Technical Section
P.O. Box 25724
Oklahoma City, Oklahoma 73125
 
 
 


