FILE:MO/MO-8K-20101103172957.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
On November 3, 2010, Robert E. R. Huntley notified Altria Group, Inc. of his decision to retire from Board service following the completion of his current term. Consequently, Mr. Huntley will not stand for re-election to the Board of Directors of Altria Group, Inc. at the 2011 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.
(b) Departure of Directors.
In connection with the foregoing, Altria Group, Inc. issued a press release attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
DATE: November 3, 2010
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 Robert E. R. Huntley has notified Altria Group, Inc. of his decision to retire from Board service following the completion of his current term. Consequently, Mr. Huntley will not stand for re-election to the Board of Directors of Altria Group, Inc. at the 2011 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. Mr. Huntley has diligently served on Altria's Board of Directors for nearly 34 years.
RICHMOND, Va. (November 3, 2010)
"We thank Bob for his long-standing service to Altria Group and wish him well," said Michael E. Szymanczyk, chairman and chief executive officer, Altria Group, Inc. "Bob has made countless contributions over the years and I look forward to working with him over the remaining months of his term."
Mr. Huntley joined the Board of Directors in 1976 and currently serves as Presiding Director and a member of the Compensation, Executive, Finance, and Nominating, Corporate Governance and Social Responsibility Committees.
Mr. Huntley retired as counsel to the law firm of Hunton & Williams LLP in December 1995, a position he had held since 1988. Previously, Mr. Huntley had served as Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Best Products Co., Inc., Professor of Law at Washington and Lee School of Law and President of Washington and Lee University.


