FILE:MO/MO-8K-20100611163345.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On June 11, 2010, Altria Group, Inc. (the "Company") issued $800,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its 4.125% Notes due 2015 (the "Notes"). The Notes were issued pursuant to an Indenture (the "Indenture"), dated as of November 4, 2008, among the Company, Philip Morris USA Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company ("PM USA"), and Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, as trustee (the "Trustee"). The Notes are guaranteed by PM USA. PM USA's guarantee was issued pursuant to the Indenture and was evidenced by a guarantee agreement made by PM USA in favor of the Trustee for the Notes (the "Guarantee Agreement").
The Notes will be the Company's senior unsecured obligations and will rank equally in right of payment with all of the Company's existing and future senior unsecured indebtedness. The Guarantee Agreement will be PM USA's senior unsecured obligation and will rank equally in right of payment with all of PM USA's existing and future senior unsecured indebtedness.
On June 8, 2010, the Company and PM USA entered into a Terms Agreement (the "Terms Agreement") with Barclays Capital Inc., Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC and Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., as representatives of the several underwriters named therein (the "Underwriters"), pursuant to which the Company agreed to issue and sell the Notes to the Underwriters. The provisions of an Underwriting Agreement, dated as of November 4, 2008 (the "Underwriting Agreement"), are incorporated by reference in the Terms Agreement.
Interest on the Notes is payable semiannually on March 11 and September 11 of each year, commencing March 11, 2011, to holders of record on the preceding February 24 or August 27, as the case may be. The Notes will mature on September 11, 2015.
The Company has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission a Prospectus dated November 4, 2008 (Registration No. 333-155009) and a Prospectus Supplement dated June 8, 2010 in connection with the public offering of the Notes.
The descriptions of the Underwriting Agreement, the Terms Agreement and the Guarantee Agreement are qualified in their entirety by the terms of such agreements themselves. Please refer to such agreements and the form of Notes, each of which is incorporated herein by reference and attached to this report as Exhibits 1.1, 1.2, 4.1 and 4.2, respectively.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
DATE: June 11, 2010
 
 
 

Exhibit 1.2
June 8, 2010                                    
A G, I.
LTRIA
ROUP
NC
P M USA I.
HILIP
ORRIS
NC
6601 West Broad Street
Richmond, Virginia 23230
 
Dear Ladies and Gentlemen:
On behalf of the several Underwriters named in Schedule A hereto and for their respective accounts, we offer to purchase, on and subject to the terms and conditions of the Underwriting Agreement relating to Debt Securities and Warrants to Purchase Debt Securities dated as of November 4, 2008 in connection with Altria Group, Inc.'s and Philip Morris USA Inc.'s registration statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-155009) and which is incorporated herein by reference (the ""), the following securities ("") on the following terms:
Underwriting Agreement
Securities
Title:
4.125% Notes due 2015 (the "").
Notes
Principal Amount:
$800,000,000.
Interest Rate:
4.125% per annum from June 11, 2010, payable semiannually in arrears on March 11
th
and September 11
th
, commencing March 11, 2011, to holders of record on the preceding February 24 or August 27, as the case may be.
 
Maturity:
September 11, 2015.
Currency of Denomination:
United States Dollars ($).
Currency of Payment:
United States Dollars ($).
Form and Denomination:
Book-entry form only represented by one or more global securities deposited with The Depository Trust Company, including its participants Clearstream or Euroclear, or their respective designated custodian, in denominations of $2,000 and $1,000 integral multiples thereof.
Change of Control:
Upon the occurrence of both (i) a change of control of the Company and (ii) the Notes ceasing to be rated investment grade by each of Moody's Investors Service, Inc., Standard & Poor's Ratings Services and Fitch Ratings within a specified period, the Company will be required to make an offer to purchase the Notes of each series at a price equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes of such series, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of repurchase as and to the extent set forth under the caption "Description of NotesRepurchase Upon Change of Control Triggering Event" in the prospectus supplement.
Conversion Provisions:
None.
Optional Tax Redemption:
The Company may redeem all, but not part, of the Notes of each series upon the occurrence of specified tax events described under the caption "Description of NotesRedemption for Tax Reasons" in the prospectus supplement.
Option to Elect Repayment:
None.
Sinking Fund:
None.
Guarantor:
Philip Morris USA Inc.
 
In addition to the Events of Default set forth in the Indenture, dated as of November 4, 2008 (the "") among the Company, the Guarantor and Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, as and to the extent set forth under the caption "Description of NotesSubsidiary Guarantee" in the prospectus supplement, each of the following will constitute an Event of Default (within the meaning of the Indenture) with respect to the Notes: (i) the Guarantor or a court takes certain actions relating to bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization of the Guarantor and (ii) the Guarantor's guarantee with respect to the Notes is determined to be unenforceable or invalid or for any reason ceases to be in full force and effect as permitted by the Indenture of the Guarantee Agreement, or the Guarantor repudiates its obligations under such guarantee.
Indenture
Listing:
None.
Delayed Delivery Contracts:
None.
Payment of Additional Amounts:
In addition, the Company shall pay Additional Amounts to holders as and to the extent set forth under the caption "Description of NotesPayment of Additional Amounts" in the prospectus supplement.
Purchase Price:
98.974% of the principal amount, plus accrued interest, if any, from June 11, 2010.
Expected Reoffering Price:
99.574% of the principal amount, plus accrued interest, if any, from June 11, 2010.
Names and Addresses of Representatives of the Several Underwriters:
Barclays Capital Inc.
745 Seventh Avenue
New York, New York 10019
Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC
11 Madison Avenue
New York, New York 10010
Deutsche Bank Securities Inc.
60 Wall Street
New York, New York 10005
Attn: Investment Grade Debt Capital MarketsSyndicate Desk
 
The respective principal amounts of the Securities to be severally purchased by each of the Underwriters are set forth opposite their names in Schedule A hereto.
Except as set forth below, the provisions of the Underwriting Agreement are incorporated herein by reference and the following provisions are hereby added thereto and made a part thereof:
1. For purposes of the Underwriting Agreement, the "" is 1:50 P.M. New York City time, on the date of this Terms Agreement.
Applicable Time
2. For purposes of Section 5(d)(xi) of the Underwriting Agreement, the descriptions of contracts and other documents referred to in such counsel's opinion shall include, but not be limited to, the information appearing under the captions "The Company," "Description of Debt Securities," "Description of Guarantees of Debt Securities," "Description of Notes," and "Underwriting" in the prospectus supplement.
3. For purposes of Section 6 of the Underwriting Agreement, the only information furnished to the Company and Philip Morris USA Inc. by the Underwriters for use in the prospectus supplement consists of the following information: the concession and reallowance figures appearing in the third paragraph under the caption "Underwriting" in the prospectus supplement and the information contained in the fifth, sixth and seventh paragraphs under the caption "Underwriting" in the prospectus supplement.
The Closing will take place at 9:00 A.M., New York City time, on June 11, 2010, at the offices of Hunton & Williams LLP, 200 Park Avenue, New York, New York 10166.
The Securities will be made available for checking and packaging at the offices of Hunton & Williams LLP, 200 Park Avenue, New York, New York 10166 at least 24 hours prior to the Closing Date.
 
Please signify your acceptance by signing the enclosed response to us in the space provided and returning it to us.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Filed Pursuant to Rule 433
Registration No. 333-155009
June 8, 2010
 
Note: A securities rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time.
The issuer has filed a registration statement (including a prospectus) with the SEC for the offering to which this communication relates. Before you invest, you should read the prospectus in that registration statement and other documents the issuer has filed with the SEC for more complete information about the issuer and this offering. You may get these documents for free by visiting EDGAR on the SEC Web site at www.sec.gov. Alternatively, the issuer, any underwriter or any dealer participating in the offering will arrange to send you the prospectus if you request it by calling Barclays Capital Inc. toll free at 1-888-603-5847, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC toll free at 1-800-221-1037 or Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. toll free at 1-800-503-4611.

Exhibit 4.1
GUARANTEE, dated as of June 11, 2010 (as amended from time to time, this ""), made by Philip Morris USA Inc., a Virginia corporation (the ""), in favor of Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, as trustee ("") for the registered holders (the "") of the 4.125% Notes due 2015 (collectively, the "") of Altria Group, Inc., a Virginia corporation (the "").
Guarantee
Guarantor
Trustee
Holders
Debt Securities
Issuer
SECTION 1. . (a) The Guarantor hereby unconditionally guarantees the punctual payment when due, whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise, of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Debt Securities (the ""), according to the terms of the Debt Securities and as more fully described in the Indenture (as amended, modified or otherwise supplemented from time to time, the ""), dated as of November 4, 2008, among the Issuer, the Guarantor and the Trustee, and any other amounts payable by the Guarantor under the Indenture.
Guarantee
Obligations
Indenture
(b) It is the intention of the Guarantor that this Guarantee not constitute a fraudulent transfer or conveyance for purposes of Bankruptcy Law, the Uniform Fraudulent Conveyance Act, the Uniform Fraudulent Transfer Act or any similar federal or state law to the extent applicable to this Guarantee. To effectuate the foregoing intention, the amount guaranteed by the Guarantor under this Guarantee shall be limited to the maximum amount as will, after giving effect to such maximum amount and all other contingent and fixed liabilities of the Guarantor that are relevant under such laws, result in the Obligations of the Guarantor under this Guarantee not constituting a fraudulent transfer or conveyance. For purposes hereof, "" means Title 11, U.S. Code, or any similar federal or state law for the relief of debtors.
Bankruptcy Law
SECTION 2. . The Guarantor guarantees that the Obligations will be paid strictly in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, regardless of any law, regulation or order now or hereafter in effect in any jurisdiction affecting any of such terms or the rights of Holders of the Debt Securities with respect thereto. The liability of the Guarantor under this Guarantee shall be absolute and unconditional irrespective of:
Guarantee Absolute
(i) any lack of validity, enforceability or genuineness of any provision of the Indenture, the Debt Securities or any other agreement or instrument relating thereto;
(ii) any change in the time, manner or place of payment of, or in any other term of, all or any of the Obligations, or any other amendment or waiver of or any consent to departure from the Indenture;
(iii) any exchange, release or non-perfection of any collateral, or any release or amendment or waiver of or consent to departure from any other guarantee, for all or any of the Obligations; or
(iv) any other circumstance that might otherwise constitute a defense available to, or a discharge of, the Issuer or a guarantor.
SECTION 3. . The Guarantor covenants and agrees that its obligation to make payments of the Obligations hereunder constitutes an unsecured obligation of the Guarantor ranking (a)  with all existing and future senior indebtedness of the Guarantor and (b) senior in right of payment to all existing and future subordinated indebtedness of the Guarantor.
Subordination
pari passu
SECTION 4. . (a) The Guarantor hereby waives promptness, diligence, notice of acceptance and any other notice with respect to this Guarantee and any requirement that the Trustee, or the Holders of any Debt Securities protect, secure, perfect or insure any security interest or lien or any property subject thereto or exhaust any right or take any action against the Issuer or any other Person or any collateral.
Waiver; Subrogation
(b) The Guarantor hereby irrevocably waives any claims or other rights that it may now or hereafter acquire against the Issuer that arise from the existence, payment, performance or enforcement of the Guarantor's obligations under this Guarantee or the Indenture, including, without limitation, any right of subrogation, reimbursement, exoneration, contribution or indemnification and any right to participate in any claim or remedy of the Trustee, or the Holders of any Debt Securities against the Issuer or any collateral, whether or not such claim, remedy or right arises in equity or under contract, statute or common law, including, without limitation, the right to take or receive from the Issuer, directly or indirectly, in cash or other property or by set-off or in any other manner, payment or security on account of such claim, remedy or right. If any amount shall be paid to the Guarantor in violation of the preceding sentence at any time prior to the cash payment in full of the Obligations and all other amounts payable under this Guarantee, such amount shall be held in trust for the benefit of the Trustee and the Holders of any Debt Securities and shall forthwith be paid to the Trustee, to be credited and applied to the Obligations and all other amounts payable under this Guarantee, whether matured or unmatured, in accordance with the terms of the Indenture and this Guarantee, or be held as collateral for any Obligations or other amounts payable under this Guarantee thereafter arising. The Guarantor acknowledges that it will receive direct and indirect benefits from the financing arrangements contemplated by the Indenture and this Guarantee and that the waiver set forth in this Section 4 is knowingly made in contemplation of such benefits.
SECTION 5. . No failure on the part of the Trustee or any Holder of the Debt Securities to exercise, and no delay in exercising, any right hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof; nor shall any single or partial exercise of any right hereunder preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right. The remedies herein provided are cumulative and not exclusive of any remedies provided by law.
No Waiver; Remedies
SECTION 6. . This Guarantee is a continuing guarantee and shall (a) remain in full force and effect until the earliest to occur of (i) the date, if any, on which the Guarantor shall consolidate with or merge into the Issuer or any successor thereto, (ii) the date, if any, on which the Issuer or any successor thereto shall consolidate with or merge into the Guarantor, (iii) payment in full of the Obligations, and (iv) the rating of the Issuer's long term senior unsecured debt by Standard & Poor's of A or higher, (b) be binding upon the Guarantor, its successors and assigns, and (c) inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by any Holder of Debt Securities, the Trustee, and by their respective successors, transferees, and assigns.
Continuing Guarantee; Transfer of Interest
 
SECTION 7. . This Guarantee shall continue to be effective or be reinstated, as the case may be, if at any time any payment of any of the Obligations is rescinded or must otherwise be returned by any Holder of the Debt Securities or the Trustee upon the insolvency, bankruptcy or reorganization of the Issuer or otherwise, all as though such payment had not been made.
Reinstatement
SECTION 8. . The Guarantor may amend this Guarantee at any time for any purpose without the consent of the Trustee or any Holder of the Debt Securities; , that if such amendment adversely affects (a) the rights of the Trustee or (b) any Holder of the Debt Securities, the prior written consent of the Trustee (in the case of (b), acting at the written direction of the Holders of more than 50% in aggregate principal amount of Debt Securities) shall be required.
Amendment
provided, however
SECTION 9. . This Guarantee shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
Governing Law
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Guarantor has caused this Guarantee to be duly executed and delivered by its officer thereunto duly authorized as of the date first written above.
 

Exhibit 4.2
REGISTERED
No.
 
THIS NOTE IS A GLOBAL SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE THEREOF. UNLESS AND UNTIL IT IS EXCHANGED IN WHOLE OR IN PART FOR NOTES IN CERTIFICATED FORM, THIS NOTE MAY NOT BE TRANSFERRED EXCEPT AS A WHOLE BY THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY (THE "DEPOSITARY") TO A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY OR BY THE DEPOSITARY OR ANY SUCH NOMINEE TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE OF SUCH SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY. UNLESS THIS NOTE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITARY TO THE COMPANY OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY NOTE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITARY (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITARY), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
ALTRIA GROUP, INC., a Virginia corporation (hereinafter called the "Company", which term includes any successor corporation under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to Cede & Co. or registered assigns, the principal sum of $         on September 11, 2015, and to pay interest thereon from June 11, 2010 or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, semi-annually in arrears on March 11 and September 11 in each year, commencing March 11, 2011 at the rate of 4.125% per annum until the principal hereof is paid or made available for payment.
The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in the Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Note (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest, which shall be February 24 or August 27 (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, next preceding such Interest Payment Date. Any such interest not so punctually paid or duly provided for shall forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on
such Regular Record Date and may be paid to the Person in whose name this Note (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee for the Notes, notice whereof shall be given to Holders of Notes not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or may be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Notes may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in said Indenture.
Payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on this Note will be made at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, in such coin or currency of the United States of America, as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts; , , that at the option of the Company payment of interest may be made by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall appear on the Securities Register or by wire transfer at such place and to such account at a banking institution in the United States as may be designated in writing to the Trustee at least 15 days prior to the date for payment by the person entitled thereto. All payments of principal, premium, if any, and interest in respect of this Note will be made by the Company in immediately available funds.
provided
however
Additional provisions of this Note are contained on the reverse hereof, and such provisions shall have the same effect as though fully set forth in this place.
Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by or on behalf of the Trustee for the Notes by manual signature, this Note shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture, or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, ALTRIA GROUP, INC. has caused this instrument to be duly executed.
Dated:
ALTRIA GROUP, INC.
 
This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein described in the within-mentioned Indenture.
DEUTSCHE BANK TRUST COMPANY AMERICAS,
as Trustee
By: DEUTSCHE BANK NATIONAL TRUST COMPANY
 
This Note is one of a duly authorized issue of debentures, notes or other evidences of indebtedness (hereinafter called the "Securities") of the Company of the series hereinafter specified, which series is limited in aggregate principal amount to $800,000,000 (except as provided in the Indenture hereinafter mentioned), all such Securities issued and to be issued under an Indenture, dated as of November 4, 2008, among the Company, Philip Morris USA Inc., as Guarantor, and Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, as Trustee (herein called the "Indenture"), to which Indenture and all other indentures supplemental thereto reference is hereby made for a statement of the rights and limitations of rights thereunder of the Holders of the Securities and of the rights, obligations, duties and immunities of the Trustee for each series of Securities and of the Company, and the terms upon which the Securities are and are to be authenticated and delivered. As provided in the Indenture, the Securities may be issued in one or more series, which different series may be issued in various aggregate principal amounts, may mature at different times, may bear interest, if any, at different rates, may be subject to different redemption provisions, if any, may be subject to different sinking, purchase or analogous funds, if any, may be subject to different covenants and Events of Default and may otherwise vary as in the Indenture provided or permitted. This Note is one of a series of the Securities designated therein as 4.125% Notes due 2015 (the "Notes").
Guarantee
The Notes have the benefit of the unconditional guarantee by the Guarantor to pay the principal of, and premium, if any, and interest, if any, on the Notes, according to the terms of and as more fully described in the Indenture and the related Guarantee Agreement executed by the Guarantor on the date hereof.
Repurchase Upon Change of Control Triggering Event
If a Change of Control Triggering Event (as defined below) occurs, unless the Company has exercised its option to redeem the Notes, Holders may require the Company to repurchase all or any part (equal to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof) of their Notes pursuant to an offer (the "Change of Control Offer") of payment in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of Notes repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on the Notes repurchased, but not including, the date of repurchase (a "Change of Control Payment").
Within 30 days following any Change of Control Triggering Event or, at the Company's option, prior to any Change of Control (as defined below), but after public announcement of the transaction that constitutes or may constitute the Change of Control, the Company will mail a notice to Holders describing the transaction that constitutes or may constitute the Change of Control Triggering Event and offering to repurchase the Notes on the date specified in the notice, which date will be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed (a "Change of Control Payment Date"). The notice, if mailed
prior to the date of consummation of the Change of Control, will state that the Change of Control Offer is conditioned on the Change of Control Triggering Event occurring on or prior to the Change of Control Payment Date.
On the Change of Control Payment Date, the Company will, to the extent lawful:
 
 
 
The Paying Agent will promptly mail to each Holder of properly tendered Notes the Change of Control Payment for the Notes, and the Trustee will promptly authenticate and mail (or cause to be transferred by book-entry) to each Holder a new note equal in principal amount to any unpurchased portion of any Notes surrendered; that each new note will be in a principal amount of $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess of that amount.
provided
The Company will not be required to make a Change of Control Offer upon the occurrence of a Change of Control Triggering Event if a third party makes such an offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements set for an offer made by the Company, and the third party repurchases all Notes properly tendered and not withdrawn under its offer. In addition, the Company will not repurchase any Notes if there has occurred and is continuing on the Change of Control Payment Date an Event of Default under the Indenture, other than a default in the payment of the Change of Control Payment upon a Change of Control Triggering Event.
For purposes of the Change of Control Offer provisions of the Notes, the following definitions will be applicable:
"Change of Control" means the occurrence of any of the following:
(1) the direct or indirect sale, lease, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger or consolidation), in one or more series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the Company's assets and the assets of its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, to any "person," other than to the Company or one of its Subsidiaries;
(2) the consummation of any transaction (including, without limitation, any merger or consolidation) the result of which is that any person becomes the beneficial owner (as defined in Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the Company's outstanding Voting Stock or other Voting Stock into which the Company's Voting Stock is reclassified, consolidated, exchanged or changed, measured by voting power rather than the number of shares;
(3) the Company consolidates with, or merges with or into, any person, or any person consolidates with, or merges with or into, the Company, in any such event pursuant to a transaction in which any of the Company's outstanding Voting Stock is converted into or exchanged for cash, securities or other property, other than any such transaction where the shares of the Company's Voting Stock outstanding immediately prior to such transaction constitute, or are converted into or exchanged for, a majority of the Voting Stock of the surviving person or any direct or indirect parent company of the surviving person immediately after giving effect to such transaction;
(4) the first day on which a majority of the members of the Company's Board of Directors are not Continuing Directors; or
(5) the adoption of a plan relating to the Company's liquidation or dissolution (other than the Company's liquidation into a newly formed holding company).
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a transaction will not be deemed to involve a Change of Control if (i) the Company becomes a direct or indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of a holding company and (ii) (A) the direct or indirect holders of the Voting Stock of such holding company immediately following that transaction are substantially the same as the holders of the Company's Voting Stock immediately prior to that transaction or (B) immediately following that transaction no person (other than a holding company) is the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the Voting Stock of such holding company.
"Change of Control Triggering Event" means the occurrence of both (1) a Change of Control and (2) a Ratings Event.
"Continuing Directors" means, as of any date of determination, any member of the Company's Board of Directors who (1) was a member of such Board of Directors on the Issue Date of the Notes or (2) was nominated for election, elected or appointed to such Board of Directors with the approval of a majority of the Continuing Directors who were members of such Board of Directors at the time of such nomination, election or appointment (either by a specific vote or by approval of the Company's proxy statement in which such member was named a nominee for election as a director, without objection to such nomination).
"Fitch" means Fitch Ratings Ltd., a subsidiary of Fimalac, S.A., and its successors.
"Investment Grade" means a rating equal to or higher than Baa3 (or the equivalent) by Moody's; a rating equal to or higher than BBB- (or the equivalent) by S&P or Fitch; and the equivalent investment grade credit rating from any Replacement Rating Agency or Rating Agencies selected by the Company.
"Moody's" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc., a subsidiary of Moody's Corporation, and its successors.
"person" has the meaning given thereto in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act.
"Rating Agencies" means (1) each of Moody's, S&P and Fitch; and (2) if any of Moody's, S&P or Fitch ceases to rate the Notes or fails to make a rating of the Notes publicly available for reasons outside of the Company's control, a Substitute Rating Agency.
"Ratings Event" means the Notes cease to be rated Investment Grade by each of the Rating Agencies on any day within the 60-day period (which 60-day period will be extended so long as the rating of the Notes is under publicly announced consideration for a possible downgrade by any of the Rating Agencies) after the earlier of (1) the occurrence of a Change of Control and (2) public notice of the occurrence of a Change of Control or the Company's intention to effect a Change of Control.
"S&P" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., and its successors.
"Substitute Rating Agency" means a "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" within the meaning of Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(F) under the Exchange Act selected by the Company (as certified by the Company's Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer) as a replacement agency for Moody's, S&P or Fitch, or all of them, as the case may be.
"Voting Stock" means, with respect to any specified "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) as of any date, the capital stock of such person that is at the time entitled to vote generally in the election of the board of directors of such person.
Payment of Additional Amounts
Section 1010 of the Indenture shall be applicable to the Notes, except that the term "Holder" when used in Section 1010 of the Indenture, shall mean the beneficial owners of a Note or any person holding on behalf of or for the account of the beneficial owner of a Note.
Optional Tax Redemption
The Company may redeem the Notes prior to maturity in whole, but not in part, on not more than 60 days' notice and not less than 30 days' notice at a redemption price equal to the principal amount of such Notes plus any accrued interest and additional amounts to the date fixed for redemption if:
 
and the Company in its business judgment determines that such obligations cannot be avoided by the use of reasonable measures available to the Company.
If the Company exercises its option to redeem the Notes, the Company will deliver to the Trustee a certificate signed by an authorized officer stating that it is entitled to redeem the Notes and the written opinion of independent legal counsel if required.
Defeasance
The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of the entire principal of all the Securities of any series upon compliance by the Company with certain conditions set forth therein.
Events of Default
In addition to the Events of Default described in Section 501 of the Indenture, each of the following will constitute an Event of Default with respect to the Notes:
 
 
 
If an Event of Default (other than an Event of Default described in Section 501(4) or 501(5) of the Indenture) with respect to the Notes shall occur and be continuing, then either the Trustee or the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Notes then Outstanding may declare the entire principal amount of the Notes due and payable in the manner and with effect provided in the Indenture. If an Event of Default specified in Section 501(4) or 501(5) occurs with respect to the Company, all of the unpaid principal amount and accrued interest then Outstanding shall become and be immediately due and payable in the manner with the effect provided in the Indenture without any declaration or other act by the Trustee or any Holder.
ipso facto
Notwithstanding anything in the immediately preceding paragraph to the contrary, to the extent elected by the Company, the sole remedy for an Event of Default relating to the failure by the Company to comply with the obligation to provide certain reports and information as set forth in Section 704 of the Indenture will, for the first 120 days after the occurrence of such an Event of Default, consist exclusively of the right for Holders to receive additional interest on the Notes equal to 0.25% per annum of the principal amount of the Notes. If the Company so elects, such additional interest will be payable in the same manner and on the same dates as the stated Interest Payment Dates on the Notes. The additional interest will accrue on all outstanding Notes from and including the date on which such Event of Default first occurs to, but not including, the 120th day thereafter (or such earlier date on which such Event of Default shall have been cured or waived by Holders as provided in Section 513 of the Indenture). On such 120th day after such Event of Default (if the Event of Default relating to such obligation is not cured or waived by Holders as provided in Section 513 of the Indenture prior to such 120th day), such additional interest will cease to accrue and the Notes will be subject to acceleration as provided in the paragraph above. In the event the Company does not elect to pay the additional interest upon such Event of Default in accordance with this paragraph, the Notes will be subject to acceleration as provided in the paragraph above.
Amendments
The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Guarantor with the consent of the Holders of more than 50% in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of each series of Securities then Outstanding affected thereby. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of specified percentages in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of any series at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the Holders
of all the Securities of such series, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences with respect to such series. Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Note shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Note and of any Note issued upon the transfer hereof or in exchange or in lieu hereof whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Note.
Payment
No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Note or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on this Note at the times, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein and in the Indenture prescribed.
Transfer, Registration and Exchange
As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, this Note is transferable on the Security Register of the Company, upon surrender of this Note for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Company to be maintained for that purpose in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, or at any other office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar duly executed by the Holder hereof or his or her attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Notes, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
The Notes are issuable only in registered form in denominations of $2,000 and any integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, Notes are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Notes of a like tenor and of a different authorized denomination, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same.
No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
The Company, the Trustee for the Notes and any agent of the Company or such Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Note is registered as the owner hereof for the purpose of receiving payment as herein provided and for all other purposes, whether or not this Note be overdue, and neither the Company, such Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
Certain of the Company's obligations under the Indenture with respect to Notes may be terminated if the Company irrevocably deposits with the Trustee money or Government Obligations sufficient to pay and discharge the entire indebtedness on all Notes, as provided in the Indenture.
This Note shall for all purposes be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
Certain terms used in this Note which are defined in the Indenture have the meanings set forth therein.
 
 

Exhibit 5.1
 
June 8, 2010
Altria Group, Inc.
Philip Morris USA Inc.
6601 West Broad Street
Richmond, Virginia 23230
Re:
Legality of Securities Issued under Registration Statement on Form S-3
Ladies and Gentlemen:
We have acted as special counsel to Altria Group, Inc., a Virginia corporation (the "Company"), and Philip Morris USA Inc., a Virginia corporation and a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company (the "Guarantor"), in connection with (1) the registration of an indeterminate amount of debt securities of the Company (the "Debt Securities"), guarantees of the Debt Securities by the Guarantor and warrants to purchase Debt Securities, as set forth in the Registration Statement on Form S-3 (Registration No. 333-155009) (the "Registration Statement") filed by the Company and the Guarantor on November 4, 2008 with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Act"), and (2) the Company's offering and sale of $800,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its 4.125% Notes due 2015 (the "Notes"). The Notes will be fully and unconditionally guaranteed as to payment of principal, premium, if any, and interest by the Guarantor (the "Guarantee").
The Notes are being offered and sold as described in the prospectus, dated November 4, 2008, contained in the Registration Statement, and the prospectus supplement thereto, dated June 8, 2010 (collectively, the "Prospectus"). The Notes will be issued pursuant to an indenture (the "Indenture"), dated as of November 4, 2008, among the Company, the Guarantor and Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, as trustee (the "Trustee"). The Guarantee will be issued pursuant to the Indenture as evidenced by a guarantee agreement (the "Guarantee Agreement") made by the Guarantor in favor of the Trustee.
This opinion is being furnished in accordance with the requirements of Item 16 of Form S-3 and Item 601(b)(5)(i) of Regulation S-K.
We have examined originals or reproductions or certified copies of such records of the Company and the Guarantor, certificates of officers of the Company and the Guarantor and of public officials and such other documents as we have deemed relevant and necessary for the purpose of rendering this opinion, including, among other things:
Altria Group, Inc.
Philip Morris USA Inc.
June 8, 2010
Page 2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For purposes of the opinions expressed below, we have assumed: (i) the authenticity of all documents submitted to us as originals; (ii) the conformity to the originals of all documents submitted to us as certified or photostatic copies and the authenticity of the originals of such documents; (iii) the legal capacity of natural persons; (iv) the genuineness of all signatures; and (v) the due authorization, execution and delivery of all documents by all parties and the validity, binding effect and enforceability thereof (other than the due authorization, execution and delivery of documents by the Company and the Guarantor and the validity, binding effect and enforceability thereof upon the Company and the Guarantor).
We do not purport to express an opinion on any laws other than those of the Commonwealth of Virginia, the State of New York and the federal laws of the United States of America.
Altria Group, Inc.
Philip Morris USA Inc.
June 8, 2010
Page 3
 
Based upon the foregoing and subject to the qualifications set forth below, we are of the opinion that:
1. The Notes, when issued in accordance with the terms thereof and of the Indenture, will be the valid, binding and enforceable obligations of the Company, entitled to the benefits of the Indenture.
2. The Guarantee, when issued in accordance with the terms thereof, the Indenture and the Guarantee Agreement, will be valid, binding and enforceable obligations of the Guarantor.
The opinions set forth above are subject to the qualification that the validity and enforcement of the Company's obligations under the Indenture and the Notes and the Guarantor's obligations under the Guarantee and the underlying Guarantee Agreement may be subject to (i) the effects of bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent conveyance, reorganization, moratorium or other laws now or hereafter in effect relating to or affecting creditors' rights generally, (ii) general principles of equity (whether considered in a proceeding at law or in equity) and (iii) concepts of materiality, unconscionability, reasonableness, impracticability or impossibility of performance and any implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing.
We hereby consent to (a) the filing of this opinion with the Commission as an exhibit to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K, (b) the incorporation by reference of this opinion into the Registration Statement and (c) the reference to our firm under the heading "Legal Matters" in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus. By giving such consent, we do not admit that we are within the category of persons whose consent is required under Section 7 of the Act or the rules and regulations of the Commission promulgated thereunder.
Altria Group, Inc.
Philip Morris USA Inc.
June 8, 2010
Page 4
 
This opinion is limited to the matters stated in this letter, and no opinions may be implied or inferred beyond the matters expressly stated in this letter. This opinion is given as of the date hereof and we assume no obligation to advise you after the date hereof of facts or circumstances that come to our attention or changes in the law, including judicial or administrative interpretations thereof, that occur which could affect the opinions contained herein.
 


