FILE:MO/MO-8K-20110609165459.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On June 9, 2011, Altria Group, Inc. ("Altria") issued a press release (the "Press Release"), in which Altria, among other things, announced that, based on applicable accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("U.S. GAAP"), in the second quarter of 2011 it will record a one-time charge of approximately $630 million against its 2011 reported earnings related to the tax treatment of certain leveraged lease transactions entered into by Altria's subsidiary, Philip Morris Capital Corporation ("PMCC"). The potential for taking this charge was described previously in Altria's 2011 first-quarter earnings press release and its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2011 that Altria filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Approximately 50% of the charge, which does not include potential penalties, represents a reduction in cumulative lease earnings booked to date that will be recaptured over the remainder of the affected lease terms. The remaining portion of the charge represents a permanent charge for interest on tax underpayments. Altria does not expect this charge to impact Altria's dividend payments or its previously announced $1.0 billion share repurchase program. Future dividend payments and the share repurchase program remain subject to the discretion of Altria's Board of Directors.
As a result of this one-time charge, Altria revised its 2011 full-year guidance for reported diluted earnings per share ("EPS") from a range of $2.00 to $2.06 to a range of $1.70 to $1.76. Altria also reaffirmed its 2011 full-year guidance for adjusted diluted EPS in the range of $2.01 to $2.07, representing a growth rate of 6% to 9% from an adjusted base of $1.90 per share in 2010.
A copy of the Press Release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference in its entirety to this Item 7.01.
In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information in Item 7.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K, including the exhibits hereto, shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. The information in this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing or document.
 
As discussed under Item 7.01, on June 9, 2011, Altria issued the Press Release, in which it announced, among other things, a one-time charge against its 2011 reported earnings related to the tax treatment of certain leveraged lease transactions entered into by Altria's subsidiary, PMCC. The text of the Press Release is incorporated herein by reference to this Item 8.01 except for the section entitled "2011 Full-Year Guidance." Altria's 2011 Full-Year Guidance is presented below.
2011 Full-Year Guidance
Altria revised its 2011 full-year guidance for reported diluted EPS from a range of $2.00 to $2.06 to a range of $1.70 to $1.76, reflecting the one-time charge associated with the leveraged lease transactions discussed in the Press Release. This forecast includes estimated net charges of $0.31 per share as detailed in the table below, as compared with 2010 full-year reported diluted EPS of $1.87, which included $0.03 per share of net charges, as detailed in the table below.
Altria reaffirmed its 2011 full-year guidance for adjusted diluted EPS, which excludes the net charges in the table below, representing a growth rate of 6% to 9% over 2010 full-year adjusted diluted EPS. Altria's 2011 first-quarter adjusted diluted EPS results exceeded management's expectations, due in part to trade inventory dynamics. The trade inventory build in the first quarter of 2011 could negatively impact the cigarettes segment's future income and volume results if it is depleted. As a result, Altria expects unevenness in its 2011 adjusted diluted EPS growth on a quarterly basis, with more growth towards the back half of the year.
The factors described in the Forward-Looking and Cautionary Statements section of the Press Release represent continuing risks to this forecast.
Net Charges Included in Reported Diluted EPS
 
 
Adjusted diluted EPS is a financial measure that is not consistent with U.S. GAAP. Certain income and expense items that management believes are not part of underlying operations are excluded from adjusted diluted EPS because such items can obscure underlying business trends. Management believes it is appropriate to disclose this non-GAAP financial measure to help investors analyze underlying business performance and trends. This adjusted measure is regularly provided to Altria's chief operating decision maker for use in the evaluation of segment performance and allocation of resources. This information should be considered as supplemental in nature and is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the related financial information prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
DATE: June 9, 2011
 

Exhibit 99.1
Altria to Record a One-time Charge Against Reported Earnings Related to Leveraged Lease Transactions
 
 
 
Richmond, VA  June 9, 2011  Altria Group, Inc. (Altria) (NYSE: MO) today announced that, based on applicable accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (U.S. GAAP), in the second quarter of 2011 it will record a one-time charge of approximately $630 million against its 2011 reported earnings related to the tax treatment of certain leveraged lease transactions entered into by Altria's subsidiary, Philip Morris Capital Corporation (PMCC). The potential for taking this charge was described previously in Altria's 2011 first-quarter earnings press release and its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2011 that Altria filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
Approximately 50% of the charge, which does not include potential penalties, represents a reduction in cumulative lease earnings booked to date that will be recaptured over the remainder of the affected lease terms. The remaining portion of the charge represents a permanent charge for interest on tax underpayments. Altria does not expect this charge to impact Altria's dividend payments or its previously announced $1.0 billion share repurchase program. Future dividend payments and the share repurchase program remain subject to the discretion of Altria's Board of Directors.
As described in previous periodic quarterly and annual reports filed with the SEC, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) has disallowed for the years 1996 through 2003 tax benefits pertaining to certain leveraged lease transactions (referred to by the IRS as lease-in/lease-out (LILO) and sale-in/sale-out (SILO) transactions) entered into by PMCC. Altria believes that its tax treatment of PMCC's LILO and SILO transactions on federal and state income tax returns filed to date was proper and complied with applicable tax laws in effect during the relevant periods. Altria has contested the disallowances, filed claims for refunds of federal income tax and associated interest paid and is pursuing litigation in federal court with respect to certain of the refund claims, all as described in previously filed reports.
At this time, Altria does not intend to claim tax benefits pertaining to PMCC's LILO and SILO transactions on its federal and state income tax returns for 2010 and future years. Altria,
 
however, intends to preserve its right to file amended returns for these years claiming the tax benefits pertaining to PMCC's LILO and SILO transactions if Altria is successful in the current and/or anticipated litigation described in Altria's previous annual and quarterly reports filed with the SEC.
Altria has paid a total of approximately $1.1 billion in federal income tax payments and interest with respect to the LILO and SILO transactions for the 1996 through 2003 tax years. For the period of January 1, 2004 through December 31, 2011, the disallowance of federal and state income tax benefits and associated interest related to the LILO and SILO transactions would result in an additional payment of up to approximately $1.0 billion, depending on federal and state income taxes paid or payable on gains associated with sales of leased assets during that period. This payment amount excludes potential penalties. The payment, if any, of this amount would depend upon the timing and outcome of future IRS audits and any related administrative challenges or litigation.
2011 Full-Year Guidance
Altria revises its 2011 full-year guidance for reported diluted EPS from a range of $2.00 to $2.06 to a range of $1.70 to $1.76, reflecting the charge associated with the leveraged lease transactions discussed above. This revised reported diluted EPS guidance, which includes special items, is shown in the table below.
Altria reaffirms its 2011 full-year guidance for adjusted diluted EPS, which excludes special items described in the table below, to be in the range of $2.01 to $2.07, representing a growth rate of 6% to 9% from an adjusted base of $1.90 in 2010. Altria's 2011 first-quarter adjusted diluted EPS results exceeded management's expectations, due in part to trade inventory dynamics. The trade inventory build in the first quarter of 2011 could negatively impact the cigarettes segment's future income and volume results if it is depleted. As a result, Altria expects unevenness in its 2011 adjusted diluted EPS growth on a quarterly basis, with more growth towards the back half of the year.
The factors described in the Forward-Looking and Cautionary Statements section of this release represent continuing risks to this forecast. Altria reports its consolidated financial results in accordance with U.S. GAAP. This press release contains 2010 results and 2011 guidance for diluted EPS on both a reported basis and on an adjusted basis, which excludes items that affect
 
the comparability of reported results. A reconciliation of full-year reported and adjusted diluted EPS guidance is shown in the table below.
Altria's Full-Year Earnings Per Share Guidance Excluding Special Items
* Excludes exit and integration costs; ** Excludes PMCC leveraged lease charge
Altria's Profile
Altria directly or indirectly owns 100% of each of Philip Morris USA Inc. (PM USA), U.S. Smokeless Tobacco Company LLC (USSTC), John Middleton Co. (Middleton), Ste. Michelle Wine Estates Ltd. (Ste. Michelle) and PMCC. Altria holds a continuing economic and voting interest in SABMiller.
The brand portfolios of Altria's tobacco operating companies include such well-known names as , , and. Ste. Michelle produces and markets premium wines sold under various labels, including and , and it exclusively distributes and markets , and products in the United States. Trademarks and service marks related to Altria referenced in this release are the property of, or licensed by, Altria or its subsidiaries. More information about Altria is available at altria.com.
Marlboro
Copenhagen
Skoal
Black & Mild
Chateau Ste. Michelle
Columbia Crest
Antinori
Champagne Nicolas Feuillatte
Villa Maria Estate
Forward-Looking and Cautionary Statements
This press release contains projections of future results and other forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties and are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
 
Important factors that may cause actual results and outcomes to differ materially from those contained in the projections and forward-looking statements included in this press release are described in Altria's publicly filed reports, including its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010, and its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2011.
These factors include the following: Altria's tobacco businesses (PM USA, USSTC and Middleton) are subject to price competition; changes in adult consumer preferences and demand for their products; fluctuations in raw material availability, quality and cost; reliance on key facilities and suppliers; fluctuations in levels of customer inventories; the effects of global, national and local economic and market conditions; changes to income tax laws; legislation, including actual and potential federal and state excise tax increases; increasing marketing and regulatory restrictions; the effects of price increases related to excise tax increases and concluded tobacco litigation settlements on trade inventories, consumption rates and consumer preferences within price segments; health concerns relating to the use of tobacco products and exposure to environmental tobacco smoke; privately imposed smoking restrictions; and, from time to time, governmental and grand jury investigations.
Furthermore, the results of Altria's tobacco businesses are dependent upon their continued ability to promote brand equity successfully; to anticipate and respond to evolving adult consumer preferences; to develop new products and markets and to broaden brand portfolios in order to compete effectively; and to improve productivity.
Altria and its tobacco businesses are also subject to government regulation, including broad-based regulation of PM USA and USSTC by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. Altria and its subsidiaries continue to be subject to litigation, including risks associated with adverse jury and judicial determinations, courts reaching conclusions at variance with the companies' understanding of applicable law, bonding requirements in the limited number of jurisdictions that do not limit the dollar amount of appeal bonds and certain challenges to bond cap statutes.
Altria cautions that the foregoing list of important factors is not complete and does not undertake to update any forward-looking statements that it may make other than in the normal course of its public disclosure obligations. All subsequent written and oral forward-looking
 
statements attributable to Altria or any person acting on its behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements referenced above.
Source: Altria Group, Inc.
Altria Client Services
Investor Relations
804-484-8222
Altria Client Services
Media Relations
804-484-8897
 


