FILE:MO/MO-8K-20110127161225.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
. On January 25, 2011, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of Altria Group, Inc. (the "Company") approved the grant of shares of restricted and deferred stock under the 2010 Performance Incentive Plan (which was approved by the Company's shareholders on May 20, 2010) to the following executive officers in the amounts indicated below:
(e) Restricted and Deferred Stock
 
The restricted and deferred stock awards vest three years from the grant date. Individual award amounts were limited to the shareholder-approved maximum of one million shares as provided in the 2010 Performance Incentive Plan. Forms of restricted and deferred stock agreements are attached as Exhibit 10.1 and 10.2, respectively, to this Current Report on Form 8-K and are incorporated by reference herein.
As a condition to eligibility to receive the 2011 restricted and deferred stock awards, each executive officer listed above as well as certain other persons who are otherwise eligible to receive such an award is required to execute a confidentiality and non-competition agreement. A form of such confidentiality and non-competition agreement is attached as Exhibit 10.3 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
The terms of the confidentiality and non-competition agreement provide, among other matters, that during the term of such person's employment and for a period of eighteen (18) months thereafter, each such person will not, directly or indirectly, (i) compete with such person's employer, the Company, its wholly-owned subsidiaries and affiliates, (ii) solicit or hire employees of such person's employer, the Company, its wholly-owned subsidiaries and affiliates, or (iii) solicit customers of such person's employer, the Company, its wholly-owned subsidiaries and affiliates. The agreement additionally includes proprietary rights and confidentiality obligations.
On January 25, 2011, the Compensation Committee approved the following base salaries, effective March 1, 2011, for the following executive officers in the amounts indicated below:
Base Salaries.
 
As reported previously, in connection with his appointment as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, effective January 1, 2011, Mr. Willard was promoted to salary band B. At that time, his base salary was adjusted to $600,000.
On January 25, 2011, the Compensation Committee approved annual incentive awards for 2010, payable in cash, to the following executive officers in the amounts indicated below:
Annual Incentive Awards.
 
Individual award amounts were limited to the shareholder-approved maximum of $10.0 million as provided in the 2010 Performance Incentive Plan.
On January 25, 2011, the Compensation Committee approved long-term incentive awards for the three-year cycle ended December 31, 2010, payable in cash, to the following executive officers in the amounts indicated below:
Long-Term Performance Incentive Awards.
 
These long-term incentive awards reflect a cumulative lump sum payment for performance over the three-year 2008-2010 performance period. Because the long-term incentive program is on an end-to-end three-year cycle, the last long-term incentive payments occurred in 2008.
Individual awards were limited to the shareholder-approved maximum of $24 million as provided in the 2005 Performance Incentive Plan.
Future Programs
On January 25, 2011, the Compensation Committee approved the formula that would be used to determine the maximum award amounts for 2011 annual incentive awards. The formula reflects the Company's intention to qualify, to the extent possible, cash compensation paid to officers as tax deductible, subject to the deductibility limitations of Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code.
Under the formula, the maximum award amounts would be equal to 0.23 percent of the Company's 2011 adjusted net earnings for the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and 0.115 percent of the Company's 2011 adjusted net earnings for each of the other covered officers. Adjusted net earnings of the Company would be defined as the net earnings before extraordinary items, discontinued operations and the cumulative effect of accounting changes and excluding certain other items designated by the Compensation Committee. In addition, individual award amounts would be limited to the shareholder-approved maximum of $10.0 million as provided in the 2010 Performance Incentive Plan.
In addition, on January 25, 2011, the Compensation Committee approved a formula that would be used to determine the maximum award amounts for 2012 equity awards. The formula reflects the Company's intention to qualify, to the extent possible, equity awards made to officers as tax deductible, subject to the deductibility limitations of Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code.
Under the formula, the maximum equity award grant value would be equal to 0.33 percent of the Company's 2011 adjusted net earnings for the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and 0.165 percent of the Company's 2011 adjusted net earnings for each of the other covered officers. Adjusted net earnings of the Company would be defined as the net earnings before extraordinary items, discontinued operations and the cumulative effect of accounting changes and excluding certain other items designated by the Compensation Committee. In addition, individual awards would be limited to the shareholder-approved maximum of one million shares as provided in the 2010 Performance Incentive Plan.
Further, on January 25, 2011, the Compensation Committee approved a formula that would be used to determine the maximum award amounts for the 2011-2013 performance cycle of the long-term performance incentive plan. The formula reflects the Company's intention to qualify, to the extent possible, cash compensation paid to officers as tax deductible, subject to the deductibility limitations of Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code.
Under the formula, the maximum award amounts would be equal to 0.16 percent of the Company's three-year (20112013) cumulative adjusted net earnings for the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and 0.08 percent of the Company's three-year (20112013) cumulative adjusted net earnings for each of the other covered officers. Adjusted net earnings of the Company is defined as the net earnings before extraordinary items, discontinued operations and the cumulative effect of accounting changes and excluding certain other items designated by the Compensation Committee. In addition, individual award amounts are limited to the shareholder-approved maximum of $24 million for the 2011-2013 performance cycle of the long-term incentive plan as provided in the 2010 Performance Incentive Plan.
The Company will provide additional information regarding the compensation of its named executive officers in its proxy statement for the 2011 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, which will be issued in April 2011.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
DATE: January 27, 2011
 

Exhibit 10.1
ALTRIA GROUP, INC. (the "Company"), a Virginia corporation, hereby grants to the employee identified in the 2011 Restricted Stock Award section of the Award Statement (the "Employee") under the Altria Group, Inc. 2010 Performance Incentive Plan (the "Plan") a Restricted Stock Award (the "Award") dated January 25, 2011 (the "Award Date"), with respect to the number of shares of the Common Stock of the Company (the "Common Stock") set forth in the 2011 Restricted Stock Award section of the Award Statement (the "Shares"), all in accordance with and subject to the following terms and conditions of this Restricted Stock Agreement (the "Agreement"):
1. . The Shares shall be evidenced by a book entry account maintained by the Company's Transfer Agent for the Common Stock. Upon the vesting of Shares, no certificates will be issued except upon a separate written request made to such Transfer Agent or other agent as determined by the Company.
Book Entry Registration
2. . As applicable and in the sole discretion of the Company or its delegate, this Award may be contingent on, and in consideration of, the execution of a Confidentiality and Non-Competition Agreement by the Employee. In the event the Employee is required to execute a Confidentiality and Non-Competition Agreement, the Company or its delegate will so notify the Employee prior to issuance of the Award. If the Employee does not execute the Confidentiality and Non-Competition Agreement within a reasonable time frame established by the Company or its delegate, but no later than 90 days after the Award Date, this Agreement will be null and void with respect to the Employee and the Employee will forfeit any and all rights to the Award.
Condition to Award
3. . Subject to Section 2 above and Section 4 below, the restrictions on the Shares shall lapse and the Shares shall vest on the vesting date set forth in the 2011 Restricted Stock Award section of the Award Statement (the "Vesting Date"), provided that the Employee remains an employee of the Company (or a subsidiary or affiliate) during the entire period (the "Restriction Period") commencing on the Award Date and ending on the Vesting Date.
Restrictions
4. . In the event of the termination of the Employee's employment with the Company (and with all subsidiaries and affiliates of the Company) prior to the Vesting Date due to death or Disability, or upon the Employee reaching eligibility for Normal Retirement, the restrictions on the Shares shall lapse and the Shares shall become fully vested on the date of death, Disability, or eligibility for Normal Retirement.
Termination of Employment During Restriction Period
If the Employee's employment with the Company (and with all subsidiaries and affiliates of the Company) is terminated for any reason other than death or Disability prior to the end of the Restriction Period, the Employee shall forfeit all rights to the Shares immediately after termination of employment. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company (the "Compensation Committee") may, in its sole discretion, waive the restrictions on, and the vesting requirements for, the Shares.
5. . During the Restriction Period, the Employee shall have the rights to vote the Shares and to receive any cash dividends payable with respect to the Shares, as paid, less applicable withholding taxes.
Voting and Dividend Rights
6. . This Award and the Shares (until they become unrestricted pursuant to the terms hereof) are non-transferable and may not be assigned, hypothecated or otherwise pledged and shall not be subject to execution, attachment or similar process. Upon any attempt to effect any such disposition, or upon the levy of any such process, the Award shall immediately become null and void, and the Shares shall be forfeited.
Transfer Restrictions
7. . The Company is authorized to satisfy the actual minimum statutory withholding taxes arising from the granting or vesting of this Award, as the case may be, by deducting the number of Shares having an aggregate value equal to the amount of withholding taxes due from the total number of Shares awarded or the number of Shares vesting or otherwise becoming subject to current taxation. The Company is also authorized to satisfy the actual withholding taxes arising from the granting or vesting of this Award, or hypothetical withholding tax amounts if the Employee is covered under a Company tax equalization policy, as the case may be, by the remittance of the required amounts from any proceeds realized upon the open-market sale of vested Shares by the Employee. Shares deducted from this Award in satisfaction of actual minimum statutory withholding tax requirements shall be valued at the Fair Market Value of the Shares on the date as of which the amount giving rise to the withholding requirement first became includible in the gross income of the Employee under applicable tax laws. If the Employee is covered by a Company tax equalization policy, the Employee also agrees to pay to the Company any additional hypothetical tax obligation calculated and paid in accordance with such tax equalization policy.
Withholding Taxes
8. . If any of the Shares shall vest upon the death of the Employee, they shall be registered in the name of the estate of the Employee except that, to the extent permitted by the Compensation Committee, if the Company shall have theretofore received in writing a beneficiary designation, the Shares shall be registered in the name of the designated beneficiary.
Death of Employee
9. . Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, if the Board of Directors of the Company or an appropriate Committee of the Board determines that, as a result of a restatement of the Company's financial statements, the Employee has received greater compensation in connection with the Award than would been received absent the incorrect financial statements, the Board or Committee, in its discretion, may take such action with respect to this Award as it deems necessary or appropriate to address the events that gave rise to the restatement and to prevent its recurrence. Such action may include, to the extent permitted by applicable law, causing the full or partial cancellation of this Award and, with respect to Shares that have vested, requiring the Employee to repay to the Company the full or partial Fair Market Value of the Award determined at the time of vesting, and the Employee agrees by accepting this Award that the Board or Committee may make such a cancellation, impose such a repayment obligation, or take other necessary or appropriate actions in such circumstances.
Board Authorization in the Event of Restatement
10. . The terms and provisions of the Plan (a copy of which will be furnished to the Employee upon written request to the Office of the Corporate Secretary, Altria Group, Inc., 6601 West Broad Street, Richmond, Virginia 23230) are incorporated herein by reference. To the extent any provision of this Award is inconsistent or in conflict with any term or provision of the Plan, the Plan shall govern. Capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein have the meaning set forth in the Plan. Subject to the provisions of section 6(a) of the Plan, in the event of any merger, share exchange, reorganization, consolidation, recapitalization, reclassification, distribution, stock dividend, stock split, reverse stock split, split-up, spin-off, issuance of rights or warrants or other similar transaction or event affecting the Common Stock after the date of this Award, the Board of Directors of the Company is authorized, to the extent it deems appropriate, to make adjustments to the number and kind of shares of stock subject to this Award, including the substitution of equity interests in other entities involved in such transactions, to provide for cash payments in lieu of Shares, and to determine whether continued
Other Terms and Provisions
 
employment with any entity resulting from such a transaction will or will not be treated as continued employment with the Company and its subsidiaries and affiliates, in each case subject to any Board or Compensation Committee action specifically addressing any such adjustments, cash payments, or continued employment treatment.
For purposes of this Agreement, (a) the term "Disability" means permanent and total disability as determined under procedures established by the Company for purposes of the Plan, and (b) the term "Normal Retirement" means retirement from active employment under a pension plan of the Company or any subsidiary or affiliate of the Company or under an employment contract with the Company or any subsidiary or affiliate of the Company on or after the date specified as the normal retirement age in the pension plan or employment contract, if any, under which the Employee is at that time accruing pension benefits for his or her current service (or, in the absence of a specified normal retirement age, the age at which pension benefits under such plan or contract become payable without reduction for early commencement and without any requirement of a particular period of prior service). In any case in which (i) the meaning of "Normal Retirement" is uncertain under the definition contained in the prior sentence or (ii) a termination of employment at or after age 65 would not otherwise constitute "Normal Retirement," an Employee's termination of employment shall be treated as a "Normal Retirement" under such circumstances as the Compensation Committee, in its sole discretion, deems equivalent to retirement. Generally, for purposes of this Agreement, (x) a "subsidiary" includes only any company in which the Company, directly or indirectly, has a beneficial ownership interest of greater than 50 percent and (y) an "affiliate" includes only any company that (A) has a beneficial ownership interest, directly or indirectly, in the Company of greater than 50 percent or (B) is under common control with the Company through a parent company that, directly or indirectly, has a beneficial ownership interest of greater than 50 percent in both the Company and the affiliate.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Restricted Stock Agreement has been duly executed as of January 25, 2011.
 
 

Exhibit 10.2
ALTRIA GROUP, INC. (the "Company"), a Virginia corporation, hereby grants to the employee identified in the 2011 Deferred Stock Award section of the Award Statement (the "Employee") under the Altria Group, Inc. 2010 Performance Incentive Plan (the "Plan") a Deferred Stock Award (the "Award") dated January 25, 2011 (the "Award Date"), with respect to the number of shares of the Common Stock of the Company (the "Common Stock") set forth in the 2011 Deferred Stock Award section of the Award Statement (the "Deferred Shares"), all in accordance with and subject to the following terms and conditions of this Deferred Stock Agreement (the "Agreement"):
1. . As applicable and in the sole discretion of the Company or its delegate, this Award may be contingent on, and in consideration of, the execution of a Confidentiality and Non-Competition Agreement by the Employee. In the event the Employee is required to execute a Confidentiality and Non-Competition Agreement, the Company or its delegate will so notify the Employee prior to issuance of the Award. If the Employee does not execute the Confidentiality and Non-Competition Agreement within a reasonable time frame established by the Company or its delegate, but no later than 90 days after the Award Date, this Agreement will be null and void with respect to the Employee and the Employee will forfeit any and all rights to the Award.
Condition to Award
2. . Subject to Section 1 above and Section 3 below, the restrictions on the Deferred Shares shall lapse and the Deferred Shares shall vest on the vesting date set forth in the 2011 Deferred Stock Award section of the Award Statement (the "Vesting Date"), provided that the Employee remains an employee of the Altria Group during the entire period commencing on the Award Date and ending on the Vesting Date.
Restrictions
3. . In the event of the termination of the Employee's employment with the Company (and with all subsidiaries and affiliates of the Company) prior to the Vesting Date due to death, Disability or Normal Retirement, the restrictions on the Deferred Shares shall lapse and the Deferred Shares shall become fully vested on the date of death, Disability, or Normal Retirement.
Termination of Employment Before Vesting Date
If the Employee's employment with the Company (and with all subsidiaries and affiliates of the Company) is terminated for any reason other than death, Disability, or Normal Retirement prior to the Vesting Date, the Employee shall forfeit all rights to the Deferred Shares immediately after termination of employment. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company (the "Compensation Committee") may, in its sole discretion, waive the restrictions on, and the vesting requirements for, the Deferred Shares.
4. . The Employee does not have the right to vote the Deferred Shares or receive dividends prior to the date, if any, such Deferred Shares are paid to the Employee in the form of Common Stock pursuant to the terms hereof. However, unless otherwise determined by the Compensation Committee, the Employee shall receive cash payments (less applicable withholding taxes) in lieu of dividends otherwise payable with respect to shares of Common Stock equal in number to the Deferred Shares that have not been forfeited, as such dividends are paid.
Voting and Dividend Rights
5. . This Award and the Deferred Shares are non-transferable and may not be assigned, hypothecated or otherwise pledged and shall not be subject to execution, attachment or similar process. Upon any attempt to effect any such disposition, or upon the levy of any such process, the Award shall immediately become null and void and the Deferred Shares shall be forfeited. These restrictions shall not apply, however, to any payments received pursuant to Section 8 below.
Transfer Restrictions
6. . The Company is authorized to satisfy the actual minimum statutory withholding taxes arising from the granting, vesting, or payment of this Award, as the case may be, by deducting the number of Deferred Shares having an aggregate value equal to the amount of withholding taxes due from the total number of Deferred Shares awarded, vested, paid, or otherwise becoming subject to current taxation. The Company is also authorized to satisfy the actual withholding taxes arising from the granting or vesting of this Award, or hypothetical withholding tax amounts if the Employee is covered under a Company tax equalization policy, as the case may be, by the remittance of the required amounts from any proceeds realized upon the open-market sale of the Common Stock received in payment of vested Deferred Shares by the Employee. Deferred Shares deducted from this Award in satisfaction of actual minimum statutory withholding tax requirements shall be valued at the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock received in payment of vested Deferred Shares on the date as of which the amount giving rise to the withholding requirement first became includible in the gross income of the Employee under applicable tax laws.
Withholding Taxes
7. . If any of the Deferred Shares shall vest upon the death of the Employee, any Common Stock received in payment of the vested Deferred Shares shall be registered in the name of the estate of the Employee except that, to the extent permitted by the Compensation Committee, if the Company shall have received in writing a beneficiary designation, the Common Stock shall be registered in the name of the designated beneficiary.
Death of Employee
8. . Each Deferred Share granted pursuant to this Award represents an unfunded and unsecured promise of the Company to issue to the Employee, on or as soon as practicable after the date the Deferred Share becomes fully vested pursuant to Section 2 or 3 and otherwise subject to the terms of this Agreement, the value of one share of the Common Stock. Except as otherwise expressly provided in the 2011 Deferred Stock Award section of the Award Statement and subject to the terms of this Agreement, such issuance shall be made to the Employee (or, in the event of his or her death to the Employee's estate or beneficiary as provided above) in the form of Common Stock as soon as practicable following the full vesting of the Deferred Share pursuant to Section 2 or 3.
Payment of Deferred Shares
9. . Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, if the Employee will become eligible for Normal Retirement (a) for Deferred Shares with a Vesting Date between January 1 and March 15, before the calendar year preceding the Vesting Date and (b) for Deferred Shares with a Vesting Date after March 15, before the calendar year in which such Vesting Date occurs, then the Deferred Shares will be subject to the following provisions. If the Employee is a "specified employee" within the meaning of section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code and the regulations thereunder ("Code section 409A"), any payment of Deferred Shares under Section 8 that is on account of his separation from service shall be delayed until six months following such separation from service. In the event of a "Change in Control" under section 6(b) of the Plan that is not also a "change in control event" with the meaning of Treas. Reg. 1.409A-3(i)(5)(i), the Deferred Shares shall become fully vested pursuant to section 6(a) of the Plan, but shall not be paid upon such Change in Control as provided by section 6(a) of the Plan, and shall instead be paid at the time the Deferred Shares would otherwise be paid pursuant to this Agreement. References to termination of employment and separation from service in this Agreement shall be interpreted as references to a separation from service, within the meaning of Code section 409A, with the Company and all of its subsidiaries and affiliates treated as a single employer under Code section 409A. This Agreement shall be construed in a manner consistent with Code section 409A.
Special Payment Provisions
10. . Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, if the Board of Directors of the Company or an appropriate Committee of the Board determines that, as a result of a restatement of the Company's financial statements, an Employee has received greater compensation in connection with the Award than would been received absent the incorrect financial statements, the Board or Committee, in its discretion, may take such action with respect to this Award as it deems necessary or appropriate to address the events that gave rise to the restatement and to prevent its recurrence. Such action may include, to the extent permitted by applicable law, causing the full or partial cancellation of this Award and, with respect to Deferred Shares that have vested, requiring the Employee to repay to the Company the full or partial Fair Market Value of the Award
Board Authorization in the Event of Restatement
 
determined at the time of vesting, and the Employee agrees by accepting this Award that the Board or Committee may make such a cancellation, impose such a repayment obligation, or take other necessary or appropriate actions in such circumstances.
11. . The terms and provisions of the Plan (a copy of which will be furnished to the Employee upon written request to the Office of the Corporate Secretary, Altria Group, Inc., 6601 West Broad Street, Richmond, Virginia 23230) are incorporated herein by reference. To the extent any provision of this Award is inconsistent or in conflict with any term or provision of the Plan, the Plan shall govern. Capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein have the meaning set forth in the Plan. Subject to the provisions of section 6(a) of the Plan, in the event of any merger, share exchange, reorganization, consolidation, recapitalization, reclassification, distribution, stock dividend, stock split, reverse stock split, split-up, spin-off, issuance of rights or warrants or other similar transaction or event affecting the Common Stock after the date of this Award, the Board of Directors of the Company is authorized, to the extent it deems appropriate, to make adjustments to the number and kind of shares of stock subject to this Award, including the substitution of equity interests in other entities involved in such transactions, to provide for cash payments in lieu of Deferred Shares, and to determine whether continued employment with any entity resulting from such a transaction will or will not be treated as continued employment with the Company or any subsidiary or affiliate, in each case subject to any Board or Compensation Committee action specifically addressing any such adjustments, cash payments, or continued employment treatment.
Other Terms and Definitions
For purposes of this Agreement, (a) the term "Disability" means permanent and total disability as determined under procedures established by the Company for purposes of the Plan, and (b) the term "Normal Retirement" means retirement from active employment under a pension plan of the Company or any subsidiary or affiliate of the Company or under an employment contract with the Company or any subsidiary or affiliate of the Company on or after the date specified as the normal retirement age in the pension plan or employment contract, if any, under which the Employee is at that time accruing pension benefits for his or her current service (or, in the absence of a specified normal retirement age, the age at which pension benefits under such plan or contract become payable without reduction for early commencement and without any requirement of a particular period of prior service). In any case in which (i) the meaning of "Normal Retirement" is uncertain under the definition contained in the prior sentence or (ii) a termination of employment at or after age 65 would not otherwise constitute "Normal Retirement," an Employee's termination of employment shall be treated as a "Normal Retirement" under such circumstances as the Compensation Committee, in its sole discretion, deems equivalent to retirement. Generally, for purposes of this Agreement, (x) a "subsidiary" includes only any company in which the Company, directly or indirectly, has a beneficial ownership interest of greater than 50 percent and (y) an "affiliate" includes only any company that (A) has a beneficial ownership interest, directly or indirectly, in the Company of greater than 50 percent or (B) is under common control with the Company through a parent company that, directly or indirectly, has a beneficial ownership interest of greater than 50 percent in both the Company and the affiliate.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Deferred Stock Agreement has been duly executed as of January 25, 2011.
 
 

Exhibit 10.3
In consideration of my 2011 stock award and other good and valuable consideration, the sufficiency of which is acknowledged, the Company and I agree to this Executive Confidentiality and Non-Competition Agreement ("Agreement").
 
a. "Company" means and its successors and assigns.
[Employer Name]
b. "Company Affiliate" means, excluding the Company itself, Altria Group, its wholly-owned subsidiaries and affiliates, and their successors and assigns.
c. "I," "me," or "my" refers to .
[Executive Name]
d. "Confidential Information" means information that is confidential and proprietary to the Company and/or any Company Affiliate, including but not limited to: trade secrets; lists of and other non-public information about current and prospective customers; business plans or strategies; sales and account records; prices or pricing strategy or information; current and proposed advertising and promotional programs; research or development projects or plans; non-public financial information; information relating to personnel, including compensation and other employment practices; methods, systems, techniques, procedures, designs, formulae, inventions, and know-how; and other business information of a similar nature not generally known to the public, which if misused or disclosed, could adversely affect the business of the Company and/or any Company Affiliate. Confidential Information includes any such information that I may prepare or create during my employment, whether on behalf of the Company or on behalf of any Company Affiliate to whom I am providing services, as well as such information that has been or may be created by others in those capacities. Confidential Information does not include information that is generally known to the public or that has been made known to the public through no fault of my own.
e. "Competitor" means any individual, group, company, enterprise, or other entity that develops, manufactures, markets, and/or sells tobacco, wine, or other products or technologies that compete (or upon introduction to the marketplace, will compete) with tobacco, wine, or other products or technologies that are manufactured, marketed, sold, and/or being developed by the Company and/or any Company Affiliate (including but not limited to Philip Morris USA, U.S. Smokeless Tobacco Company, John Middleton Company, and Ste. Michelle Wine Estates). The term "Competitor" also includes any other entity under common ownership (in whole or in part) or legal affiliation with a competing entity, as identified in the preceding sentence, which provides support to such competing entity.
 
f. "Competitive Activities" means any employment with, engagement as a consultant or contractor for, rendering of any services to, or other material assistance in any capacity to any Competitor.
g. "Adverse Party" means any individual, group, company, union, governmental body or other entity, excluding a Competitor, that has pecuniary and/or non-pecuniary interests known to be in opposition or otherwise adverse to those of the Company and/or any Company Affiliate.
2. During the period of my employment, I will devote my full time and best efforts to the business of the Company and/or any Company Affiliate, and I will not take any action that conflicts with the interests of the Company and/or any Company Affiliate. Moreover, I further agree that, during my period of employment, I will take no action that conflicts with or infringes on the rights or interests of any third party for which I have performed services either as an employee, consultant, or contractor. Specifically, I agree that, during the period of my employment, I am not to use or disclose any confidential or proprietary information of any third party or otherwise violate any written or verbal agreement I may have entered into with any third party while performing services as an employee, consultant, or contractor of that third party.
3. Except as authorized by the Company and/or any Company Affiliate or as required by law, I will not at any time during my employment or after the termination of my employment for whatever reason: (a) disclose any Confidential Information to any person, company, agency, institution, or other entity, or (b) use any Confidential Information for my own benefit or the benefit of any person, company, agency, institution, or other entity except the Company and/or any Company Affiliate. I agree that all Confidential Information is, and at all times remains, the property of the Company and/or any Company Affiliate.
4. I agree that, as used in this Agreement, "Work Product" means and includes all of the following: any invention, discovery, process, method, technique, formula, concept, idea, work of authorship, and improvement thereof, whether or not it may be protected under patent, copyright, trademark, trade secret or other principles, that is related to the business, anticipated business, research, development, design activities or products of the Company and/or any Company Affiliate.
a. I agree that the Company and/or any Company Affiliate shall have sole and exclusive proprietary rights in and to all Work Product that is conceived, developed, or made by me alone or in conjunction with others: (i) during my employment, whether or not during regular working hours, on Company premises, or with Company materials, and/or (ii) after the termination of my employment, if such Work Product is based on or related to, or arises or results from, any work performed by me for the Company or on behalf of any Company Affiliate during my employment. I agree to disclose promptly and fully to the Company all such Work Product. I also agree to treat all such Work Product as Confidential Information except to the extent specifically directed otherwise by the Company and/or any Company Affiliate.
 
b. I agree to and hereby do assign to the Company and/or any Company Affiliate all right, title, and interest, including all intellectual property rights, in and to all Work Product designated in the previous sub-paragraph as the property of the Company and/or any Company Affiliate, including, without limitation, the assignment of right to claim priority. To the extent that any such Work Product, or portion of such Work Product, is protected under the U.S. Copyright laws, such Work Product shall be considered a "Work Made for Hire" as defined in the U.S. Copyright laws, and shall automatically be owned by the Company and/or any Company Affiliate. During and after my employment, I agree to cooperate fully with the Company and/or any Company Affiliate in the protection (including any litigation or controversy) of any intellectual property rights derived from or related to its Work Product.
5. At the end of my employment, regardless of how or why the employment ends, I will surrender and return to the Company any and all property of the Company and/or any Company Affiliate, as well as all copies of written or electronic records of Confidential Information in my possession or control.
6. I agree that, as a result of my exposure to Confidential Information, my responsibilities as an executive of the Company, and my association with the Company and/or any Company Affiliate, their products and technologies, goodwill, and customers and business relationships, I will be in a position to cause irreparable harm to the Company and/or any Company Affiliate. Thus, during my employment and for eighteen (18) months after the end of such employment, regardless of how or why my employment ends, I will not directly or indirectly:
a. Engage in any Competitive Activities if those Competitive Activities would be similar to the services I performed within the last three (3) years of my employment.
b. Organize, establish, or operate as a Competitor.
c. Engage in any Competitive Activities if, in the performance of those Competitive Activities, I would reasonably be expected to use or would inevitably use any Confidential Information learned by me during my employment.
d. Contact or solicit business from, in a manner competitive with or adverse to the interests of the Company and/or any Company Affiliate, any customer or potential customer of the Company and/or any Company Affiliate with whom I had contact or for whom I provided services during the last twelve (12) months of my employment.
e. Solicit or induce any employee of the Company and/or any Company Affiliate to leave the employment of the Company and/or the Company Affiliate.
f. Hire or otherwise engage the services of any employee of the Company and/or any Company Affiliate.
g. Assist any Competitor or Adverse Party in taking any of the actions described in subparagraphs (d) through (f) immediately above.
 
I agree that the Company and/or any Company Affiliate develops, manufactures, markets, and/or sells cigarettes and cigarette-related products or technologies that are, or are intended to be, marketed and/or sold throughout the United States, and that my duties will pertain to such products or technologies and therefore affect the business of the Company and/or any Company Affiliate throughout the United States. I also agree that the Company and/or any Company Affiliate develops, manufactures, markets, and/or sells smokeless tobacco, cigars, wine and other products and associated technologies that are, or are intended to be, marketed and/or sold throughout the United States and foreign countries, and that my duties will pertain to such products or technologies and therefore affect the business of the Company and/or any Company Affiliate throughout the United States and such foreign countries. I further agree that the activities prohibited by this paragraph 6 would be harmful to the Company and/or any Company Affiliate regardless of where those activities occur and that my exposure to Confidential Information, in particular, would give me and any Competitor for whom I provide services an unfair economic advantage. Therefore, I agree that the scope of the restrictions of subparagraphs 6(a) and (b) above pertain to: (1) the development, manufacturing, marketing, and/or sale by any Competitor of any cigarettes and cigarette-related products or technologies intended for marketing and/or sale in the United States; and (2) the development, manufacturing, marketing, and/or sale by any Competitor of any smokeless tobacco, cigars, wine or other products and associated technologies intended for marketing and/or sale in the United States or intended for marketing and/or sale in any foreign country that the Company and/or any Company Affiliate markets and/or sells similar products or technologies. I understand that the restrictions of subparagraphs 6(c) through (g) above are tied to information, employees, and/or customers of the Company and/or any Company Affiliate and therefore are limited in that manner rather than geographically.
I understand and agree that if at any time I hold an active license to practice law in any jurisdiction, the restrictions of subparagraphs 6(a) through (g) above do not prohibit me from the practice of law in that jurisdiction and the restrictions of subparagraphs 6(a) through (g) above shall be interpreted to prohibit my activities only to the extent consistent with the applicable rules of professional conduct for that jurisdiction.
7. If I am offered and want to accept employment with a Competitor or Adverse Party during my employment or the eighteen (18) month period following the end of my employment, then prior to my acceptance of such employment I will inform the Company in writing of the identity of the Competitor or Adverse Party, my proposed duties for that Competitor or Adverse Party, and the proposed starting date of that employment. I also agree that I will inform the Competitor or Adverse Party of the terms of this Agreement.
8. I agree that, after the end of my employment, I may engage in any business activity or gainful employment of any type and in any place except as described above. I agree that I will be reasonably able to earn a livelihood without violating the terms of this Agreement.
9. I agree that the Company and/or any Company Affiliate are beneficiaries of this Agreement and have a legitimate business interest in preventing me from taking any actions that
 
would violate this Agreement. I further agree that the Company and/or any Company Affiliate (individually and taken as a whole) would be irreparably harmed if I violated the terms of this Agreement or if any of its terms were not specifically enforced and that money damages would not provide adequate relief. I therefore agree that if I violate or threaten to violate any term of this Agreement, the Company and/or any Company Affiliate shall be entitled to injunctive relief, specific performance, any other equitable remedies, and any and all remedies at law, plus its costs and attorneys' fees incurred to enforce this Agreement or to obtain any other relief.
10. I agree that if the Company and/or any Company Affiliate waive or allow any breach of this Agreement, that waiver or allowance will not be a waiver of any future or other breach, whether of a similar or dissimilar nature.
11. I agree that each provision of this Agreement is a separate and independent clause. If any clause is found to be unenforceable, that will not impair the enforceability of any other clauses. Further, if any provisions of this Agreement should ever be deemed to exceed the time, geographic area, or activity limitations permitted by applicable law, I agree that such provisions should be and are reformed to the maximum time, geographic area, and activity limitations permitted by applicable law. I authorize a court having jurisdiction to reform the provisions to the maximum time, geographic area, and activity limitations permitted by applicable law.
12. I agree that this Agreement may not be changed, modified or otherwise terminated, in whole or in part, unless agreed to in writing by me, on my own behalf, and the Altria Client Services Senior Vice President of Human Resources & Compliance, on behalf of the Company.
13. I agree that this Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between me and the Company and supersedes any previous agreement I may have executed with the Company or any Company Affiliate on the topics covered by this Agreement. I further agree that the Company has made no other representations to me on the topics covered by this Agreement.
14. I agree that my employment with the Company is at-will and for no fixed duration. Either the Company or I may terminate the employment relationship at any time, for any reason that either the Company or I may deem appropriate, regardless of whether or not I have violated any term of this Agreement. I further agree that the restrictions set forth in this Agreement will apply regardless of the reason or circumstances of the termination of my employment.
15. I agree that, for purposes of this Agreement, my employment means and includes any periods of employment with the Company or any Company Affiliate after I sign this Agreement. I agree that, if I transfer employment to a Company Affiliate, the terms and conditions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect, and all rights and obligations belonging to the Company under this Agreement will transfer or otherwise inure to the Company Affiliate to which I transfer.
16. I agree that this Agreement will be governed by and interpreted in accordance with the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia. Any dispute arising between the parties related to or involving this Agreement will be litigated in a court having jurisdiction in the Commonwealth of
 
Virginia, and I agree and stipulate that the Circuit Courts of the City of Richmond, Virginia and the surrounding counties, and the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia, Richmond Division, shall have personal jurisdiction over me and that venue is proper in such courts for all actions or proceedings with respect to this Agreement.
 
 


