FILE:MO/MO-8K-20120516170245.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
On May 16, 2012, Altria Group, Inc. ("Altria") issued a press release attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and incorporated by reference in its entirety to this Item 7.01.
In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information in Item 7.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K, including the exhibits hereto, shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. The information in Item 7.01 of this Current Report shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing or document.
 
On May 16, 2012, Altria Group, Inc. ("Altria") issued a press release attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto reporting that it will record one-time non-cash gains of $240 million or $0.11 per share to its 2012 first-quarter reported earnings from its equity investment in SABMiller plc ("SABMiller"). This reflects Altria's share of non-cash gains resulting from SABMiller's strategic alliance transactions with Anadolu Efes and Castel that were completed in the first quarter of 2012.
Altria has determined that it is appropriate to revise its first quarter 2012 financial statements to reflect its share of the non-cash gains resulting from SABMiller's strategic alliance transactions with Anadolu Efes and Castel that were completed in the first quarter of 2012. This revision will result in a $369 million, $240 million, and $0.11 increase to Altria's previously disclosed reported earnings from equity investment in SABMiller, reported net earnings, and reported diluted earnings per share, respectively, for the first quarter of 2012. There is no impact to adjusted diluted EPS, cash flows, dividends or share repurchases. Altria has determined that the non-cash gains were not material to Altria's first quarter 2012 financial statements. Accordingly, Altria will reflect this revision in its financial statements for the six months ended June 30, 2012.
The text of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference to this Item 8.01 except for the section entitled "2012 Full-Year Guidance."
2012 Full-Year Guidance
The non-cash gains of $0.11 per share from SABMiller's strategic alliance transactions result in an increase to Altria's 2012 full-year reported diluted EPS guidance from a range of $2.14 to $2.20 to a range of $2.25 to $2.31. The revised 2012 reported diluted EPS forecast of $2.25 to $2.31 includes estimated net gains of $0.08 per share as detailed in the table below, as compared with 2011 full-year reported diluted EPS of $1.64, which included $0.41 per share of net charges, as detailed in the table below. Expected 2012 full-year adjusted diluted EPS, which excludes the net gains in the table below, represents a growth rate of 6% to 9% over 2011 full-year adjusted diluted EPS.
The factors described in the Forward-Looking and Cautionary Statements section of this release represent continuing risks to this forecast.
 
* Excludes the tax impact included in the 2011 PMCC Leveraged Lease Charge.
Adjusted diluted EPS is a financial measure that is not consistent with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("U.S. GAAP"). Altria's management reviews diluted EPS on an adjusted basis, which excludes certain income and expense items that management believes are not part of underlying operations. These items include restructuring charges, SABMiller special items, certain Philip Morris Capital Corporation ("PMCC") leveraged lease charges (the "PMCC Leveraged Lease Charge"), certain tax items, and tobacco and health judgments. Altria's management does not view any of these special items to be part of its sustainable results as they may be highly variable and difficult to predict and can distort underlying business trends and results. Altria's management believes it is appropriate to disclose this non-GAAP financial measure to provide useful insight into underlying business trends and results, and to provide a more meaningful comparison of year-over-year results. Adjusted measures are used by management and regularly provided to Altria's chief operating decision maker for planning, forecasting and evaluating the performances of Altria's businesses, including allocating resources and evaluating results relative to employee compensation targets. This information should be considered as supplemental in nature and not considered in isolation or as a substitute for the related financial information prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
DATE: May 16, 2012
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
Richmond, Va.  May 16, 2012  Altria Group, Inc. (Altria) (NYSE: MO) today announced that it will record one-time non-cash gains of $240 million or $0.11 per share to its 2012 first-quarter reported earnings from its equity investment in SABMiller plc (SABMiller). This reflects Altria's share of non-cash gains resulting from SABMiller's strategic alliance transactions with Anadolu Efes and Castel that were completed in the first quarter of 2012.
SABMiller Transactions' Impact on Altria's Financials
Altria has determined that it is appropriate to revise its first quarter 2012 financial statements to reflect its share of the non-cash gains resulting from SABMiller's strategic alliance transactions with Anadolu Efes and Castel that were completed in the first quarter of 2012. This revision will result in a $369 million, $240 million, and $0.11 increase to Altria's previously disclosed reported earnings from equity investment in SABMiller, reported net earnings, and reported diluted EPS, respectively, for the first quarter of 2012. There is no impact to adjusted diluted EPS, cash flows, dividends or share repurchases. Altria has determined that the non-cash gains were not material to Altria's first quarter 2012 financial statements. Accordingly, Altria will reflect this revision in its financial statements for the six months ended June 30, 2012.
2012 Full-Year Guidance
The non-cash gains of $0.11 per share from SABMiller's strategic alliance transactions result in an increase to Altria's 2012 full-year reported diluted EPS guidance from a range of $2.14 to $2.20 to a range of $2.25 to $2.31. The revised 2012 reported diluted EPS forecast of $2.25 to $2.31 reflects the net impact of special items included in Table 1 below.
Altria reaffirms its 2012 full-year guidance for adjusted diluted EPS, which excludes special items shown in Table 1 below, to be in the range of $2.17 to $2.23, representing a growth rate of 6% to 9% from an adjusted diluted EPS base of $2.05 per share in 2011.
 
The factors described in the Forward-Looking and Cautionary Statements section of this release represent continuing risks to this forecast. Reconciliations of full-year adjusted to reported diluted EPS are shown in Table 1 below.
Table 1 - Altria's Full-Year Earnings Per Share Guidance Excluding Special Items
* Excludes the tax impact included in the 2011 PMCC leveraged lease charge.
Note: Altria reports its financial results, including diluted EPS, in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Altria's management uses adjusted measures, which exclude certain income and expense items that management believes are not part of underlying operations, for planning, forecasting and evaluating the performances of Altria's businesses. Altria's management does not view any of these special items to be part of Altria's sustainable results as they may be highly variable and difficult to predict and can distort underlying business trends and results.
Altria's Profile
Altria directly or indirectly owns 100% of each of Philip Morris USA Inc. (PM USA), U.S. Smokeless Tobacco Company LLC (USSTC), John Middleton Co. (Middleton), Ste. Michelle Wine Estates Ltd. (Ste. Michelle) and Philip Morris Capital Corporation (PMCC). Altria holds a continuing economic and voting interest in SABMiller.
The brand portfolios of Altria's tobacco operating companies include such well-known names as , , and. Ste. Michelle produces and markets premium wines sold under various labels, including , and , and it exclusively distributes and markets , and products in the United States. Trademarks and service marks related to Altria referenced in this release are the property of, or licensed by, Altria or its subsidiaries. More information about Altria is available at altria.com.
Marlboro
Copenhagen
Skoal
Black & Mild
Chateau Ste. Michelle
Columbia Crest
Stag's Leap Wine Cellars
Antinori
Champagne Nicolas Feuillatte
Villa Maria Estate
Forward-Looking and Cautionary Statements
This press release contains projections of future results and other forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties and are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
 
Important factors that may cause actual results and outcomes to differ materially from those contained in the projections and forward-looking statements included in this press release are described in Altria's publicly filed reports, including its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011 and its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2012.
These factors include the following: Altria's tobacco businesses (PM USA, USSTC and Middleton) are subject to significant competition; changes in adult consumer preferences and demand for their products; fluctuations in raw material availability, quality and cost; reliance on key facilities and suppliers; reliance on critical information systems, many of which are managed by third party services providers; fluctuations in levels of customer inventories; the effects of global, national and local economic and market conditions; changes to income tax laws; legislation, including actual and potential federal and state excise tax increases; increasing marketing and regulatory restrictions; the effects of price increases related to excise tax increases and concluded tobacco litigation settlements on trade inventories, consumption rates and consumer preferences within price segments; health concerns relating to the use of tobacco products and exposure to environmental tobacco smoke; privately imposed smoking restrictions; and, from time to time, governmental investigations.
Furthermore, the results of Altria's tobacco businesses are dependent upon their continued ability to promote brand equity successfully; to anticipate and respond to evolving adult consumer preferences; to develop new products and markets within and potentially outside the United States; to broaden brand portfolios in order to compete effectively; and to improve productivity.
Altria and its tobacco businesses are also subject to federal, state and local government regulation, including broad-based regulation of PM USA and USSTC by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. Altria and its subsidiaries continue to be subject to litigation, including risks associated with adverse jury and judicial determinations, courts reaching conclusions at variance with the companies' understanding of applicable law, bonding requirements in the limited number of jurisdictions that do not limit the dollar amount of appeal bonds and certain challenges to bond cap statutes.
Altria cautions that the foregoing list of important factors is not complete and does not undertake to update any forward-looking statements that it may make except as required by applicable law. All subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to Altria
 
or any person acting on its behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements referenced above.
Source: Altria Group, Inc.
 
 


