FILE:MO/MO-8K-20120229150738.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Appointment of Directors
On February 29, 2012, the Board of Directors of Altria Group, Inc. ("Altria") elected Kathryn B. McQuade to the Board of Directors (the "Board"). Ms. McQuade is not being named to any committee of the Board at this time.
The Board made an affirmative determination that Ms. McQuade qualifies as an independent director under the New York Stock Exchange listing standards and Altria's standards for director independence.
Ms. McQuade will be compensated for her service on Altria's Board pursuant to the existing compensation program for non-employee directors described in detail in Altria's proxy statement dated April 8, 2011 for Altria's 2011 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. Effective February 29, 2012, Altria's Stock Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors (the "Plan") was amended to increase the aggregate fair market value of the annual award of Altria common stock to non-employee directors from $150,000 to $160,000, beginning immediately after Altria's 2012 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. The Plan is attached as Exhibit 10.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference to this Item 5.02.
A copy of the press release issued by Altria announcing the appointment of Ms. McQuade is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference to this Item 5.02.
The information on the respective websites of Altria and its subsidiaries is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part of this report or incorporated into any other filings Altria makes with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
In connection with the appointment of Ms. McQuade, on February 29, 2012, the Board of Directors of Altria Group, Inc. ("Altria") (the "Board") amended Article II, Section 2 of Altria's Amended and Restated By-Laws, in order to increase the size of the Board from eleven (11) to twelve (12) directors, such amendment to become effective on February 29, 2012. Altria's Amended and Restated By-Laws reflecting this revision are attached as Exhibit 3.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated by reference to this Item 5.03.
As previously reported in Altria's Current Report on Form 8-K dated January 27, 2012 (Item 5.02), Michael E. Szymanczyk informed Altria's Board of his intention to retire as Altria's chairman and chief executive officer upon the conclusion of Altria's 2012 Annual Meeting of Shareholders on May 17, 2012 (the "2012 Annual Meeting"). Mr. Szymanczyk also announced that he will not stand for re-election to the Board at the 2012 Annual Meeting.
In connection with Mr. Szymanczyk's impending retirement, Altria's Board amended Article II, Section 2 of Altria's Amended and Restated By-Laws on February 29, 2012, in order to decrease the size of the Board from twelve (12) to eleven (11) directors, such amendment to become
effective upon the conclusion of the 2012 Annual Meeting. The Amended and Restated By-Laws reflecting this revision are attached as Exhibit 3.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated by reference to this Item 5.03.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
DATE: February 29, 2012
 

Exhibit 3.1
 The annual meeting of the stockholders for the election of directors and for the transaction of such other business as may properly come before the meeting, and any postponement or adjournment thereof, shall be held on such date and at such time as the Board of Directors may in its discretion determine.
Section 1.    Annual Meetings.
 Unless otherwise provided by law, special meetings of the stockholders may be called by the chairman of the Board of Directors, or in the chairman's absence, the deputy chairman of the Board of Directors (if any), the vice chairman of the Board of Directors (if any), the president (if one shall have been elected by the Board of Directors) or, in the absence of all of the foregoing, an executive vice president or by order of the Board of Directors, whenever deemed necessary.
Section 2.    Special Meetings.
 All meetings of the stockholders shall be held at such place as from time to time may be fixed by the Board of Directors.
Section 3.    Place of Meetings.
 Notice, stating the place, day and hour and, in the case of a special meeting, the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called, shall be given not less than ten nor more than sixty days before the date of the meeting (except as a different time is specified herein or by law), to each stockholder of record having voting power in respect of the business to be transacted thereat.
Section 4.    Notice of Meetings.
Notice of a stockholders' meeting to act on an amendment of the Articles of Incorporation, a plan of merger or share exchange, a proposed sale of all, or substantially all of the Corporation's assets, otherwise than in the usual and regular course of business, or the dissolution of the Corporation shall be given not less than twenty-five nor more than sixty days before the date of the meeting and shall be accompanied, as appropriate, by a copy of the proposed amendment, plan of merger or share exchange or sale agreement.
February 29, 2012
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a written waiver of notice signed by the person or persons entitled to such notice, either before or after the time stated therein, shall be equivalent to the giving of such notice. A stockholder who attends a meeting shall be deemed to have (i) waived objection to lack of notice or defective notice of the meeting, unless at the beginning of the meeting he or she objects to holding the meeting or transacting business at the meeting, and (ii) waived objection to consideration of a particular matter at the meeting that is not within the purpose or purposes described in the meeting notice, unless he or she objects to considering the matter when it is presented.
 At all meetings of the stockholders, unless a greater number or voting by classes is required by law, a majority of the shares entitled to vote, represented in person or by proxy, shall constitute a quorum. If a quorum is present, action on a matter is approved if the votes cast favoring the action exceed the votes cast opposing the action, unless the vote of a greater number or voting by classes is required by law or the Articles of Incorporation, and except that in elections of directors those receiving the greatest number of votes shall be deemed elected even though not receiving a majority. Less than a quorum may adjourn.
Section 5.    Quorum.
 At all meetings of the stockholders, the chairman of the Board of Directors or, in the chairman's absence, the deputy chairman of the Board of Directors (if any), the vice chairman of the Board of Directors (if any), the president (if one shall have been elected by the Board of Directors) or, in the absence of all of the foregoing, the most senior executive vice president, shall act as chairman. In the absence of all of the foregoing officers or, if present, with their consent, a majority of the shares entitled to vote at such meeting, may appoint any person to act as chairman. The secretary of the Corporation or, in the secretary's absence, an assistant secretary, shall act as secretary at all meetings of the stockholders. In the event that neither the secretary nor any assistant secretary is present, the chairman may appoint any person to act as secretary of the meeting.
Section 6.    Organization and Order of Business.
The chairman shall have the right and authority to prescribe such rules, regulations and procedures and to do all such acts and things as are necessary or desirable for the proper conduct of the meeting, including, without limitation, the establishment of procedures for the dismissal of business not properly presented, the maintenance of order and safety, limitations on the time allotted to questions or comments on the affairs of the Corporation, restrictions on entry to such meeting after the time prescribed for the commencement thereof and the opening and closing of the voting polls.
At each annual meeting of stockholders, only such business shall be conducted as shall have been properly brought before the meeting (a) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (b) by any stockholder of the Corporation who shall be entitled to vote at such meeting and who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 6. In addition to any other applicable requirements, for business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a stockholder, the stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the secretary of the Corporation. To be timely, a stockholder's notice must be given, either by personal delivery or by United States certified mail, postage prepaid, and received at the principal executive offices
 
of the Corporation (i) not less than 120 days nor more than 150 days before the first anniversary of the date of the Corporation's proxy statement in connection with the last annual meeting of stockholders or (ii) if no annual meeting was held in the previous year or the date of the applicable annual meeting has been changed by more than 30 days from the date contemplated at the time of the previous year's proxy statement, not less than 60 days before the date of the applicable annual meeting. A stockholder's notice to the secretary shall set forth as to each matter the stockholder proposes to bring before the annual meeting (a) a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the annual meeting, including the complete text of any resolutions to be presented at the annual meeting, and the reasons for conducting such business at the annual meeting, (b) the name and address, as they appear on the Corporation's stock transfer books, of such stockholder proposing such business, (c) a representation that such stockholder is a stockholder of record and intends to appear in person or by proxy at such meeting to bring the business before the meeting specified in the notice, (d) the class and number of shares of stock of the Corporation beneficially owned by the stockholder and (e) any material interest of the stockholder in such business. Notwithstanding anything in the By-Laws to the contrary, no business shall be conducted at an annual meeting except in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 6. The chairman of an annual meeting shall, if the facts warrant, determine that the business was not brought before the meeting in accordance with the procedures prescribed by this Section 6. If the chairman should so determine, he or she shall so declare to the meeting and the business not properly brought before the meeting shall not be transacted. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 6, a stockholder seeking to have a proposal included in the Corporation's proxy statement shall comply with the requirements of Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (including, but not limited to, Rule 14a-8 or its successor provision). The secretary of the Corporation shall deliver each such stockholder's notice that has been timely received to the Board of Directors or a committee designated by the Board of Directors for review.
 A stockholder may vote his or her shares in person or by proxy. Any proxy shall be delivered to the secretary of the meeting at or prior to the time designated by the chairman or in the order of business for so delivering such proxies. No proxy shall be valid after eleven months from its date, unless otherwise provided in the proxy. Each holder of record of stock of any class shall, as to all matters in respect of which stock of such class has voting power, be entitled to such vote as is provided in the Articles of Incorporation for each share of stock of such class standing in the holder's name on the books of the Corporation. Unless required by statute or determined by the chairman to be advisable, the vote on any question need not be by ballot. On a vote by ballot, each ballot shall be signed by the stockholder voting or by such stockholder's proxy, if there be such proxy.
Section 7.    Voting.
 A stockholder or a stockholder's duly authorized attorney-in-fact may execute a writing authorizing another person or persons to act for him or her as proxy. Execution may be accomplished by the stockholder or such stockholder's duly authorized attorney-in-fact or authorized officer, director, employee or agent signing such writing or causing such stockholder's signature to be affixed to such writing by any reasonable means including, but not limited to, by facsimile signature.
Section 8.    Written Authorization.
 
 The secretary or any vice president may approve procedures to enable a stockholder or a stockholder's duly authorized attorney-in-fact to authorize another person or persons to act for him or her as proxy by transmitting or authorizing the transmission of a telegram, cablegram, internet transmission, telephone transmission or other means of electronic transmission to the person who will be the holder of the proxy or to a proxy solicitation firm, proxy support service organization or like agent duly authorized by the person who will be the holder of the proxy to receive such transmission, provided that any such transmission must either set forth or be submitted with information from which the inspectors of election can determine that the transmission was authorized by the stockholder or the stockholder's duly authorized attorney-in-fact. If it is determined that such transmissions are valid, the inspectors shall specify the information upon which they relied. Any copy, facsimile telecommunication or other reliable reproduction of the writing or transmission created pursuant to this Section 9 may be substituted or used in lieu of the original writing or transmission for any and all purposes for which the original writing or transmission could be used, provided that such copy, facsimile telecommunication or other reproduction shall be a complete reproduction of the entire original writing or transmission.
Section 9.    Electronic Authorization.
 At every meeting of the stockholders for election of directors, the proxies shall be received and taken in charge, all ballots shall be received and counted and all questions concerning the qualifications of voters, the validity of proxies, and the acceptance or rejection of votes shall be decided, by two or more inspectors. Such inspectors shall be appointed by the chairman of the meeting. They shall be sworn faithfully to perform their duties and shall in writing certify to the returns. No candidate for election as director shall be appointed or act as inspector.
Section 10.    Inspectors.
 The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed under the direction of the Board of Directors.
Section 1.    General Powers.
 The number of directors shall be twelve (12).
Section 2.    Number.
 Each director shall serve for the term for which he or she shall have been elected and until a successor shall have been duly elected.
Section 3.    Term of Office and Qualification.
Section 4.    Nomination and Election of Directors.
(a)    Except as provided in subsection (b) of this Section 4, each director shall be elected by a vote of the majority of the votes cast with respect to that director-nominee's election at a meeting for the election of directors at which a quorum is present. For purposes of this Section 4, a majority of the votes cast means that the number of shares voted "for" a director must exceed the number of shares voted "against" that director.
 
(b)    Subsection (a) shall not apply to any election of directors if there are more nominees for election than the number of directors to be elected, one or more of whom are properly proposed by shareholders. A nominee for director in an election to which this subsection (b) applies shall be elected by a plurality of the votes cast in such election.
(c)    No person shall be eligible for election as a director unless nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 4. Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors may be made by the Board of Directors or any committee designated by the Board of Directors or by any stockholder entitled to vote for the election of directors at the applicable meeting of stockholders who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 4. Such nominations, other than those made by the Board of Directors or any committee designated by the Board of Directors, may be made only if written notice of a stockholder's intent to nominate one or more persons for election as directors at the applicable meeting of stockholders has been given, either by personal delivery or by United States certified mail, postage prepaid, to the secretary of the Corporation and received (i) not less than 120 days nor more than 150 days before the first anniversary of the date of the Corporation's proxy statement in connection with the last annual meeting of stockholders, or (ii) if no annual meeting was held in the previous year or the date of the applicable annual meeting has been changed by more than 30 days from the date contemplated at the time of the previous year's proxy statement, not less than 60 days before the date of the applicable annual meeting, or (iii) with respect to any special meeting of stockholders called for the election of directors, not later than the close of business on the seventh day following the date on which notice of such meeting is first given to stockholders. Each such stockholder's notice shall set forth (a) as to the stockholder giving the notice, (i) the name and address, as they appear on the Corporation's stock transfer books, of such stockholder, (ii) a representation that such stockholder is a stockholder of record and intends to appear in person or by proxy at such meeting to nominate the person or persons specified in the notice, (iii) the class and number of shares of stock of the Corporation beneficially owned by such stockholder, and (iv) a description of all arrangements or understandings between such stockholder and each nominee and any other person or persons (naming such person or persons) pursuant to which the nomination or nominations are to be made by such stockholder; and (b) as to each person whom the stockholder proposes to nominate for election as a director, (i) the name, age, business address and, if known, residence address of such person, (ii) the principal occupation or employment of such person, (iii) the class and number of shares of stock of the Corporation which are beneficially owned by such person, (iv) any other information relating to such person that is required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for election of directors or is otherwise required by the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and (v) the written consent of such person to be named in the proxy statement as a nominee and to serve as a director if elected. The secretary of the Corporation shall deliver each such stockholder's notice that has been timely received to the Board of Directors or a committee designated by the Board of Directors for review. Any person nominated for election as director by the Board of Directors or any committee designated by the Board of Directors shall, upon the request of the Board of Directors or such committee, furnish to the secretary of the Corporation all such information pertaining to such person that is required to be set forth in a stockholder's notice of nomination. The chairman of the meeting of stockholders shall, if the facts warrant, determine that a
 
nomination was not made in accordance with the procedures prescribed by this Section 4. If the chairman should so determine, he or she shall so declare to the meeting and the defective nomination shall be disregarded.
 At all meetings of the Board of Directors, the chairman of the Board of Directors or, in the chairman's absence, the deputy chairman of the Board of Directors (if any), the vice chairman of the Board of Directors (if any), the president (if one shall have been elected by the Board of Directors) or, in the absence of all of the foregoing, the senior most executive vice president, shall act as chairman of the meeting. The secretary of the Corporation or, in the secretary's absence, an assistant secretary, shall act as secretary of meetings of the Board of Directors. In the event that neither the secretary nor any assistant secretary shall be present at such meeting, the chairman of the meeting shall appoint any person to act as secretary of the meeting.
Section 5.    Organization.
 Any vacancy occurring in the Board of Directors, including a vacancy resulting from amending these By-Laws to increase the number of directors by thirty percent or less, may be filled by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining directors though less than a quorum of the Board of Directors.
Section 6.    Vacancies.
 Meetings of the Board of Directors, regular or special, may be held either within or without the Commonwealth of Virginia.
Section 7.    Place of Meeting.
 The annual organizational meeting of the Board of Directors shall be held immediately following adjournment of the annual meeting of stockholders and at the same place, without the requirement of any notice other than this provision of the By-Laws.
Section 8.    Organizational Meeting.
 Regular meetings of the Board of Directors shall be held at such times and places as it may from time to time determine. Notice of such meetings need not be given if the time and place have been fixed at a previous meeting.
Section 9.    Regular Meetings: Notice.
 Special meetings of the Board of Directors shall be held whenever called by order of the chairman of the Board of Directors, the deputy chairman of the Board of Directors (if any), the vice chairman of the Board of Directors (if any), the president (if any) or two of the directors. Notice of each such meeting, which need not specify the business to be transacted thereat, shall be mailed to each director, addressed to his or her residence or usual place of business, at least two days before the day on which the meeting is to be held, or shall be sent to such place by telegraph, telex or telecopy or be delivered personally or by telephone, not later than the day before the day on which the meeting is to be held.
Section 10.    Special Meetings.
 Whenever any notice is required to be given to a director of any meeting for any purpose under the provisions of law, the Articles of Incorporation or these By-Laws, a waiver thereof in writing signed by the person or persons entitled to such notice, either before or after the time stated therein, shall be equivalent to the giving of such notice. A director's attendance at or participation in a meeting waives any required notice to him
Section 11.    Waiver of Notice.
 
or her of the meeting unless at the beginning of the meeting or promptly upon the director's arrival, he or she objects to holding the meeting or transacting business at the meeting and does not thereafter vote for or assent to action taken at the meeting.
 Except where otherwise provided by law, a majority of the directors fixed by these By-Laws at the time of any regular or special meeting shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at such meeting, and the act of a majority of the directors present at any such meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the Board of Directors. In the absence of a quorum, a majority of those present may adjourn the meeting from time to time until a quorum be had. Notice of any such adjourned meeting need not be given.
Section 12.    Quorum and Manner of Acting.
 At all meetings of the Board of Directors business may be transacted in such order as from time to time the Board of Directors may determine.
Section 13.    Order of Business.
 In addition to the executive committee authorized by Article III of these By-Laws, other committees, consisting of two or more directors, may be designated by the Board of Directors by a resolution adopted by the greater number of (i) a majority of all directors in office at the time the action is being taken or (ii) the number of directors required to take action under Article II, Section 12 hereof. Any such committee, to the extent provided in the resolution of the Board of Directors designating the committee, shall have and may exercise the powers and authority of the Board of Directors in the management of the business and affairs of the Corporation, except as limited by law.
Section 14.    Committees.
 The Board of Directors, by resolution adopted pursuant to Article II, Section 14 hereof, may designate, in addition to the chairman of the Board of Directors, one or more directors to constitute an executive committee, who shall serve during the pleasure of the Board of Directors. The executive committee, to the extent provided in such resolution and permitted by law, shall have and may exercise all of the authority of the Board of Directors.
Section 1.    How Constituted and Powers.
 The executive committee may choose a chairman and secretary. The executive committee shall keep a record of its acts and proceedings and report the same from time to time to the Board of Directors.
Section 2.    Organization, Etc.
 Meetings of the executive committee may be called by any member of the committee. Notice of each such meeting, which need not specify the business to be transacted thereat, shall be mailed to each member of the committee, addressed to his or her residence or usual place of business, at least two days before the day on which the meeting is to be held or shall be sent to such place by telegraph, telex or telecopy or be delivered personally or by telephone, not later than the day before the day on which the meeting is to be held.
Section 3.    Meetings.
 
 A majority of the executive committee shall constitute a quorum for transaction of business, and the act of a majority of those present at a meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the executive committee. The members of the executive committee shall act only as a committee, and the individual members shall have no powers as such.
Section 4.    Quorum and Manner of Acting.
 Any member of the executive committee may be removed, with or without cause, at any time, by the Board of Directors.
Section 5.    Removal.
 Any vacancy in the executive committee shall be filled by the Board of Directors.
Section 6.    Vacancies.
 The officers of the Corporation shall be a chairman of the Board of Directors, a deputy chairman of the Board of Directors (if elected by the Board of Directors), a president (if elected by the Board of Directors), one or more vice chairmen of the Board of Directors (if elected by the Board of Directors), a chief operating officer (if elected by the Board of Directors), one or more vice presidents (one or more of whom may be designated executive vice president or senior vice president), a treasurer, a controller, a secretary, one or more assistant treasurers, assistant controllers and assistant secretaries and such other officers as may from time to time be chosen by the Board of Directors. Any two or more offices may be held by the same person.
Section 1.    Number.
 All officers of the Corporation shall be chosen annually by the Board of Directors, and each officer shall hold office until a successor shall have been duly chosen and qualified or until the officer resigns or is removed in the manner hereinafter provided. The chairman of the Board of Directors shall be chosen from among the directors.
Section 2.    Election, Term of Office and Qualifications.
 If any vacancy shall occur among the officers of the Corporation, such vacancy shall be filled by the Board of Directors.
Section 3.    Vacancies.
 The Board of Directors may from time to time appoint such other officers as the Board of Directors may deem necessary, to hold office for such time as may be designated by it or during its pleasure, and the Board of Directors or the chairman of the Board of Directors may appoint, from time to time, such agents and employees of the Corporation as may be deemed proper, and may authorize any officers to appoint and remove agents and employees. The Board of Directors or the chairman of the Board of Directors may from time to time prescribe the powers and duties of such other officers, agents and employees of the Corporation.
Section 4.    Other Officers, Agents and Employees  Their Powers and Duties.
 
 Any officer, agent or employee of the Corporation may be removed, either with or without cause, by a vote of a majority of the Board of Directors or, in the case of any agent or employee not appointed by the Board of Directors, by a superior officer upon whom such power of removal may be conferred by the Board of Directors or the chairman of the Board of Directors.
Section 5.    Removal.
 The chairman of the Board of Directors shall preside at meetings of the stockholders and of the Board of Directors and shall be a member of the executive committee. The chairman shall be the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation and shall be responsible to the Board of Directors. He or she shall be responsible for the general management and control of the business and affairs of the Corporation and shall see to it that all orders and resolutions of the Board of Directors are implemented. The chairman shall, from time to time, report to the Board of Directors on matters within his or her knowledge which the interests of the Corporation may require be brought to its notice. The chairman shall do and perform such other duties as from time to time the Board of Directors may prescribe.
Section 6.    Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer.
 In the absence of the chairman of the Board of Directors, the deputy chairman of the Board of Directors (if elected by the Board of Directors) shall preside at meetings of the stockholders and of the Board of Directors. The deputy chairman shall be responsible to the chairman of the Board of Directors and shall perform such duties as shall be assigned to him or her by the chairman of the Board of Directors. The deputy chairman shall from time to time report to the chairman of the Board of Directors on matters within the deputy chairman's knowledge which the interests of the Corporation may require be brought to the chairman's notice.
Section 7.    Deputy Chairman of the Board of Directors.
 In the absence of the chairman of the Board of Directors and the deputy chairman of the Board of Directors (if any), the president (if one shall have been elected by the Board of Directors) shall preside at meetings of the stockholders and of the Board of Directors. The president shall be responsible to the chairman of the Board of Directors. Subject to the authority of the chairman of the Board of Directors, the president shall be devoted to the Corporation's business and affairs under the basic policies set by the Board of Directors and the chairman of the Board of Directors. He or she shall, from time to time, report to the chairman of the Board of Directors on matters within the president's knowledge which the interests of the Corporation may require be brought to the chairman's notice. The president (if any) shall do and perform such other duties as from time to time the Board of Directors or the chairman of the Board of Directors may prescribe.
Section 8.    President.
 In the absence of the chairman of the Board of Directors, the deputy chairman of the Board of Directors (if any) and the president (if any), the vice chairman of the Board of Directors designated for such purpose by the chairman of the Board of Directors (if any) shall preside at meetings of the stockholders and of the Board of Directors. Each vice chairman of the Board of Directors shall be responsible to the chairman of the Board of Directors. Each vice chairman of the Board of Directors shall from time to time report to the chairman of the Board of Directors on matters within the vice
Section 9.    Vice Chairmen of the Board of Directors.
 
chairman's knowledge which the interests of the Corporation may require be brought to the chairman's notice.
 The chief operating officer (if any) shall be responsible to the chairman of the Board of Directors for the principal operating businesses of the Corporation and shall perform those duties that may from time to time be assigned.
Section 10.    Chief Operating Officer.
 The vice presidents of the Corporation shall assist the chairman of the Board of Directors, the deputy chairman of the Board of Directors, the president (if any) and the vice chairmen (if any) of the Board of Directors in carrying out their respective duties and shall perform those duties which may from time to time be assigned to them. The chief financial officer shall be a vice president of the Corporation (or more senior) and shall be responsible for the management and supervision of the financial affairs of the Corporation.
Section 11.    Vice Presidents.
 The treasurer shall have charge of the funds, securities, receipts and disbursements of the Corporation. He or she shall deposit all moneys and other valuable effects in the name and to the credit of the Corporation in such banks or trust companies or with such bankers or other depositaries as the Board of Directors may from time to time designate. The treasurer shall render to the Board of Directors, the chairman of the Board of Directors, the deputy chairman of the Board of Directors (if any), the president (if any), the vice chairmen of the Board of Directors (if any), and the chief financial officer, whenever required by any of them, an account of all of his transactions as treasurer. If required, the treasurer shall give a bond in such sum as the Board of Directors may designate, conditioned upon the faithful performance of the duties of the treasurer's office and the restoration to the Corporation at the expiration of his or her term of office or in case of death, resignation or removal from office, of all books, papers, vouchers, money or other property of whatever kind in his or her possession or under his or her control belonging to the Corporation. The treasurer shall perform such other duties as from time to time may be assigned to him or her.
Section 12.    Treasurer.
 In the absence or disability of the treasurer, one or more assistant treasurers shall perform all the duties of the treasurer and, when so acting, shall have all the powers of, and be subject to all restrictions upon, the treasurer. Assistant treasurers shall also perform such other duties as from time to time may be assigned to them.
Section 13.    Assistant Treasurers.
 The secretary shall keep the minutes of all meetings of the stockholders and of the Board of Directors in a book or books kept for that purpose. He or she shall keep in safe custody the seal of the Corporation, and shall affix such seal to any instrument requiring it. The secretary shall have charge of such books and papers as the Board of Directors may direct. He or she shall attend to the giving and serving of all notices of the Corporation and shall also have such other powers and perform such other duties as pertain to the secretary's office, or as the Board of Directors, the chairman of the Board of Directors, the deputy chairman of the Board of Directors (if any), the president (if any) or any vice chairman of the Board of Directors may from time to time prescribe.
Section 14.    Secretary.
 
 In the absence or disability of the secretary, one or more assistant secretaries shall perform all of the duties of the secretary and, when so acting, shall have all of the powers of, and be subject to all the restrictions upon, the secretary. Assistant secretaries shall also perform such other duties as from time to time may be assigned to them.
Section 15.    Assistant Secretaries.
 The controller shall be administrative head of the controller's department. He or she shall be in charge of all functions relating to accounting and the preparation and analysis of budgets and statistical reports and shall establish, through appropriate channels, recording and reporting procedures and standards pertaining to such matters. The controller shall report to the chief financial officer and shall aid in developing internal corporate policies whereby the business of the Corporation shall be conducted with the maximum safety, efficiency and economy. The controller shall be available to all departments of the Corporation for advice and guidance in the interpretation and application of policies that are within the scope of his or her authority. The controller shall perform such other duties as from time to time may be assigned to him or her.
Section 16.    Controller.
 In the absence or disability of the controller, one or more assistant controllers shall perform all of the duties of the controller and, when so acting, shall have all of the powers of, and be subject to all the restrictions upon, the controller. Assistant controllers shall also perform such other duties as from time to time may be assigned to them.
Section 17.    Assistant Controllers.
 The chairman of the Board of Directors, the deputy chairman of the Board of Directors (if any), the president (if any), the chief operating officer (if any), any vice chairman of the Board of Directors (if any), any vice president, the treasurer, the secretary and such other persons as the chairman of the Board of Directors may authorize shall have the power to execute any contract or other instrument on behalf of the Corporation; no other officer, agent or employee shall, unless otherwise in these By-Laws provided, have any power or authority to bind the Corporation by any contract or acknowledgement, or pledge its credit or render it liable pecuniarily for any purpose or to any amount.
Section 1.    Contracts.
 The chairman of the Board of Directors, the deputy chairman of the Board of Directors (if any), the president (if any), any vice chairman of the Board of Directors (if any), any vice president, the treasurer and such other persons as the Board of Directors may authorize shall have the power to effect loans and advances at any time for the Corporation from any bank, trust company or other institution, or from any corporation, firm or individual, and for such loans and advances may make, execute and deliver promissory notes or other evidences of indebtedness of the Corporation, and, as security for the payment of any and all loans, advances, indebtedness and liability of the Corporation, may pledge, hypothecate or transfer any and all stocks, securities and other personal property at any time held by the Corporation, and to that end endorse, assign and deliver the same.
Section 2.    Loans.
 
 The chairman of the Board of Directors, the deputy chairman of the Board of Directors (if any), the president (if any), any vice chairman of the Board of Directors (if any), any vice president or the secretary may from time to time appoint an attorney or attorneys or agent or agents of the Corporation to cast the votes that the Corporation may be entitled to cast as a stockholder or otherwise in any other corporation, any of whose stock or securities may be held by the Corporation, at meetings of the holders of the stock or other securities of such other corporation, or to consent in writing to any action by any other such corporation, and may instruct the person or persons so appointed as to the manner of casting such votes or giving such consent, and may execute or cause to be executed on behalf of the Corporation such written proxies, consents, waivers or other instruments as such officer may deem necessary or proper in the premises; or the chairman of the Board of Directors, the deputy chairman of the Board of Directors (if any), the president (if any), any vice chairman of the Board of Directors (if any), any vice president or the secretary may attend in person any meeting of the holders of stock or other securities of such other corporation and thereat vote or exercise any and all powers of the Corporation as the holder of such stock or other securities of such other corporation.
Section 3.    Voting of Stock Held.
Certificates representing shares of the Corporation shall be signed by the chairman of the Board of Directors, the deputy chairman of the Board of Directors (if any), or the vice chairman of the Board of Directors (if any), or the president of the Corporation (if any) and the secretary or an assistant secretary. Any and all signatures on such certificates, including signatures of officers, transfer agents and registrars, may be facsimile.
The Board of Directors may declare dividends from funds of the Corporation legally available therefor.
The Board of Directors shall provide a suitable seal or seals, which shall be in the form of a circle, and shall bear around the circumference the words "Altria Group, Inc." and in the center the word and figures "Virginia, 1985."
 
The fiscal year of the Corporation shall be the calendar year.
The power to alter, amend or repeal the By-Laws of the Corporation or to adopt new By-Laws shall be vested in the Board of Directors, but By-Laws made by the Board of Directors may be repealed or changed by the stockholders, or new By-Laws may be adopted by the stockholders, and the stockholders may prescribe that any By-Laws made by them shall not be altered, amended or repealed by the directors.
If a quorum of the Board of Directors cannot be readily assembled because of some catastrophic event, and only in such event, these By-Laws shall, without further action by the Board of Directors, be deemed to have been amended for the duration of such emergency, as follows:
Section 1.    Section 6 of Article II shall read as follows:
Any vacancy occurring in the Board of Directors may be filled by the affirmative vote of a majority of the directors present at a meeting of the Board of Directors called in accordance with these By-Laws.
Section 2.    The first sentence of Section 10 of Article II shall read as follows:
Special meetings of the Board of Directors shall be held whenever called by order of the chairman of the Board of Directors or a deputy chairman (if any), or of the president (if any) or any vice chairman of the Board of Directors (if any) or any director or of any person having the powers and duties of the chairman of the Board of Directors, the deputy chairman, the president or any vice chairman of the Board of Directors.
Section 3.    Section 12 of Article II shall read as follows:
The directors present at any regular or special meeting called in accordance with these By-Laws shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at such meeting, and the action of a majority of such directors shall be the act of the
 
Board of Directors, provided, however, that in the event that only one director is present at any such meeting no action except the election of directors shall be taken until at least two additional directors have been elected and are in attendance.
 

Exhibit 3.2
 The annual meeting of the stockholders for the election of directors and for the transaction of such other business as may properly come before the meeting, and any postponement or adjournment thereof, shall be held on such date and at such time as the Board of Directors may in its discretion determine.
Section 1.    Annual Meetings.
 Unless otherwise provided by law, special meetings of the stockholders may be called by the chairman of the Board of Directors, or in the chairman's absence, the deputy chairman of the Board of Directors (if any), the vice chairman of the Board of Directors (if any), the president (if one shall have been elected by the Board of Directors) or, in the absence of all of the foregoing, an executive vice president or by order of the Board of Directors, whenever deemed necessary.
Section 2.    Special Meetings.
 All meetings of the stockholders shall be held at such place as from time to time may be fixed by the Board of Directors.
Section 3.    Place of Meetings.
 Notice, stating the place, day and hour and, in the case of a special meeting, the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called, shall be given not less than ten nor more than sixty days before the date of the meeting (except as a different time is specified herein or by law), to each stockholder of record having voting power in respect of the business to be transacted thereat.
Section 4.    Notice of Meetings.
Notice of a stockholders' meeting to act on an amendment of the Articles of Incorporation, a plan of merger or share exchange, a proposed sale of all, or substantially all of the Corporation's assets, otherwise than in the usual and regular course of business, or the dissolution of the Corporation shall be given not less than twenty-five nor more than sixty days before the date of the meeting and shall be accompanied, as appropriate, by a copy of the proposed amendment, plan of merger or share exchange or sale agreement.
Effective upon the conclusion of the
2012 Annual Meeting of Shareholders
on May 17, 2012
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a written waiver of notice signed by the person or persons entitled to such notice, either before or after the time stated therein, shall be equivalent to the giving of such notice. A stockholder who attends a meeting shall be deemed to have (i) waived objection to lack of notice or defective notice of the meeting, unless at the beginning of the meeting he or she objects to holding the meeting or transacting business at the meeting, and (ii) waived objection to consideration of a particular matter at the meeting that is not within the purpose or purposes described in the meeting notice, unless he or she objects to considering the matter when it is presented.
 At all meetings of the stockholders, unless a greater number or voting by classes is required by law, a majority of the shares entitled to vote, represented in person or by proxy, shall constitute a quorum. If a quorum is present, action on a matter is approved if the votes cast favoring the action exceed the votes cast opposing the action, unless the vote of a greater number or voting by classes is required by law or the Articles of Incorporation, and except that in elections of directors those receiving the greatest number of votes shall be deemed elected even though not receiving a majority. Less than a quorum may adjourn.
Section 5.    Quorum.
 At all meetings of the stockholders, the chairman of the Board of Directors or, in the chairman's absence, the deputy chairman of the Board of Directors (if any), the vice chairman of the Board of Directors (if any), the president (if one shall have been elected by the Board of Directors) or, in the absence of all of the foregoing, the most senior executive vice president, shall act as chairman. In the absence of all of the foregoing officers or, if present, with their consent, a majority of the shares entitled to vote at such meeting, may appoint any person to act as chairman. The secretary of the Corporation or, in the secretary's absence, an assistant secretary, shall act as secretary at all meetings of the stockholders. In the event that neither the secretary nor any assistant secretary is present, the chairman may appoint any person to act as secretary of the meeting.
Section 6.    Organization and Order of Business.
The chairman shall have the right and authority to prescribe such rules, regulations and procedures and to do all such acts and things as are necessary or desirable for the proper conduct of the meeting, including, without limitation, the establishment of procedures for the dismissal of business not properly presented, the maintenance of order and safety, limitations on the time allotted to questions or comments on the affairs of the Corporation, restrictions on entry to such meeting after the time prescribed for the commencement thereof and the opening and closing of the voting polls.
At each annual meeting of stockholders, only such business shall be conducted as shall have been properly brought before the meeting (a) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (b) by any stockholder of the Corporation who shall be entitled to vote at such meeting and who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 6. In addition to any other applicable requirements, for business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a stockholder, the stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the secretary of the Corporation. To be timely, a stockholder's notice must be given, either by personal delivery or by United States certified mail, postage prepaid, and received at the principal executive offices
 
of the Corporation (i) not less than 120 days nor more than 150 days before the first anniversary of the date of the Corporation's proxy statement in connection with the last annual meeting of stockholders or (ii) if no annual meeting was held in the previous year or the date of the applicable annual meeting has been changed by more than 30 days from the date contemplated at the time of the previous year's proxy statement, not less than 60 days before the date of the applicable annual meeting. A stockholder's notice to the secretary shall set forth as to each matter the stockholder proposes to bring before the annual meeting (a) a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the annual meeting, including the complete text of any resolutions to be presented at the annual meeting, and the reasons for conducting such business at the annual meeting, (b) the name and address, as they appear on the Corporation's stock transfer books, of such stockholder proposing such business, (c) a representation that such stockholder is a stockholder of record and intends to appear in person or by proxy at such meeting to bring the business before the meeting specified in the notice, (d) the class and number of shares of stock of the Corporation beneficially owned by the stockholder and (e) any material interest of the stockholder in such business. Notwithstanding anything in the By-Laws to the contrary, no business shall be conducted at an annual meeting except in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 6. The chairman of an annual meeting shall, if the facts warrant, determine that the business was not brought before the meeting in accordance with the procedures prescribed by this Section 6. If the chairman should so determine, he or she shall so declare to the meeting and the business not properly brought before the meeting shall not be transacted. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 6, a stockholder seeking to have a proposal included in the Corporation's proxy statement shall comply with the requirements of Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (including, but not limited to, Rule 14a-8 or its successor provision). The secretary of the Corporation shall deliver each such stockholder's notice that has been timely received to the Board of Directors or a committee designated by the Board of Directors for review.
 A stockholder may vote his or her shares in person or by proxy. Any proxy shall be delivered to the secretary of the meeting at or prior to the time designated by the chairman or in the order of business for so delivering such proxies. No proxy shall be valid after eleven months from its date, unless otherwise provided in the proxy. Each holder of record of stock of any class shall, as to all matters in respect of which stock of such class has voting power, be entitled to such vote as is provided in the Articles of Incorporation for each share of stock of such class standing in the holder's name on the books of the Corporation. Unless required by statute or determined by the chairman to be advisable, the vote on any question need not be by ballot. On a vote by ballot, each ballot shall be signed by the stockholder voting or by such stockholder's proxy, if there be such proxy.
Section 7.    Voting.
 A stockholder or a stockholder's duly authorized attorney-in-fact may execute a writing authorizing another person or persons to act for him or her as proxy. Execution may be accomplished by the stockholder or such stockholder's duly authorized attorney-in-fact or authorized officer, director, employee or agent signing such writing or causing such stockholder's signature to be affixed to such writing by any reasonable means including, but not limited to, by facsimile signature.
Section 8.    Written Authorization.
 
 The secretary or any vice president may approve procedures to enable a stockholder or a stockholder's duly authorized attorney-in-fact to authorize another person or persons to act for him or her as proxy by transmitting or authorizing the transmission of a telegram, cablegram, internet transmission, telephone transmission or other means of electronic transmission to the person who will be the holder of the proxy or to a proxy solicitation firm, proxy support service organization or like agent duly authorized by the person who will be the holder of the proxy to receive such transmission, provided that any such transmission must either set forth or be submitted with information from which the inspectors of election can determine that the transmission was authorized by the stockholder or the stockholder's duly authorized attorney-in-fact. If it is determined that such transmissions are valid, the inspectors shall specify the information upon which they relied. Any copy, facsimile telecommunication or other reliable reproduction of the writing or transmission created pursuant to this Section 9 may be substituted or used in lieu of the original writing or transmission for any and all purposes for which the original writing or transmission could be used, provided that such copy, facsimile telecommunication or other reproduction shall be a complete reproduction of the entire original writing or transmission.
Section 9.    Electronic Authorization.
 At every meeting of the stockholders for election of directors, the proxies shall be received and taken in charge, all ballots shall be received and counted and all questions concerning the qualifications of voters, the validity of proxies, and the acceptance or rejection of votes shall be decided, by two or more inspectors. Such inspectors shall be appointed by the chairman of the meeting. They shall be sworn faithfully to perform their duties and shall in writing certify to the returns. No candidate for election as director shall be appointed or act as inspector.
Section 10.    Inspectors.
 The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed under the direction of the Board of Directors.
Section 1.    General Powers.
 The number of directors shall be eleven (11).
Section 2.    Number.
 Each director shall serve for the term for which he or she shall have been elected and until a successor shall have been duly elected.
Section 3.    Term of Office and Qualification.
Section 4.    Nomination and Election of Directors.
(a)    Except as provided in subsection (b) of this Section 4, each director shall be elected by a vote of the majority of the votes cast with respect to that director-nominee's election at a meeting for the election of directors at which a quorum is present. For purposes of this Section 4, a majority of the votes cast means that the number of shares voted "for" a director must exceed the number of shares voted "against" that director.
 
(b)    Subsection (a) shall not apply to any election of directors if there are more nominees for election than the number of directors to be elected, one or more of whom are properly proposed by shareholders. A nominee for director in an election to which this subsection (b) applies shall be elected by a plurality of the votes cast in such election.
(c)    No person shall be eligible for election as a director unless nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 4. Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors may be made by the Board of Directors or any committee designated by the Board of Directors or by any stockholder entitled to vote for the election of directors at the applicable meeting of stockholders who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 4. Such nominations, other than those made by the Board of Directors or any committee designated by the Board of Directors, may be made only if written notice of a stockholder's intent to nominate one or more persons for election as directors at the applicable meeting of stockholders has been given, either by personal delivery or by United States certified mail, postage prepaid, to the secretary of the Corporation and received (i) not less than 120 days nor more than 150 days before the first anniversary of the date of the Corporation's proxy statement in connection with the last annual meeting of stockholders, or (ii) if no annual meeting was held in the previous year or the date of the applicable annual meeting has been changed by more than 30 days from the date contemplated at the time of the previous year's proxy statement, not less than 60 days before the date of the applicable annual meeting, or (iii) with respect to any special meeting of stockholders called for the election of directors, not later than the close of business on the seventh day following the date on which notice of such meeting is first given to stockholders. Each such stockholder's notice shall set forth (a) as to the stockholder giving the notice, (i) the name and address, as they appear on the Corporation's stock transfer books, of such stockholder, (ii) a representation that such stockholder is a stockholder of record and intends to appear in person or by proxy at such meeting to nominate the person or persons specified in the notice, (iii) the class and number of shares of stock of the Corporation beneficially owned by such stockholder, and (iv) a description of all arrangements or understandings between such stockholder and each nominee and any other person or persons (naming such person or persons) pursuant to which the nomination or nominations are to be made by such stockholder; and (b) as to each person whom the stockholder proposes to nominate for election as a director, (i) the name, age, business address and, if known, residence address of such person, (ii) the principal occupation or employment of such person, (iii) the class and number of shares of stock of the Corporation which are beneficially owned by such person, (iv) any other information relating to such person that is required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for election of directors or is otherwise required by the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and (v) the written consent of such person to be named in the proxy statement as a nominee and to serve as a director if elected. The secretary of the Corporation shall deliver each such stockholder's notice that has been timely received to the Board of Directors or a committee designated by the Board of Directors for review. Any person nominated for election as director by the Board of Directors or any committee designated by the Board of Directors shall, upon the request of the Board of Directors or such committee, furnish to the secretary of the Corporation all such information pertaining to such person that is required to be set forth in a stockholder's notice of nomination. The chairman of the meeting of stockholders shall, if the facts warrant, determine that a
 
nomination was not made in accordance with the procedures prescribed by this Section 4. If the chairman should so determine, he or she shall so declare to the meeting and the defective nomination shall be disregarded.
 At all meetings of the Board of Directors, the chairman of the Board of Directors or, in the chairman's absence, the deputy chairman of the Board of Directors (if any), the vice chairman of the Board of Directors (if any), the president (if one shall have been elected by the Board of Directors) or, in the absence of all of the foregoing, the senior most executive vice president, shall act as chairman of the meeting. The secretary of the Corporation or, in the secretary's absence, an assistant secretary, shall act as secretary of meetings of the Board of Directors. In the event that neither the secretary nor any assistant secretary shall be present at such meeting, the chairman of the meeting shall appoint any person to act as secretary of the meeting.
Section 5.    Organization.
 Any vacancy occurring in the Board of Directors, including a vacancy resulting from amending these By-Laws to increase the number of directors by thirty percent or less, may be filled by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining directors though less than a quorum of the Board of Directors.
Section 6.    Vacancies.
 Meetings of the Board of Directors, regular or special, may be held either within or without the Commonwealth of Virginia.
Section 7.    Place of Meeting.
 The annual organizational meeting of the Board of Directors shall be held immediately following adjournment of the annual meeting of stockholders and at the same place, without the requirement of any notice other than this provision of the By-Laws.
Section 8.    Organizational Meeting.
 Regular meetings of the Board of Directors shall be held at such times and places as it may from time to time determine. Notice of such meetings need not be given if the time and place have been fixed at a previous meeting.
Section 9.    Regular Meetings: Notice.
 Special meetings of the Board of Directors shall be held whenever called by order of the chairman of the Board of Directors, the deputy chairman of the Board of Directors (if any), the vice chairman of the Board of Directors (if any), the president (if any) or two of the directors. Notice of each such meeting, which need not specify the business to be transacted thereat, shall be mailed to each director, addressed to his or her residence or usual place of business, at least two days before the day on which the meeting is to be held, or shall be sent to such place by telegraph, telex or telecopy or be delivered personally or by telephone, not later than the day before the day on which the meeting is to be held.
Section 10.    Special Meetings.
 Whenever any notice is required to be given to a director of any meeting for any purpose under the provisions of law, the Articles of Incorporation or these By-Laws, a waiver thereof in writing signed by the person or persons entitled to such notice, either before or after the time stated therein, shall be equivalent to the giving of such notice. A director's attendance at or participation in a meeting waives any required notice to him
Section 11.    Waiver of Notice.
 
or her of the meeting unless at the beginning of the meeting or promptly upon the director's arrival, he or she objects to holding the meeting or transacting business at the meeting and does not thereafter vote for or assent to action taken at the meeting.
 Except where otherwise provided by law, a majority of the directors fixed by these By-Laws at the time of any regular or special meeting shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at such meeting, and the act of a majority of the directors present at any such meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the Board of Directors. In the absence of a quorum, a majority of those present may adjourn the meeting from time to time until a quorum be had. Notice of any such adjourned meeting need not be given.
Section 12.    Quorum and Manner of Acting.
 At all meetings of the Board of Directors business may be transacted in such order as from time to time the Board of Directors may determine.
Section 13.    Order of Business.
 In addition to the executive committee authorized by Article III of these By-Laws, other committees, consisting of two or more directors, may be designated by the Board of Directors by a resolution adopted by the greater number of (i) a majority of all directors in office at the time the action is being taken or (ii) the number of directors required to take action under Article II, Section 12 hereof. Any such committee, to the extent provided in the resolution of the Board of Directors designating the committee, shall have and may exercise the powers and authority of the Board of Directors in the management of the business and affairs of the Corporation, except as limited by law.
Section 14.    Committees.
 The Board of Directors, by resolution adopted pursuant to Article II, Section 14 hereof, may designate, in addition to the chairman of the Board of Directors, one or more directors to constitute an executive committee, who shall serve during the pleasure of the Board of Directors. The executive committee, to the extent provided in such resolution and permitted by law, shall have and may exercise all of the authority of the Board of Directors.
Section 1.    How Constituted and Powers.
 The executive committee may choose a chairman and secretary. The executive committee shall keep a record of its acts and proceedings and report the same from time to time to the Board of Directors.
Section 2.    Organization, Etc.
 Meetings of the executive committee may be called by any member of the committee. Notice of each such meeting, which need not specify the business to be transacted thereat, shall be mailed to each member of the committee, addressed to his or her residence or usual place of business, at least two days before the day on which the meeting is to be held or shall be sent to such place by telegraph, telex or telecopy or be delivered personally or by telephone, not later than the day before the day on which the meeting is to be held.
Section 3.    Meetings.
 
 A majority of the executive committee shall constitute a quorum for transaction of business, and the act of a majority of those present at a meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the executive committee. The members of the executive committee shall act only as a committee, and the individual members shall have no powers as such.
Section 4.    Quorum and Manner of Acting.
 Any member of the executive committee may be removed, with or without cause, at any time, by the Board of Directors.
Section 5.    Removal.
 Any vacancy in the executive committee shall be filled by the Board of Directors.
Section 6.    Vacancies.
 The officers of the Corporation shall be a chairman of the Board of Directors, a deputy chairman of the Board of Directors (if elected by the Board of Directors), a president (if elected by the Board of Directors), one or more vice chairmen of the Board of Directors (if elected by the Board of Directors), a chief operating officer (if elected by the Board of Directors), one or more vice presidents (one or more of whom may be designated executive vice president or senior vice president), a treasurer, a controller, a secretary, one or more assistant treasurers, assistant controllers and assistant secretaries and such other officers as may from time to time be chosen by the Board of Directors. Any two or more offices may be held by the same person.
Section 1.    Number.
 All officers of the Corporation shall be chosen annually by the Board of Directors, and each officer shall hold office until a successor shall have been duly chosen and qualified or until the officer resigns or is removed in the manner hereinafter provided. The chairman of the Board of Directors shall be chosen from among the directors.
Section 2.    Election, Term of Office and Qualifications.
 If any vacancy shall occur among the officers of the Corporation, such vacancy shall be filled by the Board of Directors.
Section 3.    Vacancies.
 The Board of Directors may from time to time appoint such other officers as the Board of Directors may deem necessary, to hold office for such time as may be designated by it or during its pleasure, and the Board of Directors or the chairman of the Board of Directors may appoint, from time to time, such agents and employees of the Corporation as may be deemed proper, and may authorize any officers to appoint and remove agents and employees. The Board of Directors or the chairman of the Board of Directors may from time to time prescribe the powers and duties of such other officers, agents and employees of the Corporation.
Section 4.    Other Officers, Agents and Employees  Their Powers and Duties.
 
 Any officer, agent or employee of the Corporation may be removed, either with or without cause, by a vote of a majority of the Board of Directors or, in the case of any agent or employee not appointed by the Board of Directors, by a superior officer upon whom such power of removal may be conferred by the Board of Directors or the chairman of the Board of Directors.
Section 5.    Removal.
 The chairman of the Board of Directors shall preside at meetings of the stockholders and of the Board of Directors and shall be a member of the executive committee. The chairman shall be the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation and shall be responsible to the Board of Directors. He or she shall be responsible for the general management and control of the business and affairs of the Corporation and shall see to it that all orders and resolutions of the Board of Directors are implemented. The chairman shall, from time to time, report to the Board of Directors on matters within his or her knowledge which the interests of the Corporation may require be brought to its notice. The chairman shall do and perform such other duties as from time to time the Board of Directors may prescribe.
Section 6.    Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer.
 In the absence of the chairman of the Board of Directors, the deputy chairman of the Board of Directors (if elected by the Board of Directors) shall preside at meetings of the stockholders and of the Board of Directors. The deputy chairman shall be responsible to the chairman of the Board of Directors and shall perform such duties as shall be assigned to him or her by the chairman of the Board of Directors. The deputy chairman shall from time to time report to the chairman of the Board of Directors on matters within the deputy chairman's knowledge which the interests of the Corporation may require be brought to the chairman's notice.
Section 7.    Deputy Chairman of the Board of Directors.
 In the absence of the chairman of the Board of Directors and the deputy chairman of the Board of Directors (if any), the president (if one shall have been elected by the Board of Directors) shall preside at meetings of the stockholders and of the Board of Directors. The president shall be responsible to the chairman of the Board of Directors. Subject to the authority of the chairman of the Board of Directors, the president shall be devoted to the Corporation's business and affairs under the basic policies set by the Board of Directors and the chairman of the Board of Directors. He or she shall, from time to time, report to the chairman of the Board of Directors on matters within the president's knowledge which the interests of the Corporation may require be brought to the chairman's notice. The president (if any) shall do and perform such other duties as from time to time the Board of Directors or the chairman of the Board of Directors may prescribe.
Section 8.    President.
 In the absence of the chairman of the Board of Directors, the deputy chairman of the Board of Directors (if any) and the president (if any), the vice chairman of the Board of Directors designated for such purpose by the chairman of the Board of Directors (if any) shall preside at meetings of the stockholders and of the Board of Directors. Each vice chairman of the Board of Directors shall be responsible to the chairman of the Board of Directors. Each vice chairman of the Board of Directors shall from time to time report to the chairman of the Board of Directors on matters within the vice
Section 9.    Vice Chairmen of the Board of Directors.
 
chairman's knowledge which the interests of the Corporation may require be brought to the chairman's notice.
 The chief operating officer (if any) shall be responsible to the chairman of the Board of Directors for the principal operating businesses of the Corporation and shall perform those duties that may from time to time be assigned.
Section 10.    Chief Operating Officer.
 The vice presidents of the Corporation shall assist the chairman of the Board of Directors, the deputy chairman of the Board of Directors, the president (if any) and the vice chairmen (if any) of the Board of Directors in carrying out their respective duties and shall perform those duties which may from time to time be assigned to them. The chief financial officer shall be a vice president of the Corporation (or more senior) and shall be responsible for the management and supervision of the financial affairs of the Corporation.
Section 11.    Vice Presidents.
 The treasurer shall have charge of the funds, securities, receipts and disbursements of the Corporation. He or she shall deposit all moneys and other valuable effects in the name and to the credit of the Corporation in such banks or trust companies or with such bankers or other depositaries as the Board of Directors may from time to time designate. The treasurer shall render to the Board of Directors, the chairman of the Board of Directors, the deputy chairman of the Board of Directors (if any), the president (if any), the vice chairmen of the Board of Directors (if any), and the chief financial officer, whenever required by any of them, an account of all of his transactions as treasurer. If required, the treasurer shall give a bond in such sum as the Board of Directors may designate, conditioned upon the faithful performance of the duties of the treasurer's office and the restoration to the Corporation at the expiration of his or her term of office or in case of death, resignation or removal from office, of all books, papers, vouchers, money or other property of whatever kind in his or her possession or under his or her control belonging to the Corporation. The treasurer shall perform such other duties as from time to time may be assigned to him or her.
Section 12.    Treasurer.
 In the absence or disability of the treasurer, one or more assistant treasurers shall perform all the duties of the treasurer and, when so acting, shall have all the powers of, and be subject to all restrictions upon, the treasurer. Assistant treasurers shall also perform such other duties as from time to time may be assigned to them.
Section 13.    Assistant Treasurers.
 The secretary shall keep the minutes of all meetings of the stockholders and of the Board of Directors in a book or books kept for that purpose. He or she shall keep in safe custody the seal of the Corporation, and shall affix such seal to any instrument requiring it. The secretary shall have charge of such books and papers as the Board of Directors may direct. He or she shall attend to the giving and serving of all notices of the Corporation and shall also have such other powers and perform such other duties as pertain to the secretary's office, or as the Board of Directors, the chairman of the Board of Directors, the deputy chairman of the Board of Directors (if any), the president (if any) or any vice chairman of the Board of Directors may from time to time prescribe.
Section 14.    Secretary.
 
 In the absence or disability of the secretary, one or more assistant secretaries shall perform all of the duties of the secretary and, when so acting, shall have all of the powers of, and be subject to all the restrictions upon, the secretary. Assistant secretaries shall also perform such other duties as from time to time may be assigned to them.
Section 15.    Assistant Secretaries.
 The controller shall be administrative head of the controller's department. He or she shall be in charge of all functions relating to accounting and the preparation and analysis of budgets and statistical reports and shall establish, through appropriate channels, recording and reporting procedures and standards pertaining to such matters. The controller shall report to the chief financial officer and shall aid in developing internal corporate policies whereby the business of the Corporation shall be conducted with the maximum safety, efficiency and economy. The controller shall be available to all departments of the Corporation for advice and guidance in the interpretation and application of policies that are within the scope of his or her authority. The controller shall perform such other duties as from time to time may be assigned to him or her.
Section 16.    Controller.
 In the absence or disability of the controller, one or more assistant controllers shall perform all of the duties of the controller and, when so acting, shall have all of the powers of, and be subject to all the restrictions upon, the controller. Assistant controllers shall also perform such other duties as from time to time may be assigned to them.
Section 17.    Assistant Controllers.
 The chairman of the Board of Directors, the deputy chairman of the Board of Directors (if any), the president (if any), the chief operating officer (if any), any vice chairman of the Board of Directors (if any), any vice president, the treasurer, the secretary and such other persons as the chairman of the Board of Directors may authorize shall have the power to execute any contract or other instrument on behalf of the Corporation; no other officer, agent or employee shall, unless otherwise in these By-Laws provided, have any power or authority to bind the Corporation by any contract or acknowledgement, or pledge its credit or render it liable pecuniarily for any purpose or to any amount.
Section 1.    Contracts.
 The chairman of the Board of Directors, the deputy chairman of the Board of Directors (if any), the president (if any), any vice chairman of the Board of Directors (if any), any vice president, the treasurer and such other persons as the Board of Directors may authorize shall have the power to effect loans and advances at any time for the Corporation from any bank, trust company or other institution, or from any corporation, firm or individual, and for such loans and advances may make, execute and deliver promissory notes or other evidences of indebtedness of the Corporation, and, as security for the payment of any and all loans, advances, indebtedness and liability of the Corporation, may pledge, hypothecate or transfer any and all stocks, securities and other personal property at any time held by the Corporation, and to that end endorse, assign and deliver the same.
Section 2.    Loans.
 
 The chairman of the Board of Directors, the deputy chairman of the Board of Directors (if any), the president (if any), any vice chairman of the Board of Directors (if any), any vice president or the secretary may from time to time appoint an attorney or attorneys or agent or agents of the Corporation to cast the votes that the Corporation may be entitled to cast as a stockholder or otherwise in any other corporation, any of whose stock or securities may be held by the Corporation, at meetings of the holders of the stock or other securities of such other corporation, or to consent in writing to any action by any other such corporation, and may instruct the person or persons so appointed as to the manner of casting such votes or giving such consent, and may execute or cause to be executed on behalf of the Corporation such written proxies, consents, waivers or other instruments as such officer may deem necessary or proper in the premises; or the chairman of the Board of Directors, the deputy chairman of the Board of Directors (if any), the president (if any), any vice chairman of the Board of Directors (if any), any vice president or the secretary may attend in person any meeting of the holders of stock or other securities of such other corporation and thereat vote or exercise any and all powers of the Corporation as the holder of such stock or other securities of such other corporation.
Section 3.    Voting of Stock Held.
Certificates representing shares of the Corporation shall be signed by the chairman of the Board of Directors, the deputy chairman of the Board of Directors (if any), or the vice chairman of the Board of Directors (if any), or the president of the Corporation (if any) and the secretary or an assistant secretary. Any and all signatures on such certificates, including signatures of officers, transfer agents and registrars, may be facsimile.
The Board of Directors may declare dividends from funds of the Corporation legally available therefor.
The Board of Directors shall provide a suitable seal or seals, which shall be in the form of a circle, and shall bear around the circumference the words "Altria Group, Inc." and in the center the word and figures "Virginia, 1985."
 
The fiscal year of the Corporation shall be the calendar year.
The power to alter, amend or repeal the By-Laws of the Corporation or to adopt new By-Laws shall be vested in the Board of Directors, but By-Laws made by the Board of Directors may be repealed or changed by the stockholders, or new By-Laws may be adopted by the stockholders, and the stockholders may prescribe that any By-Laws made by them shall not be altered, amended or repealed by the directors.
If a quorum of the Board of Directors cannot be readily assembled because of some catastrophic event, and only in such event, these By-Laws shall, without further action by the Board of Directors, be deemed to have been amended for the duration of such emergency, as follows:
Section 1.    Section 6 of Article II shall read as follows:
Any vacancy occurring in the Board of Directors may be filled by the affirmative vote of a majority of the directors present at a meeting of the Board of Directors called in accordance with these By-Laws.
Section 2.    The first sentence of Section 10 of Article II shall read as follows:
Special meetings of the Board of Directors shall be held whenever called by order of the chairman of the Board of Directors or a deputy chairman (if any), or of the president (if any) or any vice chairman of the Board of Directors (if any) or any director or of any person having the powers and duties of the chairman of the Board of Directors, the deputy chairman, the president or any vice chairman of the Board of Directors.
Section 3.    Section 12 of Article II shall read as follows:
The directors present at any regular or special meeting called in accordance with these By-Laws shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at such meeting, and the action of a majority of such directors shall be the act of the
 
Board of Directors, provided, however, that in the event that only one director is present at any such meeting no action except the election of directors shall be taken until at least two additional directors have been elected and are in attendance.
 

Exhibit 10.1
Section 1. Purpose; Definitions.
The purposes of the Plan are (i) to assist the Company in promoting a greater identity of interest between the Company's Non-Employee Directors and the Company's stockholders; and (ii) to assist the Company in attracting and retaining Non-Employee Directors by affording them an opportunity to share in the future successes of the Company.
For purposes of the Plan, the following terms are defined as set forth below:
(a) "Award" means the grant under the Plan (or, to the extent relevant, under any Prior Directors Plan) of Common Stock, Stock Options, or Other Stock-Based Awards.
(b) "Board" means the Board of Directors of the Company.
(c) "Committee" means the Nominating, Corporate Governance and Social Responsibility Committee of the Board or a subcommittee thereof, any successor thereto or such other committee or subcommittee as may be designated by the Board to administer the Plan.
(d) "Common Stock" or "Stock" means the Common Stock of the Company.
(e) "Company" means Altria Group, Inc., a corporation organized under the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia, or any successor thereto.
(f) "Deferred Stock" means an unfunded obligation of the Company, represented by an entry on the books and records of the Company, to issue one share of Common Stock on the date of distribution.
(g) "Deferred Stock Account" means the unfunded deferred compensation account established by the Company with respect to each participant who elects to participate in the Deferred Stock Program in accordance with Section 7 of the Plan.
(h) "Deferred Stock Program" means the provisions of Section 7 of the Plan that permit participants to defer all or part of any Award of Stock pursuant to Section 5(a) of the Plan.
(i) "Fair Market Value" means, as of any given date, the average of the highest and lowest reported sales prices of the Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange-Composite Transactions or, if no such sale of Common Stock is reported on such date, the fair market value of the Stock as determined by the Committee in good faith; provided, however, that the Committee may in its discretion designate the actual sales price as Fair Market Value in the case of dispositions of Common Stock under the Plan. In the case of Stock Options or similar Other Stock-Based Awards, for purposes of Section 5(a), Fair Market Value means, as of any given date, the Black-Scholes or similar value determined based on the assumptions used for purposes of the Company's most recent financial reporting.
(j) "Non-Employee Director" means each member of the Board who is not a full-time employee of the Company or of any corporation in which the Company owns, directly or indirectly, stock possessing at least 50% of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock entitled to vote in the election of directors in such corporation.
(k) "Other Stock-Based Award" means an Award, other than a Stock Option or Deferred Stock, that is denominated in, valued in whole or in part by reference to, or otherwise based on or related to, Common Stock.
(l) "Plan" means this Stock Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors, as amended from time to time.
(m) "Plan Year" means the period commencing at the opening of business on the day on which the Company's annual meeting of stockholders is held and ending on the day immediately preceding the day on which the Company's next annual meeting of stockholders is held.
(n) "Prior Directors Plans" shall mean the Company's 1992 Compensation Plan For Non-Employee Directors, the 2000 Stock Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors, the 2005 Stock Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors, the 2005 Stock Compensation Plan, as amended and restated effective August 31, 2007 (the pre-amendment version of this Plan), and any subplans thereof.
(o) "Stock Option" means a right granted to a Non-Employee Director to purchase a share of Stock at a price equal to the Fair Market Value on the date of grant. Any Stock Options granted pursuant to the Plan shall be nonqualified stock options.
 
Section 2. Administration.
The Plan shall be administered by the Committee, which shall have the power to interpret the Plan and to adopt such rules and guidelines for carrying out the Plan and appoint such delegates as it may deem appropriate. The Committee shall have the authority to adopt such modifications, procedures and subplans as may be necessary or desirable to comply with the laws, regulations, compensation practices and tax and accounting principles of the countries in which Non-Employee Directors reside or are citizens of and to meet the objectives of the Plan.
Any determination made by the Committee in accordance with the provisions of the Plan with respect to any Award shall be made in the sole discretion of the Committee, and all decisions made by the Committee pursuant to the provisions of the Plan shall be final and binding on all persons, including the Company and Plan participants.
Section 3. Eligibility.
Only Non-Employee Directors shall be granted Awards under the Plan.
Section 4. Common Stock Subject to the Plan.
The total number of shares of Common Stock reserved and available for distribution pursuant to the Plan shall be 1,000,000. If any Stock Option or Other Stock-Based Award is forfeited or expires without the delivery of Common Stock to a participant, the shares subject to such Award shall again be available for distribution in connection with Awards under the Plan. Any shares of Common Stock that are used by a participant as full or partial payment of withholding or other taxes or as payment for the exercise price of an Award shall be available for distribution in connection with Awards under the Plan.
In the event of any merger, share exchange, reorganization, consolidation, recapitalization, reclassification, distribution, stock dividend, stock split, reverse stock split, split-up, spin-off, issuance of rights or warrants or other similar transaction or event affecting the Common Stock after adoption of the Plan by the Board, the Committee is authorized to and shall make such adjustments or substitutions with respect to the Plan and any Prior Directors Plan and to Awards granted thereunder as it deems appropriate to reflect the occurrence of such event, including, but not limited to, adjustments (A) to the aggregate number and kind of securities reserved for issuance under the Plan, (B) to the Award amounts set forth in Section 5(a), and (C) to the number and kind of securities subject to outstanding Awards and, if applicable, to the grant or exercise price of outstanding Awards. In connection with any such event, the Committee is also authorized to provide for the payment of any outstanding Awards in cash, including, but not limited to, payment of cash in lieu of any fractional Awards, provided that any such payment shall comply with the requirements of Internal Revenue Code section 409A.
 
Section 5. Awards.
(a) Annual Awards. On the first day of each Plan Year, each Non-Employee Director serving as such immediately after the annual meeting held on such day shall receive an Award having a Fair Market Value equal to $160,000 (with any fractional share being rounded up to the next whole share) or such greater amount as the Committee determines in its discretion. Such Award shall be made in the form of Common Stock, Stock Options, Other Stock-Based Awards, or a combination of the foregoing as the Committee determines in its discretion.
(b) Terms of Awards.
(i) Awards pursuant to Section 5(a) that are denominated in Common Stock are eligible for participation in the Deferred Stock Program described in Section 7.
(ii) The term of each Stock Option or similar Other Stock-Based Award shall be ten years. Each Stock Option or similar Other Stock-Based Award shall vest in not less than six months (or such longer period set forth in the Award agreement) and shall be forfeited if the participant does not continue to be a Non-Employee Director for the duration of the vesting period, unless the participant ceases to be a Non-Employee Director by reason of the participant's death or disability. Subject to the applicable Award agreement, Stock Options or similar Other Stock-Based Awards may be exercised, in whole or in part, by giving written notice of exercise specifying the number of shares to be purchased. Such notice shall be accompanied by payment in full of the purchase price by certified or bank check or such other instrument as the Company may accept (including, to the extent the Committee determines such a procedure to be acceptable, a copy of instructions to a broker or bank acceptable to the Company to deliver promptly to the Company an amount of sale or loan proceeds sufficient to pay the purchase price). As determined by the Committee, payment in full or in part may also be made in the form of Common Stock already owned by the Non-Employee Director valued at Fair Market Value; provided, however, that such Common Stock shall not have been acquired by the optionee within the six months following the exercise of a Stock Option or similar Other Stock-Based Award, within six months after the lapse of any restrictions on an Other Stock-Based Award, or within six months after the receipt of Common Stock from the Company, whether in settlement of any Award or otherwise.
Section 6. Award Agreements.
Each Award of a Stock Option or Other Stock-Based Award under the Plan shall be evidenced by a written agreement (which need not be signed by the Award recipient unless otherwise specified by the Committee) that sets forth the terms, conditions and limitations for each such Award.
 
Section 7. Payments and Payment Deferrals.
(a) Each participant may elect to participate in a Deferred Stock Program with respect to Awards of Common Stock granted under Section 5(a). The Deferred Stock Program shall be administered in accordance with the terms of this Section 7, provided that the Committee may modify the terms of the Deferred Stock Program or may require deferral of the payment of Awards under such rules and procedures as it may establish. Any deferral election shall be made at a time and for such period as shall satisfy the requirements of Internal Revenue Code section 409A(a)(4).
(b) Any election to have the Company establish a Deferred Stock Account shall be made in terms of integral multiples of 25% of the number of shares of Common Stock that the participant otherwise would have been granted on each date of grant, shall be made no later than the last day of the calendar year immediately preceding the date of grant (or in the case of a participant who is first becoming eligible for this Plan and any other Plan required to be aggregated with this Plan under Internal Revenue Code section 409A and the regulations and other guidance thereunder, no later than 30 days after the participant first becomes eligible and before the date of grant), and shall specify the time and form of distribution of the participant's Deferred Stock Account in a manner complying with Internal Revenue Code section 409A(a)(2) and (3). Any such election (including an existing election to participate in the Deferred Stock Program under the Prior Directors Plans) shall remain in effect for purposes of the Plan until the participant executes (i) a new election applicable to any grants denominated in Common Stock to be made in years after the year in which the new election is made or (ii) an election not to participate in the Deferred Stock Program for Common Stock grants in such future years. New elections pursuant to clause (i) of the preceding sentence may be made only to the extent permitted under rules and procedures established by the Committee taking into account administrative feasibility and other constraints. Notwithstanding the foregoing, participants shall be offered the opportunity to elect on or before December 31, 2008, to change their existing elections as to the time or form of distribution of amounts credited to their Deferred Stock Accounts, provided that the election shall apply only to amounts that would not otherwise be payable in 2008 and shall not cause an amount to be paid in 2008 that would not otherwise be payable in 2008.
(c) The Deferred Stock Account of a participant who elects to participate in the Deferred Stock Program shall be credited with shares of Deferred Stock equal to the number of shares of Common Stock that the participant elected to receive as Deferred Stock. The Deferred Stock Account shall thereafter be credited with amounts equal to the cash dividends that would have been paid had the participant held a number of shares of Common Stock equal to the number of shares of Deferred Stock in the participant's Deferred Stock Account, and any such amounts shall be treated as invested in additional shares of Deferred Stock. Effective at the conclusion of the 2005 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, any amounts held in a participant's Deferred Stock Account pursuant to
 
deferrals under the Prior Directors Plans shall be treated as invested in the number of shares of Deferred Stock determined by dividing the value of the participant's Deferred Stock Account on such date by the Fair Market Value of one share of Common Stock on such date.
(d) If as a result of adjustments or substitutions in connection with an event described in the second paragraph of Section 4 of this Plan, a participant has received or receives with respect to Deferred Stock credited to the participant's Deferred Stock Account rights or amounts measured by reference to stock other than Common Stock, (i) such rights or amounts shall be treated as subject to elections made, crediting of the participant's account, and any other matters relating to this Plan in a manner parallel to the treatment of Deferred Stock under the Plan, provided that any crediting of amounts to reflect dividends with respect to such other stock shall be treated as invested in additional Deferred Stock rather than such other stock, and (ii) within 12 months following the event described in Section 4, the participant shall be offered the opportunity to convert the portion of his or her account measured by reference to such other stock to Deferred Stock with the same Fair Market Value (rounded as necessary to reflect fractional shares) as of the date of such conversion.
(e) Any election by a participant for his or her Deferred Stock Account to be paid upon his or her separation from service as a member of the Board shall be applied in accordance with Internal Revenue Code section 409A. No separation from service shall be deemed to occur until the participant ceases to serve on any and all of the Board of Directors of the Company and the board of directors of any other company with respect to which his service as a director began while such other company was a subsidiary of the Company.
(f) The Deferred Stock Program shall be administered under such rules and procedures as the Committee may from time to time establish, including rules with respect to elections to defer, beneficiary designations and distributions under the Deferred Stock Program. Notwithstanding anything in this Plan to the contrary, all elections to defer, distributions, and other aspects of the Deferred Stock Program shall be made in accordance with and shall comply with Internal Revenue Code section 409A and any regulations and other guidance thereunder.
Section 8. Plan Amendment and Termination.
The Board may amend or terminate the Plan at any time without stockholder approval, including, but not limited to, any amendments necessary to comply with section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and any regulations and other guidance thereunder; provided, however, that no amendment shall be made without stockholder approval if such approval is required under applicable law, regulation, or stock exchange
 
rule, or if such amendment would: (i) decrease the grant or exercise price of any Stock Option or a similar Other Stock-Based Award to less than the Fair Market Value on the date of grant (except as contemplated by Section 4); or (ii) increase the total number of shares of Common Stock that may be distributed under the Plan. Except as may be necessary to comply with a change in the laws, regulations or accounting principles of a foreign country applicable to participants subject to the laws of such foreign country, the Committee may not, without stockholder approval, cancel any Stock Option or similar Other Stock-Based Award and substitute therefor a new Stock Option or Other Stock-Based Award with a lower exercise price. Except as set forth in any Award agreement or as necessary to comply with applicable law or avoid adverse tax consequences to some or all Award recipients, no amendment or termination of the Plan may materially and adversely affect any outstanding Award under the Plan without the Award recipient's consent.
Section 9. Transferability.
Unless otherwise required by law, Awards shall not be transferable or assignable other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution.
Section 10. Unfunded Status Plan.
It is presently intended that the Plan constitute an "unfunded" plan for incentive and deferred compensation. The Committee may authorize the creation of trusts or other arrangements to meet the obligations created under the Plan to deliver Common Stock or make payments; provided, however, that, unless the Committee otherwise determines, the existence of such trusts or other arrangements is consistent with the "unfunded" status of the Plan.
Section 11. General Provisions.
(a) The Committee may require each person acquiring shares of Common Stock pursuant to an Award to represent to and agree with the Company in writing that such person is acquiring the shares without a view to the distribution thereof. The certificates for such shares may include any legend that the Committee deems appropriate to reflect any restrictions on transfer.
All certificates for shares of Common Stock or other securities delivered under the Plan shall be subject to such stock transfer orders and other restrictions as the Committee may deem advisable under the rules, regulations and other requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission (or any successor agency), any stock exchange upon which the Common Stock is then listed, and any applicable Federal, state or foreign securities law, and the Committee may cause a legend or legends to be put on any such certificates to make appropriate reference to such restrictions.
 
(b) Nothing contained in the Plan shall prevent the Company from adopting other or additional compensation arrangements for Non-Employee Directors.
(c) Nothing in the Plan or in any Award agreement shall confer upon any grantee the right to continued service as a member of the Board.
(d) No later than the date as of which an amount first becomes includable in the gross income of the participant for income tax purposes with respect to any Award under the Plan, the participant shall pay to the Company, or make arrangements satisfactory to the Company regarding the payment of, any Federal, state, local or foreign taxes of any kind that are required by law or applicable regulation to be withheld with respect to such amount. Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, withholding obligations arising from an Award may be settled with Common Stock, including Common Stock that is part of, or is received upon exercise of the Award that gives rise to the withholding requirement. The obligations of the Company under the Plan shall be conditional on such payment or arrangements, and the Company, shall, to the extent permitted by law, have the right to deduct any such taxes from any payment otherwise due to the participant. The Committee may establish such procedures as it deems appropriate, including the making of irrevocable elections, for the settling of withholding obligations with Common Stock.
(e) The terms of this Plan shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of any successor to Altria Group, Inc. and any permitted successors or assigns of a grantee.
(f) The Plan and all Awards made and actions taken thereunder shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia, excluding any conflicts or choice of law rule or principle that might otherwise refer construction or interpretation of the Plan to the substantive law of another jurisdiction. Unless otherwise provided in an Award, recipients of an Award under the Plan are deemed to submit to the exclusive jurisdiction and venue of the federal or state courts of Virginia, to resolve any and all issues that may arise out of or relate to the Plan or any related Award. Notwithstanding anything in this Plan to the contrary, the Plan shall be construed to reflect the intent of the Company that all elections to defer, distributions, and other aspects of the Plan shall comply with Internal Revenue Code section 409A and any regulations and other guidance thereunder.
(g) If any provision of the Plan is held invalid or unenforceable, the invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect the remaining parts of the Plan, and the Plan shall be enforced and construed as if such provision had not been included.
 
(h) The Plan was approved by shareholders and became effective at the conclusion of the 2005 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. Except as otherwise provided by the Board, no Awards shall be made after the Awards made immediately following the 2015 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, provided that any Awards granted prior to that date may extend beyond it.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 Altria Group, Inc. (Altria) (NYSE:MO) today announced that its Board of Directors (Board) elected Kathryn B. McQuade to the Board. With the addition of Ms. McQuade, Altria's Board increases from eleven to twelve directors.
RICHMOND, Va. (February 29, 2012)
Ms. McQuade serves as executive vice president and chief financial officer of Canadian Pacific Railway Limited, a transcontinental railway in Canada and the United States, a position she has held since September 2008. Ms. McQuade joined the company in June 2007 as executive vice president and chief operating officer. Prior to joining Canadian Pacific Railway Limited, Ms. McQuade served as executive vice president  planning and chief information officer at Norfolk Southern Corporation where she spent 27 years in key information technology, strategic planning and finance leadership positions. She serves as a director of several privately-held companies and serves on the Board of Trustees of The College of William & Mary Foundation.
Altria's Profile
Altria directly or indirectly owns 100% of each of Philip Morris USA Inc., U.S. Smokeless Tobacco Company LLC, John Middleton Co., Ste. Michelle Wine Estates Ltd. (Ste. Michelle), and Philip Morris Capital Corporation. Altria holds a continuing economic and voting interest in SABMiller plc.
The brand portfolio of Altria's tobacco operating companies includes such well-known names as , , and. Ste. Michelle produces and markets premium wines sold under 20 different labels including and , and it exclusively distributes and markets , and products in the United States. Trademarks and service marks related to Altria referenced in this release are the property of, or licensed by, Altria or its subsidiaries. Take a closer look at .
Marlboro
Copenhagen
Skoal
Black & Mild
Chateau Ste. Michelle
Columbia Crest
Antinori
Champagne Nicolas Feuillatte
Villa Maria Estate
www.altria.com
SOURCE: Altria Group, Inc.
Altria Client Services Investors Relations
804-484-8222
Altria Client Services Media Relations
804-484-8897


