FILE:WPO/WPO-8K-20020809142356.txt.gz
EVENTS:	
TEXT:
ITEM: 
Item 9.  Regulation FD Disclosure                                                  
On August 9, 2002, each of the Principal Executive Officer, Donald E. Graham, and Principal Financial Officer, John B. Morse, Jr., of The Washington Post Company submitted to the SEC sworn statements pursuant to Securities and Exchange Commission Order No. 4-460. 
A copy of each of these statements is attached hereto as an Exhibit (99.1 and 99.2).
Exhibit 99.1   Statement Under Oath of Principal Executive Officer dated August 9, 2002
Exhibit 99.2   Statement Under Oath of Principal Financial Officer dated August 9, 2002
 
                    

Exhibit 99.1
 I, Donald E. Graham, state and attest that:
(1) To the best of my knowledge, based upon a review of the covered reports of The Washington Post Company, and, except as corrected or supplemented in a subsequent covered report:
  no covered report contained an untrue statement of a material fact as of the end of the  period covered by such report (or in the case of a report on Form 8-K or definitive proxy materials, as of the date on which it was filed); and
  no covered report omitted to state a material fact necessary to make the statements in the covered report, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading as of the end of the period covered by such report (or in the case of a report on Form 8-K or definitive proxy materials, as of the date on which it was filed).
(2) I have reviewed the contents of this statement with the Company's audit committee.                              
(3) In this statement under oath, each of the following, if filed on or before the date of this statement, is a "covered report":
 Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 30, 2001, filed with the Commission of The Washington Post Company;
 all reports on Form 10-Q, all reports on Form 8-K and all definitive proxy materials of The Washington Post Company filed with the Commission subsequent to the filing of the Form 10-K  identified above; and
 any amendments to any of the foregoing.
 

Exhibit 99.2
 I, John B. Morse, Jr., state and attest that:
(1)To the best of my knowledge, based upon a review of the covered reports of The Washington Post Company, and, except as corrected or supplemented in a subsequent covered report:
  no covered report contained an untrue statement of a material fact as of the end of the  period covered by such report (or in the case of a report on Form 8-K or definitive proxy materials, as of the date on which it was filed); and
  no covered report omitted to state a material fact necessary to make the statements in the covered report, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading as of the end of the period covered by such report (or in the case of a report on Form 8-K or definitive proxy materials, as of the date on which it was filed).
(2)I have reviewed the contents of this statement with the Company's audit comittee.
(3)In this statement under oath, each of the following, if filed on or before the date of this statement, is a "covered report":
  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 30, 2001, filed with the Commission of The Washington Post Company;
 all reports on Form 10-Q, all reports on Form 8-K and all definitive proxy materials of The Washington Post Company filed with the Commission subsequent to the filing of the Form 10-K  identified above; and
  any amendments to any of the foregoing.
 


