FILE:WPO/WPO-8K-20030923153745.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 --------------------- FORM 8-K/A CURRENT REPORT (Amendment No. 1) Pursuant To Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report (Date of Earliest Event Reported): September 22, 2003 THE WASHINGTON POST COMPANY (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) Delaware 1-6714 53-0182885 (State or other (Commission File Number) (IRS Employer jurisdiction Identification of incorporation) Number) 1150 15th Street, N.W. 20071 Washington, DC (Zip Code) (Address of principal executive offices) (202) 334-6000 (Registrant's Telephone Number, Including Area Code) Not Applicable (Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
2 Item 5. Other Events Corporate Restructuring On September 22, 2003, The Washington Post Company (the "Company") announced that it has completed an internal corporate restructuring (the "Restructuring"). The principal purpose of the Restructuring was to separate the Company's Washington Post newspaper publishing business into a subsidiary of a newly formed public holding company (the "Holding Company"), which has assumed the corporate name of "The Washington Post Company". Pursuant to Rule 12g-3(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), the Class B Common Stock of the Holding Company is deemed to be registered under Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act. A copy of the press release further describing the Restructuring is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits. C. Exhibits. Exhibit No. Description 2.1 Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of September 19, 2003, among The Washington Post Company, TWPC, Inc. and WP Company. 2.2 Transfer Agreement dated as of September 22, 2003, between WP Company LLC (formerly known as The Washington Post Company) and The Washington Post Company (formerly known as TWPC, Inc.). 3.1 Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of The Washington Post Company (formerly known as TWPC, Inc.) dated as of September 22, 2003. 3.2 Certificate of Designation of Series A Preferred Stock of The Washington Post Company (formerly known as TWPC, Inc.) dated as of September 22, 2003. 3.3 Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of WP Company (formerly known as The Washington Post Company) dated as of September 22, 2003. 3.4 By-Laws of The Washington Post Company (formerly known as TWPC, Inc. as amended and restated through September 22, 2003. 4.1 First Supplemental Indenture dated as of September 22, 2003, among WP Company LLC (formerly known as The Washington Post Company), the Company (formerly
3 known as TWPC, Inc.) and Bank One, NA, as successor to The First National Bank of Chicago, as trustee, to the Indenture dated as of February 17, 1999 between The Washington Post Company and The First National Bank of Chicago, as trustee (which Indenture is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 3, 1999). 4.2 364-Day Credit Agreement dated as of August 13, 2003, among the Company, the banks, financial institutions and other institutional lenders named therein and Citibank, N.A., as administrative agent for the lenders. 4.3 Consent and Amendment No. 1 dated as of August 13, 2003, to the 5-Year Credit Agreement dated as of August 14, 2002, among the Company, the banks, financial institutions and other institutional lenders, named therein and Citibank, N.A., as agent for the lenders (which 5-Year Credit Agreement is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 29, 2002). 99.1 Press Release dated September 23, 2003.
4 SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. The Washington Post Company Date: September 22, 2003 By: /s/ John B. Morse, Jr. ----------------------------- Name: John B. Morse, Jr. Title: Vice President - Finance
5 EXHIBIT INDEX Exhibit No. Description Exhibit 2.1 Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of September 17, 2003, among The Washington Post Company, TWPC, Inc. and WP Company. Exhibit 2.2 Transfer Agreement dated as of September 22, 2003, between WP Company LLC (formerly known as The Washington Post Company) and The Washington Post Company (formerly known as TWPC, Inc.). Exhibit 3.1 Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of The Washington Post Company (formerly known as TWPC, Inc.) dated as of September 22, 2003. Exhibit 3.2 Certificate of Designation of Series A Preferred Stock of The Washington Post Company (formerly known as TWPC, Inc.) dated as of September 22, 2003. Exhibit 3.3 Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of WP Company (formerly known as The Washington Post Company) dated as of September 22, 2003. Exhibit 3.4 By-Laws of The Washington Post Company (formerly known as TWPC, Inc.) as amended and restated through September 22, 2003. Exhibit 4.1 First Supplemental Indenture dated as of September 22, 2003, among WP Company LLC (formerly known as The Washington Post Company), the Company (formerly known as TWPC, Inc.) and Bank One, NA, as successor to The First National Bank of Chicago, as trustee, to the Indenture dated as of February 17, 1999 between The Washington Post Company and The First National Bank of Chicago, as trustee (which Indenture is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 3, 1999). Exhibit 4.2 364-Day Credit Agreement dated as of August 13, 2003, among the Company, the banks, financial institutions and other institutional lenders named therein and Citibank, N.A., as administrative agent for the lenders. Exhibit 4.3 Consent and Amendment No. 1 dated as of August 13, 2003, to the 5-Year Credit Agreement dated as of August 14, 2002, among the Company, the banks, financial institutions and other institutional lenders, named therein and Citibank, N.A., as agent for the
6 lenders (which 5-year Credit Agreement is incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 29, 2002). Exhibit 99.1 Press Release dated September 23, 2003.

Exhibit 2.1 AGREEMENT AND PLAN OF MERGER AMONG THE WASHINGTON POST COMPANY, TWPC, INC. AND WP COMPANY Dated as of September 19, 2003
i TABLE OF CONTENTS Page ARTICLE I THE MERGER.............................................................1 Section 1.1 The Merger................................................1 Section 1.2 Effective Time............................................1 Section 1.3 Effects of the Merger.....................................1 Section 1.4 Charter and Bylaws; Directors and Officers................2 ARTICLE II CONVERSION OF SECURITIES; EXCHANGE OF CERTIFICATES; CLOSING............2 Section 2.1 Conversion of Securities..................................2 Section 2.2 Further Assurances........................................3 Section 2.3 Closing...................................................3 ARTICLE III RELATED ARRANGEMENTS...................................................4 Section 3.1 Related Arrangements......................................4 ARTICLE IV GENERAL PROVISIONS.....................................................4 Section 4.1 Interpretation............................................4 Section 4.2 Counterparts..............................................5 Section 4.3 Entire Agreement; No Third-Party Beneficiaries............5 Section 4.4 Governing Law.............................................5
AGREEMENT AND PLAN OF MERGER AGREEMENT AND PLAN OF MERGER, dated as of September 19, 2003 (this "Agreement"), among The Washington Post Company, a Delaware corporation ("Parent"), TWPC, Inc., a Delaware corporation and wholly-owned subsidiary of Parent (the "Company"), and WP Company, a Delaware corporation and wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company ("Sub"). W I T N E S S E T H: WHEREAS, the respective Boards of Directors of Parent, the Company and Sub have each approved the merger of Parent with and into Sub (the "Merger"), upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in this Agreement; and WHEREAS, the Merger is being effected pursuant to the provisions of Section 251(g) of the Delaware General Corporation Law, as amended (the "DGCL"). NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises, representations, warranties and agreements herein contained, the parties agree as follows: ARTICLE I THE MERGER Section 1.1 The Merger. Upon the terms and subject to the conditions hereof, and in accordance with the DGCL, Parent shall be merged with Sub at the Effective Time (as defined in Section 1.2). At the Effective Time, the separate corporate existence of Sub shall cease and Parent shall continue as the surviving corporation (the "Surviving Corporation") and shall succeed to and assume all the rights and obligations of Sub in accordance with the DGCL. The Merger shall be effected in accordance with, and pursuant to, the terms of Section 251(g) of the DGCL. Section 1.2 Effective Time. The Merger shall become effective when a certificate of merger (the "Certificate of Merger"), executed in accordance with the relevant provisions of the DGCL, is duly filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware, or at such other time as is specified in the Certificate of Merger (the time the Merger becomes effective being hereinafter referred to as the "Effective Time"). The Certificate of Merger shall be so filed by Parent on the date of the Closing (as defined in Section 2.3) or such other time as Parent and Sub shall mutually agree. Section 1.3 Effects of the Merger. The Merger shall have the effects set forth in Section 259 of the DGCL. Section 1.4 Charter and Bylaws; Directors and Officers. (a) At the Effective Time, the Certificate of Incorporation of Sub (the "Charter") as in effect immediately prior to the Effective Time shall be the Certificate of Incorporation of the Surviving Corporation until thereafter changed or amended as provided therein or by applicable law. At the Effective Time, the Bylaws of Sub as in effect immediately prior to the Effective Time shall be the Bylaws of the Surviving Corporation until thereafter changed or amended as provided therein. (b) The directors of Sub immediately prior to the Effective Time shall be the directors of the Surviving Corporation at the Effective Time, until the earlier of their resignation or removal or until their respective successors are duly elected and qualified, as the case may be. The officers of Sub immediately prior to at the Effective Time of the Merger shall be the officers of the Surviving Corporation at the Effective Time, until the earlier of their resignation or removal or until their respective successors are duly elected and qualified, as the case may be. ARTICLE II CONVERSION OF SECURITIES; EXCHANGE OF CERTIFICATES; CLOSING Section 2.1 Conversion of Securities. As of the Effective Time, by virtue of the Merger and without any action on the part of Parent, the Company or Sub: (a) Each issued and outstanding share of common stock, par value $1 per share, of the Company held by Parent shall no longer be outstanding and shall automatically be canceled and retired and shall cease to exist, and no consideration shall be delivered in exchange therefor. (b) Each issued and outstanding share of common stock, par value of $1 per share, of Sub shall be converted into one validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable share of common stock, par value $1 per share, of the Surviving Corporation. (c) All shares that are held in the treasury of the Sub shall no longer be outstanding and shall automatically be canceled and retired and shall cease to exist and no consideration shall be delivered in exchange therefor. (d) Each issued and outstanding share of Class A Common Stock, par value $1 per share, of Parent shall be converted into one validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable share of Class A Common Stock of the Company. All of the shares of Class A Common Stock of Parent converted into Class A Common Stock of the Company pursuant to this Section 2.1(d) shall no longer be outstanding and shall automatically be canceled and shall cease to exist as of the Effective Time, and each certificate previously representing any such shares of Class A Common Stock of Parent shall thereafter represent automatically, without the requirement of any exchange thereof, the same number of shares of Class A Common Stock of the Company.
(e) Each issued and outstanding share of Class B Common Stock, par value $1 per share, of Parent shall be converted into one validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable share of Class B Common Stock of the Company. All of the shares of Class B Common Stock of Parent converted into Class B Common Stock of the Company pursuant to this Section 2.1(e) shall no longer be outstanding and shall automatically be canceled and shall cease to exist as of the Effective Time, and each certificate previously representing any such shares of Class B Common Stock of Parent shall thereafter represent automatically, without the requirement of any exchange thereof, the same number of shares of Class B Common Stock of the Company. (f) Each issued and outstanding share of Series A Preferred Stock, par value $1 per share, of Parent shall be converted into one validly issued, fully paid and nonassesable share of Series A Preferred Stock of the Company. All of the shares of Series A Preferred Stock of Parent converted into Series A Preferred Stock of the Company pursuant to this Section 2.1(f) shall no longer be outstanding and shall automatically be canceled and shall cease to exist as of the Effective Time, and each certificate previously representing any such shares of Series A Preferred Stock of Parent shall thereafter represent automatically, without the requirement of any exchange thereof, the same number of shares of Series A Preferred Stock of Parent. (g) All shares of Class A Common Stock, Class B Common Stock and Series A Preferred Stock that are held in the treasury of Parent shall be converted into one validly issued share of Class A Common Stock, Class B Common Stock and Series A Preferred Stock respectively, of the Company held in the treasury of the Company. Section 2.2 Further Assurances. If at any time after the Effective Time the Surviving Corporation shall consider or be advised that any deeds, bills of sale, assignments or assurances or any other acts or things are necessary, desirable or proper (a) to vest, perfect or confirm, of record or otherwise, in the Surviving Corporation its right, title or interest in, to or under any of the rights, privileges, powers, franchises, properties or assets of either of the Constituent Corporations, or (b) otherwise to carry out the purposes of this Agreement, the Surviving Corporation and its proper officers and directors or their designees shall be authorized to execute and deliver, in the name and on behalf of either of the Constituent Corporations, all such deeds, bills of sale, assignments and assurances and to do, in the name and on behalf of either Constituent Corporation, all such other acts and things as may be necessary, desirable or proper to vest, perfect or confirm the Surviving Corporation's right, title or interest in, to or under any of the rights, privileges, powers, franchises, properties or assets of such Constituent Corporation and otherwise to carry out the purposes of this Agreement. In addition, the parties agree to take all steps necessary to ensure that all the conditions required to effect the Merger in accordance with, and pursuant to, the terms of Section 251(g) of the DGCL are satisfied. Section 2.3 Closing. The closing of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement (the "Closing") and all actions specified in this Agreement to occur at the Closing shall take place at the offices of Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP, 825 Eighth Avenue, New York,
NY 10019, at 9:00 a.m., local time, on September 22, 2003. ARTICLE III RELATED ARRANGEMENTS Section 3.1 Related Arrangements. Immediately after the Effective Time, the Surviving Corporation shall convert to a Delaware limited liability company (the "New LLC"). The Company shall: (a) file, simultaneously with the filing of the Certificate of Merger contemplated by Section 1.2, with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware an Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company that is identical to the Certificate of Incorporation of Parent immediately prior to the Effective Time (which such Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation shall, among other things, change the name of the Company to "The Washington Post Company"); (b) at the Effective Time, amend and restate its bylaws so that the bylaws of the Company are identical to the bylaws of Parent immediately prior to the Effective Time; (c) immediately after the Effective Time, execute a Transfer Agreement to be dated September 22, 2003, between the Company and the New LLC, pursuant to which the New LLC will assign, transfer, convey and dispose to the Company and the Company will accept and assume, all assets (including the capital stock of subsidiaries and all other equity investments directly held by the New LLC) and liabilities (including contingent liabilities) of the Surviving Corporation, other than the assets and liabilities (including contingent liabilities) relating to the operating newspaper publishing business known as "The Washington Post"; and (d) take all steps necessary to ensure that (i) the Company is the successor issuer of Parent for purposes of registration of the Class B Common Stock of the Company under the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 and (ii) the Class B Common Stock of the Company is listed on the New York Stock Exchange in the same manner that the Class B Common Stock of Parent is listed thereon immediately prior to the Effective Time. ARTICLE IV GENERAL PROVISIONS Section 4.1 Interpretation. (a) When a reference is made in this Agreement to a Section, such reference shall be to a Section of this Agreement unless otherwise indicated. The table of contents and headings contained in this Agreement are for reference purposes only and shall not affect in any way the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement. Whenever the words "include," "includes" or "including" are used in this Agreement, they shall be deemed to be followed by the words "without limitation." Section 4.2 Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, all of which shall be considered one and the same agreement, and shall become effective when one or more counterparts have been signed by each of the parties and delivered to the other parties. Section 4.3 Entire Agreement; No Third-Party Beneficiaries. This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement, and supersedes all prior agreements and understandings, both written and oral, among the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof. Section 4.4 Governing Law. This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of Delaware, regardless of the laws that might otherwise govern under applicable principles of conflicts of laws thereof. [signature pages follow]
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Parent, Sub and the Company have caused this Agreement to be signed by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized all as of the date first written above. THE WASHINGTON POST COMPANY By: /s/ Gerald M. Rosberg ------------------------------------- Name: Gerald M. Rosberg Title: Vice President - Development TWPC, INC. By: /s/ John B. Morse, Jr. -------------------------------------- Name: John B. Morse, Jr. Title: President WP COMPANY By: /s/ John B. Morse, Jr. ------------------------------------- Name: John B. Morse, Jr. Title: President

Exhibit 2.2 TRANSFER AGREEMENT (this "Agreement") dated as of September 22, 2003, between THE WASHINGTON POST COMPANY (formerly known as TWPC, Inc.), a Delaware corporation ("Parent"), and WP Company LLC (formerly known as The Washington Post Company, a Delaware limited liability company (the "Company"). WHEREAS, Parent is the sole shareholder of the Company; WHEREAS, Parent and the Company have completed an internal corporate restructuring (the "Restructuring") pursuant to which the Company merged with a wholly owned subsidiary of Parent, pursuant to Section 251(g) of the Delaware General Corporation Law, with the Company surviving such merger and converting to a Delaware limited liability company; WHEREAS, as a result of the Restructuring, the Company is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Parent; WHEREAS, in connection with the Restructuring, the Company wishes to transfer certain assets and liabilities to Parent and Parent wishes to accept and assume such assets and liabilities; NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged by the parties, the parties hereby agree as follows: 1. Transfer of Transferred Assets. The Company hereby assigns, transfers, conveys and disposes all of the Transferred Assets (as defined below) to Parent and Parent hereby accepts the Transferred Assets. "Transferred Assets" means (i) all of the capital stock of subsidiaries and all other equity investments directly held by the Company and (ii) all of the other assets of the Company, other than the assets of the Company relating to the operating newspaper business known as "The Washington Post". 2. Transfer of Transferred Liabilities. (a) The Company hereby assigns, transfers, conveys and disposes the Transferred Liabilities (as defined below) to Parent, and Parent hereby assumes the Transferred Liabilities. "Transferred Liabilities" means all of the liabilities (including contingent liabilities) of the Company, other than the liabilities (including contingent liabilities) relating to the operating newspaper business known as "The Washington Post". (b) Without limiting the generality of subsection (a) of this Section, the Company hereby assigns, transfers, conveys and disposes the Debt (as defined below) to Parent, and Parent hereby assumes the Debt. "Debt" means:
(i) all obligations relating to the outstanding 5.50% Notes due February 15, 2009, issued under an indenture dated as of February securities issued under the indenture dated as of February 17, 1999, between the Company (then known as The Washington Post Company) and Bank One, NA (as successor to The First National Bank of Chicago), as trustee (the "Trustee"), the transfer of such obligations being evidenced by a supplemental indenture (the "Supplemental Indenture") of even date herewith, between the Company, Parent and the Trustee, a copy of which Supplemental Indenture is attached hereto as Exhibit A; (ii) all rights and obligations of the Company, as the Borrower, under the 364-Day Credit Agreement dated as of August 13, 2003, among the Company (then known as The Washington Post Company), Citibank, N.A. Wachovia Bank, N.A., SunTrust Bank, JPMorgan Chase Bank, Bank One, NA, The Bank of New York and Riggs Bank N.A., the transfer of such rights and obligations being evidenced by an assignment and assumption agreement (the "364-Day Assignment") of even date herewith, between the Company and Parent, a copy of which 364-Day Assignment is attached hereto as Exhibit B; (iii) all rights and obligations of the Company, as the Borrower, under the 5-Year Credit Agreement dated as of August 14, 2002, as amended as of August 13, 2003, among the Company (then known as The Washington Post Company), Citibank, N.A., Wachovia Bank, N.A., SunTrust Bank, JPMorgan Chase Bank, Bank One, N.A., The Bank of New York and Riggs Bank N.A., the transfer of such rights and obligations being evidenced by an assignment and assumption agreement (the "5-Year Assignment") of even date herewith, between the Company and Parent, a copy of which 5-Year Assignment is attached hereto as Exhibit C; and (iv) all the rights and obligations of the Company, as Borrower, under the letter agreement dated as of January 29, 1996, between The Washington Post Company and Goldman Sachs Money Markets, L.P., a Commercial Paper Issuing and Paying Agent Agreement dated as of June 16, 1997, between The Washington Post Company and Citibank, N.A., a Citi Treasury Manager Agreement dated as of June 16, 1997, between The Washington Post Company and Citibank, N.A. and a Corporate Commercial Paper - Master Note dated as of August 20, 1997, issued by The Washington Post Company, the transfer of such rights and obligations being evidenced by an assignment and assumption agreement (the "Commercial Paper Assignment") of even date herewith, between the Company and Parent, a copy of which Commercial Paper Assignment is attached hereto as Exhibit D.
3. Retention of Assets and Liabilities. The Company shall retain all assets and liabilities (including contingent liabilities) not being assigned, transferred, conveyed or disposed pursuant to Sections 1 and 2 above. 4. Interpretation. The headings contained in this Agreement are for reference purposes only and shall not affect in any way the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement. 5. Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, all of which shall be considered one and the same agreement, and shall become effective when one or more counterparts have been signed by each party and delivered to the other party. 6. Entire Agreement; No Third-Party Beneficiaries. This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement, and supersedes all prior agreements and understandings, both written and oral, between the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof. 7. Governing Law. This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of Delaware, regardless of the laws that might otherwise govern under applicable principles of conflicts of laws thereof. [signature pages follow]
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned have caused this Agreement to be executed and delivered by their authorized representatives as of the date first above written. THE WASHINGTON POST COMPANY (formerly TWPC, Inc.), by /s/ John B. Morse, Jr. ----------------------------------------- Name: John B. Morse, Jr. Title: Vice President - Finance WP COMPANY LLC, by /s/ Gerald M. Rosberg ---------------------------------------- Name: Gerald M. Rosberg Title: Vice President - Development

================================================================================ Exhibit 3.1 TWPC, INC. Incorporated under the Laws of the State of Delaware on July 21, 2003 AMENDED AND RESTATED CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION Pursuant to Section 245 ----------- Effective as of September 22, 2003 ================================================================================
AMENDED AND RESTATED CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION of TWPC, INC. Effective as of September 22, 2003 ---------------- FIRST: The name of the corporation (hereinafter called the Company), shall hereinafter be THE WASHINGTON POST COMPANY SECOND: The respective names of the County and of the City within the County in which the registered office of the Company is to be located in the State of Delaware are the County of New Castle and the City of Wilmington. The name of the registered agent of the Company is The Corporation Trust Company. The street and number of said registered office and the address by street and number of said registered agent is 1209 Orange Street, in the City of Wilmington. THIRD: The nature of the business of the Company and the objects and purposes to be transacted, promoted or carried on by it are as follows: (1) To publish any newspaper owned by the Company as an independent newspaper dedicated to the welfare of the community and the nation, in keeping with the principles of a free press; and (2) To engage in any lawful act or activity for which corporations may be organized under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware. Notwithstanding any provision of this Certificate of Incorporation, the Company shall not have power to carry on the business of constructing, maintaining or operating public utilities within the State of Delaware; nor shall anything herein be deemed to authorize the Company to carry on any business or exercise any power in any state, district, territory, possession or country which under the laws thereof the Company may not lawfully carry on or exercise. FOURTH: The total number of shares of all classes of stock which the Company shall have authority to issue is 48,000,000, consisting of 1,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock, par value $1.00 per share (hereinafter called the Preferred Stock), 7,000,000 shares of Class A Common Stock, par value $1.00 per share (hereinafter called the Class A Stock), and 40,000,000 shares of Class B Common Stock, par value $1.00 per share (hereinafter called the Class B Stock, and the Class A Stock and the Class B Stock being hereinafter collectively called the Common Stock). The designations and the powers, preferences and rights, and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, of each class of stock of the Company which are fixed by this Certificate of Incorporation, and the express grant of authority to the Board of Directors to fix by resolution or resolutions the designations, and the powers, preferences and rights, and the qualifications, limitations or
restrictions thereof, of the Preferred Stock which are not fixed by this Certificate of Incorporation, are as follows: A. Preferred Stock (1) Shares of Preferred Stock may be issued from time to time in one or more series, each such series to have such distinctive designation as shall be stated and expressed in the resolution or resolutions adopted by the Board of Directors providing for the initial issuance of shares of such series, and authority is expressly vested in the Board of Directors, by such resolution or resolutions providing for the initial issuance of shares of each series: (a) To fix the distinctive designation of such series and the number of shares which shall constitute such series, which number may be increased or decreased (but not below the number of shares thereof then outstanding) from time to time by action of the Board of Directors; (b) To fix (i) the dividend rate of such series, (ii) any limitations, restrictions or conditions on the payment of dividends, including whether dividends shall be cumulative and, if so, from which date or dates, (iii) the relative rights of priority, if any, of payment of dividends on shares of that series and (iv) the form of dividends, which shall be payable either (A) in cash only, or (B) in stock only, or (C) partly in cash and partly in stock, or (D) in stock or, at the option of the holder, in cash (and in such case to prescribe the terms and conditions of exercising such option), and to make provision in case of dividends payable in stock for adjustment of the dividend rate in such events as the Board of Directors shall determine; (c) To fix the price or prices at which, and the terms and conditions on which, the shares of such series may be redeemed by the Company; (d) To fix the amount or amounts payable upon the shares of such series in the event of any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company and the relative rights of priority, if any, of payment upon shares of such series; (e) To determine whether or not the shares of such series shall be entitled to the benefit of a sinking fund to be applied to the purchase or redemption of such series and, if so entitled, the amount of such fund and the manner of its application; (f) To determine whether or not the shares of such series shall be made convertible into, or exchangeable for, shares of any other class or classes of stock of the Company or shares of any other series of Preferred Stock, and, if made so convertible or exchangeable, the conversion price or prices, or the rate or rates of exchange, and the adjustments thereof, if any, at which such conversion or exchange may be made, and any other terms and conditions of such conversion or exchange; (g) To determine whether or not the shares of such series shall have any voting powers and, if voting powers are so granted, the extent of such voting powers; provided, however, that so long as any Class A Stock shall be outstanding the holders of the Class A Stock shall always have the absolute right under all conditions and circumstances to elect a majority of the directors; and provided, further, that the voting powers of all shares of Preferred Stock on all matters other than the election of directors shall be limited (except as otherwise provided by statute) to the right to vote pari passu with the holders of Class B Stock on such matters as the holders of the Class B Stock shall be entitled to vote. Subject to the foregoing and except as otherwise provided by statute, the holders of shares of Preferred Stock, as such holders, shall not have any right to vote in the election of directors or for any other purpose; and such holders shall not be entitled to notice of any meeting of stockholders at which they are not entitled to vote; (h) To determine whether or not the issue of any additional shares of such series or of any other series in addition to such series shall be subject to restrictions in addition to the restrictions, if any, on
the issue of additional shares imposed in the resolution or resolutions fixing the terms of any outstanding series of Preferred Stock theretofore issued pursuant to this Section A and, if subject to additional restrictions, the extent of such additional restrictions; and (i) Generally to fix the other rights, and any qualifications, limitations or restrictions of such rights, of such series; provided, however, that no such rights, qualifications, limitations or restrictions shall be in conflict with this Certificate of Incorporation or any amendment hereof. (2) Before any dividends shall be declared or paid or any distribution ordered or made upon the Common Stock (other than a dividend payable in Common Stock), the Company shall comply with the dividend and sinking fund provisions, if any, of any resolution or resolutions providing for the issue of any series of Preferred Stock any shares of which shall at the time be outstanding. Subject to the foregoing sentence, the holders of Common Stock shall be entitled, to the exclusion of the holders of Preferred Stock of any and all series, to receive such dividends as from time to time may be declared by the Board of Directors. (3) Upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company, the holders of Preferred Stock of each series shall be entitled to receive the amounts to which such holders are entitled as fixed with respect to such series, including all dividends accumulated to the date of final distribution, before any payment or distribution of assets of the Company shall be made to or set apart for the holders of Common Stock; and after such payments shall have been made in full to the holders of Preferred Stock, the holders of Common Stock shall be entitled to receive any and all assets remaining to be paid or distributed to stockholders and the holders of Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to share therein. For the purposes of this paragraph, the voluntary sale, conveyance, lease, exchange or transfer of all or substantially all the property or assets of the Company or a consolidation or merger of the Company with one or more other corporations (whether or not the Company is the corporation surviving such consolidation or merger) shall not be deemed to be a liquidation, dissolution or winding up, voluntary or involuntary. (4) Subject to such limitations (if any) as may be fixed by the Board of Directors with respect to such series of Preferred Stock in accordance with paragraph (1) of this Section A, Preferred Stock of each series may be redeemed at any time in whole or from time to time in part, at the option of the Company, by vote of the Board of Directors, at the redemption price thereof fixed in accordance with said paragraph (1). If less than all the outstanding shares of Preferred Stock of such series are to be redeemed, the shares to be redeemed shall be determined in such manner as the Board of Directors shall prescribe. At such time or times prior to the date fixed for redemption as the Board of Directors shall determine, written notice shall be mailed to each holder of record of shares to be redeemed, in a postage prepaid envelope addressed to such holder at his address as shown by the records of the Company, notifying such holder of the election of the Company to redeem such shares and stating the date fixed for the redemption thereof and calling upon such holder to surrender to the Company on or after said date, at a place designated in such notice, his certificate or certificates representing the number of shares specified in such notice of redemption. On and after the date fixed in such notice of redemption, each holder of shares of Preferred Stock to be redeemed shall present and surrender his certificate or certificates for such shares to the Company at the place designated in such notice and thereupon the redemption price of such shares shall be paid to or on the order of the person whose name appears on the records of the Company as the holder of the shares designated for redemption. In case less than all the shares represented by any such certificate are redeemed a new certificate shall be issued representing the unredeemed shares. From and after the date fixed in any such notice as the date of redemption (unless default shall be made by the Company in payment of the redemption price) all dividends on the shares of Preferred Stock designated for redemption in such notice shall cease to accrue and all rights of the holders thereof as stockholders of the Company, other than to receive the redemption price, shall terminate and such shares shall not thereafter be transferred (except with the consent of the Company) on the books of the Company and such shares shall not be deemed to be outstanding for any purpose whatsoever. At any time after the mailing of any such notice of redemption the Company may deposit the redemption price of the shares designated therein for redemption with a bank or trust company in the Borough of Manhattan, City and State of New York, or in the City of Washington, D. C., having capital and surplus of at least $25,000,000, in trust for the benefit of the respective holders of
the shares designated for redemption but not yet redeemed. From and after the making of such deposit the sole right of the holders of such shares shall be the right either to receive the redemption price of such shares on and after such redemption date, or, in the case of shares having conversion rights, the right to convert the same at any time at or before the earlier of the close of business on such redemption date or such prior date and time at which the right to convert shall have expired; and except for these rights, the shares of Preferred Stock so designated for redemption shall not be deemed to be outstanding for any purpose whatsoever. (5) Shares of any series of Preferred Stock which have been redeemed (whether through the operation of a sinking fund or otherwise) or purchased by the Company, or which, if convertible, have been converted into shares of stock of the Company of any other class or classes, may, upon appropriate filing and recording to the extent required by law, have the status of authorized and unissued shares of Preferred Stock and may be reissued as a part of such series or of any other series of Preferred Stock, subject to such limitations (if any) as may be fixed by the Board of Directors with respect to such series of Preferred Stock in accordance with paragraph (1) of this Section A. B. Common Stock (1) Except as otherwise provided by (a) the Board of Directors in fixing the voting rights of any series of the Preferred Stock in accordance with Section A of this Article FOURTH, (b) this Section B or (c) statute, voting power in the election of directors and for all other purposes shall be vested exclusively in the holders of Class A Stock. Any director elected by the holders of Class A Stock (and any successor to such director) shall be subject to removal without cause and to replacement from time to time by the affirmative vote or written consent of the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of Class A Stock. Every holder of stock of a class entitled to vote upon a matter shall be entitled to one vote for each share of stock of such class standing in his name upon the books of the Company. Except as otherwise provided by this Section B and by Section C of this Article FOURTH, there shall be no distinction whatever between the rights accorded to the holders of Class A Stock and Class B Stock. (2) Holders of Class B Stock shall be entitled to vote as specified below: (a) with regard to the election of directors, holders of Class B Stock shall be entitled, voting separately as a class, to elect 30 percent of the directors (rounding the number of such directors to the next highest whole number if such percentage is not equal to a whole number of directors) and no more, to remove any director elected by the holders of Class B Stock (and any successor to such director) and, in the manner provided in the by-laws of the Company, to replace any director so removed; and (b) upon the following transactions, but only to the extent that any national securities exchange on which the Class B Stock shall be listed shall require a vote of the Class B Stock as a condition to the listing on such exchange of the shares to be issued in such transaction, the holders of Class B Stock shall be entitled to vote as a separate class, and the holders of any series of Preferred Stock which shall be entitled to vote thereon shall be entitled to vote together with the holders of Class B Stock as a separate class; provided, however, that if any such vote by the holders of Class B Stock shall be required as provided in this paragraph (b), the holders of Class A Stock, in addition to their powers under any other provision of this Article FOURTH, shall be entitled to vote thereon separately as a class, and in such event approval under this paragraph (b) shall require the affirmative vote of each such class: (i) the reservation of any shares of capital stock of the Company for issuance upon the exercise of options granted or to be granted to officers, directors or key employees; and (ii) the acquisition of the stock or assets of another company if either:
a. any director, officer or holder of 10% or more of the shares of any class of voting stock of the Company has an interest, directly or indirectly, in the company or assets to be acquired or in the consideration to be paid in the transaction; b. the issuance or potential issuance of Common Stock and/or securities convertible into Common Stock in the transaction could result in an increase of 20% or more in the aggregate outstanding shares of Common Stock; or c. the aggregate market value of the Common Stock issuable or potentially issuable and of any other consideration to be paid in the transaction equals 20% or more of the aggregate market value of the shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately prior to the transaction. If at any time there shall not be any Class A Stock outstanding, the provisions of this Certificate of Incorporation which provide limited and separate voting rights for the holders of the Class B Stock shall cease to be of any effect, and such holders shall thereafter have general voting power in the election of directors and in all other matters upon which stockholders of the Company are entitled to vote pursuant to this Certificate of Incorporation, the by-laws of the Company or statute. (3) A holder of shares of Class A Stock shall be entitled at any time and from time to time to convert any or all such shares held by him into shares of Class B Stock in the ratio of one share of Class B Stock for one share of Class A Stock. Each conversion of shares of Class A Stock into shares of Class B Stock made pursuant to the provisions of this paragraph (3) shall be effected by the surrender of the certificate representing the shares to be converted at the office of the Secretary of the Company (or at such additional place or places as may from time to time be designated by the Secretary or any Assistant Secretary of the Company) in such form and accompanied by all stock transfer tax stamps, if any, as shall be requisite for such transfer, and upon such surrender the holder of such shares shall be entitled to become, and shall be registered on the books of the Company as, the holder of the number of shares of Class B Stock issuable upon such conversion, and each such share of Class A Stock shall be converted into one share of Class B Stock, as the Class B Stock shall then be constituted, and thereupon there shall be issued and delivered to such holder or other named person, as the case may be, promptly at such office or other designated place, a certificate or certificates for such number of shares of Class B Stock. (4) Upon the affirmative vote or the written consent of the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of Class A Stock, all or any part of the entire class of outstanding Class A Stock shall be converted, effective upon the date specified in such vote or consent, into shares of Class B Stock in the ratio of one share of Class B Stock for one share of Class A Stock. Any conversion pursuant to this paragraph (4) of less than all the outstanding shares of Class A Stock shall be effected through the conversion of an equal percentage of such shares held by each holder of Class A Stock (including any holder who shall not have given his affirmative vote or written consent). Any fractional share of Class A Stock resulting from the application of such percentage shall not be eliminated and shall exist as a fractional share of Class A Stock and the holder thereof shall be entitled to exercise voting rights, to receive dividends thereon, to participate in any of the assets of the Company in the event of liquidation and to all other rights in respect of Class A Stock to the extent of such fractional share; but any fractional share of Class B Stock shall be eliminated and in lieu thereof the Company shall issue scrip or pay cash as provided in paragraph (5) of this Section B. Upon the effective date of any conversion pursuant to this paragraph (4), certificates representing the shares of Class A Stock so converted shall thereafter represent a like number of shares of Class B Stock, and each holder thereof shall be registered on the books of the Company as the record holder of such number of shares of Class B Stock. Upon presentation and surrender of said certificates at the office of the Secretary of the Company (or at such additional place or places as may from time to time be designated by the Secretary or any Assistant Secretary of the Company) the Company shall issue or cause to be issued certificates representing the whole number of shares of Class B Stock resulting from such conversion, and shall issue scrip or pay cash in lieu of any fractional share eliminated upon such conversion, and shall issue or cause to be issued certificates representing the number of whole shares and any fractional shares of Class A Stock remaining after such conversion.
(5) Fractional shares of Class A Stock shall be issued upon and in connection with any conversion, split-up, merger, consolidation, reclassification, stock dividend or other change in so far as the same shall affect Class A Stock. A certificate for a fractional share of Class A Stock so issued shall entitle the holder to exercise voting rights, to receive dividends thereon, to participate in any of the assets of the Company in the event of liquidation and to all other rights in respect of Class A Stock to the extent of such fractional share. No fractional share of stock of any other class of the Company now or hereafter authorized shall be issuable upon or in connection with any other conversion, split-up, merger, consolidation, reclassification, stock dividend or change involving stock of such other class; in lieu of any such fractional share, the person entitled to an interest in respect of such a fractional share shall be entitled, as determined from time to time by the Board of Directors, to either (i) a scrip certificate for such fractional share with such terms and conditions as the Board of Directors shall prescribe or (ii) the cash equivalent of any such fractional share based upon the market value of shares of such class at the date on which rights in respect of any such fractional share shall accrue, as determined in good faith by the Board of Directors. (6) Subject to the prior rights of the holders of the Preferred Stock contained in this Article FOURTH, when and as dividends are declared, whether payable in cash, in property or in shares of stock of the Company (except as hereinafter provided in this paragraph (6)), the holders of Class A Stock and the holders of Class B Stock shall be entitled to share equally, share for share, in such dividends. A dividend payable in shares of Class A Stock to the holders of Class A Stock and in shares of Class B Stock to the holders of Class B Stock shall be deemed to be shared equally among both classes. No dividends shall be declared or paid in shares of Class A Stock except to holders of Class A Stock, but dividends may be declared and paid, as determined by the Board of Directors, in shares of Class B Stock to all holders of Common Stock. (7) In the event of any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company, either voluntary or involuntary, after payment shall have been made to the holders of the Preferred Stock of the full amount to which they shall be entitled pursuant to paragraph (3) of Section A of this Article FOURTH, the holders of Common Stock shall be entitled, to the exclusion of the holders of the Preferred Stock of any and all series, to share, ratably according to the number of shares of Common Stock held by them, in all remaining assets of the Company available for distribution to its stockholders. C. Issuance of Stock; Negation of Preemptive Rights Without the affirmative vote or written consent of the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of Class A Stock, the Company shall not issue or sell any shares of Class A Stock or any obligation or security that shall be convertible into, or exchangeable for, or entitle the holder thereof to subscribe for or purchase, any shares of Class A Stock. Except as expressly provided in this Section C or as the Board of Directors in its discretion may by resolution determine, no holder of stock of the Company of any class shall have any right to subscribe for or purchase any shares of stock of the Company of any class now or hereafter authorized or any obligations or securities which the Company may hereafter issue or sell that shall be convertible into, or exchangeable for, or entitle the holders thereof to subscribe for or purchase, any shares of any such class of stock of the Company. D. Rights or Options Subject to Section C of this Article FOURTH, the Company shall have the power to create and issue, whether or not in connection with the issue and sale of any shares of stock or other securities of the Company, rights or options entitling the holders thereof to purchase from the Company any shares of its capital stock of any class or classes at the time authorized, such rights or options to be evidenced by or in such instrument or instruments as shall be approved by the Board of Directors. The terms upon which, the time or times, which may be limited or unlimited in duration, at or within which, and the price or prices at which any such rights or options may be issued and any such shares may be purchased from the Company upon the exercise of any such right or option shall be such as shall be fixed and stated in a resolution or resolutions adopted by the Board of Directors providing for the creation and issue of such rights or options, and, in every case, set forth or incorporated by reference in the instrument or instruments evidencing such
rights or options. In the absence of actual fraud in the transaction, the judgment of the Board of Directors as to the consideration for the issuance of such rights or options and the sufficiency thereof shall be conclusive. E. Unclaimed Dividends Any and all right, title, interest and claim in or to any dividends declared, or other distributions made, by the Company, whether in cash, stock or otherwise, which are unclaimed by the stockholder entitled thereto for a period of three years after the close of business on the payment date, shall be and be deemed to be extinguished and abandoned; and such unclaimed dividends or other distributions in the possession of the Company, its transfer agents or other agents or depositories shall at such time become the absolute property of the Company, free and clear of any and all claims of any persons or other entities whatsoever. FIFTH: The private property of the stockholders of the Company shall not be subject to the payment of corporate debts to any extent whatsoever. SIXTH: Whenever a compromise or arrangement is proposed between this corporation and its creditors or any class of them and/or between this corporation and its stockholders or any class of them, any court of equitable jurisdiction within the State of Delaware may, on the application in a summary way of this corporation or of any creditor or stockholder of this corporation or on the application of any receiver or receivers appointed for this corporation under the provisions of Section 291 of Title 8 of the Delaware Code or on the application of trustees in dissolution or of any receiver or receivers appointed for this corporation under the provisions of Section 279 of Title 8 of the Delaware Code order a meeting of the creditors or class of creditors and/or of the stockholders or class of stockholders of this corporation, as the case may be, to be summoned in such manner as the said court directs. If a majority in number representing three-fourths in value of the creditors or class of creditors, and/or of the stockholders or class of stockholders of this corporation, as the case may be, agree to any compromise or arrangement and to any reorganization of this corporation as consequence of such compromise or arrangement, the said compromise or arrangement and the said reorganization shall, if sanctioned by the court to which the said application has been made, be binding on all the creditors or class of creditors, and/or on all the stockholders or class of stockholders, of this corporation, as the case may be, and also on this corporation. SEVENTH: In furtherance and not in limitation of the powers conferred by the laws of the State of Delaware, the Board of Directors, subject to the provisions of this Certificate of Incorporation, is expressly authorized and empowered: (a) To make, alter, amend or repeal the by-laws of the Company in any manner not inconsistent with the laws of the State of Delaware or this Certificate of Incorporation, subject to the power of the stockholders to amend, alter or repeal the by-laws made by the Board of Directors or to limit or restrict the power of the Board of Directors so to make, alter, amend or repeal the by-laws; provided, however, that so long as any Class A Stock shall remain outstanding the minimum number of directors shall be the lowest number required for the holders of Class A Stock to have the absolute power under all conditions and circumstances to elect a majority of the directors. (b) Subject to the applicable provisions of the by-laws, to determine, from time to time, whether and to what extent and at what times and places and under what conditions and regulations the accounts and books and documents of the Company, or any of them, shall be open to the inspection of the stockholders, and no stockholder shall have any right to inspect any account or book or document of the Company, except as conferred by the laws of the State of Delaware, unless and until authorized so to do by resolution adopted by the Board of Directors or the stockholders of the Company entitled to vote in respect thereof. (c) Without the assent or vote of the stockholders, to authorize and issue obligations of the Company, secured or unsecured, to include therein such provisions as to redeemability, convertibility or otherwise, as the Board of Directors in its sole discretion may determine, and to authorize the
mortgaging or pledging, as security therefor, of any property of the Company, real or personal, including after-acquired property. (d) To fix and determine, and to vary the amount of, the working capital of the Company; to determine whether any, and if any, what part of any, accumulated profits shall be declared in dividends and paid to the stockholders; to determine the time or times for the declaration and payment of dividends; to direct and to determine the use and disposition of any surplus or net profits over and above the capital stock paid in; and in its discretion the Board of Directors may use or apply any such surplus or accumulated profits in the purchase or acquiring of bonds or other pecuniary obligations of the Company to such extent, in such manner and upon such terms as the Board of Directors may deem expedient. (e) To sell, lease or otherwise dispose of, from time to time, any part or parts of the properties of the Company and to cease to conduct the business connected therewith or again to resume the same, as it may deem best. In addition to the powers and authorities hereinbefore or by statute expressly conferred upon it, the Board of Directors may exercise all such powers and do all such acts and things as may be exercised or done by the Company, subject, nevertheless, to the provisions of the laws of the State of Delaware, of this Certificate of Incorporation and of the by-laws of the Company. EIGHTH: No contract or transaction between the Company and one or more of its directors or officers, or between the Company and any other corporation, partnership, association or other organization in which one or more of its directors or officers are directors or officers or have a financial interest, shall be void or voidable solely for such reason, or solely because such director or officer is present at or participates in the meeting of the Board of Directors or committee thereof which authorizes such contract or transaction, or solely because such director is counted in determining the presence of a quorum at such meeting and votes upon the authorization of such contract or transaction, if (a) the material facts as to such director's or officer's relationship or interest and as to the contract or transaction are disclosed or are known to the Board of Directors or the committee, and the Board of Directors or the committee in good faith authorizes the contract or transaction by the affirmative vote of a majority of the disinterested members thereof, even though such disinterested members be less than a quorum, or (b) the material facts as to such director's or officer's relationship or interest and as to the contract or transaction are disclosed or are known to the stockholders entitled to vote thereon, and the contract or transaction is specifically approved in good faith by vote of such stockholders, or (c) the contract or transaction is fair as to the Company as of the time it is authorized, approved or ratified by the Board of Directors, a committee thereof, or the stockholders. Common or interested directors may be counted in determining the presence of a quorum at a meeting of the Board of Directors or of a committee which authorizes the contract or transaction. NINTH: Limitation of Liability; Indemnification. A. Limitation of Directors' Liability. To the fullest extent that the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, as it exists on the date hereof or as it may hereafter be amended, permits the limitation or elimination of the liability of directors, no director of the Company shall be liable to the Company or its stockholders for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty as a director. No amendment to or repeal of this Section A of this Article shall apply to or have any effect on the liability or alleged liability of any director of the Company for or with respect to any acts or omissions of such director occurring prior to such amendment or repeal. B. Indemnification. 1. Right to Indemnification. The Company shall to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law as then in effect indemnify any person (the "Indemnitee") who was or is involved in any manner (including, without limitation, as a party or witness) or is threatened to be made so involved in any threatened, pending
or completed investigation, claim, action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (including, without limitation, any action, suit or proceeding by or in the right of the Company to procure a judgment in its favor) (a "Proceeding") by reason of the fact that he is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of the Company, or is or was serving at the request of the Company as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise (including, without limitation, any employee benefit plan) against all expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by him in connection with such Proceeding. Such indemnification shall be a contract right and shall include the right to receive payment in advance of any expenses incurred by the Indemnitee in connection with such Proceeding, consistent with the provisions of applicable law as then in effect. 2. Insurance, Contracts and Funding. The Company may purchase and maintain insurance to protect itself and any Indemnitee against any expenses, judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement as specified in Section B-1 of this Article or incurred by any Indemnitee in connection with any Proceeding referred to in Section B-1 of this Article, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law as then in effect. The Company may enter into contracts with any director, officer, employee or agent of the Company in furtherance of the provisions of this Article and may create a trust fund, grant a security interest or use other means (including, without limitation, a letter of credit) to ensure the payment of such amounts as may be necessary to effect indemnification as provided in this Article. 3. Indemnification Not Exclusive Right. The right of indemnification provided in this Article shall not be exclusive of any other rights to which those seeking indemnification may otherwise be entitled, and the provisions of this Article shall inure to the benefit of the heirs and legal representatives of any person entitled to indemnity under this Article and shall be applicable to proceedings commenced or continuing after the adoption of this Article, whether arising from acts or omissions occurring before or after such adoption. 4. Advancement of Expenses; Procedures; Presumptions and Effects of Certain Proceedings; Remedies. In furtherance but not in limitation of the foregoing provisions, the following procedures, presumptions and remedies shall apply with respect to advancement of expenses and the right to indemnification under this Article: (a) Advancement of Expenses. All reasonable expenses incurred by or on behalf of an Indemnitee in connection with any Proceeding shall be advanced to the Indemnitee by the Company within 20 days after the receipt by the Company of a statement or statements from the Indemnitee requesting such advance or advances from time to time, whether prior to or after final disposition of such Proceeding. Such statement or statements shall reasonably evidence the expenses incurred by the Indemnitee and, if required by law at the time of such advance, shall include or be accompanied by an undertaking by or on behalf of the Indemnitee to repay the amounts advanced if it should ultimately be determined that the Indemnitee is not entitled to be indemnified against such expenses pursuant to this Article. (b) Procedure for Determination of Entitlement to Indemnification. (i) To obtain indemnification under this Article, an Indemnitee shall submit to the Secretary of the Company a written request, including such documentation as is reasonably available to the Indemnitee and reasonably necessary to determine whether and to what extent the Indemnitee is entitled to indemnification (the "Supporting Documentation"). The determination of the Indemnitee's entitlement to indemnification shall be made not later than 60 days after receipt by the Company of the written request for indemnification together with the Supporting Documentation. The Secretary of the Company shall, promptly upon receipt of such a request for indemnification, advise the Board of Directors in writing that the Indemnitee has requested indemnification. (ii) The Indemnitee's entitlement to indemnification under this Article shall be determined in one of the following ways: (A) by a majority vote of the Disinterested Directors (as hereinafter defined), if they constitute a quorum of the Board of Directors; (B) by a written opinion of Independent Counsel (as hereinafter defined) if a quorum of the Board of Directors consisting of Disinterested Directors is not
obtainable or, even if obtainable, a majority of such Disinterested Directors so directs; (C) by the stockholders of the Company entitled to vote (but only if a majority of the Disinterested Directors, if they constitute a quorum of the Board of Directors, presents the issue of entitlement to indemnification to such stockholders for their determination); or (D) as provided in Section B-4(c) of this Article. (iii) In the event the determination of entitlement to indemnification is to be made by Independent Counsel pursuant to Section B-4(b)(ii) of this Article, a majority of the Disinterested Directors shall select the Independent Counsel, but only an Independent Counsel to which the Indemnitee does not reasonably object. (c) Presumptions and Effect of Certain Proceedings. Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Article, the Indemnitee shall be presumed to be entitled to indemnification under this Article upon submission of a request for indemnification together with the Supporting Documentation in accordance with Section B-4(b)(i), and thereafter the Company shall have the burden of proof to overcome that presumption in reaching a contrary determination. In any event, if the person or persons empowered under Section B-4(b) of this Article to determine entitlement to indemnification shall not have been appointed or shall not have made a determination within 60 days after the receipt by the Company of the request therefor together with the Supporting Documentation, the Indemnitee shall be entitled to indemnification unless (A) the Indemnitee misrepresented or failed to disclose a material fact in making the request for indemnification or in the Supporting Documentation or (B) such indemnification is prohibited by law. The termination of any Proceeding described in Section B-1, or of any claim, issue or matter therein, by judgment, order, settlement or conviction, or upon a plea of nolo contendere or its equivalent, shall not, of itself, adversely affect the right of the Indemnitee to indemnification or create a presumption that the Indemnitee did not act in good faith and in a manner which he reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Company or, with respect to any criminal Proceeding, that the Indemnitee had reasonable cause to believe that his conduct was unlawful. (d) Remedies of Indemnitee. (i) In the event that a determination is made pursuant to Section B-4(b) of this Article that the Indemnitee is not entitled to indemnification under this Article, (A) the Indemnitee shall be entitled to seek an adjudication of his entitlement to such indemnification either, at the Indemnitee's sole option, in (x) an appropriate court of the State of Delaware or any other court of competent jurisdiction or (y) an arbitration to be conducted by a single arbitrator pursuant to the rules of the American Arbitration Association; (B) any such judicial proceeding or arbitration shall be de novo and the Indemnitee shall not be prejudiced by reason of such adverse determination; and (C) in any such judicial proceeding or arbitration the Company shall have the burden of proving that the Indemnitee is not entitled to indemnification under this Article. (ii) If a determination shall have been made or deemed to have been made, pursuant to Section B-4(b) or (c), that the Indemnitee is entitled to indemnification, the Company shall be obligated to pay the amounts constituting such indemnification within five days after such determination has been made or deemed to have been made and shall be conclusively bound by such determination unless (A) the Indemnitee misrepresented or failed to disclose a material fact in making the request for indemnification or in the Supporting Documentation or (B) such indemnification is prohibited by law. In the event that (C) advancement of expenses is not timely made pursuant to Section B-4(a) or (D) payment of indemnification is not made within five days after a determination of entitlement to indemnification has been made or deemed to have been made pursuant to Section B-4(b) or (c), the Indemnitee shall be entitled to seek judicial enforcement of the Company's obligation to pay to the Indemnitee such advancement of expenses or indemnification. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company may bring an action, in an appropriate court of the State of Delaware or any other court of competent jurisdiction, contesting the right of the Indemnitee to receive indemnification hereunder due to the occurrence of an event described in subclause (A) or (B) of this clause (ii) (a "Disqualifying Event"); provided, however, that in any such action the Company shall have the burden of proving the occurrence of such Disqualifying Event. (iii) The Company shall be precluded from asserting in any judicial proceeding or arbitration commenced pursuant to this Section B-4(d) that the procedures and presumptions of this Article are not
valid, binding and enforceable and shall stipulate in any such court or before any such arbitrator that the Company is bound by all the provisions of this Article. (iv) In the event that the Indemnitee, pursuant to this Section B-4(d), seeks a judicial adjudication of or an award in arbitration to enforce his rights under, or to recover damages for breach of, this Article, the Indemnitee shall be entitled to recover from the Company, and shall be indemnified by the Company against, any expenses actually and reasonably incurred by him if the Indemnitee prevails in such judicial adjudication. If it shall be determined in such judicial adjudication or arbitration that the Indemnitee is entitled to receive part but not all of the indemnification or advancement of expenses sought, the expenses incurred by the Indemnitee in connection with such judicial adjudication or arbitration shall be prorated accordingly. (e) Definitions. For purposes of this Section B-4: (i) "Disinterested Director" means a director of the Company who is not or was not a party to the Proceeding in respect of which indemnification is sought by the Indemnitee. (ii) "Independent Counsel" means a law firm or a member of a law firm that neither presently is, nor in the past five years has been, retained to represent (A) the Company or the Indemnitee in any matter material to either such party or (B) any other party to the Proceeding giving rise to a claim for indemnification under this Article. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the term "Independent Counsel" shall not include any person who, under the applicable standards of professional conduct then prevailing under the law of the State of Delaware, would have a conflict of interest in representing either the Company or the Indemnitee in an action to determine the Indemnitee's rights under this Article. 5. Severability. If any provision or provisions of this Article shall be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable for any reason whatsoever: (a) the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Article (including, without limitation, all portions of any paragraph of this Article containing any such provision held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable that are not themselves invalid, illegal or unenforceable) shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby; and (b) to the fullest extent possible, the provisions of this Article (including, without limitation, all portions of any paragraph of this Article containing any such provision held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable that are not themselves invalid, illegal or unenforceable) shall be construed so as to give effect to the intent manifested by the provision held invalid, illegal or unenforceable. TENTH: To the extent deemed necessary or appropriate by the Board of Directors to enable the Company to engage in any business or activity directly or indirectly conducted by it in compliance with the laws of the United States of America as now in effect or as they may hereafter from time to time be amended, the Company may adopt such by-laws as may be necessary or advisable to comply with the provisions and avoid the prohibitions of any such law. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, such by-laws may restrict or prohibit the transfer of shares of capital stock of the Company to, and the voting of such stock by, aliens or their representatives, or corporations organized under the laws of any foreign country or their representatives, or corporations directly or indirectly controlled by aliens or by any such corporation or representative. ELEVENTH: The Company reserves the right at any time and from time to time to amend, alter, change or repeal any provision contained in this Certificate of Incorporation in the manner now or hereafter prescribed by law, and all rights, preferences and privileges of whatsoever nature conferred upon stockholders, directors or any other persons whomsoever by and pursuant to this Certificate of Incorporation in its present form or as hereinafter amended are granted subject to the right reserved in this Article ELEVENTH.

Exhibit 3.2 CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATION of SERIES A PREFERRED STOCK of THE WASHINGTON POST COMPANY (formerly known as TWPC, INC.) Pursuant to Section 151(g) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, THE WASHINGTON POST COMPANY, formerly known as TWPC, INC. (the "Company"), a corporation organized and existing under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, in accordance with the provisions of Section 103 thereof, DOES HEREBY CERTIFY: That, pursuant to the authority conferred upon the Board of Directors of the Company by Article Fourth of the Certificate of Incorporation of the Company, the Board of Directors of the Company, adopted the following resolution creating a series of Preferred Stock of the Company designated as Series A Preferred Stock: RESOLVED, that, pursuant to the authority vested in the Board of Directors of the Company in accordance with the provisions of Article Fourth of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company, a series of Preferred Stock of the Company is hereby created and that the designation and number of shares thereof and the voting powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights of the shares of such series, and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof are as follows:
2 SECTION 1. Designation and Number of Shares. The shares of such series shall be designated as "Series A Preferred Stock", par value $1.00 per share. The number of shares initially constituting the Series A Preferred Stock shall be 23,000. The number of authorized shares of Preferred Stock of the Company and of Series A Preferred Stock may be increased or decreased (but not below the number of shares thereof then outstanding) pursuant to the Certificate of Incorporation of the Company and the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware without the affirmative vote of the holders of the outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock. SECTION 2. Dividends. Subject to the prior and superior rights of the holders of shares of any series of Preferred Stock of the Company or other class of stock of the Company hereafter authorized which shall rank prior and superior to the shares of Series A Preferred Stock with respect to dividends, the holders of shares of the Series A Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors, out of the assets of the Company legally available therefor, quarterly dividends payable in cash on February 15, May 15, August 15 and November 15 of each year, or such other dates as the Board of Directors shall approve, in the amount of $20.00 per share (or a pro rata reduced amount if such shares have not been issued and outstanding for an entire quarter). Each such dividend shall be paid to the holders of record of shares of Series A Preferred Stock as they appear on the stock register of the Company on such record date, not exceeding 60 days preceding the payment date thereof, as shall be fixed by the Board of Directors. Dividends on account of arrears for any past dividend periods may be declared and paid at any time, without reference to any regular dividend payment date, to holders of record on such date, not exceeding 60 days preceding the payment date thereof, as may be fixed by the Board of Directors of the Company. Holders of Series A Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any dividend, whether payable in cash, property or stock, in excess of full cumulative dividends as provided herein. No interest, or sum of money in lieu of interest, shall be payable in respect of any dividend payment or payments on the Series A Preferred Stock which may be in arrears. SECTION 3. Voting Rights. The holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall not have any voting
3 rights, either general or special, except as provided in Section 10 hereof and as may otherwise be required by law. SECTION 4. Certain Restrictions. (a) Whenever quarterly dividends payable on shares of Series A Preferred Stock as provided in Section 2 are payable but in arrears for any prior quarter, thereafter and until all accrued and unpaid dividends, whether or not declared, on shares of Series A Preferred Stock outstanding shall have been paid in full, the Company shall not, unless full dividends (including any dividends in arrears) are contemporaneously declared and paid on shares of Series A Preferred Stock (i) declare or pay dividends on, make any other distributions on, or redeem or purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration any shares of stock ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) to the Series A Preferred Stock; provided, that the Company may at any time redeem, purchase or otherwise acquire shares of any such junior stock in exchange for, or out of the net cash proceeds from the sale of, other shares of any such junior stock; (ii) declare or pay dividends on or make any other distributions on any shares of stock ranking on a parity (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) with the Series A Preferred Stock, except dividends paid ratably on the Series A Preferred Stock and all such parity stock on which dividends are payable or in arrears in proportion to the total amounts to which the holders of all such shares are then entitled; or (iii) redeem or purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration shares of any stock ranking on a parity (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) with the Series A Preferred Stock; provided that the Company may at any time redeem, purchase or otherwise acquire shares of any such parity stock in exchange for shares of any stock of the Company ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up) to the Series A Preferred Stock; provided that the Company may at any time declare dividends or distributions paid in shares of, or options, warrants or rights to subscribe for or purchase shares of, Common Stock
4 or any other stock of the Company ranking junior to the Series A Preferred Stock as to dividends and upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up. (b) The Company shall not permit any subsidiary of the Company to purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration any shares of stock of the Company unless the Company could, under paragraph (a) of this Section 4, purchase or otherwise acquire such shares at such time and in such manner. SECTION 5. Liquidation, Dissolution or Winding Up. (a) Subject to the prior and superior rights of the holders of shares of any series of Preferred Stock or other class of stock of the Company hereafter authorized which shall rank prior and superior to the shares of Series A Preferred Stock upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, the holders of the shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive and to be paid out of the assets of the Company available for distribution to its stockholders, the amount of $1,000.00 per share, plus an amount equal to the sum of all accrued and unpaid dividends (whether or not earned or declared) for the then-current dividend period and all dividend periods prior thereto, upon the liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company, whether voluntary or involuntary. (b) Neither the sale of all or substantially all of the property and assets of the Company, nor the merger or consolidation of the Company into or with any other corporation nor the merger or consolidation of any other corporation into or with the Company shall be deemed to be a dissolution, liquidation or winding up, voluntary or involuntary, for the purposes of this Section 5. (c) After the payment to the holders of the shares of Series A Preferred Stock of the full preferential amounts provided for in this Section 5, the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock, as such, shall have no right or claim to any of the remaining assets of the Company. (d) In the event the assets of the Company available for distribution to the holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock, upon any dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Company, whether voluntary or involuntary, shall be insufficient to pay in full all amounts to which such holders are entitled pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section 5, no such distribution shall
5 be made on account of any shares of any other series of Preferred Stock or other class of stock of the Company ranking as to any such distribution on a parity with the shares of Series A Preferred Stock upon such dissolution, liquidation or winding up unless proportionate distributive amounts shall be paid on account of the shares of Series A Preferred Stock, ratably, in proportion to the full distributive amounts for which holders of all such parity shares are respectively entitled upon such dissolution, liquidation or winding up. (e) Subject to the rights of the holders of the shares of any series or class of stock ranking on a parity with or prior to the shares of Series A Preferred Stock upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company, after payment shall have been made in full to the holders of the shares of Series A Preferred Stock as provided in this Section 5, but not prior thereto, any other series or class of stock ranking junior to the shares of Series A Preferred Stock upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up shall, subject to the respective terms and provisions (if any) applying thereto, be entitled to receive any and all assets remaining to be paid or distributed, and the holders of the shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to share therein. SECTION 6. Redemption. The shares of the Series A Preferred Stock shall not be redeemable prior to October 1, 2015. On and after October 1, 2015, the Company, at its option, may redeem shares of the Series A Preferred Stock, as a whole or in part, at any time or from time to time, at a redemption price per share of $1,000.00 plus, in each case, accrued and unpaid dividends thereon to the date fixed for redemption. The procedure for such redemption shall be in accordance with the provisions of Article Fourth of the Certificate of Incorporation of the Company. No interest, or sum of money in lieu of interest, shall be payable in respect of the amounts otherwise payable upon the redemption of any shares of Series A Preferred Stock not timely redeemed by the holder thereof. SECTION 7. No Conversion Rights. The holders of shares of the Series A Preferred Stock shall not have any rights to convert such shares into or exchange such shares for shares of any other class or of any other series of any class of stock of the Company.
6 SECTION 8. Ranking; Right to Authorize Senior Series or Classes of Stock. The Company shall have the right at any time and from time to time to authorize and issue any series of Preferred Stock and other classes of stock which shall rank prior and superior to the Series A Preferred Stock as to dividends or as to the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company, or both. In the absence of a provision expressly providing for such priority in the Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, or the Certificate of Designation providing for such series or classes, as applicable, all other series of Preferred Stock of the Company hereafter issued and all series of all other classes of capital stock of the Company hereafter authorized and issued which have a preference as to dividends or as to the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company shall rank pari passu with the Series A Preferred Stock as to dividends and as to the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company. SECTION 9. Reacquired Shares. Any shares of Series A Preferred Stock purchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired by the Company in any manner whatsoever shall be retired and canceled promptly after the acquisition thereof. All such shares shall upon their cancellation become authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock, without designation as to series, until such shares are once more designated as part of a particular series by the Board pursuant to the provisions of Article Fourth of the Certificate of Incorporation. SECTION 10. Amendment. None of the powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights of the Series A Preferred Stock as provided herein shall be amended in any manner which would alter or change the powers, preferences, rights or privileges of the holders of Series A Preferred Stock so as to affect them adversely without the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock, voting as a separate class. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Certificate to be duly executed in its corporate name on this 22nd day of September, 2003.
7 THE WASHINGTON POST COMPANY, By /s/ John B. Morse, Jr. -------------------------- Name: John B. Morse, Jr. Title: Vice President [Seal] Attest: /s/ Diana M. Daniels - ------------------------ Name: Diana M. Daniels Title: Secretary

================================================================================ Exhibit 3.3 THE WASHINGTON POST COMPANY Incorporated under the Laws of the State of Delaware AMENDED AND RESTATED CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION ----------- Effective as of September 22, 2003 ================================================================================
AMENDED AND RESTATED CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION of WP COMPANY Effective as of September 22, 2003 FIRST: The name of the corporation (hereinafter called the Company) is WP COMPANY SECOND: The respective names of the County and of the City within the County in which the registered office of the Company is to be located in the State of Delaware are the County of New Castle and the City of Wilmington. The name of the registered agent of the Company is The Corporation Trust Company. The street and number of said registered office and the address by street and number of said registered agent is 1209 Orange Street, in the City of Wilmington. THIRD: The nature of the business of the Company and the objects and purposes to be transacted, promoted or carried on by it are as follows: (1) To publish any newspaper owned by the Company as an independent newspaper dedicated to the welfare of the community and the nation, in keeping with the principles of a free press; and (2) To engage in any lawful act or activity for which corporations may be organized under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware. Notwithstanding any provision of this Certificate of Incorporation, the Company shall not have power to carry on the business of constructing, maintaining or operating public utilities within the State of Delaware; nor shall anything herein be deemed to authorize the Company to carry on any business or exercise any power in any state, district, territory, possession or country which under the laws thereof the Company may not lawfully carry on or exercise. FOURTH: The total number of shares of all classes of stock which the Company shall have authority to issue is 1,000, consisting of 1,000 shares of Common Stock, par value $1.00 per share (hereinafter called the Common Stock). A. Common Stock
(1) Except as otherwise provided by (a) this Section A or (b) statute, voting power in the election of directors and for all other purposes shall be vested exclusively in the holders of Common Stock. Pursuant to Section 251(g) of the Delaware General Corporation Law, any act or transaction involving the Company, other than the election or removal of directors, that requires for its adoption under the Delaware General Corporation Law or this Certificate of Incorporation the approval of the holders of Common Stock shall also require the approval of the holders of Class A Stock of The Washington Post Company, formerly known as TWPC, Inc. (hereinafter called the Parent), by the same vote as is required by the Delaware General Corporation Law or this Certificate of Incorporation. Any director elected by the holders of Common Stock (and any successor to such director) shall be subject to removal without cause and to replacement from time to time by the affirmative vote or written consent of the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of Common Stock. Every holder of stock of a class entitled to vote upon a matter shall be entitled to one vote for each share of stock of such class standing in his name upon the books of the Company. (2) Pursuant to Section 251(g) of the Delaware General Corporation Law, holders of Class B Stock of the Parent shall be entitled to vote upon the following transactions with respect to the Company, but only to the extent that any national securities exchange on which the Class B Stock of the Parent shall be listed shall require a vote of the Class B Stock of the Parent as a condition to the listing on such exchange of the shares to be issued in such transaction if such transaction were with respect to the Parent and such shares to be issued were shares of Class B Stock of the Parent, the holders of Class B Stock of the Parent shall be entitled to vote as a separate class, and the holders of any series of Preferred Stock of the Parent which shall be entitled to vote thereon shall be entitled to vote together with the holders of Class B Stock of the Parent as a separate class; provided, however, that if any such vote by the holders of Class B Stock of the Parent shall be required as provided in this paragraph (2), the holders of Class A Stock of the Parent shall be entitled to vote thereon separately as a class, and in such event approval under this paragraph (2) shall require the affirmative vote of each such class: (i) the reservation of any shares of capital stock of the Company for issuance upon the exercise of options granted or to be granted to officers, directors or key employees; and (ii) the acquisition of the stock or assets of another company if either: a. any director, officer or holder of 10% or more of the shares of any class of voting stock of the Company has an interest, directly or indirectly, in the company or assets to be acquired or in the consideration to be paid in the transaction; b. the issuance or potential issuance of Common Stock and/or securities convertible into Common Stock in the transaction could result in an increase of 20% or more in the aggregate outstanding shares of Common Stock; or c. the aggregate market value of the Common Stock issuable or potentially issuable and of any other consideration to be paid in the transaction equals 20% or more of the aggregate market value of the shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately prior to the transaction. If at any time there shall not be any Class A Stock of the Parent outstanding, the provisions of this Certificate of Incorporation which provide limited and separate voting rights for the holders of the Class B Stock of the Parent shall cease to be of any effect, and such holders shall thereafter have the voting power, with respect to any act or transaction involving the Company, accorded to the holders of the Class A Stock of the Parent by this Certificate of Incorporation. (3) Fractional shares of Common Stock shall be issued upon and in connection with any conversion, split-up, merger, consolidation, reclassification, stock dividend or other change in so far as the same shall affect Common Stock. A certificate for a fractional share of Common Stock so issued shall entitle the holder to exercise voting rights, to receive dividends thereon, to participate in any of the assets of the Company in the event of liquidation and to all other rights in respect of Common Stock to the extent of such fractional share. No fractional share of stock of any other class of the Company now or hereafter authorized shall be issuable upon or in connection with any other conversion, split-up, merger, consolidation, reclassification, stock dividend or change involving stock of such other class; in lieu of any
such fractional share, the person entitled to an interest in respect of such a fractional share shall be entitled, as determined from time to time by the Board of Directors, to either (i) a scrip certificate for such fractional share with such terms and conditions as the Board of Directors shall prescribe or (ii) the cash equivalent of any such fractional share based upon the market value of shares of such class at the date on which rights in respect of any such fractional share shall accrue, as determined in good faith by the Board of Directors. (4) In the event of any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company, either voluntary or involuntary, the holders of Common Stock shall be entitled to share, ratably according to the number of shares of Common Stock held by them, in all remaining assets of the Company available for distribution to its stockholders. B. Issuance of Stock; Negation of Preemptive Rights Without the affirmative vote or written consent of the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of Common Stock, the Company shall not issue or sell any shares of Common Stock or any obligation or security that shall be convertible into, or exchangeable for, or entitle the holder thereof to subscribe for or purchase, any shares of Common Stock. Except as expressly provided in this Section B or as the Board of Directors in its discretion may by resolution determine, no holder of stock of the Company of any class shall have any right to subscribe for or purchase any shares of stock of the Company of any class now or hereafter authorized or any obligations or securities which the Company may hereafter issue or sell that shall be convertible into, or exchangeable for, or entitle the holders thereof to subscribe for or purchase, any shares of any such class of stock of the Company. C. Rights or Options Subject to Section B of this Article FOURTH, the Company shall have the power to create and issue, whether or not in connection with the issue and sale of any shares of stock or other securities of the Company, rights or options entitling the holders thereof to purchase from the Company any shares of its capital stock of any class or classes at the time authorized, such rights or options to be evidenced by or in such instrument or instruments as shall be approved by the Board of Directors. The terms upon which, the time or times, which may be limited or unlimited in duration, at or within which, and the price or prices at which any such rights or options may be issued and any such shares may be purchased from the Company upon the exercise of any such right or option shall be such as shall be fixed and stated in a resolution or resolutions adopted by the Board of Directors providing for the creation and issue of such rights or options, and, in every case, set forth or incorporated by reference in the instrument or instruments evidencing such rights or options. In the absence of actual fraud in the transaction, the judgment of the Board of Directors as to the consideration for the issuance of such rights or options and the sufficiency thereof shall be conclusive. D. Unclaimed Dividends Any and all right, title, interest and claim in or to any dividends declared, or other distributions made, by the Company, whether in cash, stock or otherwise, which are unclaimed by the stockholder entitled thereto for a period of three years after the close of business on the payment date, shall be and be deemed to be extinguished and abandoned; and such unclaimed dividends or other distributions in the possession of the Company, its transfer agents or other agents or depositories shall at such time become the absolute property of the Company, free and clear of any and all claims of any persons or other entities whatsoever. FIFTH: The private property of the stockholders of the Company shall not be subject to the payment of corporate debts to any extent whatsoever. SIXTH: Whenever a compromise or arrangement is proposed between this corporation and its creditors or any class of them and/or between this corporation and its stockholders or any class of them, any court of equitable jurisdiction within the State of Delaware may, on the application in a summary way
of this corporation or of any creditor or stockholder of this corporation or on the application of any receiver or receivers appointed for this corporation under the provisions of Section 291 of Title 8 of the Delaware Code or on the application of trustees in dissolution or of any receiver or receivers appointed for this corporation under the provisions of Section 279 of Title 8 of the Delaware Code order a meeting of the creditors or class of creditors and/or of the stockholders or class of stockholders of this corporation, as the case may be, to be summoned in such manner as the said court directs. If a majority in number representing three-fourths in value of the creditors or class of creditors, and/or of the stockholders or class of stockholders of this corporation, as the case may be, agree to any compromise or arrangement and to any reorganization of this corporation as consequence of such compromise or arrangement, the said compromise or arrangement and the said reorganization shall, if sanctioned by the court to which the said application has been made, be binding on all the creditors or class of creditors, and/or on all the stockholders or class of stockholders, of this corporation, as the case may be, and also on this corporation. SEVENTH: In furtherance and not in limitation of the powers conferred by the laws of the State of Delaware, the Board of Directors, subject to the provisions of this Certificate of Incorporation, is expressly authorized and empowered: (a) To make, alter, amend or repeal the by-laws of the Company in any manner not inconsistent with the laws of the State of Delaware or this Certificate of Incorporation, subject to the power of the stockholders to amend, alter or repeal the by-laws made by the Board of Directors or to limit or restrict the power of the Board of Directors so to make, alter, amend or repeal the by-laws; provided, however, that so long as any Class A Stock shall remain outstanding the minimum number of directors shall be the lowest number required for the holders of Class A Stock to have the absolute power under all conditions and circumstances to elect a majority of the directors. (b) Subject to the applicable provisions of the by-laws, to determine, from time to time, whether and to what extent and at what times and places and under what conditions and regulations the accounts and books and documents of the Company, or any of them, shall be open to the inspection of the stockholders, and no stockholder shall have any right to inspect any account or book or document of the Company, except as conferred by the laws of the State of Delaware, unless and until authorized so to do by resolution adopted by the Board of Directors or the stockholders of the Company entitled to vote in respect thereof. (c) Without the assent or vote of the stockholders, to authorize and issue obligations of the Company, secured or unsecured, to include therein such provisions as to redeemability, convertibility or otherwise, as the Board of Directors in its sole discretion may determine, and to authorize the mortgaging or pledging, as security therefor, of any property of the Company, real or personal, including after-acquired property. (d) To fix and determine, and to vary the amount of, the working capital of the Company; to determine whether any, and if any, what part of any, accumulated profits shall be declared in dividends and paid to the stockholders; to determine the time or times for the declaration and payment of dividends; to direct and to determine the use and disposition of any surplus or net profits over and above the capital stock paid in; and in its discretion the Board of Directors may use or apply any such surplus or accumulated profits in the purchase or acquiring of bonds or other pecuniary obligations of the Company to such extent, in such manner and upon such terms as the Board of Directors may deem expedient. (e) To sell, lease or otherwise dispose of, from time to time, any part or parts of the properties of the Company and to cease to conduct the business connected therewith or again to resume the same, as it may deem best. In addition to the powers and authorities hereinbefore or by statute expressly conferred upon it, the Board of Directors may exercise all such powers and do all such acts and things as may be exercised or
done by the Company, subject, nevertheless, to the provisions of the laws of the State of Delaware, of this Certificate of Incorporation and of the by-laws of the Company. EIGHTH: No contract or transaction between the Company and one or more of its directors or officers, or between the Company and any other corporation, partnership, association or other organization in which one or more of its directors or officers are directors or officers or have a financial interest, shall be void or voidable solely for such reason, or solely because such director or officer is present at or participates in the meeting of the Board of Directors or committee thereof which authorizes such contract or transaction, or solely because such director is counted in determining the presence of a quorum at such meeting and votes upon the authorization of such contract or transaction, if (a) the material facts as to such director's or officer's relationship or interest and as to the contract or transaction are disclosed or are known to the Board of Directors or the committee, and the Board of Directors or the committee in good faith authorizes the contract or transaction by the affirmative vote of a majority of the disinterested members thereof, even though such disinterested members be less than a quorum, or (b) the material facts as to such director's or officer's relationship or interest and as to the contract or transaction are disclosed or are known to the stockholders entitled to vote thereon, and the contract or transaction is specifically approved in good faith by vote of such stockholders, or (c) the contract or transaction is fair as to the Company as of the time it is authorized, approved or ratified by the Board of Directors, a committee thereof, or the stockholders. Common or interested directors may be counted in determining the presence of a quorum at a meeting of the Board of Directors or of a committee which authorizes the contract or transaction. NINTH: Limitation of Liability; Indemnification. A. Limitation of Directors' Liability. To the fullest extent that the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, as it exists on the date hereof or as it may hereafter be amended, permits the limitation or elimination of the liability of directors, no director of the Company shall be liable to the Company or its stockholders for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty as a director. No amendment to or repeal of this Section A of this Article shall apply to or have any effect on the liability or alleged liability of any director of the Company for or with respect to any acts or omissions of such director occurring prior to such amendment or repeal. B. Indemnification. 1. Right to Indemnification. The Company shall to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law as then in effect indemnify any person (the "Indemnitee") who was or is involved in any manner (including, without limitation, as a party or witness) or is threatened to be made so involved in any threatened, pending or completed investigation, claim, action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (including, without limitation, any action, suit or proceeding by or in the right of the Company to procure a judgment in its favor) (a "Proceeding") by reason of the fact that he is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of the Company, or is or was serving at the request of the Company as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise (including, without limitation, any employee benefit plan) against all expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by him in connection with such Proceeding. Such indemnification shall be a contract right and shall include the right to receive payment in advance of any expenses incurred by the Indemnitee in connection with such Proceeding, consistent with the provisions of applicable law as then in effect. 2. Insurance, Contracts and Funding. The Company may purchase and maintain insurance to protect itself and any Indemnitee against any expenses, judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement as specified in Section B-1 of this Article or incurred by any Indemnitee in connection with any Proceeding referred to in Section B-1 of this Article, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law as then in effect. The Company may enter into contracts with any director, officer, employee or agent of the Company in furtherance of the provisions of this Article and may create a trust fund, grant a security interest or use
other means (including, without limitation, a letter of credit) to ensure the payment of such amounts as may be necessary to effect indemnification as provided in this Article. 3. Indemnification Not Exclusive Right. The right of indemnification provided in this Article shall not be exclusive of any other rights to which those seeking indemnification may otherwise be entitled, and the provisions of this Article shall inure to the benefit of the heirs and legal representatives of any person entitled to indemnity under this Article and shall be applicable to proceedings commenced or continuing after the adoption of this Article, whether arising from acts or omissions occurring before or after such adoption. 4. Advancement of Expenses; Procedures; Presumptions and Effects of Certain Proceedings; Remedies. In furtherance but not in limitation of the foregoing provisions, the following procedures, presumptions and remedies shall apply with respect to advancement of expenses and the right to indemnification under this Article: (a) Advancement of Expenses. All reasonable expenses incurred by or on behalf of an Indemnitee in connection with any Proceeding shall be advanced to the Indemnitee by the Company within 20 days after the receipt by the Company of a statement or statements from the Indemnitee requesting such advance or advances from time to time, whether prior to or after final disposition of such Proceeding. Such statement or statements shall reasonably evidence the expenses incurred by the Indemnitee and, if required by law at the time of such advance, shall include or be accompanied by an undertaking by or on behalf of the Indemnitee to repay the amounts advanced if it should ultimately be determined that the Indemnitee is not entitled to be indemnified against such expenses pursuant to this Article. (b) Procedure for Determination of Entitlement to Indemnification. (i) To obtain indemnification under this Article, an Indemnitee shall submit to the Secretary of the Company a written request, including such documentation as is reasonably available to the Indemnitee and reasonably necessary to determine whether and to what extent the Indemnitee is entitled to indemnification (the "Supporting Documentation"). The determination of the Indemnitee's entitlement to indemnification shall be made not later than 60 days after receipt by the Company of the written request for indemnification together with the Supporting Documentation. The Secretary of the Company shall, promptly upon receipt of such a request for indemnification, advise the Board of Directors in writing that the Indemnitee has requested indemnification. (ii) The Indemnitee's entitlement to indemnification under this Article shall be determined in one of the following ways: (A) by a majority vote of the Disinterested Directors (as hereinafter defined), if they constitute a quorum of the Board of Directors; (B) by a written opinion of Independent Counsel (as hereinafter defined) if a quorum of the Board of Directors consisting of Disinterested Directors is not obtainable or, even if obtainable, a majority of such Disinterested Directors so directs; (C) by the stockholders of the Company entitled to vote (but only if a majority of the Disinterested Directors, if they constitute a quorum of the Board of Directors, presents the issue of entitlement to indemnification to such stockholders for their determination); or (D) as provided in Section B-4(c) of this Article. (iii) In the event the determination of entitlement to indemnification is to be made by Independent Counsel pursuant to Section B-4(b)(ii) of this Article, a majority of the Disinterested Directors shall select the Independent Counsel, but only an Independent Counsel to which the Indemnitee does not reasonably object. (c) Presumptions and Effect of Certain Proceedings. Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Article, the Indemnitee shall be presumed to be entitled to indemnification under this Article upon submission of a request for indemnification together with the Supporting Documentation in accordance with Section B-4(b)(i), and thereafter the Company shall have the burden of proof to overcome that presumption in reaching a contrary determination. In any event, if the person or persons empowered under Section B-4(b) of this Article to determine entitlement to indemnification shall not have been appointed or shall not have made a determination within 60 days after the receipt by the Company of the request therefor
together with the Supporting Documentation, the Indemnitee shall be entitled to indemnification unless (A) the Indemnitee misrepresented or failed to disclose a material fact in making the request for indemnification or in the Supporting Documentation or (B) such indemnification is prohibited by law. The termination of any Proceeding described in Section B-1, or of any claim, issue or matter therein, by judgment, order, settlement or conviction, or upon a plea of nolo contendere or its equivalent, shall not, of itself, adversely affect the right of the Indemnitee to indemnification or create a presumption that the Indemnitee did not act in good faith and in a manner which he reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Company or, with respect to any criminal Proceeding, that the Indemnitee had reasonable cause to believe that his conduct was unlawful. (d) Remedies of Indemnitee. (i) In the event that a determination is made pursuant to Section B-4(b) of this Article that the Indemnitee is not entitled to indemnification under this Article, (A) the Indemnitee shall be entitled to seek an adjudication of his entitlement to such indemnification either, at the Indemnitee's sole option, in (x) an appropriate court of the State of Delaware or any other court of competent jurisdiction or (y) an arbitration to be conducted by a single arbitrator pursuant to the rules of the American Arbitration Association; (B) any such judicial proceeding or arbitration shall be de novo and the Indemnitee shall not be prejudiced by reason of such adverse determination; and (C) in any such judicial proceeding or arbitration the Company shall have the burden of proving that the Indemnitee is not entitled to indemnification under this Article. (ii) If a determination shall have been made or deemed to have been made, pursuant to Section B-4(b) or (c), that the Indemnitee is entitled to indemnification, the Company shall be obligated to pay the amounts constituting such indemnification within five days after such determination has been made or deemed to have been made and shall be conclusively bound by such determination unless (A) the Indemnitee misrepresented or failed to disclose a material fact in making the request for indemnification or in the Supporting Documentation or (B) such indemnification is prohibited by law. In the event that (C) advancement of expenses is not timely made pursuant to Section B-4(a) or (D) payment of indemnification is not made within five days after a determination of entitlement to indemnification has been made or deemed to have been made pursuant to Section B-4(b) or (c), the Indemnitee shall be entitled to seek judicial enforcement of the Company's obligation to pay to the Indemnitee such advancement of expenses or indemnification. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company may bring an action, in an appropriate court of the State of Delaware or any other court of competent jurisdiction, contesting the right of the Indemnitee to receive indemnification hereunder due to the occurrence of an event described in subclause (A) or (B) of this clause (ii) (a "Disqualifying Event"); provided, however, that in any such action the Company shall have the burden of proving the occurrence of such Disqualifying Event. (iii) The Company shall be precluded from asserting in any judicial proceeding or arbitration commenced pursuant to this Section B-4(d) that the procedures and presumptions of this Article are not valid, binding and enforceable and shall stipulate in any such court or before any such arbitrator that the Company is bound by all the provisions of this Article. (iv) In the event that the Indemnitee, pursuant to this Section B-4(d), seeks a judicial adjudication of or an award in arbitration to enforce his rights under, or to recover damages for breach of, this Article, the Indemnitee shall be entitled to recover from the Company, and shall be indemnified by the Company against, any expenses actually and reasonably incurred by him if the Indemnitee prevails in such judicial adjudication. If it shall be determined in such judicial adjudication or arbitration that the Indemnitee is entitled to receive part but not all of the indemnification or advancement of expenses sought, the expenses incurred by the Indemnitee in connection with such judicial adjudication or arbitration shall be prorated accordingly. (e) Definitions. For purposes of this Section B-4: (i) "Disinterested Director" means a director of the Company who is not or was not a party to the Proceeding in respect of which indemnification is sought by the Indemnitee.
(ii) "Independent Counsel" means a law firm or a member of a law firm that neither presently is, nor in the past five years has been, retained to represent (A) the Company or the Indemnitee in any matter material to either such party or (B) any other party to the Proceeding giving rise to a claim for indemnification under this Article. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the term "Independent Counsel" shall not include any person who, under the applicable standards of professional conduct then prevailing under the law of the State of Delaware, would have a conflict of interest in representing either the Company or the Indemnitee in an action to determine the Indemnitee's rights under this Article. 5. Severability. If any provision or provisions of this Article shall be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable for any reason whatsoever: (a) the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Article (including, without limitation, all portions of any paragraph of this Article containing any such provision held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable that are not themselves invalid, illegal or unenforceable) shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby; and (b) to the fullest extent possible, the provisions of this Article (including, without limitation, all portions of any paragraph of this Article containing any such provision held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable that are not themselves invalid, illegal or unenforceable) shall be construed so as to give effect to the intent manifested by the provision held invalid, illegal or unenforceable. TENTH: To the extent deemed necessary or appropriate by the Board of Directors to enable the Company to engage in any business or activity directly or indirectly conducted by it in compliance with the laws of the United States of America as now in effect or as they may hereafter from time to time be amended, the Company may adopt such by-laws as may be necessary or advisable to comply with the provisions and avoid the prohibitions of any such law. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, such by-laws may restrict or prohibit the transfer of shares of capital stock of the Company to, and the voting of such stock by, aliens or their representatives, or corporations organized under the laws of any foreign country or their representatives, or corporations directly or indirectly controlled by aliens or by any such corporation or representative. ELEVENTH: The Company reserves the right at any time and from time to time to amend, alter, change or repeal any provision contained in this Certificate of Incorporation in the manner now or hereafter prescribed by law, and all rights, preferences and privileges of whatsoever nature conferred upon stockholders, directors or any other persons whomsoever by and pursuant to this Certificate of Incorporation in its present form or as hereinafter amended are granted subject to the right reserved in this Article ELEVENTH.

Exhibit 3.4 ================================================================================ THE WASHINGTON POST COMPANY (formerly known as TWPC, INC.) Incorporated under the Laws of the State of Delaware AMENDED AND RESTATED BY-LAWS -------------- Effective September 22, 2003 ================================================================================
AMENDED AND RESTATED BY-LAWS of THE WASHINGTON POST COMPANY (formerly known as TWPC, INC.) ----------- ARTICLE I OFFICES SECTION 1.01. Registered Office. The registered office of The Washington Post Company (formerly known as TWPC, Inc. and hereinafter called the Company) in the State of Delaware shall be in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle, and the registered agent in charge thereof shall be The Corporation Trust Company. SECTION 1.02. Other Offices. The Company may have such other offices in such places, either within or without the State of Delaware, as the Board of Directors (hereinafter called the Board) may from time to time determine or the business of the Company may require. ARTICLE II MEETINGS OF STOCKHOLDERS SECTION 2.01. Place of Meeting. All meetings of the stockholders of the Company shall be held at such place or places, within or without the State of Delaware, as may from time to time be fixed by the Board or as shall be specified or fixed in the respective notices or waivers of notice thereof. SECTION 2.02. Annual Meetings. The annual meeting of the stockholders for the election of directors and for the transaction of any other proper business as may come before the meeting shall be held on such date and at such time as shall be designated by the Board. If any annual meeting shall not be held on the date designated therefore
or if the directors shall not have been elected thereat or at any ad- journment thereof, the Board shall cause a special meeting of the stockholders for the election of directors to be held as soon thereafter as may be convenient. SECTION 2.03. Special Meetings. A special meeting of the stock- holders for any purpose or purposes may be called at any time by the Chairman of the Board or the President or by order of the Board, and shall be called by the Secretary upon the written request of stock- holders holding of record at least a majority of the outstanding shares of stock of the Company entitled to vote at such meeting. SECTION 2.04. Notice of Meetings. Except as otherwise provided by law, notice of each meeting of the stockholders, whether annual or special, shall be given not less than 10 nor more than 60 days before the date of the meeting to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at such meeting, by delivering a written or printed notice thereof to him personally, or by mailing such notice in a postage prepaid envelope directed to the stockholder at his address as it appears on the records of the Company. Every notice of a meeting of stockholders shall state the place, date and hour of the meeting and, in the case of a special meeting, the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called. Except where expressly required by law, no publication of any notice of a meeting of stockholders shall be required. Notice of any adjourned meeting of stockholders shall not be required to be given if (i) the time and place thereof are announced at the meeting at which the adjournment is taken, (ii) the adjourned meeting is held within 30 days thereafter and (iii) a new record date for the adjourned meeting is not fixed after the adjournment. SECTION 2.05. Quorum. Except as otherwise provided by law or the Certificate of Incorporation, at each meeting of the stockholders the holders of record of a majority of the issued and outstanding stock of the Company entitled to vote at such meeting, present either in person or by proxy, shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business; provided, however, that in any case where the holders of any class of stock or any series thereof are entitled to vote as a class, a quorum of each class of stock or such series thereof shall be separately determined. In the absence of a quorum, a majority in interest of the stockholders of the Company present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote at such meeting, or, in the absence of any stockholders entitled to vote, any officer present at such meeting, shall have the
power to adjourn the meeting from time to time, until stockholders holding the requisite amount of stock shall be present or represented. At any such adjourned meeting at which a quorum shall be present any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the meeting as originally called. The absence from any meeting in person or by proxy of stockholders holding the number of shares of stock of the Company required by law, by the Certificate of Incorporation or by these By-laws for action upon any given matter shall not prevent action at such meeting upon any other matter or matters which may properly come before the meeting if there shall be present thereat in person or by proxy stockholders holding the number of shares of stock of the Company required in respect of such other matter or matters. SECTION 2.06. Voting. (a) Except as otherwise provided by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-laws, each stockholder shall be entitled to one vote in person or by proxy on each matter for each share of stock of the Company which shall be entitled to vote on such matter and which shall be held by him and registered in his name on the books of the Company on the date fixed pursuant to Section 7.04 as the record date for the determination of stockholders entitled to notice of and to vote at the meeting of stockholders, or to express consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting, as the case may be. (b) Shares of its own capital stock belonging to the Company, or to another corporation if a majority of the shares entitled to vote in the election of directors of such other corporation is held by the Company, shall neither be entitled to vote nor counted for quorum purposes.f (c) Persons holding stock of the Company in a fiduciary capacity shall be entitled to exercise the voting rights of such stock so held. Persons whose stock is pledged shall be entitled to exercise the voting rights of such stock, unless in the transfer by the pledgor on the books of the Company he shall have expressly empowered the pledgee to vote thereon, in which case only the pledgee, or his proxy, may represent such stock and vote thereon. (d) Stock having voting power standing of record in the names of two or more persons, whether fiduciaries, members of a partnership, joint tenants, tenants in common, tenants by the entirety or otherwise, or with respect to which two or more persons have the same fiduciary relationship, shall be voted in accordance with the provisions of the
General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware. (e) Any vote upon any matter at a meeting of the stockholders by the stockholder entitled to vote thereon, and any expression of consent or dissent to corporate action without a meeting by the stockholder entitled to express such consent or dissent, may be given in person or by his proxy appointed by an instrument in writing subscribed by such stockholder or by his attorney thereunto authorized, or appointed in any other manner permitted under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, as long as such instrument, or a copy, facsimile telecommunication or other reliable reproduction of the writing or transmission effecting such appointment, has been delivered to the Secretary or, in the case of a vote at a meeting, to the secretary of the meeting; provided, however, that no proxy shall be voted or acted upon after three years from its date, unless said proxy shall provide for a longer period. The attendance at any meeting of a stockholder who may theretofore have given a proxy shall not have the effect of revoking the same unless he shall in writing so notify the secretary of the meeting prior to the voting of the proxy. At all meetings of the stockholders all matters, except as otherwise provided in the Certifi-cate of Incorporation, in these By-laws or by law, shall be decided by the vote of a majority in voting interest of the stockholders present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote thereat and thereon, a quorum being present. Except in the case of votes for the election of directors, the vote at any meeting of the stockholders on any question need not be by ballot, unless so directed by the chairman of the meeting. On a vote by ballot each ballot shall be signed by the stockholder voting, or by his proxy, and shall state the number and class of shares voted. SECTION 2.07. List of Stockholders. It shall be the duty of the Secretary or other officer of the Company who shall have charge of its stock ledger, either directly or through another officer of the Company designated by him or through a transfer agent or clerk appointed by the Board, to prepare and make, at least 10 days before every meeting of the stockholders, a complete list of the stockholders of each class entitled to vote thereat, arranged in alphabetical order and showing the address of each stockholder and the number and class of shares registered in the name of each stockholder. Such list shall be open to the examination of any stockholder, for any purpose germane to the meeting, during ordinary business hours, for a period of at least 10 days prior to the meeting, either at a place within the city where the meeting is to be held, which place shall be specified in the notice of the
meeting, or, if not so specified, at the place where the meeting is to be held. Such list shall also be produced and kept at the time and place of said meeting during the whole time thereof, and may be inspected by any stockholder present thereat. The stock ledger shall be the only evidence as to who are the stockholders entitled to examine the stock ledger, such list or the books of the Company, or to vote in person or by proxy at any meeting of stockholders. SECTION 2.08. Inspectors of Votes. Before or at each meeting of the stockholders the chairman of such meeting may appoint two Inspectors of Votes to act thereat. Each Inspector of Votes so appointed shall first subscribe an oath or affirmation faithfully to execute the duties of an Inspector of Votes at such meeting with strict impartiality and according to the best of his ability. Such Inspectors of Votes, if any, shall take charge of the ballots at such meeting and after the balloting thereat on any question shall count the ballots cast thereon and shall make a report in writing to the secretary of such meeting of the results thereof. An Inspector of Votes need not be a stockholder of the Company, and any director or officer of the Company may be an Inspector of Votes on any question other than a vote for or against his election to any position with the Company or on any other question in which he may be directly interested. SECTION 2.09. Consent of Stockholders in Lieu of Meeting. Anything in these By-laws to the contrary notwithstanding, any action required by the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware to be, or which may be, taken at any annual or special meeting of the stockholders may be taken without a meeting, without prior notice and without a vote, if a consent in writing, setting forth the action so taken, shall be signed in person or by proxy by the holders of outstanding stock having not less than the minimum number of votes that would be necessary to authorize or take such action at a meeting at which all shares entitled to vote thereon were present and voted. Prompt notice of the taking of the corporate action without a meeting by less than unanimous written consent shall be given to those stockholders who have not consented thereto in writing.
ARTICLE III BOARD OF DIRECTORS SECTION 3.01. General Powers. The property, affairs and business of the Company shall be managed by the Board. SECTION 3.02. Number and Term of Office. Subject to the re- quirements of law and the Certificate of Incorporation, the number of directors shall be such number, not less than three, as shall be fixed from time to time by resolution of the Board; provided, however, that so long as any Class A Common Stock shall remain outstanding the minimum number of directors fixed by any such resolution shall be sufficient to enable the holders of such stock to elect a majority of the directors. If any person shall be nominated to serve as a director at a time when there shall be outstanding more than one class or series of stock entitled to vote on the election of directors, at the time of such nomination there shall be specified the class or series of stock by which such person is intended to be elected or, if elected, may be removed. At least three-fourths of the persons serving as directors must be citizens of the United States of America. Directors need not be stockholders. Each director shall hold office until the annual meeting of the stockholders next following his election and until his earlier death, resignation or removal in the manner hereinafter provided. SECTION 3.03. Quorum and Manner of Acting. Except as otherwise provided by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-laws, one- third of the members of the Board shall be present in person at any meeting of the Board (participation in a meeting by means of conference telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other to constitute presence in person at such meeting) in order to constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at such meeting, and the vote of a majority of the directors present at any such meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the Board; provided, however, that none of the officers of the Company shall as a member of the Board have any vote in the determination of the amount that shall be paid to him as a fixed salary. In the absence of a quorum from any such meeting, a majority of the directors present thereat may adjourn such meeting from time to time until a quorum shall be present thereat. Notice of any adjourned meeting need not be given. The directors shall act only as a board and the individual directors shall have no power as such. SECTION 3.04. Place of Meetings. The Board may hold its meeting at such place or places, within or without the State of Delaware, as the
Board may from time to time determine or as shall be designated in the respective notices of meetings or waivers thereof. SECTION 3.05. First Meeting. After each annual election of directors and on the same day and at the same place, the Board may meet for the purpose of organization, the election of officers and the transaction of other business. Notice of such meeting need not be given. Such meeting may be held at any other time or place which shall be specified in a notice given as hereinafter provided for special meetings of the Board or in a consent and waiver of notice thereof signed by all the directors. SECTION 3.06. Regular Meetings. Regular meetings of the Board shall be held at such places, within or without the State of Delaware, and at such times as the Board shall by resolution determine. If any day fixed for a regular meeting shall be a legal holiday at the place where the meeting is to be held, then the meeting which would otherwise be held on that day shall be held at said place at the same hour on the next succeeding business day not a legal holiday. Notice of regular meetings need not be given. SECTION 3.07. Special Meetings; Notice. Special meetings of the Board shall be held whenever called by the Chairman of the Board or by the President, or by the Secretary on the written request of a majority of the directors at the time in office. Notice of each such meeting shall be mailed to each director, addressed to him at his residence or usual place of business, at least two days before the day on which the meeting is to be held, or shall be sent to him at such place by telegram, cablegram or other electronic transmission, or be delivered personally or by telephone, not later than the day before the day on which the meeting is to be held. Each such notice shall state the time and place of the meeting but need not state the purpose thereof. SECTION 3.08. Action by Consent. Any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board, or of any committee thereof, may be taken without a meeting if all the members of the Board or of such committee, as the case may be, consent thereto in writing or by electronic transmission, and such writing or writings or electronic transmission or transmissions are filed with the minutes of the proceedings of the Board or such committee. Such filing shall be in
paper form if the minutes of the proceedings of the Board or such committee are maintained in paper form and shall be in electronic form if such minutes are maintained in electronic form. SECTION 3.09. Resignation. Any director of the Company may resign at any time by giving written notice to the Chairman of the Board, the President or the Secretary. The resignation of any director shall take effect at the time specified therein, or if the time when it shall become effective shall not be specified therein then it shall take effect immediately upon its receipt by the Chairman, the President or the Secretary; and unless otherwise specified therein the acceptance of such resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective. SECTION 3.10. Removal of Directors. Any director of the Company may be removed, either with or without cause, at any time, by the affirmative vote of a majority in interest of the stockholders of record of the Company who would be entitled to vote on the election of such director, given at any special meeting of such stockholders or in accordance with Section 2.09; and the vacancy in the Board caused by any such removal may be filled by such stockholders at such special meeting or in accordance with Section 2.09 or, if not so filled, as otherwise provided in Section 3.11. SECTION 3.11. Vacancies. Any vacancy in the Board caused by the death, resignation, disqualification or removal of a director, or by an increase in the number of directors, or any other cause, may, subject to Section 3.10, be filled either by a majority vote of the remaining directors, though less than a quorum, or by a sole remaining director, or by the stockholders of the Company entitled to vote thereon at the next annual meeting or at any special meeting called for the purpose, or in accordance with Section 2.09. SECTION 3.12. Compensation. Unless otherwise expressly provided by resolution adopted by the Board, neither any director nor any member of any committee contemplated by these By-laws or otherwise provided for by resolution of the Board shall, as such, receive any stated compensation for his services; but the Board may at any time or from time to time by resolution provide that a specified sum shall be paid to any director or to any member of any such committee who shall not otherwise be in the employ of the Company or any of its subsidiaries, either as his annual compensation as such director or
member or as compensation for his attendance at meetings of the Board or of such committee. The Board may also likewise provide that the Company shall reimburse each director or member of such committee for any expenses paid by him on account of his attendance at any such meeting. Nothing in this Section 3.12 contained shall be construed to preclude any director from serving the Company in any other capacity and receiving compensation therefor. ARTICLE IV COMMITTEES SECTION 4.01. Executive Committee; Appointment; Powers; Resignation and Removal of Members. The Board may by resolution designate not less than two nor more than five directors, who shall include the Chairman of the Board and the chief executive officer of the Company, to constitute an Executive Committee that shall have and may exercise all the powers of the Board delegable by law in the management of the business and affairs of the Company to the extent provided in said resolution or in any other resolution adopted by the Board, and shall have the power to authorize the seal of the Company to be affixed to all papers which may require it. Such resolution may also specify that the member or members of the Executive Committee present and not disqualified from voting at a meeting of the Executive Committee, whether or not he or they constitute a quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the Board to act at such meeting in place of any absent or disqualified member. The Board shall designate in said resolution the Chairman of the Board or the immediate past Chairman of the Board to be the Chairman of the Executive Committee. Any member of the Executive Committee may at any time resign by giving notice to the Chairman of the Executive Committee, the Chairman of the Board, the President or the Secretary. The resignation of any member of the Executive Committee shall take effect at the time specified therein, or if the time when it shall become effective shall not be specified therein then it shall take effect immediately upon its receipt by the Chairman of the Executive Committee, the Chairman of the Board, the President or the Secretary; and unless otherwise specified therein the acceptance of such resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective. A majority of all the members of the Executive Committee may fix its rules of procedure, determine its actions and fix the time and place, whether within or without the State of Delaware, of its meetings and specify what notice thereof, if any, shall be given, unless the Board shall otherwise by resolution provide. The Board shall have power to change the members of the Executive Committee, other than the Chairman of the Board and the chief executive officer of the Company, at any time, either with or without cause, to fill vacancies in such membership and to discharge the Executive Committee, either with or without cause, at any time. SECTION 4.02. Other Committees. The Board may by resolution constitute other committees which shall in each case consist of directors and, at the discretion of the Board, officers who are not directors, and which shall have and may exercise such powers as the Board may determine and specify in the respective resolutions appointing them; provided, however, that (a) unless all the members of any committee shall be directors, such committee shall not have authority to exercise any of the powers of the Board in the management of the business and affairs of the Company and (b) if any committee shall have the power to determine the amounts of the respective fixed salaries of the officers of the Company, or any of them, such committee shall consist of not less than three members and none of its members shall have any vote in the determination of the amount that shall be paid to him as a fixed salary. A majority of all the members of any such committee may fix its rules of procedure, determine its action and fix the time and place, whether within or without the State of Delaware, of its meetings and specify what notice thereof, if any, shall be given, unless the Board shall otherwise by resolution provide. The Board shall have power to change the members of any such committee at any time, to fill vacancies therein and to discharge any such committee, either with or without cause, at any time. ARTICLE V OFFICERS SECTION 5.01. Number. The officers of the Company shall be appointed by the Board and may include a Chairman of the Board (who shall be chosen from among the directors), a President, one or more Vice Presidents (one or more of whom may be designated Executive Vice Presidents or Senior Vice Presidents), a Secretary, a Treasurer and such other officers as may be so appointed. The Board shall
designate one of the officers of the Company as the chief executive officer of the Company. SECTION 5.02. Election and Term of Office. The officers shall be elected annually by the Board and each shall hold office until the next annual election of officers and until his successor shall have been duly elected and shall qualify or until his earlier death, resignation or removal in the manner hereinafter provided. A vacancy in any office because of death, resignation, removal or any other cause may be filled by the Board for the unexpired portion of the term. SECTION 5.03. Removal. Any officer may be removed, either with or without cause, by the vote of a majority of the Board. SECTION 5.04. Resignations. Any officer may resign at any time by giving written notice of his resignation to the Chairman of the Board, the President or the Secretary. Any such resignation shall take effect at the time specified therein, or if the time when it shall become effective shall not be specified therein then it shall take effect immediately upon its receipt by the Chairman of the Board, the President or the Secretary; and unless otherwise specified therein the acceptance of such resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective. SECTION 5.05. Salaries. The salaries of the officers of the Company shall be fixed from time to time by the Board or by any one or more committees (none of which shall consist of less than three members, all of whom shall be directors) appointed by resolution of the Board with power to fix such salaries. None of such officers shall be prevented from receiving a salary by reason of the fact that he is also a member of the Board or any such committee, but no officer who shall also be a member of the Board or of any such committee shall have any vote in the determination of the amount of salary that shall be paid to him. ARTICLE VI CONTRACTS, INSTRUMENTS, BANK ACCOUNTS, ETC. SECTION 6.01. Contracts or Other Instruments. Except as otherwise provided by law or by these By-laws, any contract or other instrument relative to the business of the Company may be executed and delivered
in the name of the Company and on its behalf by the Chairman of the Board, the President, a Vice President, the Secretary or the Treasurer; and the Board may authorize any other officer or agent of the Company to enter into any contract or execute and deliver any contract or other instrument in the name and on behalf of the Company, and such authority may be general or confined to specific instances as the Board may by resolution determine. Unless authorized so to do by these By-laws or by the Board, no officer, agent or employee shall have any power or authority to bind the Company by any contract or engagement, or to pledge its credit, or to render it liable pecuniarily for any purpose or to any amount. SECTION 6.02. Deposits. All funds of the Company not otherwise employed shall be deposited from time to time to the credit of the Company or otherwise as the Board or the Chairman of the Board or the President or the Treasurer shall direct in such banks, trust companies or other depositaries as the Board may select or as may be selected by any officer or agent of the Company to whom power in that respect shall have been delegated by the Board. For the purpose of deposit and for the purpose of collection for the account of the Company, checks, drafts and other orders for the payment of money which are payable to the order of the Company may be endorsed, assigned and delivered by any officer or agent of the Company. SECTION 6.03. General and Special Bank Accounts. The Board may from time to time authorize the opening and keeping of general and special bank accounts with such banks, trust companies or other depositaries as the Board may select, or as may be selected by any officer or agent of the Company to whom power in that respect shall have been delegated by the Board. The Board may make such special rules and regulations with respect to such bank accounts, not incon- sistent with the provisions of these By-laws, as it may deem expedient. SECTION 6.04. Loans. Unless the Board shall otherwise deter- mine, any two of the following officers, to wit: the Chairman of the Board, the President, any Vice President, the Treasurer and the Secre- tary, acting together, may effect loans and advances at any time for the Company from any bank, trust company or other institution or from any firm or individual, and for such loans and advances may make, execute and deliver promissory notes or other evidences of indebtedness of the Company, but no officer or officers shall mortgage, pledge, hypothecate or otherwise transfer for security any property
whatsoever owned or held by the Company except when authorized by resolution adopted by the Board. SECTION 6.05. Checks, Drafts, etc. All checks, drafts, orders for the payment of money, bills of lading, warehouse receipts, obligations, bills of exchange and insurance certificates shall be signed or endorsed (except endorsements for collection for the account of the Company or for deposit to its credit) by such officer or officers or agent or agents of the Company and in such manner as shall from time to time be determined by resolution of the Board. SECTION 6.06. Proxies in Respect of Stock or Other Securities of Other Corporations. The Chairman of the Board, the President, any Vice President or the Secretary may from time to time appoint an attorney or attorneys or an agent or agents of the Company to exercise, in the name and on behalf of the Company, the powers and rights which the Company may have as the holder of stock or other securities in any other corporation to vote or consent in respect of such stock or other securities, and the Chairman of the Board, the President, any Vice President or the Secretary may instruct the person or persons so appointed as to the manner of exercising such powers and rights; and the Chairman of the Board, the President, any Vice President or the Secretary may execute or cause to be executed, in the name and on behalf of the Company and under its corporate seal or otherwise, all such written proxies or other instruments as he may deem necessary or proper in order that the Company may exercise such powers and rights. ARTICLE VII CAPITAL STOCK SECTION 7.01. Stock Certificates. Every stockholder shall be entitled to have a certificate, in such form as the Board shall prescribe, signed in the name of the Company by the Chairman of the Board, the President or a Vice President and by the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer or the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, certifying the number and class of shares of stock of the Company owned by him. If such certificate is countersigned (i) by a transfer agent other than the Company or its employee or (ii) by a registrar other than the Company or its employee, any other signature on the certificate may be a facsimile. In case any officer, transfer agent or registrar who has
signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon a certificate shall cease to be such officer, transfer agent or registrar before such certificate is issued, it may be issued by the Company with the same effect as if he were such officer, transfer agent or registrar at the date of issue. A record shall be kept of the respective names of the persons, firms or corporations owning the stock represented by certificates for stock of the Company, the number, class and series of shares represented by such certificates respectively, and the respective dates thereof, and in case of cancellation, the respective dates of cancellation. Every certificate surrendered to the Company for exchange or transfer shall be canceled and a new certificate or certificates shall not be issued in exchange for any existing certificate until such existing certificate shall have been so canceled, except in cases provided for in Section 7.05. SECTION 7.02. Transfer of Stock. Except as otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation, transfer of shares of stock of the Company shall be made only on the books of the Company by the reg-istered holder thereof, or by his attorney thereunto authorized by power of attorney duly executed and filed with the Secretary or with a transfer agent appointed pursuant to Section 7.03, and upon surrender of the certificate or certificates for such shares properly endorsed and payment of all taxes thereon. The person in whose name shares of stock stand on the books of the Company shall be deemed the owner thereof for all purposes as regards the Company. Whenever any transfer of shares shall be made for collateral security and not absolutely, such fact shall be so expressed in the entry of transfer if, when the certificate or certificates shall be presented to the Company for transfer, both the transferor and the transferee request the Company to do so. The Secretary or such transfer agent shall inquire prior to the transfer of shares of stock of the Company whether such stock is to be owned of record or voted by or on behalf of an Alien (as defined in Section 7.06), shall maintain a record of shares so owned or to be so voted, and shall not transfer any shares of stock upon the books of the Company except in accordance with Section 7.06. SECTION 7.03. Regulations. The Board may make such rules and regulations as it may deem expedient, not inconsistent with these By-laws, concerning the issue, transfer and registration of certificates for stock of the Company. The Board may appoint, or authorize any officer or officers to appoint, one or more transfer agents and one or more registrars, and may require all certificates for stock to bear the signature or signatures of any of them.
SECTION 7.04. Fixing Date for Determination of Stockholders of Record. In order that the Company may determine the stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of stockholders or any adjournment thereof, or to express consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting, or entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights, or entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any other change, conversion or exchange of stock or for the purpose of any other lawful action, the Board may fix, in advance, a record date, which shall not be more than 60 nor less than 10 days before the date of such meeting, nor more than 60 days prior to any other action. If in any case involving the determination of stockholders for any purpose other than notice of or voting at a meeting of stockholders or expressing written consent to corporate action without a meeting the Board shall not fix such a record date, the record date for determining stockholders for such purpose shall be the close of business on the day on which the Board shall adopt the resolution relating thereto. A determination of stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall apply to any adjournment of the meeting; provided, however, that the Board may fix a new record date for the adjourned meeting. SECTION 7.05. Lost, Stolen, Destroyed or Mutilated Certificates. If the owner of any stock of the Company shall notify the Company of any loss, theft, destruction or mutilation of the certificate therefor, the Company may issue a new certificate for stock in the place of any certificate theretofore issued by it and alleged to have been lost, stolen or destroyed, or which shall have been mutilated. The Board may, in its discretion, require the owner of the lost, stolen, destroyed or mutilated certificate or his legal representatives to give the Company a bond in such sum, limited or unlimited, and in such form and with such surety or sureties, as the Board shall in its uncontrolled discretion determine, to indemnify the Company against any claim that may be made against it on account of the alleged loss, theft, destruction or mutilation of any such certificate, or the issuance of such new certificate. The Board may, however, in its discretion refuse to issue any such new certificate except pursuant to legal proceedings under the laws of the State of Delaware in such case made and provided. SECTION 7.06. Ownership or Voting by Aliens. (a) As used in these
By-laws, the word "Alien" shall be construed to include the following and their representatives: An individual not a citizen of the United States of America; a partnership unless a majority of the partners are citizens of the United States of America and have a majority interest in the partnership profits; a foreign government; a corporation, joint-stock company or association organized under the laws of a foreign country; and any other corporation, joint-stock company or as- sociation directly or indirectly controlled by one or more of the fore- going. (b) Not more than one-fifth of the aggregate number of shares of voting stock of the Company of any class outstanding shall at any time be owned of record or voted by or for the account of Aliens. (c) The ownership of record of shares of stock by or for the account of Aliens, and the citizenship of transferees thereof, shall be determined in conformity with regulations prescribed by the Board. There shall be maintained separate stock records, a domestic record of shares of stock held by citizens and a foreign record of shares of stock held by Aliens. (d) Every certificate representing stock issued or transferred to an Alien shall be marked "Foreign Share Certificate," but under no circumstances shall certificates representing more than one-fifth of the aggregate number of shares of voting stock of any class outstanding at any one time be so marked, nor shall the total amount of voting stock represented by Foreign Share Certificates, plus the amount of voting stock owned by or for the account of Aliens and represented by certifi- cates not so marked, exceed one-fifth of the aggregate number of shares of voting stock of any class outstanding. Every certificate issued not marked "Foreign Share Certificate" shall be marked "Domestic Share Certificate." Any stock represented by Foreign Share Certificates may be transferred to either Aliens or non-Aliens. (e) If, and so long as, the stock records of the Company shall disclose that one-fifth of the outstanding shares of voting stock of any class is owned by Aliens, no transfer of shares of such class repre- sented by Domestic Share Certificates shall be made to Aliens, and if it shall be found by the Company that stock represented by a Domestic Share Certificate is, in fact, held by or for the account of an Alien, the holder of such stock shall not be entitled to vote, to receive dividends or to have any other rights, except the right to transfer such stock to a citizen of the United States of America.
(f) The Company shall not be owned or controlled directly or indi- rectly by any other corporation of which any officer or more than one- fourth of the directors are Aliens, or of which more than one-fourth of the stock is owned of record or voted by Aliens. (g) The Board may, at any time and from time to time, adopt such other provisions as the Board may deem necessary or desirable to comply with the provisions of Section 310(a) of the Federal Communications Act as now in effect or as it may hereafter from time to time be amended, and to carry out the provisions of this Section 7.06 and of Article TENTH of the Certificate of Incorporation. ARTICLE VIII MISCELLANEOUS SECTION 8.01. Seal. The Company shall have a corporate seal, which shall be in the form of a circle and shall bear the name of the Company and words and figures indicating the year and state in which the Company was incorporated and such other words or figures as the Board may approve and adopt. SECTION 8.02. Fiscal Year. The fiscal year of the Company shall be as determined by the Board of Directors. SECTION 8.03. Waivers of Notice. Whenever notice is required to be given by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-laws, a written waiver thereof, signed by the person entitled to such notice, or a waiver by electronic transmission by the person entitled to such notice, whether before or after the time stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent to such notice. Attendance of a person at a meeting shall constitute a waiver of notice of such meeting except when the person attends the meeting for the express purpose of objecting, at the beginning of the meeting, to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened. Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any regular or special meeting of the stockholders, directors or members of a committee of directors need be specified in any written waiver of notice or any waiver by electronic transmission.
SECTION 8.04. Amendments. These By-laws, or any of them, may be altered, amended or repealed, or new By-laws may be made, by the Board at any meeting thereof or by the stockholders entitled to vote thereon at any annual or special meeting thereof or in accordance with Section 2.09.
CERTIFICATE The undersigned, Secretary of The Washington Post Company., a Delaware corporation, does hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of the Bylaws of the Company in effect as of this date. WITNESS my hand and the seal of the Company this day of , 20 . ----------------------- Secretary

Exhibit 4.1 THIS FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE, dated as of September 22, 2003 (this "Supplemental Indenture"), is by and among WP Company LLC (formerly known as The Washington Post Company), a Delaware limited liability company (the "Company"), The Washington Post Company (formerly known as TWPC, Inc.), a Delaware corporation (the "Parent") and Bank One, NA, as successor to The First National Bank of Chicago, as trustee (the "Trustee"). W I T N E S S E T H WHEREAS, the Company and the Trustee are parties to an indenture dated as of February 17, 1999 (the "Indenture"), pursuant to which the Company's outstanding 5.50% Notes due February 15, 2009 (the "Notes") are issued, which Notes constitute "Securities" as that term is defined in the Indenture; WHEREAS, Section 1001 of the Indenture provides that the Company and the Trustee may at any time or from time to time enter into a supplemental indenture, without the consent of any Holder of the Securities, to, among other things, evidence the succession of another corporation to the Company and the assumption by any such successor of the covenants of the Company in the Indenture and in the Securities; WHEREAS, in connection with a corporate restructuring, the Company is transferring substantially all of its assets and liabilities to the Parent (the "Transfer"); WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 901 of the Indenture, in connection with the Transfer, the Parent is required to execute and deliver to the Trustee a supplemental indenture; WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 901(1) of the Indenture, in connection with the Transfer, the Parent is assuming, by and under this Supplemental Indenture, all of the Company's obligations under the Indenture, including obligations for the due and punctual payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on all the Securities and the performance or observance of each covenant of the Indenture on the part of the Company to be performed or observed; WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 902 of the Indenture, upon completion of the Transfer and the execution and delivery of this Supplemental Indenture, the Parent shall succeed to, and be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of the Company under the Indenture as if the Parent had been named as the Company in the Indenture, and the Company shall be discharged from all liability under the Indenture and in respect of any Securities, other than to the extent provided by the Subsidiary Guaranty (as defined below); and WHEREAS, the Company and the Parent have complied with all conditions precedent provided for in the Indenture relating to this Supplemental Indenture. NOW, THEREFORE, for and in consideration of the foregoing premises, the Company, the Parent and the Trustee hereby agree for the equal and ratable benefit of the Holders of the Securities as follows:
1. Capitalized Terms. Capitalized terms used herein without definition shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture. 2. Assumption by Parent. The Parent hereby assumes all of the Company's obligations under the Indenture, including without limitation obligations for the due and punctual payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on all Securities issued or to be issued pursuant to the Indenture and the performance or observance of each other obligation and covenant set forth in the Indenture to be performed or observed on the part of the Issuer. Parent is hereby substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of, the Company under the Indenture with the same effect as if Parent had been named as the "Company" in the Indenture. 3. Discharge of Company. The Company is hereby discharged from all liability under the Indenture and in respect of the Securities, other than to the extent provided by the Subsidiary Guaranty (as defined below). 4. Trustee's Acceptance. The Trustee hereby accepts this Supplemental Indenture and agrees to perform the same under the terms and conditions set forth in the Indenture. 5. Effect of Supplemental Indenture. Upon the execution and delivery of this Supplemental Indenture by the Company, the Parent and the Trustee, the Indenture shall be supplemented and amended in accordance herewith, and this Supplemental Indenture shall form a part of the Indenture for all purposes, and every Holder of a Security heretofore or hereafter authenticated and delivered under the Indenture shall be bound thereby. 6. Indenture Remains in Full Force and Effect. Except as supplemented or amended hereby, all other provisions in the Indenture and the Securities, to the extent not inconsistent with the terms and provisions of this Supplemental Indenture, shall remain in full force and effect. 7. Incorporation of Indenture. All the provisions of this Supplemental Indenture shall be deemed to be incorporated in, and made a part of, the Indenture; and the Indenture, as supplemented and amended by this Supplemental Indenture, shall be read, taken and construed as one and the same instrument. 8. Subsidiary Guaranty. Concurrently with the execution of this Supplemental Indenture, the Company shall execute a guaranty (the "Subsidiary Guaranty"), substantially in the form of Exhibit A attached hereto, of the due and punctual payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Notes. Such Subsidiary Guaranty shall remain in full force and effect with respect to the Notes until such time as no Notes remain outstanding.
9. Notices. Any notice, request or communication by Parent or the Trustee to the other is duly given if in writing and delivered in person, mailed by first-class mail or by express delivery to the other's address, as stated below: The Washington Post Company 1150 15th St., NW Washington, DC 20071 Attention: General Counsel Bank One, NA 153 West 51st Street New York, NY 10019 Attention: Corporate Trust Services If a notice or communication is mailed in the manner provided above, it is duly given, whether or not the addressee receives it. All notices or communications shall be in writing. 10. Counterparts. This Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which so executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument. 11. Effect of Headings. The headings of this Supplemental Indenture are inserted for convenience of reference and shall not be deemed to be a part thereof. 12. Conflict with Trust Indenture Act. If any provision of this Supplemental Indenture limits, qualifies or conflicts with any provision of the Trust Indenture Act that is required under the Trust Indenture Act to be part of and govern any provision of this Supplemental Indenture, the provision of the Trust Indenture Act shall control. If any provision of this Supplemental Indenture modifies or excludes any provision of the Trust Indenture Act that may be so modified or excluded, the provision of the Trust Indenture Act shall be deemed to apply to the Indenture as so modified or to be excluded by this Supplemental Indenture, as the case may be. 13. Successors. All covenants and agreements in this Supplemental Indenture by the Parent shall be binding upon and accrue to benefit of its successors. All covenants and agreements in this Supplemental Indenture by the Trustee shall be binding upon and accrue to the benefit of its successors. 14. Benefits of Supplemental Indenture. Nothing in this Supplemental Indenture, the Indenture or the Securities, express or implied, shall give to any Person, other than the parties hereto and thereto and their successors hereunder and thereunder and the Holders, any benefit of any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under this Supplemental Indenture, the Indenture or the Securities. 15. Trustee Not Responsible for Recitals. The recitals herein contained are made by the Company and the Parent, and not by the Trustee, and the Trustee assumes no responsibility for the correctness thereof. The Trustee makes no representations as to the validity or sufficiency of this Supplemental Indenture. 16. GOVERNING LAW. THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REGARD TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAW, SHALL GOVERN THIS SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed, all as of the date first above written. WP COMPANY LLC (FORMERLY KNOWN AS THE WASHINGTON POST COMPANY), By: /s/ Gerald M. Rosberg -------------------------------------- Name: Gerald M. Rosberg Title: Vice President - Development THE WASHINGTON POST COMPANY (FORMERLY KNOWN AS TWPC, INC.), By: /s/ John B. Morse, Jr. -------------------------------------- Name: John B. Morse, Jr. Title: Vice President - Finance BANK ONE, NA (SUCCESSOR TO THE FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF CHICAGO), as Trustee, By: /s/ Melissa Wilman ------------------------------------- Name: Melissa Wilman Title: Vice President

Exhibit 4.2 CONFORMED COPY U.S. $250,000,000 364-DAY CREDIT AGREEMENT Dated as of August 13, 2003 Among THE WASHINGTON POST COMPANY as Borrower and THE INITIAL LENDERS NAMED HEREIN as Initial Lenders and CITIBANK, N.A. as Administrative Agent and WACHOVIA BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION SUNTRUST BANK as Syndication Agents and JPMORGAN CHASE BANK BANK ONE, NA as Documentation Agents -------------------------------------- CITIGROUP GLOBAL MARKETS INC. Lead Arranger and Book Manager
TABLE OF CONTENTS Page ARTICLE I DEFINITIONS AND ACCOUNTING TERMS SECTION 1.01. Certain Defined Terms............................................1 SECTION 1.02. Computation of Time Periods.....................................14 SECTION 1.03. Accounting Terms................................................14 ARTICLE II AMOUNTS AND TERMS OF THE ADVANCES SECTION 2.01. The Revolving Credit Advances...................................15 SECTION 2.02. Making the Revolving Credit Advances............................15 SECTION 2.03. The Competitive Bid Advances....................................16 SECTION 2.04. Fees............................................................20 SECTION 2.05. Termination, Reduction or Increase of the Commitments...........20 SECTION 2.06. Repayment of Revolving Credit Advances; Term Loan Election......22 SECTION 2.07. Interest on Revolving Credit Advances...........................23 SECTION 2.08. Interest Rate Determination.....................................24 SECTION 2.09. Optional Conversion of Revolving Credit Advances................25 SECTION 2.10. Optional Prepayments of Revolving Credit Advances...............25 SECTION 2.11. Increased Costs.................................................25 SECTION 2.12. Illegality......................................................27 SECTION 2.13. Payments and Computations.......................................27 SECTION 2.14. Taxes...........................................................28 SECTION 2.15. Sharing of Payments, Etc........................................30 SECTION 2.16. Use of Proceeds.................................................31 SECTION 2.17. Extension of Termination Date...................................31 ARTICLE III CONDITIONS TO EFFECTIVENESS AND LENDING SECTION 3.01. Conditions Precedent to Effectiveness of Sections 2.01 and 2.03.....................................................33 SECTION 3.02. Conditions Precedent to Each Revolving Credit Borrowing, Increase Date and Extension Date.........................34 SECTION 3.03. Conditions Precedent to Each Competitive Bid Borrowing..........34 SECTION 3.04. Determinations Under Section 3.01...............................35 ARTICLE IV REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES SECTION 4.01. Representations and Warranties of the Borrower..................35
ARTICLE V COVENANTS OF THE BORROWER SECTION 5.01. Affirmative Covenants...........................................37 SECTION 5.02. Negative Covenants..............................................40 SECTION 5.03. Financial Covenant..............................................41 ARTICLE VI EVENTS OF DEFAULT SECTION 6.01. Events of Default...............................................41 ARTICLE VII THE AGENT SECTION 7.01. Authorization and Action........................................43 SECTION 7.02. Agent's Reliance, Etc...........................................43 SECTION 7.03. Citibank and Affiliates.........................................44 SECTION 7.04. Lender Credit Decision..........................................44 SECTION 7.05. Indemnification.................................................44 SECTION 7.06. Successor Agent.................................................45 SECTION 7.07. Documentation Agents and Syndication Agents.....................45 ARTICLE VIII MISCELLANEOUS SECTION 8.01. Amendments, Etc.................................................45 SECTION 8.02. Notices, Etc....................................................46 SECTION 8.03. No Waiver; Remedies.............................................46 SECTION 8.04. Costs and Expenses..............................................46 SECTION 8.05. Right of Set-off................................................47 SECTION 8.06. Binding Effect..................................................48 SECTION 8.07. Assignments and Participations..................................48 SECTION 8.08. Confidentiality.................................................51 SECTION 8.09. Governing Law...................................................51 SECTION 8.10. Execution in Counterparts.......................................51 SECTION 8.11. Jurisdiction, Etc...............................................51 SECTION 8.12. Waiver of Jury Trial............................................52 SECTION 8.13. Amendments to the Subsidiary Guaranty...........................52
Schedules Schedule I - List of Applicable Lending Offices Schedule 5.02(a) - Existing Liens Exhibits Exhibit A-1 - Form of Revolving Credit Note Exhibit A-2 - Form of Competitive Bid Note Exhibit B-1 - Form of Notice of Revolving Credit Borrowing Exhibit B-2 - Form of Notice of Competitive Bid Borrowing Exhibit C - Form of Assignment and Acceptance Exhibit D - Form of Assumption Agreement Exhibit E-1 - Form of Opinion of Counsel for the Borrower Exhibit E-2 - Form of Opinion of Counsel for the New Borrower Exhibit E-3 - Form of Opinion of Counsel for the Newspaper Subsidiary Exhibit F - Form of Subsidiary Guaranty Exhibit G - Form of New Borrower Assignment
364-DAY CREDIT AGREEMENT Dated as of August 13, 2003 The Washington Post Company, a Delaware corporation (the "Borrower"), the banks, financial institutions and other institutional lenders (the "Initial Lenders") listed on the signature pages hereof, and Citibank, N.A. ("Citibank"), as administrative agent (the "Agent") for the Lenders (as hereinafter defined), agree as follows: ARTICLE I DEFINITIONS AND ACCOUNTING TERMS SECTION 1.01. Certain Defined Terms. As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the following meanings (such meanings to be equally applicable to both the singular and plural forms of the terms defined): "Advance" means a Revolving Credit Advance or a Competitive Bid Advance. "Affiliate" means, as to any Person, any other Person that, directly or indirectly, controls, is controlled by or is under common control with such Person or is a director or executive officer of such Person. For purposes of this definition, the term "control" (including the terms "controlling", "controlled by" and "under common control with") of a Person means the possession, direct or indirect, of the power to vote 10% or more of the Voting Stock of such Person or to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of such Person, whether through the ownership of Voting Stock, by contract or otherwise. "Agent's Account" means the account of the Agent maintained by the Agent at Citibank with its office at 388 Greenwich Street, New York, New York 10013, Account No. 36852248, Attention: Bank Loans Syndications. "Applicable Lending Office" means, with respect to each Lender, such Lender's Domestic Lending Office in the case of a Base Rate Advance and such Lender's Eurodollar Lending Office in the case of a Eurodollar Rate Advance and, in the case of a Competitive Bid Advance, the office of such Lender notified by such Lender to the Agent as its Applicable Lending Office with respect to such Competitive Bid Advance. "Applicable Margin" means as of any date, (a) for Base Rate Advances, 0% per annum and (b) for Eurodollar Rate Advances, a percentage per annum determined by reference to the Performance Level in effect on such date as set forth below:
Applicable Margin for Applicable Margin for Eurodollar Rate Advances Eurodollar Rate Advances On Prior to Term Loan and After Term Loan Conversion Performance Level Conversion Date Date I 0.200% 0.425% II 0.240% 0.475% III 0.280% 0.525% IV 0.320% 0.575% V 0.500% 0.875% "Applicable Percentage" means, as of any date, a percentage per annum determined by reference to the Performance Level in effect on such date as set forth below: Performance Level Applicable Percentage I 0.050% II 0.060% III 0.070% IV 0.080% V 0.125% "Applicable Utilization Fee" means, as of any date prior to the Term Loan Conversion Date on which the aggregate Advances exceed 50% of the Commitments, a percentage per annum determined by reference to the Performance Level in effect on such date as set forth below: Performance Level Applicable Utilization Fee I 0.050% II 0.050% III 0.050% IV 0.050% V 0.125%
"Assignment and Acceptance" means an assignment and acceptance entered into by a Lender and an Eligible Assignee, accepted and approved by the Agent and approved by the Borrower, in substantially the form of Exhibit C hereto. "Assuming Lender" means an Eligible Assignee not previously a Lender that becomes a Lender hereunder pursuant to either Section 2.05(b) or Section 2.17. "Assumption Agreement" means an agreement in substantially the form of Exhibit D hereto by which an Eligible Assignee agrees to become a Lender hereunder pursuant to either Section 2.05(b) or Section 2.17, in each case agreeing to be bound by all obligations of a Lender hereunder. "Base Rate" means a fluctuating interest rate per annum in effect from time to time, which rate per annum shall at all times be equal to the higher of: (a) the rate of interest announced publicly by Citibank in New York, New York, from time to time, as Citibank's base rate; and (b) 1/2 of one percent per annum above the Federal Funds Rate. "Base Rate Advance" means a Revolving Credit Advance that bears interest as provided in Section 2.07(a)(i). "Borrower" has the meaning specified in the recital or parties to this Agreement, provided that upon the completion of the Restructuring and the satisfaction of the conditions set forth in Section 5.01(j), the Borrower shall be the New Borrower. "Borrowing" means a Revolving Credit Borrowing or a Competitive Bid Borrowing. "Business Day" means a day of the year on which banks are not required or authorized by law to close in New York City and, if the applicable Business Day relates to any Eurodollar Rate Advances, on which dealings are carried on in the London interbank market. "Commitment" means, with respect to any Lender at any time (i) the amount set forth opposite such Lender's name on the signature pages hereof, (ii) if such Lender has become a Lender hereunder pursuant to an Assumption Agreement, the amount set forth as its Commitment in such Assumption Agreement or (iii) if such Lender has entered into one or more Assignments and Acceptances, the amount set forth for such Lender in the Register maintained by the Agent pursuant to Section 8.07(d), as such amount may be increased, terminated or reduced, as the case may be, at or prior to such time pursuant to Section 2.05. "Commitment Date" has the meaning specified in Section 2.05(b)(i). "Commitment Increase" has the meaning specified in Section 2.05(b)(i).
"Competitive Bid Advance" means an advance by a Lender to the Borrower as part of a Competitive Bid Borrowing resulting from the competitive bidding procedure described in Section 2.03 and refers to a Fixed Rate Advance or a LIBO Rate Advance. "Competitive Bid Borrowing" means a borrowing consisting of simultaneous Competitive Bid Advances from each of the Lenders whose offer to make one or more Competitive Bid Advances as part of such borrowing has been accepted under the competitive bidding procedure described in Section 2.03. "Competitive Bid Note" means a promissory note of the Borrower (bearing an original or facsimile signature) payable to the order of any Lender, in substantially the form of Exhibit A-2 hereto, evidencing the indebtedness of the Borrower to such Lender resulting from a Competitive Bid Advance made by such Lender. "Confidential Information" means information that the Borrower furnishes to the Agent or any Lender in a writing designated as confidential, but does not include any such information that is or becomes generally available to the public or that is or becomes available to the Agent or such Lender from a source other than the Borrower that is not, to the best of the Agent's or such Lender's knowledge, acting in violation of a confidentiality agreement with or for the benefit of the Borrower. "Consenting Lender" has the meaning specified in Section 2.17(b). "Consolidated" refers to the consolidation of accounts in accordance with GAAP. "Continuing Directors" means individuals who at the date hereof are directors of the Borrower and any other director (a) whose election or nomination was approved by a majority of the then Continuing Directors or (b) who was nominated by management at a time when Continuing Directors constituted a majority of the board of directors of the Borrower. "Convert", "Conversion" and "Converted" each refers to a conversion of Revolving Credit Advances of one Type into Revolving Credit Advances of the other Type pursuant to Section 2.08 or 2.09. "Debt" of any Person means, without duplication, (a) all indebtedness of such Person for borrowed money, (b) all obligations of such Person for the deferred purchase price of property or services (other than trade payables not overdue by more than 120 days incurred in the ordinary course of such Person's business), (c) all obligations of such Person evidenced by notes, bonds, debentures or other similar instruments, (d) all obligations of such Person created or arising under any conditional sale or other title retention agreement with respect to property acquired by such Person (even though the rights and remedies of the seller or lender under such agreement in the event of default are limited to repossession or sale of such property), (e) all obligations of such Person as lessee under leases that have been or should be, in accordance with GAAP, recorded as capital leases, (f) all obligations, contingent or otherwise, of such Person in respect of acceptances, letters of credit or similar extensions of credit, (g) all Debt of others referred to in clauses (a) through (f) above or clause (h) below guaranteed directly or indirectly in
any manner by such Person, or in effect guaranteed directly or indirectly by such Person through an agreement (1) to pay or purchase such Debt or to advance or supply funds for the payment or purchase of such Debt, (2) to purchase, sell or lease (as lessee or lessor) property, or to purchase or sell services, primarily for the purpose of enabling the debtor to make payment of such Debt or to assure the holder of such Debt against loss, (3) to supply funds to or in any other manner invest in the debtor (including any agreement to pay for property or services irrespective of whether such property is received or such services are rendered) or (4) otherwise to assure a creditor against loss, and (h) all Debt referred to in clauses (a) through (g) above secured by (or for which the holder of such Debt has an existing right, contingent or otherwise, to be secured by) any Lien on property (including, without limitation, accounts and contract rights) owned by such Person, even though such Person has not assumed or become liable for the payment of such Debt. "Default" means any Event of Default or any event that would constitute an Event of Default but for the requirement that notice be given or time elapse or both. "Domestic Lending Office" means, with respect to any Initial Lender, the office of such Lender specified as its "Domestic Lending Office" opposite its name on Schedule I hereto and, with respect to any other Lender, the office of such Lender specified as its "Domestic Lending Office" in the Assumption Agreement or in the Assignment and Acceptance pursuant to which it became a Lender, or such other office of such Lender as such Lender may from time to time specify to the Borrower and the Agent. "Downgrade" means, with respect to any Lender, the lowest rating that has been most recently announced for any class of non-credit enhanced long-term senior unsecured debt issued by such Lender is lower than BBB- by S&P or Baa3 by Moody's. "Effective Date" has the meaning specified in Section 3.01. "Eligible Assignee" means (a) a Lender; (b) an Affiliate of a Lender; (c) a commercial bank organized under the laws of the United States, or any State thereof, and having total assets in excess of $5,000,000,000; (d) a savings and loan association or savings bank organized under the laws of the United States, or any State thereof, and having total assets in excess of $5,000,000,000; (e) a commercial bank organized under the laws of any other country that is a member of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development or has concluded special lending arrangements with the International Monetary Fund associated with its General Arrangements to Borrow or of the Cayman Islands, or a political subdivision of any such country, and having total assets in excess of $5,000,000,000 so long as such bank is acting through a branch or agency located in the United States or in the country in which it is organized or another country that is described in this clause (e); (f) the central bank of any country that is a member of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development; and (g) any other Person approved by the Agent and the Borrower, such approval not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed; provided, however, that neither the Borrower nor an Affiliate of the Borrower shall qualify as an Eligible Assignee.
"Environmental Action" means any action, suit, demand, demand letter, claim, notice of non-compliance or violation, notice of liability or potential liability, consent order or consent agreement relating in any way to any Environmental Law, Environmental Permit or Hazardous Materials or arising from alleged injury or threat of injury to health, safety or the environment, including, without limitation, (a) by any governmental or regulatory authority for enforcement, cleanup, removal, response, remedial or other actions or damages and (b) by any governmental or regulatory authority or any third party for damages, contribution, indemnification, cost recovery, compensation or injunctive relief. "Environmental Law" means any federal, state, local or foreign statute, law, ordinance, rule, regulation, code, order, judgment or decree relating to pollution or protection of the environment, health, safety or natural resources, including, without limitation, those relating to the use, handling, transportation, treatment, storage, disposal, release or discharge of Hazardous Materials. "Environmental Permit" means any permit, approval, identification number, license or other authorization required under any Environmental Law. "ERISA" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time, and the regulations promulgated and rulings issued thereunder. "ERISA Affiliate" means any Person that for purposes of Title IV of ERISA is a member of the Borrower's controlled group, or under common control with the Borrower, within the meaning of Section 414(b) or (c) of the Internal Revenue Code or, solely for purposes of Sections 302 and 303 of ERISA and Section 412 of the Internal Revenue Code, is treated as a single employer under Section 414(b), (c), (m) and (o) of the Internal Revenue Code. "ERISA Event" means (a) (i) the occurrence of a reportable event, within the meaning of Section 4043 of ERISA, with respect to any Plan unless the 30-day notice requirement with respect to such event has been waived by the PBGC, or (ii) the requirements of subsection (1) of Section 4043(b) of ERISA (without regard to subsection (2) of such Section) are met with a contributing sponsor, as defined in Section 4001(a)(13) of ERISA, of a Plan, and an event described in paragraph (9), (10), (11), (12) or (13) of Section 4043(c) of ERISA is reasonably expected to occur with respect to such Plan within the following 30 days; (b) the application for a minimum funding waiver with respect to a Plan; (c) the provision by the administrator of any Plan of a notice of intent to terminate such Plan pursuant to Section 4041(a)(2) of ERISA (including any such notice with respect to a plan amendment referred to in Section 4041(e) of ERISA); (d) the cessation of operations at a facility of the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate in the circumstances described in Section 4062(e) of ERISA; (e) the withdrawal by the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate from a Multiple Employer Plan during a plan year for which it was a substantial employer, as defined in Section 4001(a)(2) of ERISA; (f) the conditions for the imposition of a lien under Section 302(f) of ERISA shall have been met with respect to any Plan; (g) the adoption of an amendment to a Plan requiring the
provision of security to such Plan pursuant to Section 307 of ERISA; or (h) the institution by the PBGC of proceedings to terminate a Plan pursuant to Section 4042 of ERISA, or the occurrence of any event or condition described in Section 4042 of ERISA that constitutes grounds for the termination of, or the appointment of a trustee to administer, a Plan. "Eurocurrency Liabilities" has the meaning assigned to that term in Regulation D of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, as in effect from time to time. "Eurocurrency Reserve Requirements" means the aggregate of the maximum reserve percentages (including any marginal, special, emergency or supplemental reserves) expressed as a decimal established by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and any other banking authority to which any Lender is subject and applicable to Eurocurrency Liabilities, or any similar category of assets or liabilities relating to eurocurrency fundings. Eurocurrency Reserve Requirements shall be adjusted automatically on and as of the effective date of any change in any reserve percentage. "Eurodollar Lending Office" means, with respect to any Initial Lender, the office of such Lender specified as its "Eurodollar Lending Office" opposite its name on Schedule I hereto and, with respect to any other Lender, the office of such Lender specified as its "Eurodollar Lending Office" in the Assumption Agreement or in the Assignment and Acceptance pursuant to which it became a Lender (or, if no such office is specified, its Domestic Lending Office), or such other office of such Lender as such Lender may from time to time specify to the Borrower and the Agent. "Eurodollar Rate" means, for any Interest Period for each Eurodollar Rate Advance comprising part of the same Revolving Credit Borrowing, an interest rate per annum equal to the average (rounded upward to the nearest whole multiple of 1/16 of 1% per annum, if such average is not such a multiple) of the rate per annum at which deposits in U.S. dollars are offered to the principal office of each of the Reference Banks in London, England by prime banks in the London interbank market at 11:00 A.M. (London time) two Business Days before the first day of such Interest Period in an amount substantially equal to such Reference Bank's Eurodollar Rate Advance comprising part of such Revolving Credit Borrowing to be outstanding during such Interest Period and for a period equal to such Interest Period. The Eurodollar Rate for any Interest Period for each Eurodollar Rate Advance comprising part of the same Revolving Credit Borrowing shall be determined by the Agent on the basis of applicable rates furnished to and received by the Agent from the Reference Banks two Business Days before the first day of such Interest Period, subject, however, to the provisions of Section 2.08. "Eurodollar Rate Advance" means a Revolving Credit Advance that bears interest as provided in Section 2.07(a)(ii). "Events of Default" has the meaning specified in Section 6.01. "Extension Date" has the meaning specified in Section 2.17(b).
"Federal Funds Rate" means, for any period, a fluctuating interest rate per annum equal for each day during such period to the weighted average of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers, as published for such day (or, if such day is not a Business Day, for the next preceding Business Day) by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, or, if such rate is not so published for any day that is a Business Day, the average of the quotations for such day on such transactions received by the Agent from three Federal funds brokers of recognized standing selected by it with the consent of the Borrower. "Fixed Rate Advances" has the meaning specified in Section 2.03(a)(i). "GAAP" has the meaning specified in Section 1.03. "Graham Interests" shall mean Donald E. Graham and his siblings, their descendants and any relative by marriage of the foregoing, and any trust for the benefit of any of the foregoing whether as an income or residual beneficiary. "Hazardous Materials" means (a) petroleum and petroleum products, byproducts or breakdown products, radioactive materials, asbestos-containing materials, polychlorinated biphenyls and radon gas and (b) any other chemicals, materials or substances designated, classified or regulated as hazardous or toxic under any Environmental Law and any pollutant or contaminant regulated under the Clean Water Act, 33 U.S.C. Sections 1251 et seq., or the Clean Air Act, 42 U.S.C. Sections 7401 et seq. "Increase Date" has the meaning specified in Section 2.05(b)(i). "Increasing Lender" has the meaning specified in Section 2.05(b)(i). "Interest Period" means, for each Eurodollar Rate Advance comprising part of the same Revolving Credit Borrowing and each LIBO Rate Advance comprising part of the same Competitive Bid Borrowing, the period commencing on the date of such Eurodollar Rate Advance or LIBO Rate Advance or the date of the Conversion of any Base Rate Advance into such Eurodollar Rate Advance and ending on the last day of the period selected by the Borrower pursuant to the provisions below and, thereafter, with respect to Eurodollar Rate Advances, each subsequent period commencing on the last day of the immediately preceding Interest Period and ending on the last day of the period selected by the Borrower pursuant to the provisions below. The duration of each such Interest Period shall be one, two, three or six months or, if available to all the Lenders, nine or twelve months, as the Borrower may, upon notice received by the Agent not later than 11:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the third Business Day prior to the first day of such Interest Period, select; provided, however, that: (i) the Borrower may not select any Interest Period that ends after the Termination Date in effect at the time of such selection or, if the Revolving Credit Advances have been converted to a term loan pursuant to Section 2.06 prior to such selection, that ends after the Maturity Date;
(ii) Interest Periods commencing on the same date for Eurodollar Rate Advances comprising part of the same Revolving Credit Borrowing or for LIBO Rate Advances comprising part of the same Competitive Bid Borrowing shall be of the same duration; (iii) whenever the last day of any Interest Period would otherwise occur on a day other than a Business Day, the last day of such Interest Period shall be extended to occur on the next succeeding Business Day, provided, however, that, if such extension would cause the last day of such Interest Period to occur in the next following calendar month, the last day of such Interest Period shall occur on the next preceding Business Day; and (iv) whenever the first day of any Interest Period occurs on a day of an initial calendar month for which there is no numerically corresponding day in the calendar month that succeeds such initial calendar month by the number of months equal to the number of months in such Interest Period, such Interest Period shall end on the last Business Day of such succeeding calendar month. "Internal Revenue Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time, and the regulations promulgated and rulings issued thereunder. "Lenders" means the Initial Lenders, each Assuming Lender that shall become a party hereto pursuant to either Section 2.05(b) or Section 2.17 and each Person that shall become a party hereto pursuant to Section 8.07. "LIBO Rate" means, for any Interest Period for all LIBO Rate Advances comprising part of the same Competitive Bid Borrowing, an interest rate per annum equal to the average (rounded upward to the nearest whole multiple of 1/16 of 1% per annum, if such average is not such a multiple) of the rate per annum at which deposits in U.S. dollars are offered to the principal office of each of the Reference Banks in London, England by prime banks in the London interbank market at 11:00 A.M. (London time) two Business Days before the first day of such Interest Period in an amount substantially equal to the amount that would be the Reference Banks' respective ratable shares of such Borrowing if such Borrowing were to be a Revolving Credit Borrowing to be outstanding during such Interest Period and for a period equal to such Interest Period. The LIBO Rate for any Interest Period for each LIBO Rate Advance comprising part of the same Competitive Bid Borrowing shall be determined by the Agent on the basis of applicable rates furnished to and received by the Agent from the Reference Banks two Business Days before the first day of such Interest Period, subject, however, to the provisions of Section 2.08. "LIBO Rate Advances" has the meaning specified in Section 2.03(a)(i). "Lien" means any lien, security interest or other charge or encumbrance of any kind, or any other type of preferential arrangement, including, without limitation, the lien or retained security title of a conditional vendor and any easement, right of way or other encumbrance on title to real property.
"Loan Document" means this Agreement, the Notes and, after the Restructuring, the Subsidiary Guaranty and the New Borrower Assignment. "Loan Party" means the Borrower and, so long as the Subsidiary Guaranty is in effect, the Subsidiary Guarantor. "Margin Stock" has the meaning assigned to such term under Regulation U of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System of the United States as from time to time in effect and all official rulings and interpretations thereunder or thereof. "Material Adverse Change" means any material adverse change in the business, financial condition or results of operations of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole. "Material Adverse Effect" means a material adverse effect on (a) the business, financial condition or results of operations of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole, (b) the rights and remedies of the Agent or any Lender under this Agreement or any Note or (c) the ability of the Borrower to perform its obligations under this Agreement or any Note. "Maturity Date" means the earlier of (a) the first anniversary of the Termination Date and (b) the date of termination in whole of the aggregate Commitments pursuant to Section 2.05 or 6.01. "Moody's" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc. "Multiemployer Plan" means a multiemployer plan, as defined in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA, to which the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate is making or accruing an obligation to make contributions, or has within any of the preceding five plan years made or accrued an obligation to make contributions. "Multiple Employer Plan" means a single employer plan, as defined in Section 4001(a)(15) of ERISA, that (a) is maintained for employees of the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate and at least one Person other than the Borrower and the ERISA Affiliates or (b) was so maintained and in respect of which the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate could have liability under Section 4064 or 4069 of ERISA in the event such plan has been or were to be terminated. "New Borrower" means, upon the completion of the Restructuring, the new parent holding company that is the corporate parent of the Newspaper Subsidiary. "New Borrower Assignment" has the meaning specified in Section 5.01(j). "Newspaper Subsidiary" has the meaning specified in the definition of "Restructuring". "Non-Consenting Lender" has the meaning specified in Section 2.17(b).
"Non-Recourse Debt" shall mean Debt of the Borrower or its Subsidiaries incurred (a) as to which neither the Borrower nor any of its Subsidiaries (i) provides credit support (including any undertaking, agreement or instrument which would constitute Debt) or has given or made other written assurances regarding repayment or the maintenance of capital or liquidity except such assurances as may be approved by the Required Lenders (such approval not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed), (ii) is directly or indirectly liable or (iii) constitutes the lender and (b) the obligees of which will have recourse solely to certain identified assets (the loss of which would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect) for repayment of the principal of and interest on such Debt and any fees, indemnities, expenses, reimbursements or other amounts of whatever nature accrued or payable in connection with such Debt. "Note" means a Revolving Credit Note or a Competitive Bid Note. "Notice of Competitive Bid Borrowing" has the meaning specified in Section 2.03(a). "Notice of Revolving Credit Borrowing" has the meaning specified in Section 2.02(a). "PBGC" means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (or any successor). "Performance Level" means, as of any date of the determination, the level set forth below as then in effect, as determined in accordance with the following provisions of this definition: Level I: Public Debt Rating of not lower than AA- by S&P or not lower than Aa3 by Moody's. Level II: Public Debt Rating of lower than Level I but not lower than A+ by S&P or A1 by Moody's. Level III: Public Debt Rating of lower than Level II but not lower than A by S&P or A2 by Moody's. Level IV: Public Debt Rating of lower than Level III but not lower than A- by S&P and A3 by Moody's. Level V: Public Debt Rating of lower than Level IV. For purposes of the foregoing, (a) if only one of S&P and Moody's shall have in effect a Public Debt Rating, the Performance Level shall be determined by reference to the available rating and (b) if the Public Debt Ratings established by S&P and Moody's shall fall within different Performance Levels, the Performance Level shall be based upon the higher rating, provided that if the lower of such ratings is more than one level below the higher of such ratings, the Performance Level shall be based on the level immediately above such lower rating.
"Permitted Liens" means any of the following: (a) Liens for taxes, assessments and governmental charges or levies to the extent not required to be paid under Section 5.01(b) hereof; (b) Liens imposed by law, such as materialmen's, mechanics', carriers', workmen's and repairmen's Liens and other similar Liens arising in the ordinary course of business securing obligations (other than Debt) that (i) are not overdue for a period of more than 120 days or (ii) are being contested in good faith and by proper proceedings and as to which appropriate reserves are being maintained in accordance with GAAP; (c) Pledges or deposits to secure obligations under workers' compensation laws or similar legislation or to secure public or statutory obligations; (d) Liens securing the performance of or payment in respect of, bids, tenders, government contracts (other than for the repayment of Debt), surety and appeal bonds and other obligations of a similar nature incurred in the ordinary course of business; and (e) Easements, rights of way and other encumbrances on title to real property that do not materially adversely affect the use of such property for its present purposes. "Person" means an individual, partnership, corporation (including a business trust), joint stock company, trust, unincorporated association, joint venture, limited liability company or other entity, or a government or any political subdivision or agency thereof. "Plan" means a Single Employer Plan or a Multiple Employer Plan subject to the provisions of Title IV of ERISA or Section 412 of the Internal Revenue Code or Section 302 of ERISA. "Pro Rata Share" of any amount means, with respect to any Lender at any time, the product of such amount times a fraction the numerator of which is the amount of such Lender's Commitment at such time and the denominator of which is the aggregate of the Commitments of the Lenders at such time. "Public Debt Rating" means, as of any date, the lowest rating that has been most recently announced by either S&P or Moody's, as the case may be, for any class of non-credit enhanced long-term senior unsecured debt issued by the Borrower. For purposes of the foregoing, (a) if any rating established by S&P or Moody's shall be changed, such change shall be effective as of the date on which such change is first announced publicly by the rating agency making such change; and (b) if S&P or Moody's shall change the basis on which ratings are established, each reference to the Public Debt Rating announced by S&P or Moody's, as the case may be, shall refer to the then equivalent rating by S&P or Moody's, as the case may be. "Reference Banks" means Citibank, SunTrust Bank and JPMorgan Chase Bank. "Register" has the meaning specified in Section 8.07(d).
"Required Lenders" means at any time Lenders owed at least a majority in interest of the then aggregate unpaid principal amount of the Revolving Credit Advances owing to Lenders or, if no such principal amount is then outstanding, Lenders having at least a majority in interest of the Commitments. "Restructuring" means an internal restructuring of the Borrower pursuant to which the Borrower merges with a wholly owned Subsidiary of the New Borrower and transfers its assets and liabilities, other than the newspaper publishing business, to the New Borrower. Thereafter the Borrower shall be a wholly owned subsidiary of the New Borrower and shall be referred to as the "Newspaper Subsidiary". "Revolving Credit Advance" means an advance by a Lender to the Borrower as part of a Revolving Credit Borrowing and refers to a Base Rate Advance or a Eurodollar Rate Advance (each of which shall be a "Type" of Revolving Credit Advance). "Revolving Credit Borrowing" means a borrowing consisting of simultaneous Revolving Credit Advances of the same Type made by each of the Lenders pursuant to Section 2.01. "Revolving Credit Note" means a promissory note of the Borrower (bearing an original or facsimile signature) payable to the order of any Lender, in substantially the form of Exhibit A-1 hereto, evidencing the aggregate indebtedness of the Borrower to such Lender resulting from the Revolving Credit Advances made by such Lender. "S&P" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Group, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. "Shareholders' Equity" means "shareholders' equity" as such term is construed in accordance with GAAP and as reported in the Borrower's reports and registration statements filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission or any national securities exchange. "Significant Subsidiary" shall mean any Subsidiary that would be a "significant subsidiary" within the meaning of Rule 1-02 of the SEC's Regulation S-X and shall include, so long as the Subsidiary Guaranty is in effect, the Newspaper Subsidiary. "Single Employer Plan" means a single employer plan, as defined in Section 4001(a)(15) of ERISA, that (a) is maintained for employees of the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate and no Person other than the Borrower and the ERISA Affiliates or (b) was so maintained and in respect of which the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate could have liability under Section 4069 of ERISA in the event such plan has been or were to be terminated. "Subsidiary" of any Person means any corporation, partnership, joint venture, limited liability company, trust or estate of which (or in which) more than 50% of (a) the issued and outstanding capital stock having ordinary voting power to elect a majority of the Board of Directors of such corporation (irrespective of whether at the time capital stock of any other class or classes of such corporation shall or might have voting power
upon the occurrence of any contingency), (b) the interest in the capital or profits of such limited liability company, partnership or joint venture or (c) the beneficial interest in such trust or estate is at the time directly or indirectly owned or controlled by such Person, by such Person and one or more of its other Subsidiaries or by one or more of such Person's other Subsidiaries. "Subsidiary Guaranty" has the meaning specified in Section 5.01(j). "Term Loan Conversion Date" means the Termination Date on which all Revolving Credit Advances outstanding on such date are converted into a term loan pursuant to Section 2.06. "Term Loan Election" has the meaning specified in Section 2.06. "Termination Date" means the earlier of (a) August 11, 2004, subject to the extension thereof pursuant to Section 2.17 and (b) the date of termination in whole of the Commitments pursuant to Section 2.05 or 6.01; provided, however, that the Termination Date of any Lender that is a Non-Consenting Lender to any requested extension pursuant to Section 2.17 shall be the Termination Date in effect immediately prior to the applicable Extension Date for all purposes of this Agreement. "Unused Commitment" means, with respect to any Lender at any time, (a) such Lender's Commitment at such time minus (b) the sum of (i) the aggregate principal amount of all Revolving Credit Advances made by such Lender and outstanding at such time, plus (ii) such Lender's Pro Rata Share of the aggregate principal amount of the Competitive Bid Advances then outstanding. "Voting Stock" means capital stock issued by a corporation, or equivalent interests in any other Person, the holders of which are ordinarily, in the absence of contingencies, entitled to vote for the election of not less than a majority of the directors (or persons performing similar functions) of such Person, even if the right so to vote has been suspended by the happening of such a contingency. SECTION 1.02. Computation of Time Periods. In this Agreement in the computation of periods of time from a specified date to a later specified date, the word "from" means "from and including" and the words "to" and "until" each mean "to but excluding". SECTION 1.03. Accounting Terms. All terms of an accounting or financial nature shall be construed in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"), as in effect from time to time; provided, however, that if the Borrower notifies the Agent that the Borrower wishes to amend any covenant in Article V or any related definition to eliminate the effect of any change in GAAP occurring after the date of this Agreement on the operation of such covenant, or if the Agent notifies the Borrower that the Required Lenders wish to amend Article V or any related definition for such purpose, then the Borrower's compliance with such covenant shall be determined on the basis of GAAP in effect immediately before the relevant change in GAAP became effective, until either such notice is withdrawn or such covenant is amended in a manner satisfactory to the Borrower and the Required Lenders.
ARTICLE II AMOUNTS AND TERMS OF THE ADVANCES SECTION 2.01. The Revolving Credit Advances. Each Lender severally agrees, on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth, to make Revolving Credit Advances to the Borrower from time to time on any Business Day during the period from the Effective Date until the Termination Date in an amount for each such Advance not to exceed such Lender's Unused Commitment. Each Revolving Credit Borrowing shall be in an aggregate amount of $5,000,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof (or, if less, an aggregate amount equal to the amount by which the aggregate amount of a proposed Competitive Bid Borrowing requested by the Borrower exceeds the aggregate amount of Competitive Bid Advances offered to be made by the Lenders and accepted by the Borrower in respect of such Competitive Bid Borrowing, if such Competitive Bid Borrowing is made on the same date as such Revolving Credit Borrowing) and shall consist of Revolving Credit Advances of the same Type made on the same day by the Lenders ratably according to their respective Commitments. Within the limits of each Lender's Unused Commitment in effect from time to time, the Borrower may borrow under this Section 2.01, prepay pursuant to Section 2.10 and reborrow under this Section 2.01. SECTION 2.02. Making the Revolving Credit Advances. (a) Each Revolving Credit Borrowing shall be made on notice, given not later than 11:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the third Business Day prior to the date of the proposed Revolving Credit Borrowing in the case of a Revolving Credit Borrowing consisting of Eurodollar Rate Advances, or the date of the proposed Revolving Credit Borrowing in the case of a Revolving Credit Borrowing consisting of Base Rate Advances, by the Borrower to the Agent, which shall give to each Lender prompt notice thereof by telecopier or telex. Each such notice of a Revolving Credit Borrowing (a "Notice of Revolving Credit Borrowing") shall be by telephone, confirmed at once in writing, or telecopier or telex in substantially the form of Exhibit B-1 hereto, specifying therein the requested (i) date of such Revolving Credit Borrowing, (ii) Type of Advances comprising such Revolving Credit Borrowing, (iii) aggregate amount of such Revolving Credit Borrowing, and (iv) in the case of a Revolving Credit Borrowing consisting of Eurodollar Rate Advances, initial Interest Period for each such Revolving Credit Advance. Each Lender shall, before 1:00 P.M. (New York City time) on the date of such Revolving Credit Borrowing, make available for the account of its Applicable Lending Office to the Agent at the Agent's Account, in same day funds, such Lender's ratable portion of such Revolving Credit Borrowing. After the Agent's receipt of such funds and upon fulfillment of the applicable conditions set forth in Article III, the Agent will make such funds available to the Borrower at the Agent's address referred to in Section 8.02. (b) Anything in subsection (a) above to the contrary notwithstanding, (i) the Borrower may not select Eurodollar Rate Advances for any Revolving Credit Borrowing if the aggregate amount of such Revolving Credit Borrowing is less than $10,000,000 or if the obligation of the Lenders to make Eurodollar Rate Advances shall then be suspended pursuant to Section 2.08 or 2.12 and (ii) the Eurodollar Rate Advances may not be outstanding as part of more than fifteen separate Revolving Credit Borrowings.
(c) Each Notice of Revolving Credit Borrowing shall be irrevocable and binding on the Borrower. In the case of any Revolving Credit Borrowing that the related Notice of Revolving Credit Borrowing specifies is to be comprised of Eurodollar Rate Advances, the Borrower shall indemnify each Lender against any loss, cost or expense incurred by such Lender as a result of any failure to fulfill on or before the date specified in such Notice of Revolving Credit Borrowing for such Revolving Credit Borrowing the applicable conditions set forth in Article III, including, without limitation, any loss (excluding loss of anticipated profits), cost or expense incurred by reason of the liquidation or reemployment of deposits or other funds acquired by such Lender to fund the Revolving Credit Advance to be made by such Lender as part of such Revolving Credit Borrowing when such Revolving Credit Advance, as a result of such failure, is not made on such date. (d) Unless the Agent shall have received notice from a Lender prior to the date of any Revolving Credit Borrowing that such Lender will not make available to the Agent such Lender's ratable portion of such Revolving Credit Borrowing, the Agent may assume that such Lender has made such portion available to the Agent on the date of such Revolving Credit Borrowing in accordance with subsection (a) of this Section 2.02 and the Agent may, in reliance upon such assumption, make available to the Borrower on such date a corresponding amount. If and to the extent that such Lender shall not have so made such ratable portion available to the Agent, such Lender and the Borrower severally agree to repay to the Agent forthwith on demand such corresponding amount together with interest thereon, for each day from the date such amount is made available to the Borrower until the date such amount is repaid to the Agent, at (i) in the case of the Borrower, the interest rate applicable at the time to the Advances comprising such Borrowing and (ii) in the case of such Lender, the Federal Funds Rate. If such Lender shall repay to the Agent such corresponding amount, such amount so repaid shall constitute such Lender's Revolving Credit Advance as part of such Revolving Credit Borrowing for purposes of this Agreement. (e) The failure of any Lender to make the Revolving Credit Advance to be made by it as part of any Borrowing shall not relieve any other Lender of its obligation, if any, hereunder to make its Revolving Credit Advance on the date of such Revolving Credit Borrowing but no Lender shall be responsible for the failure of any other Lender to make the Revolving Credit Advance to be made by such other Lender on the date of any Revolving Credit Borrowing. SECTION 2.03. The Competitive Bid Advances. (a) Each Lender severally agrees that the Borrower may make Competitive Bid Borrowings under this Section 2.03 from time to time on any Business Day during the period from the date hereof until the date occurring 30 days prior to the Termination Date in the manner set forth below; provided that the amount of each Competitive Bid Borrowing shall not exceed the aggregate amount of the Unused Commitments of the Lenders on such Business Day. (i) The Borrower may request a Competitive Bid Borrowing under this Section 2.03 by delivering to the Agent, by telecopier or telex, a notice of a Competitive Bid Borrowing (a "Notice of Competitive Bid Borrowing"), in substantially the form of Exhibit B-2 hereto, specifying therein the requested (u) date of such proposed Competitive Bid Borrowing, (v) aggregate amount of such proposed Competitive Bid
Borrowing, (w) maturity date for repayment of each Advance to be made as part of such Competitive Bid Borrowing (which maturity date may not be earlier than the date occurring 30 days after the date of such Competitive Bid Borrowing or later than the earlier of (I) 360 days after the date of such Competitive Bid Borrowing and (II) the Termination Date), (x) in the case of a Competitive Bid Advance consisting of LIBO Rate Advances, the Interest Period thereof, (y) interest payment date or dates relating thereto, and (z) other terms (if any) to be applicable to such Competitive Bid Borrowing, not later than 10:00 A.M. (New York City time) (A) at least one Business Day prior to the date of the proposed Competitive Bid Borrowing, if the Borrower shall specify in the Notice of Competitive Bid Borrowing that the rates of interest to be offered by the Lenders shall be fixed rates per annum (the Advances comprising any such Competitive Bid Borrowing being referred to herein as "Fixed Rate Advances") and (B) at least four Business Days prior to the date of the proposed Competitive Bid Borrowing, if the Borrower shall instead specify in the Notice of Competitive Bid Borrowing that the rates of interest be offered by the Lenders are to be based on the LIBO Rate (the Advances comprising such Competitive Bid Borrowing being referred to herein as "LIBO Rate Advances"). Each Notice of Competitive Bid Borrowing shall be irrevocable and binding on the Borrower. The Agent shall in turn promptly notify each Lender of each request for a Competitive Bid Borrowing received by it from the Borrower by sending such Lender a copy of the related Notice of Competitive Bid Borrowing. (ii) Each Lender may, if, in its sole discretion, it elects to do so, irrevocably offer to make one or more Competitive Bid Advances to the Borrower as part of such proposed Competitive Bid Borrowing at a rate or rates of interest specified by such Lender in its sole discretion, by notifying the Agent (which shall give prompt notice thereof to the Borrower), before 9:30 A.M. (New York City time) on the date of such proposed Competitive Bid Borrowing, in the case of a Competitive Bid Borrowing consisting of Fixed Rate Advances and before 10:00 A.M. (New York City time) three Business Days before the date of such proposed Competitive Bid Borrowing, in the case of a Competitive Bid Borrowing consisting of LIBO Rate Advances, of the minimum amount and maximum amount of each Competitive Bid Advance which such Lender would be willing to make as part of such proposed Competitive Bid Borrowing (which amounts may, subject to the proviso to the first sentence of this Section 2.03(a), exceed such Lender's Commitment), the rate or rates of interest therefor and such Lender's Applicable Lending Office with respect to such Competitive Bid Advance; provided that if the Agent in its capacity as a Lender shall, in its sole discretion, elect to make any such offer, it shall notify the Borrower of such offer at least 30 minutes before the time and on the date on which notice of such election is to be given to the Agent by the other Lenders. If any Lender shall elect not to make such an offer, such Lender shall so notify the Agent, before 10:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the date on which notice of such election is to be given to the Agent by the other Lenders, and such Lender shall not be obligated to, and shall not, make any Competitive Bid Advance as part of such Competitive Bid Borrowing; provided that the failure by any Lender to give such notice shall not cause such Lender to be obligated to make any Competitive Bid Advance as part of such proposed Competitive Bid Borrowing.
(iii) The Borrower shall, in turn, before 10:30 A.M. (New York City time) on the date of such proposed Competitive Bid Borrowing, in the case of a Competitive Bid Borrowing consisting of Fixed Rate Advances and before 11:00 A.M. (New York City time) three Business Days before the date of such proposed Competitive Bid Borrowing, in the case of a Competitive Bid Borrowing consisting of LIBO Rate Advances, either: (x) cancel such Competitive Bid Borrowing by giving the Agent notice to that effect, or (y) accept one or more of the offers made by any Lender or Lenders pursuant to paragraph (ii) above, in its sole discretion, by giving notice to the Agent of the amount of each Competitive Bid Advance (which amount shall be equal to or greater than the minimum amount, and equal to or less than the maximum amount, notified to the Borrower by the Agent on behalf of such Lender for such Competitive Bid Advance pursuant to paragraph (ii) above) to be made by each Lender as part of such Competitive Bid Borrowing, and reject any remaining offers made by Lenders pursuant to paragraph (ii) above by giving the Agent notice to that effect. The Borrower shall accept the offers made by any Lender or Lenders to make Competitive Bid Advances in order of the lowest to the highest rates of interest offered by such Lenders. If two or more Lenders have offered the same interest rate, the amount to be borrowed at such interest rate will be allocated among such Lenders in proportion to the amount that each such Lender offered at such interest rate. (iv) If the Borrower notifies the Agent that such Competitive Bid Borrowing is cancelled pursuant to paragraph (iii)(x) above, the Agent shall give prompt notice thereof to the Lenders and such Competitive Bid Borrowing shall not be made. (v) If the Borrower accepts one or more of the offers made by any Lender or Lenders pursuant to paragraph (iii)(y) above, the Agent shall in turn promptly notify (A) each Lender that has made an offer as described in paragraph (ii) above, of the date and aggregate amount of such Competitive Bid Borrowing and whether or not any offer or offers made by such Lender pursuant to paragraph (ii) above have been accepted by the Borrower, (B) each Lender that is to make a Competitive Bid Advance as part of such Competitive Bid Borrowing, of the amount of each Competitive Bid Advance to be made by such Lender as part of such Competitive Bid Borrowing, and (C) each Lender that is to make a Competitive Bid Advance as part of such Competitive Bid Borrowing, upon receipt, that the Agent has received forms of documents appearing to fulfill the applicable conditions set forth in Article III. Each Lender that is to make a Competitive Bid Advance as part of such Competitive Bid Borrowing shall, before 12:00 noon (New York City time) on the date of such Competitive Bid Borrowing specified in the notice received from the Agent pursuant to clause (A) of the preceding sentence or any later time when such Lender shall have received notice from the Agent pursuant to clause (C) of the preceding sentence, make available for the account of its Applicable Lending Office to the Agent at the Agent's Account, in same day funds, such Lender's portion of such Competitive Bid Borrowing. Upon fulfillment of the applicable conditions set forth in Article III and after receipt by the Agent of such funds, the Agent will make such
funds available to the Borrower at the Agent's address referred to in Section 8.02. Promptly after each Competitive Bid Borrowing the Agent will notify each Lender of the amount of the Competitive Bid Borrowing. (vi) If the Borrower notifies the Agent that it accepts one or more of the offers made by any Lender or Lenders pursuant to paragraph (iii)(y) above, such notice of acceptance shall be irrevocable and binding on the Borrower. The Borrower shall indemnify each Lender against any loss, cost or expense incurred by such Lender as a result of any failure to fulfill on or before the date specified in the related Notice of Competitive Bid Borrowing for such Competitive Bid Borrowing the applicable conditions set forth in Article III, including, without limitation, any loss (excluding loss of anticipated profits), cost or expense incurred by reason of the liquidation or reemployment of deposits or other funds acquired by such Lender to fund the Competitive Bid Advance to be made by such Lender as part of such Competitive Bid Borrowing when such Competitive Bid Advance, as a result of such failure, is not made on such date. (b) Each Competitive Bid Borrowing shall be in an aggregate amount of $10,000,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof and, following the making of each Competitive Bid Borrowing, the Borrower shall be in compliance with the limitation set forth in the proviso to the first sentence of subsection (a) above. (c) Within the limits and on the conditions set forth in this Section 2.03, the Borrower may from time to time borrow under this Section 2.03, repay or prepay pursuant to subsection (d) below, and reborrow under this Section 2.03, provided that a Competitive Bid Borrowing shall not be made within one Business Day of the date of any other Competitive Bid Borrowing. (d) The Borrower shall repay to the Agent for the account of each Lender that has made a Competitive Bid Advance, on the maturity date of each Competitive Bid Advance (such maturity date being that specified by the Borrower for repayment of such Competitive Bid Advance in the related Notice of Competitive Bid Borrowing delivered pursuant to subsection (a)(i) above and provided in the Competitive Bid Note evidencing such Competitive Bid Advance), the then unpaid principal amount of such Competitive Bid Advance. The Borrower shall have no right to prepay any principal amount of any Competitive Bid Advance unless, and then only on the terms, specified by the Borrower for such Competitive Bid Advance in the related Notice of Competitive Bid Borrowing delivered pursuant to subsection (a)(i) above and set forth in the Competitive Bid Note evidencing such Competitive Bid Advance. (e) The Borrower shall pay interest on the unpaid principal amount of each Competitive Bid Advance from the date of such Competitive Bid Advance to the date the principal amount of such Competitive Bid Advance is repaid in full, at the rate of interest for such Competitive Bid Advance specified by the Lender making such Competitive Bid Advance in its notice with respect thereto delivered pursuant to subsection (a)(ii) above, payable on the interest payment date or dates specified by the Borrower for such Competitive Bid Advance in the related Notice of Competitive Bid Borrowing delivered pursuant to subsection (a)(i) above, as provided in the Competitive Bid Note evidencing such Competitive Bid Advance. The
Borrower shall pay interest on the amount of overdue principal and, to the fullest extent permitted by law, interest in respect of each Competitive Bid Advance owing to a Lender, payable in arrears on the date or dates interest is payable thereon, at a rate per annum equal at all times to 1% per annum above the rate per annum required to be paid on such Competitive Bid Advance under the terms of the Competitive Bid Note evidencing such Competitive Bid Advance unless otherwise agreed in such Competitive Bid Note. (f) The indebtedness of the Borrower resulting from each Competitive Bid Advance made to the Borrower as part of a Competitive Bid Borrowing shall be evidenced by a separate Competitive Bid Note of the Borrower payable to the order of the Lender making such Competitive Bid Advance. SECTION 2.04. Fees. (a) Facility Fee. The Borrower agrees to pay to the Agent for the account of each Lender a facility fee on the aggregate amount of such Lender's Commitment in effect from time to time from the Effective Date in the case of each Initial Lender and from the later of the Effective Date and the effective date specified in the Assumption Agreement or in the Assignment and Acceptance, as the case may be, pursuant to which it became a Lender in the case of each other Lender until the Termination Date at a rate per annum equal to the Applicable Percentage in effect from time to time, payable in arrears quarterly on the last day of each March, June, September and December, commencing September 30, 2003, and on the Termination Date. (b) Agent's Fees. The Borrower shall pay to the Agent for its own account such fees as may from time to time be agreed between the Borrower and the Agent. SECTION 2.05. Termination, Reduction or Increase of the Commitments. (a) Termination or Reduction. (i) Optional. The Borrower shall have the right, upon at least three Business Days' notice to the Agent, to terminate in whole or reduce ratably in part the respective Unused Commitments of the Lenders, provided that each partial reduction shall be in the aggregate amount of $10,000,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof. The aggregate amount of the Commitments once reduced as provided in this Section 2.05(a)(i), may not be reinstated, except as provided in Section 2.05(b) below. (ii) Mandatory. On the Termination Date, if the Borrower has made the Term Loan Election in accordance with Section 2.06 prior to such date, and from time to time thereafter upon each prepayment of the Revolving Credit Advances, the Commitments of the Lenders shall be automatically and permanently reduced on a pro rata basis by an amount equal to the amount by which (A) the aggregate Commitments immediately prior to such reduction exceed (B) the aggregate unpaid principal amount of all Revolving Credit Advances outstanding at such time. (b) Increase in Aggregate of the Commitments. (i) The Borrower may at any time, by notice to the Agent, propose that the aggregate amount of the Commitments be increased (such aggregate amount being, a "Commitment Increase"), effective as at a date prior to the Termination Date (an "Increase Date") as to which agreement is to be reached by an earlier date specified in such notice (a "Commitment Date"); provided, however, that (A) the Borrower may not propose more than two Commitment Increases in any calendar year, (B) the minimum
proposed Commitment Increase per notice shall be $25,000,000, (C) in no event shall the aggregate amount of the Commitments at any time exceed $350,000,000, (D) the applicable Performance Level on such Increase Date shall be Level I, Level II or Level III and (E) no Default shall have occurred and be continuing on such Increase Date. The Agent shall notify the Lenders thereof promptly upon its receipt of any such notice. The Agent agrees that it will cooperate with the Borrower in discussions with the Lenders and other Eligible Assignees with a view to arranging the proposed Commitment Increase through the increase of the Commitments of one or more of the Lenders (each such Lender that is willing to increase its Commitment hereunder being an "Increasing Lender") and the addition of one or more other Eligible Assignees as Assuming Lenders and as parties to this Agreement; provided, however, that it shall be in each Lender's sole discretion whether to increase its Commitment hereunder in connection with the proposed Commitment Increase; and provided further that the minimum Commitment of each such Assuming Lender that becomes a party to this Agreement pursuant to this Section 2.05(b), shall be at least equal to $10,000,000. If any of the Lenders agree to increase their respective Commitments by an aggregate amount in excess of the proposed Commitment Increase, the proposed Commitment Increase shall be allocated among such Lenders in proportion to their respective Commitments immediately prior to the Increase Date. If agreement is reached on or prior to the applicable Commitment Date with any Increasing Lenders and Assuming Lenders as to a Commitment Increase (which may be less than but not greater than specified in the applicable notice from the Borrower), such agreement to be evidenced by a notice in reasonable detail from the Borrower to the Agent on or prior to the applicable Commitment Date, such Assuming Lenders, if any, shall become Lenders hereunder as of the applicable Increase Date and the Commitments of such Increasing Lenders and such Assuming Lenders shall become or be, as the case may be, as of the Increase Date, the amounts specified in such notice; provided that: (x) the Agent shall have received (with copies for each Lender, including each such Assuming Lender) by no later than 10:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the applicable Increase Date (1) certified copies of resolutions of the Board of Directors of the Borrower approving the Commitment Increase and (2) an opinion of counsel for the Borrower (which may be in-house counsel), in substantially the form of Exhibit E-1 hereto; (y) each such Assuming Lender shall have delivered to the Agent, by no later than 10:00 A.M. (New York City time) on such Increase Date, an appropriate Assumption Agreement in substantially the form of Exhibit D hereto, duly executed by such Assuming Lender and the Borrower; and (z) each such Increasing Lender shall have delivered to the Agent by, no later than 10:00 A.M. (New York City time) on such Increase Date, (A) its existing Revolving Credit Note and (B) confirmation in writing satisfactory to the Agent as to its increased Commitment. (ii) In the event that the Agent shall have received notice from the Borrower as to its agreement to a Commitment Increase on or prior to the applicable Commitment Date and each of the actions provided for in clauses (x) through (z) above shall have occurred prior to 10:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the applicable Increase Date to
the satisfaction of the Agent, the Agent shall notify the Lenders (including any Assuming Lenders) and the Borrower of the occurrence of such Commitment Increase by telephone, confirmed at once in writing, telecopier, telex or cable and in any event no later than 1:00 P.M. (New York City time) on such Increase Date and shall record in the Register the relevant information with respect to each Increasing Lender and Assuming Lender. Each Increasing Lender and each Assuming Lender shall, before 2:00 P.M. (New York City time) on the applicable Increase Date, make available for the account of its Applicable Lending Office to the Agent at the Agent's Account, in same day funds, in the case of such Assuming Lender, an amount equal to such Assuming Lender's ratable portion of the Revolving Credit Borrowings then outstanding (calculated based on its Commitment as a percentage of the aggregate Commitments outstanding after giving effect to the relevant Commitment Increase) and, in the case of such Increasing Lender, an amount equal to the excess of (i) such Increasing Lender's ratable portion of the Revolving Credit Borrowings then outstanding (calculated based on its Commitment as a percentage of the aggregate Commitments outstanding after giving effect to the relevant Commitment Increase) over (ii) such Increasing Lender's Pro Rata Share of the Revolving Credit Borrowings then outstanding (calculated based on its Commitment (without giving effect to the relevant Commitment Increase) as a percentage of the aggregate Commitments (without giving effect to the relevant Commitment Increase). After the Agent's receipt of such funds from each such Increasing Lender and each such Assuming Lender, the Agent will promptly thereafter cause to be distributed like funds to the other Lenders for the account of their respective Applicable Lending Offices in an amount to each other Lender such that the aggregate amount of the outstanding Revolving Credit Advances owing to each Lender after giving effect to such distribution equals such Lender's Pro Rata Share of the Revolving Credit Borrowings then outstanding (calculated based on its Commitment as a percentage of the aggregate Commitments outstanding after giving effect to the relevant Commitment Increase). Within five Business Days after the Borrower receives notice from the Agent, the Borrower, at its own expense, shall execute and deliver to the Agent, Revolving Credit Notes payable to the order of each Assuming Lender, if any, and, each Increasing Lender, dated as of the applicable Increase Date, in a principal amount equal to such Lender's Commitment after giving effect to the relevant Commitment Increase, and substantially in the form of Exhibit A-1 hereto. The Agent, upon receipt of such Revolving Credit Notes, shall promptly deliver such Revolving Credit Notes to the respective Assuming Lenders and Increasing Lenders. (iii) In the event that the Agent shall not have received notice from the Borrower as to such agreement on or prior to the applicable Commitment Date or the Borrower shall, by notice to the Agent prior to the applicable Increase Date, withdraw its proposal for a Commitment Increase or any of the actions provided for above in clauses (i)(x) through (i)(z) shall not have occurred by 10:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the such Increase Date, such proposal by the Borrower shall be deemed not to have been made. In such event, any actions theretofore taken under clauses (i)(x) through (i)(z) above shall be deemed to be of no effect and all the rights and obligations of the parties shall continue as if no such proposal had been made. SECTION 2.06. Repayment of Revolving Credit Advances; Term Loan Election. The Borrower shall, subject to the next succeeding sentence, repay to the Agent for the ratable
account of the Lenders on the Termination Date the aggregate principal amount of the Revolving Credit Advances then outstanding. The Borrower may, upon not less than 15 days' notice to the Agent, elect (the "Term Loan Election") to convert a portion or all of the Revolving Credit Advances outstanding on the Termination Date in effect at such time into a term loan which the Borrower shall repay in full ratably to the Lenders on the Maturity Date; provided that (i) the Term Loan Election may not be exercised if a Default has occurred and is continuing on the date of notice of the Term Loan Election or on the date on which the Term Loan Election is to be effected and (ii) the aggregate principal amount of any portion of the outstanding Revolving Credit Advances not converted pursuant to the Term Loan Election shall be repaid on the Termination Date. All Revolving Credit Advances converted into a term loan pursuant to this Section 2.06 shall continue to constitute Revolving Credit Advances except that the Borrower may not reborrow pursuant to Section 2.01 after all or any portion of such Revolving Credit Advances have been prepaid pursuant to Section 2.10. SECTION 2.07. Interest on Revolving Credit Advances. (a) Scheduled Interest. The Borrower shall pay interest on the unpaid principal amount of each Revolving Credit Advance owing to each Lender from the date of such Revolving Credit Advance until such principal amount shall be paid in full, at the following rates per annum: (i) Base Rate Advances. During such periods as such Revolving Credit Advance is a Base Rate Advance a rate per annum equal at all times to the sum of (x) the Base Rate in effect from time to time plus (y) the Applicable Margin in effect from time to time plus (z) the Applicable Utilization Fee, if any, in effect from time to time, payable in arrears quarterly on the last day of each March, June, September and December during such periods and on the date such Base Rate Advance shall be Converted or paid in full. (ii) Eurodollar Rate Advances. During such periods as such Revolving Credit Advance is a Eurodollar Rate Advance, a rate per annum equal at all times during each Interest Period for such Revolving Credit Advance to the sum of (x) the Eurodollar Rate for such Interest Period for such Revolving Credit Advance plus (y) the Applicable Margin in effect from time to time plus (z) the Applicable Utilization Fee, if any, in effect from time to time, payable in arrears on the last day of such Interest Period and, if such Interest Period has a duration of more than three months, on each day that occurs during such Interest Period every three months from the first day of such Interest Period and on the date such Eurodollar Rate Advance shall be Converted or paid in full. (b) Default Interest. The Borrower shall pay interest on (i) overdue principal of each Revolving Credit Advance owing to each Lender, payable in arrears on the dates referred to in clause (a)(i) or (a)(ii) above, at a rate per annum equal at all times to 1% per annum above the rate per annum required to be paid on such Revolving Credit Advance pursuant to clause (a)(i) or (a)(ii) above and (ii) to the fullest extent permitted by law, the amount of any overdue interest, fee or other amount payable hereunder, from the date such amount shall be due until such amount shall be paid in full, payable in arrears on the date such amount shall be paid in full and on demand, at a rate per annum equal at all times to 1% per annum above the rate per annum required to be paid on Base Rate Advances pursuant to clause (a)(i) above.
SECTION 2.08. Interest Rate Determination. (a) Each Reference Bank agrees to furnish to the Agent timely information for the purpose of determining each Eurodollar Rate and each LIBO Rate. If any one or more of the Reference Banks shall not furnish such timely information to the Agent for the purpose of determining any such interest rate, the Agent shall determine such interest rate on the basis of timely information furnished by the remaining Reference Banks. The Agent shall give prompt notice to the Borrower and the Lenders of the applicable interest rate determined by the Agent for purposes of Section 2.07(a)(i) or (ii), and the rate, if any, furnished by each Reference Bank for the purpose of determining the interest rate under Section 2.07(a)(ii). (b) If, with respect to any Eurodollar Rate Advances, the Required Lenders notify the Agent that the Eurodollar Rate for any Interest Period for such Advances will not adequately reflect the cost to such Required Lenders of making, funding or maintaining their respective Eurodollar Rate Advances for such Interest Period, the Agent shall forthwith so notify the Borrower and the Lenders, whereupon (i) each Eurodollar Rate Advance will automatically, on the last day of the then existing Interest Period therefor, Convert into a Base Rate Advance, and (ii) the obligation of the Lenders to make, or to Convert Revolving Credit Advances into, Eurodollar Rate Advances shall be suspended until the Agent shall notify the Borrower and the Lenders that the circumstances causing such suspension no longer exist. (c) If the Borrower shall fail to select the duration of any Interest Period for any Eurodollar Rate Advances in accordance with the provisions contained in the definition of "Interest Period" in Section 1.01, the Agent will forthwith so notify the Borrower and the Lenders and the Borrower shall be deemed to have selected an Interest Period of one month. (d) Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of any Event of Default under Section 6.01(a), (i) each Eurodollar Rate Advance will automatically, on the last day of the then existing Interest Period therefor, Convert into a Base Rate Advance and (ii) the obligation of the Lenders to make, or to Convert Advances into, Eurodollar Rate Advances shall be suspended. (e) If fewer than two Reference Banks furnish timely information to the Agent for determining the Eurodollar Rate or LIBO Rate for any Eurodollar Rate Advances or LIBO Rate Advances, as the case may be, the Eurodollar Rate or the LIBO Rate for such Eurodollar Rate Advance or LIBO Rate Advance, as the case may be, shall be an interest rate per annum determined by the Agent to be the offered rate per annum at which deposits in U.S. dollars appears on the Moneyline Telerate Page 3750 (or any successor page) as of 11:00 A.M. (London time), or in the event such offered rate is not available from the Moneyline Telerate Page 3750, (i) the Agent shall forthwith notify the Borrower and the Lenders that the interest rate cannot be determined for such Eurodollar Rate Advances or LIBO Rate Advances, as the case may be, (ii) with respect to Eurodollar Rate Advances, each such Advance will automatically, on the last day of the then existing Interest Period therefor, Convert into a
Base Rate Advance (or if such Advance is then a Base Rate Advance, will continue as a Base Rate Advance), and (iii) the obligation of the Lenders to make Eurodollar Rate Advances or LIBO Rate Advances or to Convert Revolving Credit Advances into Eurodollar Rate Advances shall be suspended until the Agent shall notify the Borrower and the Lenders that the circumstances causing such suspension no longer exist. SECTION 2.09. Optional Conversion of Revolving Credit Advances. The Borrower may on any Business Day, upon notice given to the Agent not later than 11:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the third Business Day prior to the date of the proposed Conversion and subject to the provisions of Sections 2.08 and 2.12, Convert all Revolving Credit Advances of one Type comprising the same Borrowing into Revolving Credit Advances of the other Type; provided, however, that any Conversion of Base Rate Advances into Eurodollar Rate Advances shall be in an amount not less than the minimum amount specified in Section 2.02(b) and no Conversion of any Revolving Credit Advances shall result in more separate Revolving Credit Borrowings than permitted under Section 2.02(b). Each such notice of a Conversion shall, within the restrictions specified above, specify (i) the date of such Conversion, (ii) the Revolving Credit Advances to be Converted, and (iii) if such Conversion is into Eurodollar Rate Advances, the duration of the initial Interest Period for each such Advance. Each notice of Conversion shall be irrevocable and binding on the Borrower. SECTION 2.10. Optional Prepayments of Revolving Credit Advances. The Borrower may, in the case of Eurodollar Rate Advances, upon at least two Business Days' notice to the Agent, and in the case of Base Rate Advances, upon notice to the Agent not later than 11:00 A.M. on the date of such proposed prepayment, stating in each case the proposed date and aggregate principal amount of the prepayment, and if such notice is given the Borrower shall, prepay the outstanding principal amount of the Revolving Credit Advances comprising part of the same Revolving Credit Borrowing in whole or ratably in part, together with accrued interest to the date of such prepayment on the principal amount prepaid; provided, however, that (x) each partial prepayment shall be in an aggregate principal amount of $5,000,000 for any Base Rate Advance or $10,000,000 for any Eurodollar Rate Advance or, in each case, an integral multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof and (y) in the event of any such prepayment of a Eurodollar Rate Advance, the Borrower shall be obligated to reimburse the Lenders in respect thereof pursuant to Section 8.04(c). SECTION 2.11. Increased Costs. (a) If, after the date hereof, due to either (i) the introduction of or any change in or in the interpretation of any law or regulation or (ii) the compliance with any guideline or request from any central bank or other governmental authority (whether or not having the force of law), there shall be any increase in the cost to any Lender (other than in respect of Eurocurrency Liabilities) of agreeing to make or making, funding or maintaining Eurodollar Rate Advances (excluding for purposes of this Section 2.11 any such increased costs resulting from (i) Taxes or Other Taxes (as to which Section 2.14 shall govern) and (ii) changes in the basis of taxation of overall net income or overall gross income by the United States or by the foreign jurisdiction or state under the laws of which such Lender is organized or has its Applicable Lending Office or any political subdivision thereof), then the Borrower shall from time to time, upon demand by such Lender (with a copy of such demand to
the Agent), pay to the Agent for the account of such Lender additional amounts sufficient to compensate such Lender for such increased cost. A certificate as to the amount of such increased cost, setting forth in reasonable detail the basis therefor and the computation thereof, submitted to the Borrower and the Agent by such Lender, shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error. Notwithstanding the foregoing, none of the Lenders shall deliver the notice and certificate described in this Section 2.11(a) to the Borrower in respect of any increased costs except in accordance with the internal policy of such Lender as to the exercise of similar rights and remedies in similar circumstances. (b) If any Lender determines that compliance with any law or regulation or any guideline or request from any central bank or other governmental authority (whether or not having the force of law) in either case enacted, adopted or made after the date hereof, affects or would affect the amount of capital required or expected to be maintained by such Lender or any corporation controlling such Lender and that the amount of such capital is increased by or based upon the existence of such Lender's commitment to lend hereunder and other commitments of this type, then, upon demand by such Lender (with a copy of such demand to the Agent), the Borrower shall pay to the Agent for the account of such Lender, from time to time as specified by such Lender, additional amounts sufficient to compensate such Lender or such corporation for the reduction of the rate of return on such Lender's capital or on the capital of such corporation, to the extent that such Lender reasonably determines such increase in capital to be allocable to the existence of such Lender's commitment to lend hereunder. A certificate as to such amounts, setting forth in reasonable detail the basis therefor and the computation thereof, submitted to the Borrower and the Agent by such Lender shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error. Notwithstanding the foregoing, none of the Lenders shall deliver the notice and certificate described in this Section 2.11(b) to the Borrower in respect of any requirements of additional capital except in accordance with the internal policy of such Lender as to the exercise of similar rights and remedies in similar circumstances. (c) If any Lender shall give notice to the Agent and the Borrower at any time to the effect that Eurocurrency Reserve Requirements are, or are scheduled to become, effective and that such Lender is or will be generally subject to such Eurocurrency Reserve Requirements (without regard to whether such Lender will be able to benefit from proration or offsets that may be available from time to time under Regulation D) as a result of which such Lender will incur additional costs, then such Lender shall, for each day from the later of the date of such notice and the date on which such Eurocurrency Reserve Requirements become effective, be entitled to additional interest on each Eurodollar Rate Advance made by it at a rate per annum determined for such day (rounded upward to the nearest 100th of 1%) equal to the remainder obtained by subtracting (i) the Eurodollar Rate for such Eurodollar Rate Advance from (ii) the rate obtained by dividing such Eurodollar Rate by a percentage equal to 100% minus the then applicable Eurocurrency Reserve Requirements. Such additional interest will be payable in arrears to the Agent, for the account of such Lender, on each date that interest is payable on such Eurodollar Rate Advance. Any Lender which gives a notice under this paragraph (c) shall promptly withdraw such notice (by written notice of withdrawal given to the Agent and the Borrower) in the event Eurocurrency Reserve Requirements cease to apply to it or the circumstances giving rise to such notice otherwise cease to exist.
(d) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein contained, no Lender shall be entitled to claim any additional amounts pursuant to this Section 2.11 arising with respect to any period of time prior to the date that is 60 days prior to the date on which notice of such claim and the basis therefor is first given to the Borrower pursuant to this Section 2.11. SECTION 2.12. Illegality. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, if any Lender shall notify the Agent that the introduction of or any change in or in the interpretation of any law or regulation makes it unlawful, or any central bank or other governmental authority asserts that it is unlawful, for any Lender or its Eurodollar Lending Office to perform its obligations hereunder to make Eurodollar Rate Advances or LIBO Rate Advances or to fund or maintain Eurodollar Rate Advances or LIBO Rate Advances hereunder, (i) each Eurodollar Rate Advance or LIBO Rate Advance, as the case may be, of such Lender will automatically, upon such demand, Convert into a Base Rate Advance or an Advance that bears interest at the rate set forth in Section 2.07(a)(i), as the case may be, and (ii) the obligation of such Lender to make Eurodollar Rate Advances or LIBO Rate Advances or to Convert Revolving Credit Advances into Eurodollar Rate Advances shall be suspended until the Agent shall notify the Borrower and the Lenders that the circumstances causing such suspension no longer exist. If any Lender shall exercise its rights under this Section 2.12(a), all payments and prepayments of principal which would otherwise have been applied to repay the Eurodollar Rate Advances or LIBO Rate Advances that would have been made by such Lender or the converted Eurodollar Rate Advances or LIBO Rate Advances of such Lender shall instead be applied to repay the Base Rate Advances or Advances bearing interest at the rate set forth in Section 2.07(a)(i), as the case may be, made by such Lender in lieu of, or resulting from the conversion of, such Eurodollar Rate Advances or LIBO Rate Advances, and all distributions of payments in respect of interest shall be made to the Lenders ratably based on the interest rates applicable to their respective Advances. (b) For purposes of this Section 2.12, a notice to the Borrower by any Lender shall be effective as to each Eurodollar Rate Advance or LIBO Rate Advance, if lawful, on the last day of the Interest Period currently applicable to such Eurodollar Rate Advance or LIBO Rate Advance; in all other cases such notice shall be effective on the date of receipt by the Borrower. SECTION 2.13. Payments and Computations. (a) The Borrower shall make each payment hereunder and under the Notes not later than 12:00 noon (New York City time) on the day when due in U.S. dollars to the Agent at the Agent's Account in same day funds. The Agent will promptly thereafter cause to be distributed like funds relating to the payment of principal or interest or facility fees ratably (other than amounts payable pursuant to Section 2.03, 2.11, 2.14 or 8.04(c)) to the Lenders for the account of their respective Applicable Lending Offices, and like funds relating to the payment of any other amount payable to any Lender to such Lender for the account of its Applicable Lending Office, in each case to be applied in accordance with the terms of this Agreement. Upon its acceptance of an Assignment and Acceptance and recording of the information contained therein in the Register pursuant to Section 8.07(c), from and after the effective date specified in such Assignment and Acceptance, the Agent shall make all payments hereunder and under the Notes in respect of the interest assigned thereby to the Lender assignee thereunder, and the parties to such Assignment and Acceptance shall make all appropriate adjustments in such payments for periods prior to such
effective date directly between themselves. Upon any Assuming Lender becoming a Lender hereunder as a result of the effectiveness of a Commitment Increase pursuant to Section 2.05(b) or an extension of the Termination Date pursuant to Section 2.17 and upon the Agent's receipt of such Lender's Assumption Agreement and recording of the information contained therein in the Register, from and after the applicable Increase Date or Extension Date, as the case may be, the Agent shall make all payments hereunder and under any Notes issued in connection therewith in respect of the interest assumed thereby to the Assuming Lender. (b) All computations of interest based on Citibank's base rate shall be made by the Agent on the basis of a year of 365 or 366 days, as the case may be, and all computations of interest based on the Eurodollar Rate or the Federal Funds Rate and of facility fees shall be made by the Agent on the basis of a year of 360 days, in each case for the actual number of days (including the first day but excluding the last day) occurring in the period for which such interest or facility fees are payable. Each determination by the Agent of an interest rate hereunder shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error. (c) Whenever any payment hereunder or under the Notes shall be stated to be due on a day other than a Business Day, such payment shall be made on the next succeeding Business Day, and such extension of time shall in such case be included in the computation of payment of interest or facility fee, as the case may be; provided, however, that, if such extension would cause payment of interest on or principal of Eurodollar Rate Advances or LIBO Rate Advances to be made in the next following calendar month, such payment shall be made on the next preceding Business Day. (d) Unless the Agent shall have received notice from the Borrower prior to the date on which any payment is due to the Lenders hereunder that the Borrower will not make such payment in full, the Agent may assume that the Borrower has made such payment in full to the Agent on such date and the Agent may, in reliance upon such assumption, cause to be distributed to each Lender on such due date an amount equal to the amount then due such Lender. If and to the extent the Borrower shall not have so made such payment in full to the Agent, each Lender shall repay to the Agent forthwith on demand such amount distributed to such Lender together with interest thereon, for each day from the date such amount is distributed to such Lender until the date such Lender repays such amount to the Agent, at the Federal Funds Rate. SECTION 2.14. Taxes. (a) Any and all payments by the Borrower hereunder or under the Notes shall be made, in accordance with Section 2.13, free and clear of and without deduction for any and all present or future taxes, levies, imposts, deductions, charges or withholdings, and all liabilities with respect thereto, excluding, in the case of each Lender and the Agent, taxes imposed on its overall net income, and franchise taxes imposed on it in lieu of net income taxes, by the jurisdiction under the laws of which such Lender or the Agent (as the case may be) is organized or any political subdivision thereof and, in the case of each Lender, taxes imposed on its overall net income, and franchise taxes imposed on it in lieu of net income taxes, by the jurisdiction of such Lender's Applicable Lending Office or any political subdivision thereof, and further excluding, if any Lender is found as the result of a determination (as defined in Section 1313(a) of the Internal Revenue Code) to be a conduit entity participating in a conduit financing arrangement as defined in Treasury Regulations promulgated under Section 7701(1) of the Internal Revenue Code, the excess of the United States taxes imposed with respect to such
Lender over the amount of United States taxes that would have been imposed with respect to such Lender if such determination had not been made with respect to such Lender (all such non-excluded taxes, levies, imposts, deductions, charges, withholdings and liabilities in respect of payments hereunder or under the Notes being hereinafter referred to as "Taxes"). If the Borrower shall be required by law to deduct any Taxes from or in respect of any sum payable hereunder or under any Note to any Lender or the Agent, (i) the sum payable shall be increased as may be necessary so that after making all required deductions (including deductions applicable to additional sums payable under this Section 2.14) such Lender or the Agent (as the case may be) receives an amount equal to the sum it would have received had no such deductions been made, (ii) the Borrower shall make such deductions and (iii) the Borrower shall pay the full amount deducted to the relevant taxation authority or other authority in accordance with applicable law. (b) In addition, the Borrower agrees to pay any present or future stamp or documentary taxes or any other excise or property taxes, charges or similar levies that arise from any payment made hereunder or under the Notes or from the execution, delivery or registration of, performing under, or otherwise with respect to, this Agreement or the Notes (hereinafter referred to as "Other Taxes"). (c) The Borrower shall indemnify each Lender and the Agent for the full amount of Taxes or Other Taxes (including, without limitation, any taxes imposed by any jurisdiction on amounts payable under this Section 2.14) imposed on or paid by such Lender or the Agent (as the case may be) and any liability (including penalties, interest and expenses) arising therefrom or with respect thereto. This indemnification shall be made within 30 days from the date such Lender or the Agent (as the case may be) makes written demand therefor. (d) Within 30 days after the date of any payment of Taxes, the Borrower shall furnish to the Agent, at its address referred to in Section 8.02, the original or a certified copy of a receipt evidencing payment thereof. In the case of any payment hereunder or under the Notes by or on behalf of the Borrower through an account or branch outside the United States or by or on behalf of the Borrower by a payor that is not a United States person, if the Borrower determines that no Taxes are payable in respect thereof, the Borrower shall furnish, or shall cause such payor to furnish, to the Agent, at such address, an opinion of counsel acceptable to the Agent stating that such payment is exempt from Taxes. For purposes of this subsection (d) and subsection (e), the terms "United States" and "United States person" shall have the meanings specified in Section 7701 of the Internal Revenue Code. (e) Each Lender organized under the laws of a jurisdiction outside the United States, on or prior to the date of its execution and delivery of this Agreement in the case of each Initial Lender and on the date of the Assumption Agreement or the Assignment and Acceptance, as the case may be, pursuant to which it becomes a Lender in the case of each other Lender, and from time to time thereafter as requested in writing by the Borrower (but only so long as such Lender remains lawfully able to do so), shall provide each of the Agent and the Borrower with two original Internal Revenue Service forms W-8BEN or W-8ECI, as appropriate, or any successor or other form prescribed by the Internal Revenue Service, certifying that such Lender is exempt from or entitled to a reduced rate of United States withholding tax on payments pursuant to this Agreement or the Notes. If the forms provided by a Lender at the time such
Lender first becomes a party to this Agreement indicate a United States interest withholding tax rate in excess of zero, withholding tax at such rate shall be considered excluded from Taxes unless and until such Lender provides the appropriate forms certifying that a lesser rate applies, whereupon withholding tax at such lesser rate only shall be considered excluded from Taxes for periods governed by such forms; provided, however, that, if at the date of the Assumption Agreement or the Assignment and Acceptance, as the case may be, pursuant to which a Lender assignee becomes a party to this Agreement, the Lender assignor was entitled to payments under subsection (a) in respect of United States withholding tax with respect to interest paid at such date, then, to such extent, the term Taxes shall include (in addition to withholding taxes that may be imposed in the future or other amounts otherwise includable in Taxes) United States withholding tax, if any, applicable with respect to the Lender assignee on such date. If any form or document referred to in this subsection (e) requires the disclosure of information, other than information necessary to compute the tax payable and information required on the date hereof by Internal Revenue Service form W-8BEN or W-8ECI, that the Lender reasonably considers to be confidential, the Lender shall give notice thereof to the Borrower and shall not be obligated to include in such form or document such confidential information. (f) For any period with respect to which a Lender has failed to provide the Borrower with the appropriate form described in Section 2.14(e) (other than if such failure is due to a change in law occurring subsequent to the date on which a form originally was required to be provided, or if such form otherwise is not required under the first sentence of subsection (e) above), such Lender shall not be entitled to indemnification under Section 2.14(a) or (c) with respect to Taxes imposed by the United States by reason of such failure; provided, however, that should a Lender become subject to Taxes because of its failure to deliver a form required hereunder, the Borrower shall take such steps as the Lender shall reasonably request to assist the Lender to recover such Taxes. (g) Any Lender claiming any additional amounts payable pursuant to this Section 2.14 agrees to use reasonable efforts (consistent with its internal policy and legal and regulatory restrictions) to change the jurisdiction of its Eurodollar Lending Office if the making of such a change would avoid the need for, or reduce the amount of, any additional amounts that may thereafter accrue and would not, in the reasonable judgment of such Lender, be otherwise disadvantageous to such Lender. SECTION 2.15. Sharing of Payments, Etc. If any Lender shall obtain any payment (whether voluntary, involuntary, through the exercise of any right of set-off, or otherwise) on account of the Revolving Credit Advances owing to it (other than pursuant to Section 2.11, 2.14 or 8.04(c)) in excess of its ratable share of payments on account of the Revolving Credit Advances obtained by all the Lenders, such Lender shall forthwith purchase from the other Lenders such participations in the Revolving Credit Advances owing to them as shall be necessary to cause such purchasing Lender to share the excess payment ratably with each of them; provided, however, that if all or any portion of such excess payment is thereafter recovered from such purchasing Lender, such purchase from each Lender shall be rescinded and such Lender shall repay to the purchasing Lender the purchase price to the extent of such recovery together with an amount equal to such Lender's ratable share (according to the proportion of (i) the amount of such Lender's required repayment to (ii) the total amount so recovered from the purchasing Lender) of any interest or other amount paid or payable by the
purchasing Lender in respect of the total amount so recovered. The Borrower agrees that any Lender so purchasing a participation from another Lender pursuant to this Section 2.15 may, to the fullest extent permitted by law, exercise all its rights of payment (including the right of set-off) with respect to such participation as fully as if such Lender were the direct creditor of the Borrower in the amount of such participation. SECTION 2.16. Use of Proceeds. The proceeds of the Advances shall be available (and the Borrower agrees that it shall use such proceeds) for general corporate purposes of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, including acquisitions, stock repurchases and commercial paper backstop. SECTION 2.17. Extension of Termination Date. (a) At least 30 days but not more than 45 days prior to the Termination Date, the Borrower, by written notice to the Agent, may request an extension of the Termination Date in effect at such time by 364 days from its then scheduled expiration. The Agent shall promptly notify each Lender of such request, and each Lender shall in turn, in its sole discretion, not later than 20 days prior to the Termination Date, notify the Borrower and the Agent in writing as to whether such Lender will consent to such extension. If any Lender shall fail to notify the Agent and the Borrower in writing of its consent to any such request for extension of the Termination Date at least 20 days prior to the Termination Date, such Lender shall be deemed to be a Non-Consenting Lender with respect to such request. The Agent shall notify the Borrower not later than 15 days prior to the Termination Date of the decision of the Lenders regarding the Borrower's request for an extension of the Termination Date. (b) If all the Lenders consent in writing to any such request in accordance with subsection (a) of this Section 2.17, the Termination Date in effect at such time shall, effective as at the Termination Date (the "Extension Date"), be extended for 364 days; provided that on each Extension Date the applicable conditions set forth in Article III shall be satisfied. If less than all of the Lenders consent in writing to any such request in accordance with subsection (a) of this Section 2.17, the Termination Date in effect at such time shall, effective as at the applicable Extension Date and subject to subsection (d) of this Section 2.17, be extended as to those Lenders that so consented (each a "Consenting Lender") but shall not be extended as to any other Lender (each a "Non-Consenting Lender"). To the extent that the Termination Date is not extended as to any Lender pursuant to this Section 2.17 and the Commitment of such Lender is not assumed in accordance with subsection (c) of this Section 2.17 on or prior to the applicable Extension Date, the Commitment of such Non-Consenting Lender shall automatically terminate in whole on such unextended Termination Date without any further notice or other action by the Borrower, such Lender or any other Person; provided that such Non-Consenting Lender's rights under Sections 2.11, 2.14 and 8.04, and its obligations under Section 7.05, shall survive the Termination Date for such Lender as to matters occurring prior to such date. It is understood and agreed that no Lender shall have any obligation whatsoever to agree to any request made by the Borrower for any requested extension of the Termination Date. (c) If less than all of the Lenders consent to any such request pursuant to subsection (a) of this Section 2.17, the Agent shall promptly so notify the Consenting Lenders, and each Consenting Lender may, in its sole discretion, give written notice to the Agent not later than 10 days prior to the Termination Date of the amount of the Non-Consenting Lenders'
Commitments for which it is willing to accept an assignment. If the Consenting Lenders notify the Agent that they are willing to accept assignments of Commitments in an aggregate amount that exceeds the amount of the Commitments of the Non-Consenting Lenders, such Commitments shall be allocated among the Consenting Lenders willing to accept such assignments in such amounts as are agreed between the Borrower and the Agent. If after giving effect to the assignments of Commitments described above there remains any Commitments of Non-Consenting Lenders, the Borrower may arrange for one or more Consenting Lenders or other Eligible Assignees as Assuming Lenders to assume, effective as of the Extension Date, any Non-Consenting Lender's Commitment and all of the obligations of such Non-Consenting Lender under this Agreement thereafter arising, without recourse to or warranty by, or expense to, such Non-Consenting Lender; provided, however, that the amount of the Commitment of any such Assuming Lender as a result of such substitution shall in no event be less than $10,000,000 unless the amount of the Commitment of such Non-Consenting Lender is less than $10,000,000, in which case such Assuming Lender shall assume all of such lesser amount; and provided further that: (i) any such Consenting Lender or Assuming Lender shall have paid to such Non-Consenting Lender (A) the aggregate principal amount of, and any interest accrued and unpaid to the effective date of the assignment on, the outstanding Advances, if any, of such Non-Consenting Lender plus (B) any accrued but unpaid facility fees owing to such Non-Consenting Lender as of the effective date of such assignment; (ii) all additional costs reimbursements, expense reimbursements and indemnities payable to such Non-Consenting Lender, and all other accrued and unpaid amounts owing to such Non-Consenting Lender hereunder, as of the effective date of such assignment shall have been paid to such Non-Consenting Lender; and (iii) with respect to any such Assuming Lender, the applicable processing and recordation fee required under Section 8.07(a) for such assignment shall have been paid; provided further that such Non-Consenting Lender's rights under Sections 2.11, 2.14 and 8.04, and its obligations under Section 7.05, shall survive such substitution as to matters occurring prior to the date of substitution. At least three Business Days prior to any Extension Date, (A) each such Assuming Lender, if any, shall have delivered to the Borrower and the Agent an Assumption Agreement, duly executed by such Assuming Lender, such Non-Consenting Lender, the Borrower and the Agent, (B) any such Consenting Lender shall have delivered confirmation in writing satisfactory to the Borrower and the Agent as to the increase in the amount of its Commitment and (C) each Non-Consenting Lender being replaced pursuant to this Section 2.17 shall have delivered to the Agent any Note or Notes held by such Non-Consenting Lender. Upon the payment or prepayment of all amounts referred to in clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) of the immediately preceding sentence, each such Consenting Lender or Assuming Lender, as of the Extension Date, will be substituted for such Non-Consenting Lender under this Agreement and shall be a Lender for all purposes of this Agreement, without any further acknowledgment by or the consent of the other Lenders, and the obligations of each such Non-Consenting Lender hereunder shall, by the provisions hereof, be released and discharged.
(d) If (after giving effect to any assignments or assumptions pursuant to subsection (c) of this Section 2.17) Lenders having Commitments equal to at least 50% of the Commitments in effect immediately prior to the Extension Date consent in writing to a requested extension (whether by execution or delivery of an Assumption Agreement or otherwise) not later than one Business Day prior to such Extension Date, the Agent shall so notify the Borrower, and, subject to the satisfaction to the applicable conditions in Article III, the Termination Date then in effect shall be extended for the additional 364-day period as described in subsection (a) of this Section 2.17, and all references in this Agreement, and in the Notes, if any, to the "Termination Date" shall, with respect to each Consenting Lender and each Assuming Lender for such Extension Date, refer to the Termination Date as so extended. Promptly following each Extension Date, the Agent shall notify the Lenders (including, without limitation, each Assuming Lender) of the extension of the scheduled Termination Date in effect immediately prior thereto and shall thereupon record in the Register the relevant information with respect to each such Consenting Lender and each such Assuming Lender. ARTICLE III CONDITIONS TO EFFECTIVENESS AND LENDING SECTION 3.01. Conditions Precedent to Effectiveness of Sections 2.01 and 2.03. Sections 2.01 and 2.03 of this Agreement shall become effective on and as of the first date (the "Effective Date") on which the following conditions precedent have been satisfied: (a) The Borrower shall have paid all accrued fees and expenses of the Agent and the Lenders (including the accrued fees and expenses of counsel to the Agent). (b) On the Effective Date, the following statements shall be true and the Agent shall have received for the account of each Lender a certificate signed by a duly authorized officer of the Borrower, dated the Effective Date, stating that: (i) The representations and warranties contained in Section 4.01 are correct in all material respects on and as of the Effective Date, and (ii) No event has occurred and is continuing that constitutes a Default. (c) The Agent shall have received on or before the Effective Date the following, each dated such day, in form and substance satisfactory to the Agent and (except for the Revolving Credit Notes) in sufficient copies for each Lender: (i) The Revolving Credit Notes to the order of the Lenders, respectively. (ii) Certified copies of the resolutions of the Board of Directors of the Borrower approving this Agreement and the Notes, and of all documents evidencing other necessary corporate action and governmental approvals, if any, with respect to this Agreement and the Notes.
(iii) A certificate of the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Borrower certifying the names and true signatures of the officers of the Borrower authorized to sign this Agreement and the Notes and the other documents to be delivered hereunder. (iv) A favorable opinion of Diana M. Daniels, general counsel for the Borrower, substantially in the form of Exhibit E-1 hereto and as to such other matters as any Lender through the Agent may reasonably request. (v) A favorable opinion of Shearman & Sterling LLP, counsel for the Agent, in form and substance satisfactory to the Agent. (d) The Borrower shall have terminated the commitments, and paid in full all Debt, interest, fees and other amounts outstanding, under the 364-Day Credit Agreement dated as of August 14, 2002 among the Borrower, the lenders parties thereto, SunTrust Bank and Wachovia Bank, National Association, as syndication agents, JPMorgan Chase Bank and Bank One, NA, as documentation agents, and Citibank, as administrative agent for the lenders, and each of the Lenders that is a party to such credit agreement hereby waives, upon execution of this Agreement, the requirement of prior notice under such credit agreement relating to the termination of commitments thereunder. SECTION 3.02. Conditions Precedent to Each Revolving Credit Borrowing, Increase Date and Extension Date. The obligation of each Lender to make a Revolving Credit Advance on the occasion of each Revolving Credit Borrowing (other than a Competitive Bid Advance), each Commitment Increase and each extension of Commitments pursuant to Section 2.17 shall be subject to the conditions precedent that the Effective Date shall have occurred and on the date of such Revolving Credit Borrowing, such Increase Date or such Extension Date the following statements shall be true (and each of the giving of the applicable Notice of Revolving Credit Borrowing, request for Commitment Increase, request for Commitment Extension and the acceptance by the Borrower of the proceeds of such Revolving Credit Borrowing shall constitute a representation and warranty by the Borrower that on the date of such Revolving Credit Borrowing, such Increase Date or such Extension Date such statements are true): (a) the representations and warranties contained in Section 4.01 and, so long as the Subsidiary Guaranty is in effect, in Section 6 of the Subsidiary Guaranty are correct in all material respects on and as of date of such Revolving Credit Borrowing, such Increase Date or such Extension Date, before and after giving effect to such Revolving Credit Borrowing, such Increase Date or such Extension Date and to the application of the proceeds therefrom, as though made on and as of such date except to the extent such representations and warranties expressly relate to an earlier date, and (b) no event has occurred and is continuing, or would result from such Revolving Credit Borrowing, such Increase Date or such Extension Date or from the application of the proceeds therefrom, that constitutes a Default. SECTION 3.03. Conditions Precedent to Each Competitive Bid Borrowing. The obligation of each Lender that is to make a Competitive Bid Advance on the occasion of a
Competitive Bid Borrowing to make such Competitive Bid Advance as part of such Competitive Bid Borrowing is subject to the conditions precedent that (i) the Agent shall have received the written confirmatory Notice of Competitive Bid Borrowing with respect thereto, (ii) on or before the date of such Competitive Bid Borrowing, but prior to such Competitive Bid Borrowing, the Agent shall have received a Competitive Bid Note payable to the order of such Lender for each of the one or more Competitive Bid Advances to be made by such Lender as part of such Competitive Bid Borrowing, in a principal amount equal to the principal amount of the Competitive Bid Advance to be evidenced thereby and otherwise on such terms as were agreed to for such Competitive Bid Advance in accordance with Section 2.03, and (iii) on the date of such Competitive Bid Borrowing the following statements shall be true (and each of the giving of the applicable Notice of Competitive Bid Borrowing and the acceptance by the Borrower of the proceeds of such Competitive Bid Borrowing shall constitute a representation and warranty by the Borrower that on the date of such Competitive Bid Borrowing such statements are true): (a) the representations and warranties contained in Section 4.01 and, so long as the Subsidiary Guaranty is in effect, in Section 6 of the Subsidiary Guaranty are correct in all material respects on and as of the date of such Competitive Bid Borrowing, before and after giving effect to such Competitive Bid Borrowing and to the application of the proceeds therefrom, as though made on and as of such date, and (b) no event has occurred and is continuing, or would result from such Competitive Bid Borrowing or from the application of the proceeds therefrom, that constitutes a Default. SECTION 3.04. Determinations Under Section 3.01. For purposes of determining compliance with the conditions specified in Section 3.01, each Lender shall be deemed to have consented to, approved or accepted or to be satisfied with each document or other matter required thereunder to be consented to or approved by or acceptable or satisfactory to the Lenders unless an officer of the Agent responsible for the transactions contemplated by this Agreement shall have received notice from such Lender prior to the date that the Borrower, by notice to the Lenders, designates as the proposed Effective Date, specifying its objection thereto. The Agent shall promptly notify the Lenders and the Borrower of the occurrence of the Effective Date. ARTICLE IV REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES SECTION 4.01. Representations and Warranties of the Borrower. The Borrower represents and warrants as follows: (a) The Borrower is a corporation duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware. (b) The execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower of this Agreement and the Notes, and the consummation of the transactions contemplated
hereby, are within the Borrower's corporate powers, have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action, and do not contravene (i) the Borrower's charter or by-laws or (ii) law or any contractual restriction binding on or affecting the Borrower. (c) No authorization or approval or other action by, and no notice to or filing with, any governmental authority or regulatory body or any other third party is required for the due execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower of this Agreement or the Notes. (d) This Agreement has been, and each of the Notes when delivered hereunder will have been, duly executed and delivered by the Borrower. This Agreement is, and each of the Notes when delivered hereunder will be, the legal, valid and binding obligation of the Borrower enforceable against the Borrower in accordance with their respective terms. (e) The Consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as at December 29, 2002, and the related Consolidated statements of income and cash flows of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for the fiscal year then ended, accompanied by an opinion of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, independent public accountants, and the condensed Consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as at March 31, 2003, and the related condensed Consolidated statements of income and cash flows of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for the three months then ended, duly certified by the chief financial officer of the Borrower, copies of which have been furnished to each Lender, fairly present, subject in the case of said balance sheet as at March 31, 2003, and said statements of income and cash flows for the three months then ended, to year-end audit adjustments and to the absence of footnote disclosure, the Consolidated financial condition of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as at such dates and the Consolidated results of the operations of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for the periods ended on such dates, all in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied. Between December 29, 2002 and the date hereof, there has been no Material Adverse Change. (f) There is no pending or threatened action, suit, investigation, litigation or proceeding, including, without limitation, any Environmental Action, affecting the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries before any court, governmental agency or arbitrator that (i) is pending or threatened on the date hereof and is reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect or (ii) purports to affect the legality, validity or enforceability of this Agreement or any Note or the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby. (g) The Borrower is not, and immediately after the application by the Borrower of the proceeds of each Advance will not be an "investment company" within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended. (h) After giving effect to the application of the proceeds of each Advance, not more than 25% of the value of the assets of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries (as determined in good faith by the Borrower) subject to the provisions of Section 5.02(a) or
subject to any restriction contained in any agreement or instrument between the Borrower and any Lender or any Affiliate of any Lender relating to Debt and within the scope of Section 6.01(d) will consist of or be represented by Margin Stock. ARTICLE V COVENANTS OF THE BORROWER SECTION 5.01. Affirmative Covenants. So long as any Advance shall remain unpaid or any Lender shall have any Commitment hereunder, the Borrower will: (a) Compliance with Laws, Etc. Comply, and cause each of its Subsidiaries to comply, in all material respects, with all applicable laws, rules, regulations and orders, such compliance to include, without limitation, compliance with ERISA and Environmental Laws, except to the extent that any failures to so comply, individually or in the aggregate, would not be reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect; provided, however, that neither the Borrower nor any of its Subsidiaries shall be required to comply with any law, rule, regulation or order to the extent it is being contested in good faith and by proper proceedings and as to which appropriate reserves are being maintained. (b) Payment of Taxes, Etc. Pay and discharge, and cause each of its Subsidiaries to pay and discharge, before the same shall become delinquent, all material taxes, assessments and governmental charges or levies imposed upon it or upon its property; provided, however, that neither the Borrower nor any of its Subsidiaries shall be required to pay or discharge any such tax, assessment, charge or claim that is being contested in good faith and by proper proceedings and as to which appropriate reserves are being maintained. (c) Maintenance of Insurance. Maintain, and cause each of its Significant Subsidiaries to maintain, insurance with responsible and reputable insurance companies or associations in such amounts and covering such risks as is usually carried by companies engaged in similar businesses and owning similar properties in the same general areas in which the Borrower or such Significant Subsidiary operates. (d) Preservation of Corporate Existence, Etc. Preserve and maintain, and so long as the Subsidiary Guaranty is in effect, cause the Newspaper Subsidiary to preserve and maintain, its corporate or other legal existence, rights (charter and statutory) and franchises if the loss or failure to maintain the same could, individually or in the aggregate, be reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect; provided, however, that the Borrower and the Newspaper Subsidiary may consummate any merger, consolidation or other transaction permitted under Section 5.02(b), including the Restructuring. (e) Visitation Rights. At any reasonable time and from time to time on reasonable notice and at reasonable intervals, permit the Agent or any of the Lenders, or
any agents or representatives thereof, to visit the properties of the Borrower and any of its Subsidiaries and to discuss the affairs, finances and accounts of the Borrower and any of its Subsidiaries with any of their officers or directors and, during the continuance of any Default, to examine and make copies of and abstracts from the records and books of account of the Borrower and any of its Subsidiaries and to discuss the affairs, finances and accounts of the Borrower and any of its Subsidiaries with their independent certified public accountants. (f) Keeping of Books. Keep, and cause each of its Subsidiaries to keep, proper books of record and account, in which entries shall be made of all financial transactions and the assets and business of the Borrower and each such Subsidiary in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in effect from time to time. (g) Maintenance of Properties, Etc. Maintain and preserve, and cause each of its Significant Subsidiaries to maintain and preserve, all of its properties that are used or useful in the conduct of its business in good working order and condition, ordinary wear and tear excepted, except to the extent that any failure to do so, individually or in the aggregate, would not be reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect. (h) Primary Business. The Borrower shall continue to be engaged primarily in lines of business as carried on at the date hereof or lines of business related thereto. (i) Reporting Requirements. Furnish to the Lenders: (i) as soon as available and in any event within 55 days after the end of each of the first three quarters of each fiscal year of the Borrower, the Consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as of the end of such quarter and Consolidated statements of income and cash flows of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for the period commencing at the end of the previous fiscal year and ending with the end of such quarter, duly certified (subject to year-end audit adjustments) by the chief financial officer of the Borrower as having been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and certificates of the chief financial officer of the Borrower as to compliance with the terms of this Agreement, provided that in the event of any change in GAAP used in the preparation of such financial statements, the Borrower shall also provide, if necessary for the determination of compliance with Section 5.03, a statement of reconciliation conforming such financial statements to GAAP; (ii) as soon as available and in any event within 105 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Borrower, a copy of the annual audit report for such year for the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, containing the Consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as of the end of such fiscal year and Consolidated statements of income and cash flows of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for such fiscal year, in each case accompanied by an opinion by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP or other independent public accountants of recognized national standing, provided that in the event of any change in GAAP
used in the preparation of such financial statements, the Borrower shall also provide, if necessary for the determination of compliance with Section 5.03, a statement of reconciliation conforming such financial statements to GAAP; (iii) as soon as possible and in any event within seven days after the occurrence of each Default continuing on the date of such statement, a statement of the chief financial officer of the Borrower setting forth details of such Default and the action that the Borrower has taken and proposes to take with respect thereto; (iv) promptly after the sending or filing thereof, copies of all quarterly and annual reports and proxy solicitations that the Borrower sends to its public securityholders generally, and copies of all reports on Form 8-K and registration statements for the public offering (other than pursuant to employee Plans) of securities that the Borrower files with the Securities and Exchange Commission or any national securities exchange; (v) promptly after the commencement thereof, notice of all actions and proceedings before any court, governmental agency or arbitrator affecting the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries of the type described in Section 4.01(f); and (vi) such other information respecting the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries as any Lender through the Agent may from time to time reasonably request. (j) Restructuring. Deliver to the Agent not later than five (5) Business Days after the completion of the Restructuring, in sufficient copies for each Lender: (i) An assignment and assumption agreement, substantially in the form of Exhibit G hereto (the "New Borrower Assignment"), duly executed by the parties thereto. (ii) Certified copies of the resolutions of the Board of Directors of (x) the New Borrower approving or ratifying the New Borrower Assignment and the assumption by the New Borrower of the obligations of the Borrower under the Credit Agreement and the Notes and (y) the Newspaper Subsidiary approving or ratifying the Subsidiary Guaranty. (iii) A certificate of the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of each of the New Borrower and the Newspaper Subsidiary certifying the names and true signatures of the officers of such Loan Party authorized to sign each Loan Document to which it is a party and the other documents to be delivered by it hereunder. (iv) A guaranty in substantially the form of Exhibit F hereto (as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the "Subsidiary Guaranty"), duly executed by the Newspaper Subsidiary.
(v) Favorable opinions of in-house counsel for each of the New Borrower and the Newspaper Subsidiary, substantially in the forms of Exhibits E-2 and E-3 hereto, respectively. SECTION 5.02. Negative Covenants. So long as any Advance shall remain unpaid or any Lender shall have any Commitment hereunder, the Borrower will not: (a) Liens, Etc. Create or suffer to exist, or permit any of its Subsidiaries to create or suffer to exist, any Lien on or with respect to any of its properties (which for purposes of this subsection (a) shall be deemed not to include shares of the Borrower's capital stock), whether now owned or hereafter acquired, or assign, or permit any of its Subsidiaries to assign, any right to receive income, other than: (i) Permitted Liens, (ii) purchase money Liens upon or in any real property or equipment acquired or held by the Borrower or any Subsidiary in the ordinary course of business to secure the purchase price of such property or equipment or to secure Debt incurred solely for the purpose of financing the acquisition of such property or equipment, or Liens existing on such property or equipment at the time of its acquisition (other than any such Liens created in contemplation of such acquisition that were not incurred to finance the acquisition of such property) or extensions, renewals or replacements of any of the foregoing for the same or a lesser amount, provided, however, that no such Lien shall extend to or cover any properties of any character other than the real property or equipment being acquired (or, in the case of improvements to real property, the real property being improved), and no such extension, renewal or replacement shall extend to or cover any properties not theretofore subject to the Lien being extended, renewed or replaced, (iii) the Liens existing on the Effective Date and described on Schedule 5.02(a) hereto, (iv) Liens securing Debt payable to the Borrower, (v) other Liens securing Debt in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed at any time outstanding an amount equal to 20% of Consolidated Shareholders' Equity, and (vi) the replacement, extension or renewal of any Lien permitted by clause (iii) above upon or in the same property theretofore subject thereto or the replacement, extension or renewal (without increase in the amount) of the Debt secured thereby. (b) Mergers, Etc. Merge or consolidate with or into, or convey, transfer, lease or otherwise dispose of (whether in one transaction or in a series of transactions) all or substantially all of its assets (whether now owned or hereafter acquired) to, any Person, or so long as the Subsidiary Guaranty is in effect, permit the Newspaper Subsidiary to do
any of the foregoing, provided that the Borrower and the Newspaper Subsidiary may (i) merge or consolidate with any other Person so long as the Borrower or the Newspaper Subsidiary, as the case may be, is the surviving entity and (ii) consummate the Restructuring and provided further that no Default shall have occurred and be continuing at the time of such proposed transaction or would result therefrom. (c) Accounting Changes. Make or permit, or permit any of its Subsidiaries to make or permit, any change in accounting policies or reporting practices, except as permitted by generally accepted accounting principles and, in the case of any significant change, concurred with by the Borrower's independent public accountants. SECTION 5.03. Financial Covenant. So long as any Advance shall remain unpaid or any Lender shall have any Commitment hereunder, the Borrower will maintain Consolidated Shareholders' Equity of not less than $1,000,000,000. ARTICLE VI EVENTS OF DEFAULT SECTION 6.01. Events of Default. If any of the following events ("Events of Default") shall occur and be continuing: (a) The Borrower shall fail to pay any principal of any Advance when the same becomes due and payable (or, if any such failure is due solely to technical or administrative difficulties relating to the transfer of such principal payment, within two Business Days after the same becomes due and payable); or the Borrower shall fail to pay any interest on any Advance or make any other payment of fees or other amounts payable under this Agreement or any Note within three Business Days after the same becomes due and payable; or (b) Any representation or warranty made by any Loan Party in any Loan Document or by any Loan Party (or any of its officers) in connection with any Loan Document shall prove to have been incorrect in any material respect when made; or (c) (i) The Borrower shall fail to perform or observe any term, covenant or agreement contained in Section 5.01(d) or (i)(iii), 5.02 or 5.03, or (ii) the Borrower shall fail to perform or observe any other term, covenant or agreement contained in this Agreement on its part to be performed or observed if such failure shall remain unremedied for 20 days after written notice thereof shall have been given to the Borrower by the Agent or any Lender; or (d) The Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries shall fail to pay any principal of or premium or interest on any Debt (other than Non-Recourse Debt) that is outstanding in a principal amount of at least $40,000,000 in the aggregate (but excluding Debt outstanding hereunder) of the Borrower or such Subsidiary (as the case may be), when the same becomes due and payable (whether by scheduled maturity, required prepayment, acceleration, demand or otherwise), and such failure shall continue after the applicable
grace period, if any, specified in the agreement or instrument relating to such Debt; or any other event shall occur or condition shall exist under any agreement or instrument relating to any such Debt and shall continue after the applicable grace period, if any, specified in such agreement or instrument, if the effect of such event or condition is to accelerate, or to permit the acceleration of, the maturity of such Debt; or (e) The Borrower or any of its Significant Subsidiaries shall generally not pay its debts as such debts become due, or shall admit in writing its inability to pay its debts generally, or shall make a general assignment for the benefit of creditors; or any proceeding shall be instituted by or against the Borrower or any of its Significant Subsidiaries seeking to adjudicate it a bankrupt or insolvent, or seeking liquidation, winding up, reorganization, arrangement, adjustment, protection, relief, or composition of it or its debts under any law relating to bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization or relief of debtors, or seeking the entry of an order for relief or the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian or other similar official for it or for any substantial part of its property and, in the case of any such proceeding instituted against it (but not instituted by it), either such proceeding shall remain undismissed or unstayed for a period of 60 days, or in such proceeding the entry of an order for relief against, or the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian or other similar official for, it or for any substantial part of its property shall occur; or the Borrower or any of its Significant Subsidiaries shall take any corporate action to authorize any of the actions set forth above in this subsection (e); or (f) Any judgment or order of a court of competent jurisdiction for the payment of money in excess of $20,000,000 shall be rendered against the Borrower or any of its Significant Subsidiaries and either (i) enforcement proceedings shall have been legally commenced by any creditor upon such judgment or order or (ii) there shall be any period of 60 consecutive days during which a stay of enforcement of such judgment or order, by reason of a pending appeal or otherwise, shall not be in effect provided, however, that any such judgment or order shall not be an Event of Default under this Section 6.01(f) if and for so long as (x) the amount of such judgment or order is covered by a valid and binding policy of insurance between the defendant and the insurer covering payment thereof and (y) such insurer, which shall be rated at least "A-" by A.M. Best Company, has been notified of, and has not disputed the claim made for payment of, the amount of such judgment or order; or (g) (i) Any Person or two or more Persons acting in concert (other than the Graham Interests) shall have acquired beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 of the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934), directly or indirectly, of Voting Stock of the Borrower (or other securities convertible into such Voting Stock) representing 30% or more of the combined voting power of all Voting Stock of the Borrower and such combined voting power exceeds the then current voting power of the Voting Stock of the Borrower (or other securities convertible into such Voting Stock) controlled by the Graham Interests; or (ii) Continuing Directors of the Borrower shall cease for any reason to constitute a majority of the board of directors of the Borrower; or
(h) The Borrower or any of its ERISA Affiliates shall incur liability as a result of one or more of the following: (i) the occurrence of any ERISA Event; (ii) the partial or complete withdrawal of the Borrower or any of its ERISA Affiliates from a Multiemployer Plan; or (iii) the reorganization or termination of a Multiemployer Plan; and, in the reasonable opinion of the Required Lenders, such incurrence would be likely to result in a Material Adverse Effect, provided that any such liability in an amount not to exceed $20,000,000 shall be deemed not to be likely to result in a Material Adverse Effect; then, and in any such event, the Agent (i) shall at the request, or may with the consent, of the Required Lenders, by notice to the Borrower, declare the obligation of each Lender to make Advances to be terminated, whereupon the same shall forthwith terminate, and (ii) shall at the request, or may with the consent, of the Required Lenders, by notice to the Borrower, declare the Notes, all interest thereon and all other amounts payable under this Agreement to be forthwith due and payable, whereupon the Notes, all such interest and all such amounts shall become and be forthwith due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or further notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the Borrower; provided, however, that in the event of an actual or deemed entry of an order for relief with respect to the Borrower under the Federal Bankruptcy Code, (A) the obligation of each Lender to make Advances shall automatically be terminated and (B) the Notes, all such interest and all such amounts shall automatically become and be due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or any notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the Borrower. ARTICLE VII THE AGENT SECTION 7.01. Authorization and Action. Each Lender hereby appoints and authorizes the Agent to take such action as agent on its behalf and to exercise such powers and discretion under this Agreement as are delegated to the Agent by the terms hereof, together with such powers and discretion as are reasonably incidental thereto. As to any matters not expressly provided for by this Agreement (including, without limitation, enforcement or collection of the Notes), the Agent shall not be required to exercise any discretion or take any action, but shall be required to act or to refrain from acting (and shall be fully protected in so acting or refraining from acting) upon the instructions of the Required Lenders, and such instructions shall be binding upon all Lenders and all holders of Notes; provided, however, that the Agent shall not be required to take any action that exposes the Agent to personal liability or that is contrary to this Agreement or applicable law. The Agent agrees to give to each Lender prompt notice of each notice given to it by the Borrower pursuant to the terms of this Agreement. SECTION 7.02. Agent's Reliance, Etc. Neither the Agent nor any of its directors, officers, agents or employees shall be liable for any action taken or omitted to be taken by it or them under or in connection with this Agreement, except for its or their own gross negligence or willful misconduct. Without limitation of the generality of the foregoing, the Agent: (i) may treat the payee of any Note as the holder thereof until the Agent receives and accepts an Assumption Agreement entered into by an Assuming Lender as provided in Section
2.05(b) or 2.17, as the case may be, or an Assignment and Acceptance entered into by the Lender that is the payee of such Note, as assignor, and an Eligible Assignee, as assignee, as provided in Section 8.07; (ii) may consult with legal counsel (including counsel for the Borrower), independent public accountants and other experts selected by it and shall not be liable for any action taken or omitted to be taken in good faith by it in accordance with the advice of such counsel, accountants or experts; (iii) makes no warranty or representation to any Lender and shall not be responsible to any Lender for any statements, warranties or representations (whether written or oral) made in or in connection with this Agreement; (iv) shall not have any duty to ascertain or to inquire as to the performance or observance of any of the terms, covenants or conditions of this Agreement on the part of the Borrower or to inspect the property (including the books and records) of the Borrower; (v) shall not be responsible to any Lender for the due execution, legality, validity, enforceability, genuineness, sufficiency or value of this Agreement or any other instrument or document furnished pursuant hereto; and (vi) shall incur no liability under or in respect of this Agreement by acting upon any notice, consent, certificate or other instrument or writing (which may be by telecopier, telegram or telex) reasonably believed by it to be genuine and signed or sent by the proper party or parties. SECTION 7.03. Citibank and Affiliates. With respect to its Commitment, the Advances made by it and the Note issued to it, Citibank shall have the same rights and powers under this Agreement as any other Lender and may exercise the same as though it were not the Agent; and the term "Lender" or "Lenders" shall, unless otherwise expressly indicated, include Citibank in its individual capacity. Citibank and its Affiliates may accept deposits from, lend money to, act as trustee under indentures of, accept investment banking engagements from and generally engage in any kind of business with, the Borrower, any of its Subsidiaries and any Person who may do business with or own securities of the Borrower or any such Subsidiary, all as if Citibank were not the Agent and without any duty to account therefor to the Lenders. SECTION 7.04. Lender Credit Decision. Each Lender acknowledges that it has, independently and without reliance upon the Agent or any other Lender and based on the financial statements referred to in Section 4.01 and such other documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Agreement. Each Lender also acknowledges that it will, independently and without reliance upon the Agent or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit decisions in taking or not taking action under this Agreement. SECTION 7.05. Indemnification. The Lenders agree to indemnify the Agent (to the extent not reimbursed by the Borrower), ratably according to the respective principal amounts of the Revolving Credit Notes then held by each of them (or if no Revolving Credit Notes are at the time outstanding or if any Revolving Credit Notes are held by Persons that are not Lenders, ratably according to the respective amounts of their Commitments), from and against any and all liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses or disbursements of any kind or nature whatsoever that may be imposed on, incurred by, or asserted against the Agent in any way relating to or arising out of this Agreement or any action taken or omitted by the Agent under this Agreement, provided that no Lender shall be liable for any portion of such liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses or disbursements resulting from the Agent's gross negligence or
willful misconduct. Without limitation of the foregoing, each Lender agrees to reimburse the Agent promptly upon demand for its ratable share of any out-of-pocket expenses (including counsel fees) incurred by the Agent in connection with the preparation, execution, delivery, administration, modification, amendment or enforcement (whether through negotiations, legal proceedings or otherwise) of, or legal advice in respect of rights or responsibilities under, this Agreement, to the extent that the Agent is not reimbursed for such expenses by the Borrower. SECTION 7.06. Successor Agent. The Agent may resign at any time by giving written notice thereof to the Lenders and the Borrower and may be removed at any time with or without cause by the Required Lenders. Upon any such resignation or removal, the Required Lenders shall have the right to appoint a successor Agent. If no successor Agent shall have been so appointed by the Required Lenders, and shall have accepted such appointment, within 30 days after the retiring Agent's giving of notice of resignation or the Required Lenders' removal of the retiring Agent, then the retiring Agent may, on behalf of the Lenders, appoint a successor Agent, which shall be a commercial bank organized under the laws of the United States of America or of any State thereof and having a combined capital and surplus of at least $500,000,000. Upon the acceptance of any appointment as Agent hereunder by a successor Agent, such successor Agent shall thereupon succeed to and become vested with all the rights, powers, discretion, privileges and duties of the retiring Agent, and the retiring Agent shall be discharged from its duties and obligations under this Agreement. After any retiring Agent's resignation or removal hereunder as Agent, the provisions of this Article VII shall inure to its benefit as to any actions taken or omitted to be taken by it while it was Agent under this Agreement. SECTION 7.07. Documentation Agents and Syndication Agents. Wachovia Bank, National Association and SunTrust Bank have been designated as syndication agents and JPMorgan Chase Bank and Bank One, NA have been designated as documentation agents in recognition of their respective Commitments, and the use of such title does not impose on such Lender any duties or obligations greater than those of any other Lender. ARTICLE VIII MISCELLANEOUS SECTION 8.01. Amendments, Etc. No amendment or waiver of any provision of any Loan Documents, nor consent to any departure by the Borrower therefrom, shall in any event be effective unless the same shall be in writing and signed by the Required Lenders, and then such waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the specific purpose for which given; provided, however, that no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by all the Lenders, do any of the following: (a) waive any of the conditions specified in Section 3.01, (b) increase the Commitments of the Lenders other than as provided in Section 2.05(b), (c) reduce the principal of, or interest on, the Revolving Credit Notes or any fees or other amounts payable hereunder, (d) postpone any date fixed for any payment of principal of, or interest on, the Revolving Credit Notes or any fees or other amounts payable hereunder, (e) change the percentage of the Commitments or of the aggregate unpaid principal amount of the Revolving Credit Notes that shall be required for the Lenders or any of them to take any action hereunder or (f) amend this Section 8.01; provided further that no amendment, waiver or consent
shall, unless in writing and signed by the Agent in addition to the Lenders required above to take such action, affect the rights or duties of the Agent under this Agreement or any Note. SECTION 8.02. Notices, Etc. All notices and other communications provided for hereunder shall be in writing (including telecopier, telegraphic or telex communication) and telecopied, telegraphed, telexed or delivered, if to the Borrower, at its address at 1150 15th Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20071, Attention: Treasurer; if to any Initial Lender, at its Domestic Lending Office specified opposite its name on Schedule I hereto; if to any other Lender, at its Domestic Lending Office specified in the Assumption Agreement or the Assignment and Acceptance pursuant to which it became a Lender; and if to the Agent, at its address at Two Penns Way, Suite 200, New Castle, Delaware 19720, Attention: Bank Loan Syndications; or, as to the Borrower or the Agent, at such other address as shall be designated by such party in a written notice to the other parties and, as to each other party, at such other address as shall be designated by such party in a written notice to the Borrower and the Agent. All such notices and communications shall, when hand delivered, telecopied, telegraphed or telexed, be effective when received. Delivery by telecopier of an executed counterpart of any amendment or waiver of any provision of this Agreement or the Notes or of any Exhibit hereto to be executed and delivered hereunder shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart thereof. SECTION 8.03. No Waiver; Remedies. No failure on the part of any Lender or the Agent to exercise, and no delay in exercising, any right hereunder or under any Note shall operate as a waiver thereof; nor shall any single or partial exercise of any such right preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right. The remedies herein provided are cumulative and not exclusive of any remedies provided by law. SECTION 8.04. Costs and Expenses. (a) The Borrower agrees to pay on demand all reasonable out-of-pocket costs and expenses of the Agent in connection with the preparation, execution, delivery, administration, modification and amendment of this Agreement, the Notes and the other documents to be delivered hereunder, including, without limitation, (A) all due diligence, syndication (including printing, distribution and bank meetings), transportation and duplication expenses, and (B) the reasonable fees and expenses of counsel for the Agent with respect thereto and with respect to advising the Agent as to its rights and responsibilities under this Agreement. The Borrower further agrees to pay on demand all reasonable out-of-pocket costs and expenses of the Agent and the Lenders, if any (including, without limitation, reasonable counsel fees and expenses), in connection with the enforcement (whether through negotiations, legal proceedings or otherwise) of this Agreement, the Notes and the other documents to be delivered hereunder, including, without limitation, reasonable fees and expenses of counsel for the Agent and each Lender in connection with the enforcement of rights under this Section 8.04(a). (b) The Borrower agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Agent and each Lender and each of their Affiliates and their officers, directors, employees, agents and advisors (each, an "Indemnified Party") from and against any and all claims, damages, losses, liabilities and expenses (including, without limitation, reasonable fees and expenses of counsel) that may be incurred by or asserted or awarded against any Indemnified Party, in each case arising out of
or in connection with or by reason of, or in connection with the preparation for a defense of, any investigation, litigation or proceeding arising out of, related to or in connection with the Notes, this Agreement, any of the transactions contemplated herein or the actual or proposed use of the proceeds of the Advances, whether or not such investigation, litigation or proceeding is brought by the Borrower, its directors, shareholders or creditors or an Indemnified Party or any other Person or any Indemnified Party is otherwise a party thereto and whether or not the transactions contemplated hereby are consummated, except to the extent such claim, damage, loss, liability or expense is found in a final, non-appealable judgment by a court of competent jurisdiction to have resulted from such Indemnified Party's gross negligence or willful misconduct or breach of its obligations under this Agreement. (c) If any payment of principal of, or Conversion of, any Eurodollar Rate Advance or LIBO Rate Advance is made by the Borrower to or for the account of a Lender other than on the last day of the Interest Period for such Advance, as a result of a payment or Conversion pursuant to Section 2.08(d) or (e), 2.09, 2.10 or 2.12, acceleration of the maturity of the Notes pursuant to Section 6.01 or for any other reason, or by an Eligible Assignee to a Lender other than on the last day of an Interest Period for such Advance upon an assignment of rights and obligations under this Agreement pursuant to Section 8.07 as a result of a demand by the Borrower pursuant to Section 8.07(a), the Borrower shall, upon demand by such Lender (with a copy of such demand to the Agent), pay to the Agent for the account of such Lender any amounts required to compensate such Lender for any additional losses, costs or expenses that it may reasonably incur as a result of such payment or Conversion, including, without limitation, any loss (excluding loss of anticipated profits), cost or expense incurred by reason of the liquidation or reemployment of deposits or other funds acquired by any Lender to fund or maintain such Advance. (d) Without prejudice to the survival of any other agreement of the Borrower hereunder, the agreements and obligations of the Borrower contained in Sections 2.11, 2.14 and 8.04 shall survive the payment in full of principal, interest and all other amounts payable hereunder and under the Notes. SECTION 8.05. Right of Set-off. Upon (i) the occurrence and during the continuance of any Event of Default and (ii) the making of the request or the granting of the consent specified by Section 6.01 to authorize the Agent to declare the Notes due and payable pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.01, each Lender and each of its Affiliates is hereby authorized at any time and from time to time, to the fullest extent permitted by law, to set off and apply any and all deposits (general or special, time or demand, provisional or final) at any time held and other indebtedness at any time owing by such Lender or such Affiliate to or for the credit or the account of the Borrower against any and all of the obligations of the Borrower now or hereafter existing under this Agreement and the Note held by such Lender, whether or not such Lender shall have made any demand under this Agreement or such Note and although such obligations may be unmatured. Each Lender agrees promptly to notify the Borrower after any such set-off and application, provided that the failure to give such notice shall not affect the validity of such set-off and application. The rights of each Lender and its Affiliates under this Section are in addition to other rights and remedies (including, without limitation, other rights of set-off) that such Lender and its Affiliates may have.
SECTION 8.06. Binding Effect. This Agreement shall become effective (other than Sections 2.01 and 2.03, which shall only become effective upon satisfaction of the conditions precedent set forth in Section 3.01) when it shall have been executed by the Borrower and the Agent and when the Agent shall have been notified by each Initial Lender that such Initial Lender has executed it and thereafter shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Borrower, the Agent and each Lender and their respective successors and assigns, except that the Borrower shall not have the right to assign its rights hereunder or any interest herein without the prior written consent of the Lenders; provided that upon completion of the Restructuring, the Borrower's assignment to the New Borrower of the Borrower's rights hereunder, and the New Borrower's assumption thereof, shall not require the prior written consent of the Lenders, and after such assignment and assumption is effective (i) this Agreement shall be binding on and inure to the benefit of the New Borrower and (ii) the Newspaper Subsidiary shall be released from its rights and obligations under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents other than the Subsidiary Guaranty. SECTION 8.07. Assignments and Participations. (a) Each Lender may with the consent of the Agent and the Borrower (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed) and, if demanded by the Borrower (following a demand by such Lender pursuant to Section 2.11 or 2.14 or following such Lender's Downgrade) at a time when no Default has occurred and is continuing upon at least five Business Days' notice to such Lender and the Agent, will assign to one or more Persons all or a portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including, without limitation, all or a portion of its Commitment, the Revolving Credit Advances owing to it and the Revolving Credit Note or Notes held by it); provided, however, that (i) each such assignment shall be of a constant, and not a varying, percentage of all rights and obligations under this Agreement (other than any right to make Competitive Bid Advances, Competitive Bid Advances owing to it and Competitive Bid Notes), (ii) except in the case of an assignment to a Person that, immediately prior to such assignment, was a Lender or an assignment of all of a Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, the amount of the Commitment of the assigning Lender being assigned pursuant to each such assignment (determined as of the date of the Assignment and Acceptance with respect to such assignment) shall in no event be less than $10,000,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof and the amount of the Commitment of such Lender remaining after such assignment shall not be less than $10,000,000 or shall be zero, (iii) each such assignment shall be to an Eligible Assignee, (iv) each such assignment made as a result of a demand by the Borrower pursuant to this Section 8.07(a) shall be arranged by the Borrower after consultation with the Agent and shall be either an assignment of all of the rights and obligations of the assigning Lender under this Agreement or an assignment of a portion of such rights and obligations made concurrently with another such assignment or other such assignments that together cover all of the rights and obligations of the assigning Lender under this Agreement, (v) no Lender shall be obligated to make any such assignment as a result of a demand by the Borrower pursuant to this Section 8.07(a) unless and until such Lender shall have received one or more payments from either the Borrower or one or more Eligible Assignees in an aggregate amount at least equal to the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the Advances owing to such Lender, together with accrued interest thereon to the date of payment of such principal amount and all other amounts payable to such Lender under this Agreement, and (vi) unless such assignment is demanded by the Borrower, the parties to each such assignment shall execute and deliver to the Agent, for its acceptance and recording in the Register, an Assignment and Acceptance, together with any
Revolving Credit Note subject to such assignment and a processing and recordation fee of $3,500. Upon such execution, delivery, acceptance and recording, from and after the effective date specified in each Assignment and Acceptance, (x) the assignee thereunder shall be a party hereto and, to the extent that rights and obligations hereunder have been assigned to it pursuant to such Assignment and Acceptance, have the rights and obligations of a Lender hereunder and (y) the Lender assignor thereunder shall, to the extent that rights and obligations hereunder have been assigned by it pursuant to such Assignment and Acceptance, relinquish its rights and be released from its obligations under this Agreement (and, in the case of an Assignment and Acceptance covering all or the remaining portion of an assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, such Lender shall cease to be a party hereto). (b) By executing and delivering an Assignment and Acceptance, the Lender assignor thereunder and the assignee thereunder confirm to and agree with each other and the other parties hereto as follows: (i) other than as provided in such Assignment and Acceptance, such assigning Lender makes no representation or warranty and assumes no responsibility with respect to any statements, warranties or representations made in or in connection with this Agreement or the execution, legality, validity, enforceability, genuineness, sufficiency or value of this Agreement or any other instrument or document furnished pursuant hereto; (ii) such assigning Lender makes no representation or warranty and assumes no responsibility with respect to the financial condition of the Borrower or the performance or observance by the Borrower of any of its obligations under this Agreement or any other instrument or document furnished pursuant hereto; (iii) such assignee confirms that it has received a copy of this Agreement, together with copies of the financial statements referred to in Section 4.01 and such other documents and information as it has deemed appropriate to make its own credit analysis and decision to enter into such Assignment and Acceptance; (iv) such assignee will, independently and without reliance upon the Agent, such assigning Lender or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit decisions in taking or not taking action under this Agreement; (v) such assignee confirms that it is an Eligible Assignee; (vi) such assignee appoints and authorizes the Agent to take such action as agent on its behalf and to exercise such powers and discretion under this Agreement as are delegated to the Agent by the terms hereof, together with such powers and discretion as are reasonably incidental thereto; and (vii) such assignee agrees that it will perform in accordance with their terms all of the obligations that by the terms of this Agreement are required to be performed by it as a Lender. (c) Upon its receipt of an Assignment and Acceptance executed by an assigning Lender and an assignee representing that it is an Eligible Assignee, together with any Revolving Credit Note or Notes subject to such assignment, the Agent shall, if such Assignment and Acceptance has been completed and is in substantially the form of Exhibit C hereto, (i) accept such Assignment and Acceptance, (ii) record the information contained therein in the Register and (iii) give prompt notice thereof to the Borrower. Within five Business Days after its receipt of such notice, the Borrower, at its own expense, shall execute and deliver to the Agent in exchange for the surrendered Revolving Credit Note a new Note to the order of such Eligible Assignee in an amount equal to the Commitment assumed by it pursuant to such Assignment and Acceptance and, if the assigning Lender has retained a Commitment hereunder, a new Revolving Credit Note to the order of the assigning Lender in an amount equal to the Commitment retained by it hereunder. Such new Revolving Credit Note or Notes shall be in an aggregate principal
amount equal to the aggregate principal amount of such surrendered Revolving Credit Note or Notes, shall be dated the effective date of such Assignment and Acceptance and shall otherwise be in substantially the form of Exhibit A-1 hereto. (d) The Agent shall maintain at its address referred to in Section 8.02 a copy of each Assumption Agreement and each Assignment and Acceptance delivered to and accepted by it and a register for the recordation of the names and addresses of the Lenders and the Commitment of, and principal amount of the Advances owing to, each Lender from time to time (the "Register"). The entries in the Register shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error, and the Borrower, the Agent and the Lenders may treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Register as a Lender hereunder for all purposes of this Agreement. The Register shall be available for inspection by the Borrower or any Lender at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice. (e) Each Lender may sell participations to one or more banks or other entities (other than the Borrower or any of its Affiliates) in or to all or a portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including, without limitation, all or a portion of its Commitment, the Advances owing to it and the Note or Notes held by it) with the consent of the Borrower (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed); provided, however, that (i) such Lender's obligations under this Agreement (including, without limitation, its Commitment to the Borrower hereunder) shall remain unchanged, (ii) such Lender shall remain solely responsible to the other parties hereto for the performance of such obligations, (iii) such Lender shall remain the holder of any such Note for all purposes of this Agreement, (iv) the Borrower, the Agent and the other Lenders shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Lender in connection with such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement and (v) no participant under any such participation shall have any right to approve any amendment or waiver of any provision of this Agreement or any Note, or any consent to any departure by the Borrower therefrom, except to the extent that such amendment, waiver or consent would reduce the principal of, or interest on, the Notes or any fees or other amounts payable hereunder, in each case to the extent subject to such participation, or postpone any date fixed for any payment of principal of, or interest on, the Notes or any fees or other amounts payable hereunder, in each case to the extent subject to such participation. (f) Any Lender may, in connection with any assignment or participation or proposed assignment or participation pursuant to this Section 8.07, disclose to the assignee or participant or proposed assignee or participant, any information relating to the Borrower furnished to such Lender by or on behalf of the Borrower; provided that, prior to any such disclosure, the assignee or participant or proposed assignee or participant shall agree to preserve the confidentiality of any Confidential Information relating to the Borrower received by it from such Lender. (g) Notwithstanding any other provision set forth in this Agreement, any Lender may at any time create a security interest in all or any portion of its rights under this Agreement (including, without limitation, the Advances owing to it and the Note or Notes held by it) in favor of any Federal Reserve Bank in accordance with Regulation A of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.
SECTION 8.08. Confidentiality. Neither the Agent nor any Lender shall disclose any Confidential Information to any other Person without the consent of the Borrower, other than (a) to the Agent's or such Lender's Affiliates and their officers, directors, employees, accountants, auditors, counsel, agents and advisors and, as contemplated by Section 8.07(f), to actual or prospective assignees and participants, and then only on a confidential basis, (b) as required by any law, rule or regulation or judicial process, (c) to any rating agency when required by it, provided that, prior to any such disclosure, such rating agency shall undertake to preserve the confidentiality of any Confidential Information relating to the Borrower received by it from such Lender and (d) as requested or required by any state, federal or foreign authority or examiner regulating banks or banking. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, each Loan Party, the Agent, each Lender and Citigroup Global Markets Inc. (and each employee, representative or other agent of each of the foregoing parties) may disclose to any and all Persons, without limitation of any kind, the U.S. tax treatment and tax structure of the transactions contemplated hereby and all materials of any kind (including opinions or other tax analyses) that are provided to any of the foregoing parties relating to such U.S. tax treatment and tax structure, except that the tax treatment and tax structure shall not include the identity of any existing or future party (or any Affiliate of such party) to this Agreement. SECTION 8.09. Governing Law. This Agreement and the Notes shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York. SECTION 8.10. Execution in Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and by different parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page to this Agreement by telecopier shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Agreement. SECTION 8.11. Jurisdiction, Etc. (a) Each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably and unconditionally submits, for itself and its property, to the nonexclusive jurisdiction of any New York State court or federal court of the United States of America sitting in New York City, and any appellate court from any thereof, in any action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the Notes, or for recognition or enforcement of any judgment, and each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably and unconditionally agrees that all claims in respect of any such action or proceeding may be heard and determined in any such New York State court or, to the extent permitted by law, in such federal court. Each of the parties hereto agrees that a final judgment in any such action or proceeding shall be conclusive and may be enforced in other jurisdictions by suit on the judgment or in any other manner provided by law. Nothing in this Agreement shall affect any right that any party may otherwise have to bring any action or proceeding relating to this Agreement or the Notes in the courts of any jurisdiction. (b) Each of the parties hereto irrevocably and unconditionally waives, to the fullest extent it may legally and effectively do so, any objection that it may now or hereafter have to the laying of venue of any suit, action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the Notes in any New York State or federal court. Each of the parties hereto
hereby irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent permitted by law, the defense of an inconvenient forum to the maintenance of such action or proceeding in any such court. SECTION 8.12. Waiver of Jury Trial. Each of the Borrower, the Agent and the Lenders hereby irrevocably waives all right to trial by jury in any action, proceeding or counterclaim (whether based on contract, tort or otherwise) arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the Notes or the actions of the Agent or any Lender in the negotiation, administration, performance or enforcement thereof. SECTION 8.13. Amendments to the Subsidiary Guaranty. The Agent shall not consent to any amendment or waiver of any provision of the Subsidiary Guaranty, nor consent to any departure by the Newspaper Subsidiary therefrom, without the prior consent of the Required Lenders, and then such consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the specific purpose for which given; provided, however, that, without the prior consent of all the Lenders, the Agent shall not consent to any amendment or waiver of the provisions of Section 1 of the Subsidiary Guaranty which would reduce or limit the scope of the obligations under or in respect of the Credit Agreement which are being guaranteed by the Newspaper Subsidiary under the Subsidiary Guaranty. This Section 8.13 may not be amended unless such amendment is in writing and is signed by all the Lenders.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized, as of the date first above written. THE WASHINGTON POST COMPANY By /s/ Daniel J. Lynch ----------------------- Title: Treasurer CITIBANK, N.A. as Agent By /s/ Julio Ojea Quintana ----------------------- Title: Director
Initial Lenders Commitment $60,000,000 CITIBANK, N.A. By /s/ Julio Ojea Quintana ---------------------------- Title: Director $55,000,000 WACHOVIA BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION By /s/ Barbara K. Angel ---------------------------- Title: Senior Vice President $45,000,000 SUNTRUST BANK By /s/ Kip Hurd ---------------------------- Title: Vice President $30,000,000 BANK ONE, NA By /s/Matthew J. Reilly ---------------------------- Title: Director $30,000,000 JPMORGAN CHASE BANK By /s/ Peter J. D'Agostino ---------------------------- Title: Vice President/Team Leader
$20,000,000 THE BANK OF NEW YORK By /s/ John C. Lambert ---------------------------- Title: Senior Vice President $10,000,000 RIGGS BANK N.A. By /s/ Douglas H. Klamfoth ---------------------------- Title: Vice President $250,000,000 Total of the Commitments
SCHEDULE I The Washington Post Company 364-Day Credit Agreement
SCHEDULE 5.02(a) EXISTING LIENS [None]
EXHIBIT A-1 - FORM OF REVOLVING CREDIT PROMISSORY NOTE U.S.$_______________ Dated: _____________, 200_ FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned, THE WASHINGTON POST COMPANY, a Delaware corporation (the "Borrower"), HEREBY PROMISES TO PAY to the order of _________________________ (the "Lender") for the account of its Applicable Lending Office on the later of the Termination Date and the date designated pursuant to Section 2.06 of the Credit Agreement (each as defined in the Credit Agreement referred to below) the principal sum of U.S.$[amount of the Lender's Commitment in figures] or, if less, the aggregate principal amount of the Revolving Credit Advances made by the Lender to the Borrower pursuant to the 364-Day Credit Agreement dated as of August 13, 2003 among the Borrower, the Lender and certain other lenders parties thereto, Citibank, N.A., as Agent for the Lender and such other lenders (as amended or modified from time to time, the "Credit Agreement"; the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), outstanding on such date. The Borrower promises to pay interest on the unpaid principal amount of each Revolving Credit Advance from the date of such Revolving Credit Advance until such principal amount is paid in full, at such interest rates, and payable at such times, as are specified in the Credit Agreement. Both principal and interest are payable in lawful money of the United States of America to Citibank, N.A., as Agent, at 388 Greenwich Street, New York, New York 10013, in same day funds. Each Revolving Credit Advance owing to the Lender by the Borrower pursuant to the Credit Agreement, and all payments made on account of principal thereof, shall be recorded by the Lender and, prior to any transfer hereof, endorsed on the grid attached hereto which is part of this Promissory Note.
This Promissory Note is one of the Revolving Credit Notes referred to in, and is entitled to the benefits of, the Credit Agreement. The Credit Agreement, among other things, (i) provides for the making of Revolving Credit Advances by the Lender to the Borrower from time to time in an aggregate amount not to exceed at any time outstanding the U.S. dollar amount first above mentioned, the indebtedness of the Borrower resulting from each such Revolving Credit Advance being evidenced by this Promissory Note, and (ii) contains provisions for acceleration of the maturity hereof upon the happening of certain stated events and also for prepayments on account of principal hereof prior to the maturity hereof upon the terms and conditions therein specified. THE WASHINGTON POST COMPANY By ---------------------------- Title:
EXHIBIT A-2 - FORM OF COMPETITIVE BID PROMISSORY NOTE U.S.$_______________ Dated: ______________, 200_ FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned, THE WASHINGTON POST COMPANY, a Delaware corporation (the "Borrower"), HEREBY PROMISES TO PAY to the order of _________________________ (the "Lender") for the account of its Applicable Lending Office (as defined in the 364-Day Credit Agreement dated as of August 13, 2003 among the Borrower, the Lender and certain other lenders parties thereto, Citibank, N.A., as Agent for the Lender and such other lenders (as amended or modified from time to time, the "Credit Agreement"; the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined)), on _______________, 200_, the principal amount of U.S.$______________. The Borrower promises to pay interest on the unpaid principal amount hereof from the date hereof until such principal amount is paid in full, at the interest rate and payable on the interest payment date or dates provided below: [Interest Rate: _____% per annum (calculated on the basis of a year of _____ days for the actual number of days elapsed).] Both principal and interest are payable in lawful money of the United States of America to Citibank, N.A. for the account of the Lender at the office of Citibank, N.A., at 388 Greenwich Street, New York, New York 10013 in same day funds. This Promissory Note is one of the Competitive Bid Notes referred to in, and is entitled to the benefits of, the Credit Agreement. The Credit Agreement, among other things, contains provisions for acceleration of the maturity hereof upon the happening of certain stated events. The Borrower hereby waives presentment, demand, protest and notice of any kind. No failure to exercise, and no delay in exercising, any rights hereunder on the part of the holder hereof shall operate as a waiver of such rights.
This Promissory Note shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York. THE WASHINGTON POST COMPANY By ---------------------- Title
EXHIBIT B-1 - FORM OF NOTICE OF REVOLVING CREDIT BORROWING Citibank, N.A., as Agent for the Lenders parties to the Credit Agreement referred to below Two Penns Way New Castle, Delaware 19720 [Date] Attention: Cristian Garcia Ladies and Gentlemen: The undersigned, The Washington Post Company, refers to the 364-Day Credit Agreement, dated as of August 13, 2003 (as amended or modified from time to time, the "Credit Agreement", the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), among the undersigned, certain Lenders parties thereto, Citibank, N.A., as Agent for said Lenders, and hereby gives you notice, irrevocably, pursuant to Section 2.02 of the Credit Agreement that the undersigned hereby requests a Revolving Credit Borrowing under the Credit Agreement, and in that connection sets forth below the information relating to such Revolving Credit Borrowing (the "Proposed Revolving Credit Borrowing") as required by Section 2.02(a) of the Credit Agreement: (i) The Business Day of the Proposed Revolving Credit Borrowing is _______________, 200_. (ii) The Type of Advances comprising the Proposed Revolving Credit Borrowing is [Base Rate Advances] [Eurodollar Rate Advances]. (iii) The aggregate amount of the Proposed Revolving Credit Borrowing is $---------------. (iv) [The initial Interest Period for each Eurodollar Rate Advance made as part of the Proposed Revolving Credit Borrowing is _____ month[s].] The undersigned hereby certifies that the following statements are true on the date hereof, and will be true on the date of the Proposed Revolving Credit Borrowing: (A) the representations and warranties contained in Section 4.01 of the Credit Agreement are correct in all material respects, before and after giving effect to the Proposed Revolving Credit Borrowing and to the application of the proceeds therefrom, as though made on and as of such date, except to the extent they expressly relate to an earlier date; and
(B) no event has occurred and is continuing, or would result from such Proposed Revolving Credit Borrowing or from the application of the proceeds therefrom, that constitutes a Default. Very truly yours, THE WASHINGTON POST COMPANY By -------------------------- Title: 2
EXHIBIT B-2 - FORM OF NOTICE OF COMPETITIVE BID BORROWING Citibank, N.A., as Agent for the Lenders parties to the Credit Agreement referred to below Two Penns Way New Castle, Delaware 19720 [Date] Attention: Cristian Garcia Ladies and Gentlemen: The undersigned, The Washington Post Company, refers to the 364-Day Credit Agreement, dated as of August 13, 2003 (as amended or modified from time to time, the "Credit Agreement", the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), among the undersigned, certain Lenders parties thereto, Citibank, N.A., as Agent for said Lenders, and hereby gives you notice, irrevocably, pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Credit Agreement that the undersigned hereby requests a Competitive Bid Borrowing under the Credit Agreement, and in that connection sets forth the terms on which such Competitive Bid Borrowing (the "Proposed Competitive Bid Borrowing") is requested to be made: (A) Date of Competitive Bid Borrowing _____________________ (B) Amount of Competitive Bid Borrowing _____________________ (C) [Maturity Date] [Interest Period] _____________________ (D) Interest Rate Basis _____________________ (E) Interest Payment Date(s) _____________________ (F) ________________________ _____________________ (G) ________________________ _____________________ (H) ________________________ _____________________ The undersigned hereby certifies that the following statements are true on the date hereof, and will be true on the date of the Proposed Competitive Bid Borrowing: (a) the representations and warranties contained in Section 4.01 of the Credit Agreement are correct in all material respects, before and after giving effect to the Proposed Competitive Bid Borrowing and to the application of the proceeds therefrom, as though made on and as of such date, except to the extent they expressly relate to an earlier date; (b) no event has occurred and is continuing, or would result from the Proposed Competitive Bid Borrowing or from the application of the proceeds therefrom, that constitutes a Default; and
(c) the aggregate amount of the Proposed Competitive Bid Borrowing and all other Borrowings to be made on the same day under the Credit Agreement is within the aggregate amount of the Unused Commitments of the Lenders. The undersigned hereby confirms that the Proposed Competitive Bid Borrowing is to be made available to it in accordance with Section 2.03(a)(v) of the Credit Agreement. Very truly yours, THE WASHINGTON POST COMPANY By -------------------------- Title: 2
EXHIBIT C - FORM OF ASSIGNMENT AND ACCEPTANCE Reference is made to the 364-Day Credit Agreement dated as of August 13, 2003 (as amended or modified from time to time, the "Credit Agreement") among The Washington Post Company, a Delaware corporation (the "Borrower"), the Lenders (as defined in the Credit Agreement), Citibank, N.A., as agent for the Lenders (the "Agent"). Terms defined in the Credit Agreement are used herein with the same meaning. The "Assignor" and the "Assignee" referred to on Schedule 1 hereto agree as follows: 1. The Assignor hereby sells and assigns to the Assignee, and the Assignee hereby purchases and assumes from the Assignor, an interest in and to the Assignor's rights and obligations under the Credit Agreement as of the date hereof (other than in respect of Competitive Bid Advances and Competitive Bid Notes) equal to the percentage interest specified on Schedule 1 hereto of all outstanding rights and obligations under the Credit Agreement (other than in respect of Competitive Bid Advances and Competitive Bid Notes). After giving effect to such sale and assignment, the Assignee's Commitment and the amount of the Revolving Credit Advances owing to the Assignee will be as set forth on Schedule 1 hereto. 2. The Assignor (i) represents and warrants that it is the legal and beneficial owner of the interest being assigned by it hereunder and that such interest is free and clear of any adverse claim; (ii) makes no representation or warranty and assumes no responsibility with respect to any statements, warranties or representations made in or in connection with the Credit Agreement or the execution, legality, validity, enforceability, genuineness, sufficiency or value of the Credit Agreement or any other instrument or document furnished pursuant thereto; (iii) makes no representation or warranty and assumes no responsibility with respect to the financial condition of the Borrower or the performance or observance by the Borrower of any of its obligations under the Credit Agreement or any other instrument or document furnished pursuant thereto; and (iv) attaches the Revolving Credit Note held by the Assignor and requests that the Agent exchange such Revolving Credit Note for a new Revolving Credit Note payable to the order of the Assignee in an amount equal to the Commitment assumed by the Assignee pursuant hereto or new Revolving Credit Notes payable to the order of the Assignee in an amount equal to the Commitment assumed by the Assignee pursuant hereto and the Assignor in an amount equal to the Commitment retained by the Assignor under the Credit Agreement, respectively, as specified on Schedule 1 hereto. 3. The Assignee (i) confirms that it has received a copy of the Credit Agreement, together with copies of the financial statements referred to in Section 4.01 thereof and such other documents and information as it has deemed appropriate to make its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Assignment and Acceptance; (ii) agrees that it will, independently and without reliance upon the Agent, the Assignor or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit decisions in taking or not taking action under the Credit Agreement; (iii) confirms that it is an Eligible Assignee; (iv) appoints and authorizes the Agent to take such action as agent
on its behalf and to exercise such powers and discretion under the Credit Agreement as are delegated to the Agent by the terms thereof, together with such powers and discretion as are reasonably incidental thereto; (v) agrees that it will perform in accordance with their terms all of the obligations that by the terms of the Credit Agreement are required to be performed by it as a Lender; and (vi) attaches any U.S. Internal Revenue Service forms required under Section 2.14 of the Credit Agreement. 4. Following the execution of this Assignment and Acceptance, it will be delivered to the Agent for acceptance and recording by the Agent. The effective date for this Assignment and Acceptance (the "Effective Date") shall be the date of acceptance hereof by the Agent, unless otherwise specified on Schedule 1 hereto. 5. Upon such acceptance and recording by the Agent, as of the Effective Date, (i) the Assignee shall be a party to the Credit Agreement and, to the extent provided in this Assignment and Acceptance, have the rights and obligations of a Lender thereunder and (ii) the Assignor shall, to the extent provided in this Assignment and Acceptance, relinquish its rights and be released from its obligations under the Credit Agreement. 6. Upon such acceptance and recording by the Agent, from and after the Effective Date, the Agent shall make all payments under the Credit Agreement and the Revolving Credit Notes in respect of the interest assigned hereby (including, without limitation, all payments of principal, interest and facility fees with respect thereto) to the Assignee. The Assignor and Assignee shall make all appropriate adjustments in payments under the Credit Agreement and the Revolving Credit Notes for periods prior to the Effective Date directly between themselves. 7. This Assignment and Acceptance shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York. 8. This Assignment and Acceptance may be executed in any number of counterparts and by different parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement. Delivery of an executed counterpart of Schedule 1 to this Assignment and Acceptance by telecopier shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Assignment and Acceptance. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Assignor and the Assignee have caused Schedule 1 to this Assignment and Acceptance to be executed by their officers thereunto duly authorized as of the date specified thereon. 2
Schedule 1 to Assignment and Acceptance Percentage interest assigned: -----% Assignee's Commitment: $---------- Aggregate outstanding principal amount of Revolving Credit Advances assigned: $---------- Principal amount of Revolving Credit Note payable to Assignee: $---------- Principal amount of Revolving Credit Note payable to Assignor: $---------- Effective Date:* _______________, 200_ [NAME OF ASSIGNOR], as Assignor By ------------------------------- Title: Dated: _______________, 200__ [NAME OF ASSIGNEE], as Assignee By ------------------------------- Title: Dated: _______________, 200__ - -------------------- * This date should be no earlier than five Business Days after the delivery of this Assignment and Acceptance to the Agent. 3
Domestic Lending Office: [Address] Eurodollar Lending Office: [Address] Accepted and Approved this __________ day of _______________, 200__ CITIBANK, N.A., as Agent By -------------------------------------- Title: Approved this __________ day of _______________, 200__ THE WASHINGTON POST COMPANY By -------------------------------------- Title: 4
EXHIBIT D - FORM OF ASSUMPTION AGREEMENT Dated:__________ The Washington Post Company 1150 15th Street, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20071 Citibank, N.A., as Agent Two Penns Way New Castle, Delaware 19720 Attention: Cristian Garcia Ladies and Gentlemen: Reference is made to the 364-Day Credit Agreement dated as of August 13, 2003 among The Washington Post Company (the "Borrower"), the Lenders parties thereto, Citibank, N.A., as Agent (the "Credit Agreement"; terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), for such Lenders. The undersigned (the "Assuming Lender") proposes to become an Assuming Lender pursuant to Section [2.05(b)] [2.17] of the Credit Agreement and, in that connection, hereby agrees that it shall become a Lender for purposes of the Credit Agreement on [applicable Increase Date/Extension Date] and that its Commitment shall as of such date be $__________. The undersigned (i) confirms that it has received a copy of the Credit Agreement, together with copies of the financial statements referred to in Section 4.01(e) thereof, the most recent financial statements referred to in Section 5.01(i) thereof and such other documents and information as it has deemed appropriate to make its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Assumption Agreement; (ii) agrees that it will, independently and without reliance upon the Agent or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit decisions in taking or not taking action under the Credit Agreement; (iii) appoints and authorizes the Agent to take such action as agent on its behalf and to exercise such powers under the Credit Agreement as are delegated to the Agent by the terms thereof, together with such powers as are reasonably incidental thereto; (iv) agrees that it will perform in accordance with their terms all of the obligations which by the terms of the Credit Agreement are required to be performed by it as a Lender; (v) confirms that it is an Eligible Assignee; (vi) specifies as its Lending Office (and address for notices) the offices set forth beneath its name on the signature pages hereof; and (vii) attaches the forms prescribed by the Internal Revenue Service of the United States required under Section 2.14 of the Credit Agreement. The Assuming Lender requests that the Borrower deliver to the Agent (to be promptly delivered to the Assuming Lender) a Revolving Credit Note payable to the order of the Assuming Lender, dated as of the [applicable Increase Date/Extension Date] and substantially in the form of Exhibit A-1 to the Credit Agreement.
The effective date for this Assumption Agreement shall be [applicable Increase Date/Extension Date]. Upon delivery of this Assumption Agreement to the Borrower and the Agent, and satisfaction of all conditions imposed under Section 2.05(b) as of [date specified above], the undersigned shall be a party to the Credit Agreement and have the rights and obligations of a Lender thereunder. As of [date specified above], the Agent shall make all payments under the Credit Agreement in respect of the interest assumed hereby (including, without limitation, all payments of principal, interest and commitment fees) to the Assuming Lender. This Assumption Agreement may be executed in counterparts and by different parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement. Delivery of an executed counterpart by telecopier shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Assumption Agreement. This Assumption Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York. Very truly yours, [NAME OF ASSUMING LENDER] By ------------------------- Name: Title: Domestic Lending Office (and address for notices): [Address] Eurodollar Lending Office: [Address] Acknowledged and Agreed to: THE WASHINGTON POST COMPANY By --------------------------- Name: Title 2
EXHIBIT E-1 - FORM OF OPINION OF COUNSEL FOR THE BORROWER [Date] To each of the Lenders parties to the Credit Agreement dated as of August 13, 2003 among The Washington Post Company, said Lenders, Citibank, N.A., as Agent for said Lenders The Washington Post Company --------------------------- Ladies and Gentlemen: This opinion is furnished to you pursuant to Section 3.01(c)(iv) of the 364-Day Credit Agreement, dated as of August 13, 2003 (the "Credit Agreement"), among The Washington Post Company (the "Borrower"), the Lenders parties thereto, Citibank, N.A., as Agent for said Lenders. Terms defined in the Credit Agreement are used herein as therein defined. I am the General Counsel of the Borrower and as such I am familiar with the Credit Agreement and the corporate proceedings taken by the Borrower to authorize the execution and delivery of the Credit Agreement. For purposes of this opinion, I have examined: (1) The Credit Agreement. (2) The documents furnished by the Borrower pursuant to Section 3.01(c) of the Credit Agreement. (3) The Certificate of Incorporation of the Borrower and all amendments thereto (the "Charter"). (4) The by-laws of the Borrower and all amendments thereto (the "By-laws"). (5) A certificate of the Secretary of State of Delaware, dated __________, 2003, attesting to the continued corporate existence and good standing of the Borrower in that State. In addition, I have examined the originals, or copies certified to my satisfaction, of such other corporate records of the Borrower, certificates of public officials and of officers of the Borrower, and agreements, instruments and other documents, as I have deemed necessary as a basis for the opinions expressed below. As to questions of fact material to such opinions, I have, when relevant facts were not independently established by me, relied upon certificates of
the Borrower or its officers or of public officials. I have assumed the due execution and delivery, pursuant to due authorization, of the Credit Agreement by the Initial Lenders and the Agent. My opinions expressed below are limited to the law of the State of New York, the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware and the Federal law of the United States of America. Based upon the foregoing and upon such investigation as I have deemed necessary, I am of the following opinion: 1. The Borrower is a corporation validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware. 2. The execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower of the Credit Agreement and the Notes, and the consummation of the transactions contemplated thereby, are within the Borrower's corporate powers, and have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action, and do not contravene (i) the Charter or the By-laws or (ii) any law, rule or regulation applicable to the Borrower (including, without limitation, Regulation X of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System) or (iii) to the best of my knowledge after appropriate inquiry, (x) any contractual restriction or (y) any legal restriction contained in orders, writs, judgments, awards, injunctions or decrees applicable to the Borrower or its assets, in each case that affects or purports to affect the Borrower's right to borrow money or the Borrower's obligations under the Credit Agreement or Notes. The Credit Agreement and the Notes delivered on the date hereof have been duly executed and delivered on behalf of the Borrower. 3. No authorization, approval or other action by, and no notice to or filing with, any United States Federal, New York or, to the extent required under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, Delaware governmental authority or regulatory body is required for the due execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower of the Credit Agreement and the Notes. 4. The Credit Agreement is, and upon the consummation of any Borrowings, the Notes will be, legal, valid and binding obligations of the Borrower enforceable against the Borrower in accordance with their respective terms. 5. To the best of my knowledge after appropriate inquiry, there are no pending or overtly threatened actions or proceedings against the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries before any court, governmental agency or arbitrator that purport to affect the legality, validity, binding effect or enforceability of the Credit Agreement or any of the Notes or the consummation of the transactions contemplated thereby or that are likely to have a materially adverse effect upon the financial condition or operations of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole. The opinions set forth above are subject to the following qualifications: 2
(a) My opinion in paragraph 4 above as to enforceability is subject to the effect of any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency (including, without limitation, all laws relating to fraudulent transfers), reorganization, moratorium or similar law affecting creditors' rights generally. (b) My opinion in paragraph 4 above as to enforceability is subject to the effect of general principles of equity, including, without limitation, concepts of materiality, reasonableness, good faith and fair dealing (regardless of whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law). (c) Insofar as provisions contained in the Credit Agreement provide for indemnification, the enforceability thereof may be limited by public policy considerations. (d) I express no opinion as to (i) Section 2.15 of the Credit Agreement insofar as it provides that any Lender purchasing a participation from another Lender pursuant thereto may exercise set-off of similar rights with respect to such participation and (ii) the effect of the law of any jurisdiction other than the State of New York wherein any Lender may be located or wherein enforcement of the Credit Agreement or the Notes may be sought that limits the rates of interest legally chargeable or collectible. Very truly yours, 3
EXHIBIT E-2 - FORM OF OPINION OF COUNSEL FOR THE NEW BORROWER [Date] To each of the Lenders parties to the Credit Agreement dated as of August 13, 2003 among The Washington Post Company, presently known as WP Company LLC, said Lenders, Citibank, N.A., as Agent for said Lenders The Washington Post Company (formerly known as TWPC, Inc.) ---------------------------------------------------------- Ladies and Gentlemen: This opinion is furnished to you pursuant to Section 5.01(j)(v) of the 364-Day Credit Agreement, dated as of August 13, 2003 (the "Credit Agreement"), among The Washington Post Company, presently known as WP Company LLC (the "Initial Borrower"), the Lenders parties thereto, Citibank, N.A., as Agent for said Lenders. Terms defined in the Credit Agreement are used herein as therein defined. I am the General Counsel of the New Borrower and as such I am familiar with the Credit Agreement and the corporate proceedings taken by the New Borrower to authorize the assumption by the New Borrower of the rights and obligations of the Initial Borrower under the Credit Agreement. For purposes of this opinion, I have examined: (1) The Credit Agreement. (2) The documents furnished by the New Borrower pursuant to Section 5.01(j) of the Credit Agreement, including the New Borrower Assignment. (3) The Certificate of Incorporation of the New Borrower and all amendments thereto (the "Charter"). (4) The by-laws of the New Borrower and all amendments thereto (the "By-laws"). (5) A certificate of the Secretary of State of Delaware, dated ________ __, 2003, attesting to the continued corporate existence and good standing of the New Borrower in that State. In addition, I have examined the originals, or copies certified to my satisfaction, of such other corporate records of the New Borrower, certificates of public officials and of officers of the New Borrower, and agreements, instruments and other documents, as I have
deemed necessary as a basis for the opinions expressed below. As to questions of fact material to such opinions, I have, when relevant facts were not independently established by me, relied upon certificates of the New Borrower or its officers or of public officials. I have assumed the due execution and delivery, pursuant to due authorization, of the Credit Agreement by the Initial Lenders and the Agent. My opinions expressed below are limited to the law of the State of New York, the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware and the Federal law of the United States of America. Based upon the foregoing and upon such investigation as I have deemed necessary, I am of the following opinion: 1. The New Borrower is a corporation validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware. 2. The execution and delivery by the New Borrower of the New Borrower Assignment, and the performance by the New Borrower of its obligations as the "Borrower" under the Credit Agreement and the Notes, and the consummation of the transactions contemplated thereby, are within the New Borrower's corporate powers, and have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action, and do not contravene (i) the Charter or the By-laws or (ii) any law, rule or regulation applicable to the New Borrower (including, without limitation, Regulation X of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System) or (iii) to the best of my knowledge after appropriate inquiry, (x) any contractual restriction or (y) any legal restriction contained in orders, writs, judgments, awards, injunctions or decrees applicable to the New Borrower or its assets, in each case that affects or purports to affect the New Borrower's right to borrow money or the New Borrower's obligations as the "Borrower" under the Credit Agreement or Notes. The New Borrower Assignment delivered on the date hereof has been duly executed and delivered on behalf of the New Borrower. 3. No authorization, approval or other action by, and no notice to or filing with, any United States Federal, New York or, to the extent required under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, Delaware governmental authority or regulatory body is required for the due execution, delivery and performance by the New Borrower of the New Borrower Assignment and the performance by the New Borrower of the Credit Agreement and the Notes. 4. After the execution and delivery of the New Borrower Assignment, the Credit Agreement is, and upon the consummation of any Borrowings, the Notes will be, legal, valid and binding obligations of the New Borrower enforceable against the New Borrower in accordance with their respective terms. 5. To the best of my knowledge after appropriate inquiry, there are no pending or overtly threatened actions or proceedings against the New Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries before any court, governmental agency or arbitrator that purport to affect the legality, validity, binding effect or enforceability of the New Borrower Assignment, the 2
Credit Agreement or any of the Notes or the consummation of the transactions contemplated thereby or that are likely to have a materially adverse effect upon the financial condition or operations of the New Borrower and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole. The opinions set forth above are subject to the following qualifications: (a) My opinion in paragraph 4 above as to enforceability is subject to the effect of any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency (including, without limitation, all laws relating to fraudulent transfers), reorganization, moratorium or similar law affecting creditors' rights generally. (b) My opinion in paragraph 4 above as to enforceability is subject to the effect of general principles of equity, including, without limitation, concepts of materiality, reasonableness, good faith and fair dealing (regardless of whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law). (c) Insofar as provisions contained in the Credit Agreement provide for indemnification, the enforceability thereof may be limited by public policy considerations. (d) I express no opinion as to the effect of the law of any jurisdiction other than the State of New York wherein any Lender may be located or wherein enforcement of the Credit Agreement or the Notes may be sought that limits the rates of interest legally chargeable or collectible. Very truly yours, 3
EXHIBIT E-3 - FORM OF OPINION OF COUNSEL FOR THE NEWSPAPER SUBSIDIARY [Date] To each of the Lenders parties to the Credit Agreement dated as of August 13, 2003 among The Washington Post Company, presently known as WP Company, LLC, said Lenders, Citibank, N.A., as Agent for said Lenders WP Company LLC (formerly known as The Washington Post Company) - -------------------------------------------------------------- Ladies and Gentlemen: This opinion is furnished to you pursuant to Section 5.01(j)(v) of the 364-Day Credit Agreement, dated as of August 13, 2003 (the "Credit Agreement"), among The Washington Post Company (the "Initial Borrower"), presently known as WP Company LLC, the Lenders parties thereto, Citibank, N.A., as Agent for said Lenders. Terms defined in the Credit Agreement are used herein as therein defined. I am the General Counsel of The Washington Post Company (formerly known and TWPC, Inc.), the sole stockholder of the Newspaper Subsidiary, and as such I am familiar with the Credit Agreement and the proceedings taken by the Newspaper Subsidiary to authorize the execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Guaranty. For purposes of this opinion, I have examined: (1) The Credit Agreement. (2) The documents furnished by the Newspaper Subsidiary pursuant to Section 5.01(j) of the Credit Agreement, including the Subsidiary Guaranty. (3) The Certificate of Formation and Certificate of Conversion of the Newspaper Subsidiary and all amendments thereto (the "Certificates"). (4) The limited liability company agreement of the Newspaper Subsidiary and all amendments thereto (the "LLC Agreement"). (5) A certificate of the Secretary of State of Delaware, dated ________ __, 2003, attesting to the continued existence and good standing of the Newspaper Subsidiary in that State. In addition, I have examined the originals, or copies certified to my satisfaction, of such other records of the Newspaper Subsidiary, certificates of public officials and of officers
of the Newspaper Subsidiary, and agreements, instruments and other documents, as I have deemed necessary as a basis for the opinions expressed below. As to questions of fact material to such opinions, I have, when relevant facts were not independently established by me, relied upon certificates of the Newspaper Subsidiary or its officers or of public officials. I have assumed the due execution and delivery, pursuant to due authorization, of the Credit Agreement by the Initial Lenders and the Agent. My opinions expressed below are limited to the law of the State of New York, the Limited Liability Company Act of the State of Delaware and the Federal law of the United States of America. Based upon the foregoing and upon such investigation as I have deemed necessary, I am of the following opinion: 1. The Newspaper Subsidiary is a limited liability company validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware. 2. The execution, delivery and performance by the Newspaper Subsidiary of the Subsidiary Guaranty are within the Newspaper Subsidiary's powers, and have been duly authorized by all necessary action, and do not contravene (i) the Certificates or LLC Agreement or (ii) any law, rule or regulation applicable to the Newspaper Subsidiary (including, without limitation, Regulation X of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System) or (iii) to the best of my knowledge after appropriate inquiry, (x) any contractual restriction or (y) any legal restriction contained in orders, writs, judgments, awards, injunctions or decrees applicable to the Newspaper Subsidiary or its assets, in each case that affects or purports to affect the Newspaper Subsidiary's obligations under the Subsidiary Guaranty. The Subsidiary Guaranty delivered on the date hereof has been duly executed and delivered on behalf of the Newspaper Subsidiary. 3. No authorization, approval or other action by, and no notice to or filing with, any United States Federal, New York or, to the extent required under the Limited Liability Company Act of the State of Delaware, Delaware governmental authority or regulatory body is required for the due execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower of the Subsidiary Guaranty. 4. The Subsidiary Guaranty is a legal, valid and binding obligation of the Newspaper Subsidiary enforceable against the Newspaper Subsidiary in accordance with its terms. 5. To the best of my knowledge after appropriate inquiry, there are no pending or overtly threatened actions or proceedings against the Newspaper Subsidiary before any court, governmental agency or arbitrator that purport to affect the legality, validity, binding effect or enforceability of the Subsidiary Guaranty. The opinions set forth above are subject to the following qualifications: (a) My opinion in paragraph 4 above as to enforceability is subject to the effect of any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency (including, without limitation, all laws 2
relating to fraudulent transfers), reorganization, moratorium or similar law affecting creditors' rights generally. (b) My opinion in paragraph 4 above as to enforceability is subject to the effect of general principles of equity, including, without limitation, concepts of materiality, reasonableness, good faith and fair dealing (regardless of whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law). (c) Insofar as provisions contained in the Subsidiary Guaranty provide for indemnification, the enforceability thereof may be limited by public policy considerations. (d) I express no opinion as to the effect of the law of any jurisdiction other than the State of New York wherein any Lender may be located or wherein enforcement of the Subsidiary Guaranty may be sought that limits the rates of interest legally chargeable or collectible. Very truly yours, 3
EXHIBIT G - FORM OF NEW BORROWER ASSIGNMENT ASSIGNMENT AND ASSUMPTION AGREEMENT (this "Agreement"), dated as of /o/, 2003, between WP COMPANY LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (the "Newspaper Subsidiary"), and THE WASHINGTON POST COMPANY (formerly known as TWPC, Inc.), a Delaware corporation (the "New Borrower"). WHEREAS, reference is made to the 364-Day Credit Agreement (the "Credit Agreement") dated as of August 13, 2003, among the Newspaper Subsidiary (then known as The Washington Post Company), as Borrower; Bank One, NA, The Bank of New York, Citibank, N.A., JPMorgan Chase Bank, Riggs Bank NA, SunTrust Bank and Wachovia Bank, National Association; WHEREAS, as contemplated by Section 5.01(j) of the Credit Agreement, the Newspaper Subsidiary wishes to assign to the New Borrower, and the New Borrower wishes to assume from the Newspaper Subsidiary, all of the Newspaper Subsidiary's rights and obligations under the Credit Agreement; WHEREAS, simultaneously with the execution and delivery of this Agreement, the parties hereto have caused to be delivered to the Agent the documents referred to in Section 5.01(j) of the Credit Agreement. NOW, THEREFORE, for consideration of the premises and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, and as contemplated by the Credit Agreement, the parties agree as follows: SECTION 1. Defined Terms. All capitalized terms used and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the Credit Agreement. SECTION 2. Assignment and Assumption. The Newspaper Subsidiary hereby assigns to the New Borrower, and the New Borrower hereby assumes from the Newspaper Subsidiary, effective as of the date of this Agreement, all of the Newspaper Subsidiary's right, title and interest in and to, and all of its duties, obligations and liabilities under, the Credit Agreement. From and after the date of this Agreement, (i) the Credit Agreement shall be binding on and inure to the benefit of the New Borrower as if the New Borrower were the Borrower under the Credit Agreement and (ii) the Newspaper Subsidiary shall be released from its right, title and interest in and to, and all of its duties, obligations and liabilities under, the Credit Agreement. SECTION 3. Performance. The New Borrower hereby agrees to faithfully perform all of the duties imposed upon the Borrower under the Credit Agreement and to comply with all of the covenants therein contained.
SECTION 4. Subsidiary Guaranty. Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to release the Newspaper Subsidiary from its duties, obligations and liabilities under the Subsidiary Guaranty. SECTION 5. Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts by facsimile signature, each of which shall be deemed an original and all of which shall, taken together, be considered one and the same agreement. SECTION 6. New York Law. This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York, without regard to its principles of conflicts of laws. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed as of the day and year first above written. WP COMPANY LLC, by: --------------------------- Name: Title: THE WASHINGTON POST COMPANY (formerly known as TWPC, Inc.), by: --------------------------- Name: Title: 2

Exhibit 4.3 CONSENT AND AMENDMENT NO. 1 TO THE 5-YEAR CREDIT AGREEMENT Dated as of August 13, 2003 CONSENT AND AMENDMENT NO. 1 TO THE 5-YEAR CREDIT AGREEMENT (this "Amendment") among THE WASHINGTON POST COMPANY, a Delaware corporation (the "Borrower"), the banks, financial institutions and other institutional lenders parties to the Credit Agreement referred to below (collectively, the "Lenders") and CITIBANK, N.A., as agent (the "Agent") for the Lenders. PRELIMINARY STATEMENTS: (1) The Borrower, the Lenders and the Agent have entered into a 5-Year Credit Agreement dated as of August 14, 2002 (the "Credit Agreement"). Capitalized terms not otherwise defined in this Amendment have the same meanings as specified in the Credit Agreement. (2) The Borrower has proposed to undertake an internal restructuring pursuant to which the Borrower will merge with a wholly owned Subsidiary of a newly formed corporate parent of the Borrower and transfer its assets and liabilities, other than the assets and liabilities relating to the Borrower's newspaper publishing business, to such new corporate parent (the "Restructuring"). As a part of the Restructuring, the new corporate parent (the "New Borrower") and the Borrower will enter into an assignment and assumption agreement whereby the New Borrower will become the "Borrower" under the Credit Agreement. The Borrower has requested that the Required Lenders (x) consent to the Restructuring and the assignment and assumption agreement described above, and (y) agree to amend the Credit Agreement as hereinafter set forth. (3) The Required Lenders are, on the terms and conditions stated below, willing to grant the request of the Borrower and the Borrower and the Required Lenders have agreed to amend the Credit Agreement as hereinafter set forth. SECTION 1. Consent to Restructuring. Effective as of the date hereof and subject to the satisfaction of the conditions precedent set forth in Section 3, the Required Lenders hereby consent to the Restructuring and to the assignment and assumption of the rights and obligations of the Borrower under the Credit Agreement as described above. SECTION 2. Amendments to Credit Agreement. The Credit Agreement is, effective as of the date hereof and subject to the satisfaction of the conditions precedent set forth in Section 3, hereby amended as follows: (a) Section 1.01 is amended by adding in appropriate alphabetical order the following definitions: "Borrower" has the meaning specified in the recital or parties to this Agreement, provided that upon the completion of the Restructuring and the
satisfaction of the conditions set forth in Section 5.01(j), the Borrower shall be the New Borrower. "Loan Document" means this Agreement, the Notes and, after the Restructuring, the Subsidiary Guaranty and the New Borrower Assignment. "Loan Party" means the Borrower and, so long as the Subsidiary Guaranty is in effect, the Subsidiary Guarantor. "New Borrower" means, upon the completion of the Restructuring, the new parent holding company that is the corporate parent of the Newspaper Subsidiary. "New Borrower Assignment" has the meaning specified in Section 5.01(j). "Newspaper Subsidiary" has the meaning specified in the definition of "Restructuring". "Restructuring" means an internal restructuring of the Borrower pursuant to which the Borrower merges with a wholly owned Subsidiary of the New Borrower and transfers its assets and liabilities, other than the newspaper publishing business, to the New Borrower. Thereafter the Borrower shall be a wholly owned subsidiary of the New Borrower and shall be referred to as the "Newspaper Subsidiary". "Subsidiary Guaranty" has the meaning specified in Section 5.01(j). (b) The definition of "Significant Subsidiary" in Section 1.01 is amended by adding to the end thereof the phrase "and shall include, so long as the Subsidiary Guaranty is in effect, the Newspaper Subsidiary". (c) Section 3.02(a) is amended by deleting the phrase "contained in Section 4.01" and substituting therefor the phrase "contained in Section 4.01 and, so long as the Subsidiary Guaranty is in effect, in Section 6 of the Subsidiary Guaranty". (d) Section 3.03(a) is amended by deleting the phrase "contained in Section 4.01" and substituting therefor the phrase "contained in Section 4.01 and, so long as the Subsidiary Guaranty is in effect, in Section 6 of the Subsidiary Guaranty". (e) Section 5.01(d) is amended in full to read as follows: (d) Preservation of Corporate Existence, Etc. Preserve and maintain, and so long as the Newspaper Subsidiary is in effect, cause the Newspaper Subsidiary to preserve and maintain, its corporate or other legal existence, rights (charter and statutory) and franchises if the loss or failure to maintain the same could, individually or in the aggregate, be reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect; provided, however, that the Borrower and the Subsidiary Guarantor may consummate any merger,
consolidation or other transaction permitted under Section 5.02(b), including the Restructuring. (f) Section 5.01 is amended by adding to the end thereof a new subsection (j) to read as follows: (j) Restructuring. Deliver to the Agent not later than five (5) Business Days after the completion of the Restructuring, in sufficient copies for each Lender: (i) An assignment and assumption agreement, substantially in the form of Exhibit G hereto (the "New Borrower Assignment"), duly executed by the parties thereto. (ii) Certified copies of the resolutions of the Board of Directors of (x) the New Borrower approving or ratifying the New Borrower Assignment and the assumption by the New Borrower of the obligations of the Borrower under the Credit Agreement and the Notes and (y) the Newspaper Subsidiary approving or ratifying the Subsidiary Guaranty. (iii) A certificate of the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of each of the New Borrower and the Newspaper Subsidiary certifying the names and true signatures of the officers of such Loan Party authorized to sign each Loan Document to which it is a party and the other documents to be delivered by it hereunder. (iv) A guaranty in substantially the form of Exhibit F hereto (as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the "Subsidiary Guaranty"), duly executed by the Newspaper Subsidiary. (v) Favorable opinions of in-house counsel for each of the New Borrower and the Newspaper Subsidiary, substantially in the forms of Exhibits E-2 and E-3 hereto, respectively. (g) Section 5.02(b) is amended in full to read as follows: (b) Mergers, Etc. Merge or consolidate with or into, or convey, transfer, lease or otherwise dispose of (whether in one transaction or in a series of transactions) all or substantially all of its assets (whether now owned or hereafter acquired) to, any Person, or so long as the Subsidiary Guaranty is in effect, permit the Newspaper Subsidiary to do any of the foregoing, provided that the Borrower and the Newspaper Subsidiary may (i) merge or consolidate with any other Person so long as the Borrower or the Newspaper Subsidiary, as the case may be, is the surviving entity and (ii) consummate the Restructuring and provided further that no Default shall have occurred and be continuing at the time of such proposed transaction or would result therefrom. (h) Section 6.01(b) is amended in full to read as follows:
(b) Any representation or warranty made by any Loan Party in any Loan Document or by any Loan Party (or any of its officers) in connection with any Loan Document shall prove to have been incorrect in any material respect when made; or (i) Section 8.06 is amended by adding to the end thereof a new proviso to read as follows: ; provided that upon completion of the Restructuring, the Borrower's assignment to the New Borrower of the Borrower's rights hereunder, and the New Borrower's assumption thereof, shall not require the prior written consent of the Lenders, and after such assignment and assumption is effective (i) this Agreement shall be binding on and inure to the benefit of the New Borrower and (ii) the Newspaper Subsidiary shall be released from its rights and obligations under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents other than the Subsidiary Guaranty. (j) Section 8.08 is amended by adding to the end thereof a new sentence to read as follows: Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, each Loan Party, the Agent, each Lender and Citigroup Global Markets Inc. (and each employee, representative or other agent of each of the foregoing parties) may disclose to any and all Persons, without limitation of any kind, the U.S. tax treatment and tax structure of the transactions contemplated hereby and all materials of any kind (including opinions or other tax analyses) that are provided to any of the foregoing parties relating to such U.S. tax treatment and tax structure, except that the tax treatment and tax structure shall not include the identity of any existing or future party (or any Affiliate of such party) to this Agreement. (k) A new Section 8.13 is added to read as follows: SECTION 8.13. Amendments to the Subsidiary Guaranty. The Agent shall not consent to any amendment or waiver of any provision of the Subsidiary Guaranty, nor consent to any departure by the Newspaper Subsidiary therefrom, without the prior consent of the Required Lenders, and then such consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the specific purpose for which given; provided, however, that, without the prior consent of all the Lenders, the Agent shall not consent to any amendment or waiver of the provisions of Section 1 of the Subsidiary Guaranty which would reduce or limit the scope of the obligations under or in respect of the Credit Agreement which are being guaranteed by the Newspaper Subsidiary under the Subsidiary Guaranty. This Section 8.13 may not be amended unless such amendment is in writing and is signed by all the Lenders. (l) Exhibit E is renamed "Exhibit E-1" and new Exhibits E-2, E-3, F and G are added in the forms attached as Exhibits E-2, E-3, F and G to this Amendment. SECTION 3. Conditions of Effectiveness. This Amendment shall become effective as of the date first above written when, and only when, on or before September 5, 2003,
the Agent shall have received counterparts of this Amendment executed by the Borrower and the Required Lenders or, as to any of the Lenders, advice satisfactory to the Agent that such Lender has executed this Amendment. The effectiveness of this Amendment is conditioned upon the accuracy of the factual matters described herein. This Amendment is subject to the provisions of Section 8.01 of the Credit Agreement. SECTION 4. Representations and Warranties of the Borrower. The Borrower represents and warrants as follows: (a) The Borrower is a corporation duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction indicated in the recital of parties to this Amendment. (b) The execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower of this Amendment and the Credit Agreement, as amended hereby, are within the Borrower's corporate powers, have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action, and do not contravene (i) the Borrower's charter or by-laws or (ii) law or any contractual restriction binding on or affecting the Borrower. (c) No authorization or approval or other action by, and no notice to or filing with, any governmental authority or regulatory body or any other third party is required for the due execution, delivery or performance by the Borrower of this Amendment or the Credit Agreement, as amended hereby. (d) This Amendment has been duly executed and delivered by the Borrower. This Amendment and the Credit Agreement, as amended hereby, are legal, valid and binding obligations of the Borrower, enforceable against the Borrower in accordance with their respective terms. (e) There is no pending or threatened action, suit, investigation, litigation or proceeding affecting the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries before any court, governmental agency or arbitrator that purports to affect the legality, validity or enforceability of this Amendment or the Credit Agreement. (f) No Default has occurred and is continuing. SECTION 5. Reference to and Effect on the Credit Agreement and the Notes. (a) On and after the effectiveness of this Amendment, each reference in the Credit Agreement to "this Agreement", "hereunder", "hereof" or words of like import referring to the Credit Agreement, and each reference in the Notes to "the Credit Agreement", "thereunder", "thereof" or words of like import referring to the Credit Agreement, shall mean and be a reference to the Credit Agreement, as amended by this Amendment. (b) The Credit Agreement and the Notes, as specifically amended by this Amendment, are and shall continue to be in full force and effect and are hereby in all respects ratified and confirmed.
(c) The execution, delivery and effectiveness of this Amendment shall not, except as expressly provided herein, operate as a waiver of any right, power or remedy of any Lender or the Agent under the Credit Agreement, nor constitute a waiver of any provision of the Credit Agreement. SECTION 6. Costs and Expenses. The Borrower agrees to pay on demand all costs and expenses of the Agent in connection with the preparation, execution, delivery and administration, modification and amendment of this Amendment and the other instruments and documents to be delivered hereunder (including, without limitation, the reasonable fees and expenses of counsel for the Agent) in accordance with the terms of Section 8.04(a) of the Credit Agreement. SECTION 7. Execution in Counterparts. This Amendment may be executed in any number of counterparts and by different parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute but one and the same agreement. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page to this Amendment by telecopier shall be deemed equivalent to delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Amendment. SECTION 8. Governing Law. This Amendment shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Amendment to be executed by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized, as of the date first above written. THE WASHINGTON POST COMPANY By /s/ Daniel J. Lynch ------------------------ Title: Treasurer CITIBANK, N.A. as Agent and as a Lender By /s/ Julio Ojea Quintana ------------------------ Title: Director WACHOVIA BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION By /s/ Barbara K. Angel -------------------------- Title: Senior Vice President
SUNTRUST BANK By /s/ Kip Hurd -------------------------- Title: Vice President BANK ONE, NA By /s/Matthew J. Reilly ------------------------- Title: Director JPMORGAN CHASE BANK By /s/ Peter J. D'Agostino ------------------------- Title: Vice President/Team Leader THE BANK OF NEW YORK By /s/ John C. Lambert -------------------------- Title: Senior Vice President RIGGS BANK N.A. By /s/ Douglas H. Klamfoth -------------------------- Title: Vice President
THE NORTHERN TRUST COMPANY By /s/ Alfred Armengol ------------------------- Title: Officer
EXHIBIT E-2 - FORM OF OPINION OF COUNSEL FOR THE NEW BORROWER [Date] To each of the Lenders parties to the 5-Year Credit Agreement dated as of August 14, 2002 among The Washington Post Company, presently known as WP Company LLC, said Lenders, Citibank, N.A., as Agent for said Lenders THE WASHINGTON POST COMPANY (FORMERLY KNOWN AS TWPC, INC.) Ladies and Gentlemen: This opinion is furnished to you pursuant to Section 5.01(j)(v) of the 5-Year Credit Agreement, dated as of August 14, 2002 (as amended to date, the "Credit Agreement"), among The Washington Post Company, presently known as WP Company LLC (the "Initial Borrower"), the Lenders parties thereto, Citibank, N.A., as Agent for said Lenders. Terms defined in the Credit Agreement are used herein as therein defined. I am the General Counsel of the New Borrower and as such I am familiar with the Credit Agreement and the corporate proceedings taken by the New Borrower to authorize the assumption by the New Borrower of the rights and obligations of the Initial Borrower under the Credit Agreement. For purposes of this opinion, I have examined: (1) The Credit Agreement. (2) The documents furnished by the New Borrower pursuant to Section 5.01(j) of the Credit Agreement, including the New Borrower Assignment. (3) The Certificate of Incorporation of the New Borrower and all amendments thereto (the "Charter"). (4) The by-laws of the New Borrower and all amendments thereto (the "By-laws"). (5) A certificate of the Secretary of State of Delaware, dated ________ __, 2003, attesting to the continued corporate existence and good standing of the New Borrower in that State.
In addition, I have examined the originals, or copies certified to my satisfaction, of such other corporate records of the New Borrower, certificates of public officials and of officers of the New Borrower, and agreements, instruments and other documents, as I have deemed necessary as a basis for the opinions expressed below. As to questions of fact material to such opinions, I have, when relevant facts were not independently established by me, relied upon certificates of the New Borrower or its officers or of public officials. I have assumed the due execution and delivery, pursuant to due authorization, of the Credit Agreement by the Initial Lenders and the Agent. My opinions expressed below are limited to the law of the State of New York, the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware and the Federal law of the United States of America. Based upon the foregoing and upon such investigation as I have deemed necessary, I am of the following opinion: 1. The New Borrower is a corporation validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware. 2. The execution and delivery by the New Borrower of the New Borrower Assignment, and the performance by the New Borrower of its obligations as the "Borrower" under the Credit Agreement and the Notes, and the consummation of the transactions contemplated thereby, are within the New Borrower's corporate powers, and have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action, and do not contravene (i) the Charter or the By-laws or (ii) any law, rule or regulation applicable to the New Borrower (including, without limitation, Regulation X of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System) or (iii) to the best of my knowledge after appropriate inquiry, (x) any contractual restriction or (y) any legal restriction contained in orders, writs, judgments, awards, injunctions or decrees applicable to the New Borrower or its assets, in each case that affects or purports to affect the New Borrower's right to borrow money or the New Borrower's obligations as the "Borrower" under the Credit Agreement or Notes. The New Borrower Assignment delivered on the date hereof has been duly executed and delivered on behalf of the New Borrower. 3. No authorization, approval or other action by, and no notice to or filing with, any United States Federal, New York or, to the extent required under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, Delaware governmental authority or regulatory body is required for the due execution, delivery and performance by the New Borrower of the New Borrower Assignment and the performance by the New Borrower of the Credit Agreement and the Notes. 4. After the execution and delivery of the New Borrower Assignment, the Credit Agreement is, and upon the consummation of any Borrowings, the Notes will be, legal, valid and binding obligations of the New Borrower enforceable against the New Borrower in accordance with their respective terms.
5. To the best of my knowledge after appropriate inquiry, there are no pending or overtly threatened actions or proceedings against the New Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries before any court, governmental agency or arbitrator that purport to affect the legality, validity, binding effect or enforceability of the New Borrower Assignment, the Credit Agreement or any of the Notes or the consummation of the transactions contemplated thereby or that are likely to have a materially adverse effect upon the financial condition or operations of the New Borrower and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole. The opinions set forth above are subject to the following qualifications: (a) My opinion in paragraph 4 above as to enforceability is subject to the effect of any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency (including, without limitation, all laws relating to fraudulent transfers), reorganization, moratorium or similar law affecting creditors' rights generally. (b) My opinion in paragraph 4 above as to enforceability is subject to the effect of general principles of equity, including, without limitation, concepts of materiality, reasonableness, good faith and fair dealing (regardless of whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law). (c) Insofar as provisions contained in the Credit Agreement provide for indemnification, the enforceability thereof may be limited by public policy considerations. (d) I express no opinion as to the effect of the law of any jurisdiction other than the State of New York wherein any Lender may be located or wherein enforcement of the Credit Agreement or the Notes may be sought that limits the rates of interest legally chargeable or collectible. Very truly yours,
EXHIBIT E-3 - FORM OF OPINION OF COUNSEL FOR THE NEWSPAPER SUBSIDIARY [Date] To each of the Lenders parties to the 5-Year Credit Agreement dated as of August 14, 2002 among The Washington Post Company, presently known as WP Company, LLC, said Lenders, Citibank, N.A., as Agent for said Lenders WP COMPANY LLC (FORMERLY KNOWN AS THE WASHINGTON POST COMPANY) Ladies and Gentlemen: This opinion is furnished to you pursuant to Section 5.01(j)(v) of the 5-Year Credit Agreement, dated as of August 14, 2002 (as amended to date, the "Credit Agreement"), among The Washington Post Company (the "Initial Borrower"), presently known as WP Company LLC, the Lenders parties thereto, Citibank, N.A., as Agent for said Lenders. Terms defined in the Credit Agreement are used herein as therein defined. I am the General Counsel of The Washington Post Company (formerly known and TWPC, Inc.), the sole stockholder of the Newspaper Subsidiary, and as such I am familiar with the Credit Agreement and the proceedings taken by the Newspaper Subsidiary to authorize the execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Guaranty. For purposes of this opinion, I have examined: (1) The Credit Agreement. (2) The documents furnished by the Newspaper Subsidiary pursuant to Section 5.01(j) of the Credit Agreement, including the Subsidiary Guaranty. (3) The Certificate of Formation and Certificate of Conversion of the Newspaper Subsidiary and all amendments thereto (the "Certificates"). (4) The limited liability company agreement of the Newspaper Subsidiary and all amendments thereto (the "LLC Agreement"). (5) A certificate of the Secretary of State of Delaware, dated ________ __, 2003, attesting to the continued existence and good standing of the Newspaper Subsidiary in that State. In addition, I have examined the originals, or copies certified to my satisfaction, of such other records of the Newspaper Subsidiary, certificates of public officials and of officers
of the Newspaper Subsidiary, and agreements, instruments and other documents, as I have deemed necessary as a basis for the opinions expressed below. As to questions of fact material to such opinions, I have, when relevant facts were not independently established by me, relied upon certificates of the Newspaper Subsidiary or its officers or of public officials. I have assumed the due execution and delivery, pursuant to due authorization, of the Credit Agreement by the Initial Lenders and the Agent. My opinions expressed below are limited to the law of the State of New York, the Limited Liability Company Act of the State of Delaware and the Federal law of the United States of America. Based upon the foregoing and upon such investigation as I have deemed necessary, I am of the following opinion: 1. The Newspaper Subsidiary is a limited liability company validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware. 2. The execution, delivery and performance by the Newspaper Subsidiary of the Subsidiary Guaranty are within the Newspaper Subsidiary's powers, and have been duly authorized by all necessary action, and do not contravene (i) the Certificates or LLC Agreement or (ii) any law, rule or regulation applicable to the Newspaper Subsidiary (including, without limitation, Regulation X of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System) or (iii) to the best of my knowledge after appropriate inquiry, (x) any contractual restriction or (y) any legal restriction contained in orders, writs, judgments, awards, injunctions or decrees applicable to the Newspaper Subsidiary or its assets, in each case that affects or purports to affect the Newspaper Subsidiary's obligations under the Subsidiary Guaranty. The Subsidiary Guaranty delivered on the date hereof has been duly executed and delivered on behalf of the Newspaper Subsidiary. 3. No authorization, approval or other action by, and no notice to or filing with, any United States Federal, New York or, to the extent required under the Limited Liability Company Act of the State of Delaware, Delaware governmental authority or regulatory body is required for the due execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower of the Subsidiary Guaranty. 4. The Subsidiary Guaranty is a legal, valid and binding obligation of the Newspaper Subsidiary enforceable against the Newspaper Subsidiary in accordance with its terms. 5. To the best of my knowledge after appropriate inquiry, there are no pending or overtly threatened actions or proceedings against the Newspaper Subsidiary before any court, governmental agency or arbitrator that purport to affect the legality, validity, binding effect or enforceability of the Subsidiary Guaranty.
The opinions set forth above are subject to the following qualifications: (a) My opinion in paragraph 4 above as to enforceability is subject to the effect of any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency (including, without limitation, all laws relating to fraudulent transfers), reorganization, moratorium or similar law affecting creditors' rights generally. (b) My opinion in paragraph 4 above as to enforceability is subject to the effect of general principles of equity, including, without limitation, concepts of materiality, reasonableness, good faith and fair dealing (regardless of whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law). (c) Insofar as provisions contained in the Subsidiary Guaranty provide for indemnification, the enforceability thereof may be limited by public policy considerations. (d) I express no opinion as to the effect of the law of any jurisdiction other than the State of New York wherein any Lender may be located or wherein enforcement of the Subsidiary Guaranty may be sought that limits the rates of interest legally chargeable or collectible. Very truly yours,
EXHIBIT G - FORM OF NEW BORROWER ASSIGNMENT ASSIGNMENT AND ASSUMPTION AGREEMENT (this "Agreement"), dated as of /o/, 2003, between WP COMPANY LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (the "Newspaper Subsidiary"), and THE WASHINGTON POST COMPANY (formerly known as TWPC, Inc.), a Delaware corporation (the "New Borrower"). WHEREAS, reference is made to the 5-Year Credit Agreement (as amended to date, the "Credit Agreement") dated as of August 14, 2002, among the Newspaper Subsidiary (then known as The Washington Post Company), as Borrower; Bank One, NA, The Bank of New York, Citibank, N.A., JPMorgan Chase Bank, Riggs Bank NA, SunTrust Bank, Wachovia Bank, National Association and The Northern Trust Company; WHEREAS, as contemplated by Section 5.01(j) of the Credit Agreement, the Newspaper Subsidiary wishes to assign to the New Borrower, and the New Borrower wishes to assume from the Newspaper Subsidiary, all of the Newspaper Subsidiary's rights and obligations under the Credit Agreement; WHEREAS, simultaneously with the execution and delivery of this Agreement, the parties hereto have caused to be delivered to the Agent the documents referred to in Section 5.01(j) of the Credit Agreement. NOW, THEREFORE, for consideration of the premises and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, and as contemplated by the Credit Agreement, the parties agree as follows: SECTION 1. Defined Terms. All capitalized terms used and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the Credit Agreement. SECTION 2. Assignment and Assumption. The Newspaper Subsidiary hereby assigns to the New Borrower, and the New Borrower hereby assumes from the Newspaper Subsidiary, effective as of the date of this Agreement, all of the Newspaper Subsidiary's right, title and interest in and to, and all of its duties, obligations and liabilities under, the Credit Agreement. From and after the date of this Agreement, (i) the Credit Agreement shall be binding on and inure to the benefit of the New Borrower as if the New Borrower were the Borrower under the Credit Agreement and (ii) the Newspaper Subsidiary shall be released from its right, title and interest in and to, and all of its duties, obligations and liabilities under, the Credit Agreement. SECTION 3. Performance. The New Borrower hereby agrees to faithfully perform all of the duties imposed upon the Borrower under the Credit Agreement and to comply with all of the covenants therein contained.
SECTION 4. Subsidiary Guaranty. Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to release the Newspaper Subsidiary from its duties, obligations and liabilities under the Subsidiary Guaranty. SECTION 5. Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts by facsimile signature, each of which shall be deemed an original and all of which shall, taken together, be considered one and the same agreement. SECTION 6. New York Law. This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York, without regard to its principles of conflicts of laws. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed as of the day and year first above written. WP COMPANY LLC, by: -------------------------------------- Name: Title: THE WASHINGTON POST COMPANY (formerly known as TWPC, Inc.), by: ------------------------------------- Name: Title:

Exhibit 99.1 Contact: Rima Calderon For Immediate Release (202) 334-6617 September 23, 2003 THE WASHINGTON POST COMPANY COMPLETES CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING WASHINGTON - The Washington Post Company (NYSE:WPO) announced today that it has completed an internal corporate restructuring. The principal purpose of the restructuring was to separate the company's Washington Post newspaper publishing business into a wholly-owned subsidiary. Prior to this restructuring, the Washington Post newspaper had been run as an operating division of the company. As a result of the restructuring, the shares of the company's Class A Common Stock, Class B Common Stock, and Series A Preferred Stock were automatically converted into identical, newly-issued shares of the new holding company, which has assumed the corporate name of The Washington Post Company. Each class carries the same voting powers, designations, preferences, rights, qualifications, restrictions, and limitations as the class from which it was converted. The share conversion requires no physical exchange of stock certificates, and the stock certificates formerly representing each class of the company's stock now represent the equivalent class of stock of the new holding company. The Class B Common Stock of the holding company continues to be listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol WPO, in the same manner as the Class B Common Stock of the company was listed prior to the Restructuring. The Washington Post newspaper will continue to do business as "The Washington Post." In accordance with Delaware merger law, the restructuring did not require the approval of the company's stockholders.


