FILE:WPO/WPO-8K-20090820155015.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 8 - Other Events
 
The Compensation Discussion and Analysis section of our Proxy Statement, filed on March 25, 2009, states that in 2008, the Company achieved approximately 86.7% of the earnings per share goal of $31.90, as adjusted. In setting that goal, the Compensation Committee established a formula for bonus purposes that included adjustments for certain items, to the extent their amounts varied from those in the 2008 annual budget that was used as the basis for determining the per share goal of $31.90. Specifically, these adjustments included charges related to voluntary incentive retirement programs and foreign exchange gains or losses. In making its final bonus determinations for the named executive officers, the Compensation Committee also exercised its discretion to exclude certain unusual items, in addition to the adjustments included in the formula, from its calculation of the earnings per share goal. The primary adjustments included goodwill and other intangible asset impairments and write-downs, and also excluded gains from the sale of marketable securities. The Compensation Committee adjusted for all these items as they are mostly non-cash (the early retirement programs are funded primarily from the assets of the Company's pension plans) and do not relate to the regular operating results that are customarily considered by the Committee in determining bonus amounts. The exhibit to the Company's Form 8-K filed on February 25, 2009, details these items, as does page 86 of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on February 26, 2009. These items collectively amounted to $19.37 in earnings per share adjustments, or 93% of the total adjustments made of $20.80. The remaining $1.43 in earnings per share adjustments were attributable to the following items:
Additions:
 
 
 
 
 
Deductions:
 
 
 
 
Taking into account all of these adjustments, the Company's diluted earnings per share as adjusted for purposes of the bonus determination was $27.67, compared to diluted earnings per share of $6.87.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


