FILE:WPO/WPO-8K-20101112161136.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers, Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
Item 5.02(b) Departures of Principal Officers and Other Departures of Directors
On November 11, 2010, Melinda French Gates stepped down from the Board of Directors of The Washington Post Company.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01(d) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
WASHINGTONNovember 12, 2010The Washington Post Company (NYSE: WPO) announced that Melinda French Gates has stepped down from the Company's Board of Directors. The Company's board now has 11 members.
Donald E. Graham, chairman and chief executive officer of The Washington Post Company said: "With her knowledge of technology, education and media, Melinda Gates has been a uniquely wonderful board member, taking time out of one of the world's busiest and most impressive lives to help our Company. We are sad at losing her from the board, but will continue to watch the Gates Foundation's work with the highest admiration."
"It's been a true honor to serve on the board for the last six years," said Melinda French Gates. "I'm particularly grateful to Don Graham and my fellow board members for the opportunity to have worked with such gifted and committed individuals."
Gates continued: "The mission of The Washington Post Company remains as vital today as at any time in its history. Great newspapers like The Washington Post are critical to staying informed about developments in our increasingly connected world. I've also been impressed with The Washington Post Company's work with Kaplan, whose new approaches to education are allowing students opportunities that would otherwise not be possible."
Press Contact:
Rima Calderon
(202) 334-6617
calderonr@washpost.com


