FILE:WPO/WPO-8K-20100929183757.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 8  Other Events
 
On September 27, 2010, Kaplan Higher Education announced a new program entitled the "Kaplan Commitment," which is expected to be operational by the end of 2010. Under this program, students of Kaplan University, Kaplan College and other Kaplan Higher Education schools may enroll in classes for several weeks and assess whether their educational experience meets their needs and expectations before incurring a financial obligation. Kaplan will also conduct academic assessments to help determine whether students are likely to be successful in their chosen course of study. Students who choose to withdraw from the program during this time frame or students who do not pass the academic evaluation will not have to pay for the coursework.
This program is designed to benefit students and will likely have a significant impact on the future operations of Kaplan Higher Education, including student enrollment and retention and the associated tuition revenues.
 
Exhibit 99.1 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Exhibit Index
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
CHICAGO, September 27, 2010Kaplan Higher Education today unveiled its "Kaplan Commitment" program, which will allow prospective students to attend classes for an introductory period worry free, without paying tuition.
Under the new program, students of Kaplan University, Kaplan College or other Kaplan Higher Education schools enroll in classes for several weeks and assess whether the Kaplan coursework meets their educational needs before making a financial commitment. Kaplan will also conduct academic assessments to help determine whether students are likely to be successful in their chosen course of study.
Students who choose to withdraw from the program during this time frame or students who do not pass the academic evaluation will not have to pay for the coursework, and the U.S. Department of Education will not be obligated to make loans or provide other financial assistance. The Kaplan Commitment will help add a new level of stability and predictability to the complicated process of higher education.
"This innovative program reinforces Kaplan's genuine commitment to students, ensuring that they make an informed, educated decision when they enroll in Kaplan programs," said Jeffrey J. Conlon, chief executive officer of Kaplan Higher Education. "Kaplan wants its students to be completely confident that the choice to pursue higher education is the right one."
The new program will be operational by the end of the year, following appropriate regulatory and accreditation review.
The unique program benefits students and the federal government:
 
 
About Kaplan Higher Education
Kaplan Higher Education serves more than 112,000 students through 70-plus campus-based schools and online operations across the United States. Its online institutions include Kaplan University and Concord Law School of Kaplan University. Kaplan Higher Education schools offer a spectrum of academic opportunities, from certificates and diplomas to graduate and professional degrees, including a juris doctor degree. Kaplan Higher Education is part of Kaplan, Inc., a leading international provider of educational and career services for individuals,
schools and businesses. Kaplan serves students of all ages through a wide array of offerings including higher education, test preparation, professional training and programs for kids in grades K through 12. Kaplan, Inc., is a subsidiary of The Washington Post Company (NYSE: WPO), and its largest and fastest-growing division. For more information, visit www.portal.kaplan.edu.
Press Contact:
Ron Iori
312.385.1215
313.529.2446
riori@kaplan.edu


