FILE:WPO/WPO-8K-20111027155434.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b) On October 27, 2011, The Washington Post Company announced that Vice Chairman Boisfeuillet Jones, Jr., will leave the Company at the end of 2011.
 
Exhibit 99.1 The Washington Post Company Press Release Dated October 27, 2011.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Exhibit Index
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
WASHINGTONOctober 27, 2011The Washington Post Company (NYSE: WPO) announced today that Boisfeuillet Jones, Jr., will leave the Company at the end of the year. In early 2012, he will become president and chief executive officer of MacNeil/Lehrer Productions, producers of the
PBS NEWSHOUR.
Donald E. Graham, chairman and chief executive officer of The Washington Post Company, said, "If I made a list of the greatest contributors to the Post over the last 30 years, Bo Jones would be right up there with Ben Bradlee and Len Downie. Bo won crucial lawsuits for the paper and kept us out of many more; he was a wise and resourceful publisher at a critical time; and his values, character and integrity epitomize what's best in our business."
Graham continued, "We will miss Bo, but I'm glad that if he is leaving us, he'll be going to one of the classiest organizations in journalism."
Jones said, "It's been a truly great privilege to work at the Post for Don Graham and with so many talented, dedicated people."
Jones joined The Washington Post newspaper in 1980 as vice president and counsel. In 1995, he became president and general manager, assuming responsibility for the business side of the newspaper. In January 2000, he was named associate publisher, assuming responsibility of the Post on a day-to-day basis. In September 2000, he succeeded Donald E. Graham as publisher and chief executive officer. He was named vice chairman of The Washington Post Company and chairman of The Washington Post in February 2008.
 


