FILE:WPO/WPO-8K-20110120144243.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 5  Corporate Governance and Management
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers, Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
On January 20, 2011, the Company announced that lead Director Warren E. Buffett will not stand for re-election at the Company's 2011 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. Mr. Buffett will continue to serve until the expiration of his current term on May 12, 2011.
Section 8  Other Events
Item 8.01 Other Events
On January 20, 2011, The Washington Post Company issued the press release attached as Exhibit 99.1.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
WASHINGTONJanuary 20, 2011The Washington Post Company (NYSE: WPO) announced today that Warren E. Buffett, Chairman of Berkshire Hathaway, Inc., will not be a candidate for re-election to its board of directors. Buffett, who has served on the board since 1974 (with a break of eight years when he became a director of Capital Cities), will continue to serve until the expiration of his current term in May.
"For most of the last 37 years, we've been privileged to have on our board perhaps the best adviser any company could have had throughout that period," said Donald E. Graham, chairman and chief executive officer of The Washington Post Company.
"Warren's influence has been pervasive, from major corporate policies to the menu at board lunches," Graham said. "Only our cholesterol levels will be better going forward."
"Warren has encouraged us to continue to consult him on Company matters and with the encouragement of our board, calls to the 402 area code will not be decreasing."
Buffett added, "I've loved The Washington Post since I delivered almost 500,000 copies of it as a youth in Washington. That love for the product, the Company and the management continues unabated today. I will always be available to help management in any way they request. It's been a great 37 years."
 


