ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS This discussion makes reference to the Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Notes) of Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated and should be read in conjunction with such statements and notes. CORPORATE STRUCTURE We are a holding company and, as such, have no operations of our own. We have four principal direct wholly owned subsidiaries: Public Service Electric and Gas Company (PSE&G), PSEG Power LLC (Power), PSEG Energy Holdings Inc. (Energy Holdings) and PSEG Services Corporation (Services). PSE&G is an operating public utility company engaged principally in the transmission, distribution and sale of electric energy and gas service in New Jersey. On August 21, 2000, pursuant to the terms of the Final Order issued by the New Jersey Board of Public Utilities (BPU), PSE&G transferred its generation related assets and liabilities and its wholesale power contracts to Power and its subsidiaries in exchange for a promissory note in an amount equal to the total purchase price of $2.786 billion. Power paid the promissory note on January 31, 2001 at which time the transferred assets were released from the lien of PSE&Gs First and Refunding Mortgage. PSE&G continues to own and operate its regulated electric and gas transmission and distribution business. A bankruptcy remote subsidiary of PSE&G, PSE&G Transition Funding LLC, issued $2.525 billion of securitization bonds in January of 2001 in partial recovery of PSE&Gs stranded cost resulting from New Jersey deregulation and restructuring. An additional $540 million of PSE&Gs stranded costs is being recovered from its customers over a four year transition period ending July 31, 2003 through a Market Transition Charge (MTC). Power was formed in June 1999 to acquire, own and operate the electric generation related assets of PSE&G pursuant to the Final Order issued by the BPU under the New Jersey Energy Master Plan (Energy Master Plan Proceedings) and the New Jersey Electric Discount and Energy Competition Act (Energy Competition Act). Power has three principal direct wholly owned subsidiaries: PSEG Nuclear LLC (Nuclear), PSEG Fossil LLC (Fossil) and PSEG Energy Resources & Trade LLC (ER&T) and currently operates in two reportable segments, generation and trading. The generation segment of Powers business earns revenues by selling energy on a wholesale basis under contract to power marketers and to load serving entities, and by bidding energy, capacity and ancillary services into the market. The energy trading segment of Powers business earns revenues by trading energy, capacity, fixed transmission rights, fuel and emission allowances in the spot, forward and futures markets. The trading segment also earns revenues through financial transactions, including swaps, options and futures in the electricity and gas markets. Power also has a finance company subsidiary, PSEG Power Capital Investment Co. (Power Capital), which provides certain financing for its other subsidiaries. Energy Holdings participates in three energy related reportable segments through its principal wholly owned subsidiaries: PSEG Global Inc. (Global), which develops, acquires, owns and operates electric generation and distribution facilities; PSEG Resources Inc. (Resources), which provides energy infrastructure financing and invests in energy related financial transactions and manages a diversified portfolio of investments including leveraged leases, operating leases, leveraged buyout (LBO) funds, limited partnerships and marketable securities; and PSEG Energy Technologies Inc. (Energy Technologies), an energy management company that constructs, operates and maintains heating, ventilating and air conditioning (HVAC) systems for, and provides energy related engineering, consulting and mechanical contracting services to, industrial and commercial customers in the Northeastern and Middle Atlantic United States. Energy Holdings also has a finance subsidiary, PSEG Capital Corporation (PSEG Capital), which serves as a financing vehicle for Energy Holdings subsidiaries and borrows on the basis of a minimum net worth maintenance agreement with PSEG. See Liquidity and Capital Resources for further detail. Energy Holdings is also the parent of Enterprise Group Development Corporation (EGDC), a property management business and is conducting a controlled exit from this business. 39 PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISE GROUP INCORPORATED Services was formed in 1999 and provides management and administrative services to us and our subsidiaries. OVERVIEW OF 2001 AND FUTURE OUTLOOK The Energy Competition Act and the related BPU proceedings, including the Final Order and the Energy Master Plan Proceedings, have dramatically reshaped the utility industry in New Jersey and have directly affected how we will conduct business, and therefore, our financial prospects in the future. Deregulation, restructuring, privatization and consolidation are creating opportunities and risks for us and our subsidiaries. We have realigned our organizational structure to address the competitive environment brought about by the deregulation of the electric generation industry in New Jersey and the Eastern U.S and have transitioned from primarily being a regulated New Jersey utility to a operating as a competitive global energy company. We have been engaged in the competitive energy business for a number of years through certain of our unregulated subsidiaries; however, competitive businesses now constitute a much larger portion of our activities. As of December 31, 2001, Power, PSE&G, and Energy Holdings comprised approximately 20%, 51% and 29% of PSEGs consolidated assets and contributed approximately 50%, 30% and 20% of our net income for the year ended December 31, 2001. Our projected earnings contributions for 2002 and 2003 are 50% to 55% from Power, 25% to 30% from Energy Holdings and 20% to 25% from PSE&G. Additionally, we will be more dependent on cash flows generated from our unregulated operations for our capital needs. As the unregulated portion of the business continues to grow, financial risks and rewards will be greater, financial requirements will change and the volatility of earnings and cash flows will increase. Our subsidiaries consist of a portfolio of energy related businesses that together are designed to produce a coherent energy market strategy. Because the nature and risks of these businesses are different, and because they operate in different geographic locations, the combined entity is designed to produce consistent earnings growth in a manner that will mitigate the adverse financial effects of business losses or an economic downturn is any one sector or geographic region. For 2001, we earned $3.70 per share. Our improved earnings for 2001 as compared to 2000 were due primarily to new acquisitions, asset sales and improved operations at Global, new leveraged lease investments at Resources, continued strong performance of our nuclear generating facilities and improved performance of our energy trading operations, which saw an increase in margins from $72 million in 2000 to $140 million in 2001. These improvements more than offset the effects of comparatively unfavorable weather conditions, two BPU mandated 2% rate reductions, effective in February 2001 and August 2001, and the effects of the securitization transaction that occurred on January 31, 2001. We estimate a 7% compound annual growth rate in earnings per share over the next five years. Our earnings for 2002 will depend on several factors, including our ability to effectively manage our commitments under contracts to deliver energy, capacity and ancillary services to the various suppliers of BGS to New Jerseys utilities and our ability to minimize the effects, including potential asset impairments, brought about by the economic, political and social crisis in Argentina, where we face considerable fiscal and cash uncertainties. For further discussion of our $632 million investment exposure in Argentina, see Note 9. Commitments and Contingent Liabilities. Looking beyond 2002, our earnings will depend on the outcome of future BGS auctions in New Jersey, energy prices, which are currently depressed, in the United States markets in which Power and Global participate, the successful operation of our generation stations, PSE&Gs ability to obtain timely and adequate rate relief, regulatory decisions affecting our interests in distribution companies in South America, and the effect of economic conditions in foreign countries in which we invest. PSE&G PSE&G operates under cost based regulation by the BPU for its distribution operations and by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) for its electric transmission operations. As such, the earnings of PSE&G are largely determined by the regulation of its rates. PSE&G is expected to continue to make a steady contribution to earnings in the future as it continues its transmission and distribution and sale of electric energy and gas service in 40 New Jersey. PSE&Gs success will be determined by its ability to maintain system reliability and safety, effectively manage costs and obtain timely and adequate rate relief. The risks from this business are relatively modest and generally relate to the regulatory treatment of the various rate and other issues by the BPU and the FERC. On January 9, 2002 the BPU approved an additional $90 million of gas base rate revenues for PSE&G, simultaneously with other PSE&G rate filings related to underrecovered gas costs which were deferred on its balance sheet. All three rate changes were effective January 9, 2002. Also on January 9, 2002, the BPU approved the transfer of the utilitys gas supply business, including its transportation and storage contracts, to Power. As a result, after April 1, 2002, Power will provide gas supply to PSE&G to serve its Basic Gas Supply Service (BGSS) customers under a Requirements Contract at market prices. Industrial and commercial BGSS customers will be priced under PSE&Gs Market Priced Gas Service (MPGS) and residential BGSS customers will remain under current pricing until April 1, 2004 after which, subject to further BPU approval, those residential gas customers would also move to MPGS service. On February 15, 2002, the BPU announced the successful outcome of the BGS auction. Through the auction, PSE&G contracted for sufficient electricity to serve all of its BGS customers and any difference between the existing tariff rates and the rates set through the auction for the one year contract period beginning August 1, 2002 will be deferred and recovered over future periods as a regulatory asset. POWER Power is focused on a generation market extending from Maine to the Carolinas and the Atlantic Coast to Indiana (Super Region). The risks of Powers business are that the competitive wholesale power prices that it is able to obtain are sufficient to provide a profit and sustain the value of its assets. It is also subject to credit risk of the counterparties to whom it sells energy products, the successful operation of its generating facilities, fluctuations in market prices of energy and imbalances between obligations and available supply. These risks are higher than those for a regulated business. Therefore, they provide the opportunity for greater returns, but they also present the greater possibility of business losses and counterparty credit risk. Power is currently constructing projects which will increase capacity by over 3,500 MW, net of planned retirements. Power currently sells approximately 95% of the output from its generation facilities under bilateral contracts, primarily the BGS contract with PSE&G, and the remaining 5% to customers in the competitive wholesale (spot) market. Within the spot market, Power sells into the energy, capacity and ancillary services markets. Ancillary services include operating reserves and area regulation. Power has entered into one year contracts commencing August 1, 2002 with various direct bidders in the New Jersey BGS Auction, which was approved by the BPU on February 15, 2002. Power believes that its obligations under these contracts are reasonably balanced by its available supply. In addition, we anticipate that Power will continue its strong growth in its energy trading segment. In 2001, the energy trading business realized a gross margin of $140 million and forecasts an improvement for 2002, primarily driven by the transfer of PSE&Gs gas supply business to Power, discussed below. We marked to market energy trading contracts with gains and losses included in earnings. The vast majority of these contracts have terms of less than one year and are valued using market exchange prices and broker quotes. The energy trading business provides the opportunity for greater returns, but it also is more risky than the regulated business, and can be adversely impacted by fluctuating energy market prices and by the credit quality of the counterparties with which it does business. Our trading business utilizes a conservative risk management strategy to minimize exposure to credit risk. For further information, see Accounting Issues, Note 1. Organizationa and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Note 8. Financial Instruments, Energy Trading and Risk Management. ENERGY HOLDINGS Energy Holdings is a major part of our growth strategy. In order to achieve this strategy, Global will focus on generation and distribution investments within targeted high growth regions. Resources will utilize its market access, industry knowledge and transaction structuring capabilities to expand its energy related financial investment 41 PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISE GROUP INCORPORATED portfolio. We are evaluating the future prospects of Energy Technologies business model and its fit in our portfolio given the slower pace of retail deregulation in the markets in which we operate. Resources assets generate cash flow and earnings in the near term, while investments at Global generally have a longer time horizon before achieving expected cash flow and earnings. Also, Resources passive lower risk assets serve to balance the higher risk associated with operating assets at Global and Energy Technologies. Globals more recent activities have been concentrated on developing generation internationally and in acquiring distribution businesses, principally in South America, that have been privatized by the local governments. As Global has grown, its objective has evolved from being a minority or equal partner to seeking to be the majority or sole owner of many of its investments. Globals business depends on the ability to negotiate or obtain favorable prices and terms for the output of its generating facilities nationally and internationally, and to obtain favorable governmental and regulatory treatment for its distribution assets in foreign countries. Global undertakes investments where the expected return is commensurate with the market, regulatory, international and currency risks that are inherent with its investments. Since these risks are priced in the original investment decision, to the extent that market, regulatory international or currency conditions evolve differently than originally forecast, the investment performance of Globals assets will differ form the expected performance. Thus, the expected investment returns from Globals projects are priced to produce relatively high returns to compensate for the high level of risk associated with this business. Global has investment exposure of $632 million in four distribution companies and two generation plants in Argentina. For further discussion of our $632 million investment exposure in Argentina, see Note 9. Commitments and Contingent Liabilities. Resources invests principally in energy related financing transactions, principally leveraged leases. As such, it is designed to produce predictable earnings at reasonable levels with relatively low risk. The modest risks faced by Resources are the credit risk of its counterparties and the tax treatment of its investment structures. Resources earnings and cash flow streams are dependent upon the availability of and its ability to continue to enter into these transactions. Energy Technologies is a business that principally constructs and installs heating, ventilating and air conditioning equipment and related services. It has not produced profitable operations due to the extremely competitive nature of the business and the failure of the retail energy market to develop. The principal risks of this business are to be able to reduce internal costs to become profitable in this market and to obtain revenues to cover the carrying value of its assets. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Our business consists of six reportable segments which are Generation, Energy Trading, PSE&G, Global, Resources and Energy Technologies. The following is a discussion of the major year to year financial statement variances and follows the financial statement presentation as it relates to each of our segments. The presentation of Electric Revenues and Electric Energy Costs includes Powers generation business, the electric transmission and distribution business of PSE&G and the consolidated portions of Globals operations; Gas Revenues and Gas Costs includes the gas distribution business of PSE&G; Trading Revenues and Costs includes Powers energy trading business; and Other Revenues includes Globals unconsolidated operations, Resources and Energy Technologies. Prior to 2001, Energy Technologies had certain electric and gas costs which were included in Electric Energy Costs and Gas Costs, respectively. For a discussion of managements determination of our reportable segments and related disclosures, see Note 14. Financial Reporting by Business Segments. Prior to April 1999, the discussion that follows reports on business conducted under full monopoly regulation of the utility businesses. It must be understood that such businesses have changed due to the deregulation of the electric generation and natural gas commodity sales businesses, the subsequent transfer of the generation business, and the anticipated transfer of the gas supply business from PSE&G to Power. Past results are not an indication of future business prospects or financial results. 42 PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISE GROUP INCORPORATED Earnings (Losses) Year Ended December 31, 2001 2000 1999 (A) (Millions of Dollars) Generation...................... $311 $270 $490 Energy Trading.................. 83 43 23 PSE&G........................... 230 369 131 Resources....................... 64 65 66 Global.......................... 116 40 28 Energy Technologies............. (18) (10) (6) Other (B)....................... (16) (13) (9) Total PSEG................. $770 $764 $723 Contribution to Earnings Per Share (Basic and Diluted) Year Ended December 31, 2001 2000 1999 (A) Generation...................... $1.49 $1.26 $2.23 Energy Trading.................. 0.40 0.20 0.10 PSE&G........................... 1.11 1.71 0.60 Resources....................... 0.31 0.30 0.30 Global.......................... 0.55 0.19 0.13 Energy Technologies............. (0.08) (0.05) (0.03) Other (B)....................... (0.08) (0.06) (0.04) Total PSEG................. $3.70 $3.55 $3.29 (A) Excludes $804 million, net of tax, extraordinary item recorded in 1999. (B) Other activities include amounts applicable to PSEG (parent corporation), Energy Holdings (parent corporation) and EGDC. Losses primarily result from after tax effect of interest on certain financing transactions and certain other administrative and general expenses at parent companies. For the Year Ended December 31, 2001 compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2000 Basic and diluted earnings per share of our common stock (Common Stock) were $3.70 for the year ended December 31, 2001, an increase of $0.15 per share, or 4.2% from the comparable 2000 period, including $0.12 of accretion as a result of our stock repurchase program, discussed in Liquidity and Capital Resources. In addition, our improved earnings for 2001 as compared to 2000 resulted from improved performance from our Energy Trading segment, Globals withdrawal and sale of its interest in the Eagle Point Cogeneration Partnership (Eagle Point), acquisitions and expanded operations at Global, new leveraged lease investments at Resources and continued strong performance of our nuclear facilities. These improvements more than offset the effects of unfavorable weather conditions at PSE&G, two BPU mandated 2% rate reductions effective in February 2001 and August 2001 which reduced generation revenues, and the effects of the securitization transaction that occurred on January 31, 2001. 43 PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISE GROUP INCORPORATED Operating Revenues Electric Electric revenues increased $319 million or 8% in 2001 as compared to 2000 primarily due to the inclusion of $172 million of revenues related to various majority owned acquisitions and plants going into operation at our Global segment in 2001. In addition, revenues from our generation segment increased $108 million in 2001 as compared to 2000 primarily due to an increase of $180 million in BGS revenue for the year ended December 31, 2001 as compared to 2000 which resulted from customers returning to PSE&G in 2001 from third party suppliers (TPS) as wholesale market prices exceeded fixed BGS rates. At December 31, 2001, TPS were serving less than 1% of the customer load traditionally served by PSE&G as compared to the December 31, 2000 level of 10.5%. Partially offsetting this increase was a net $40 million decrease in MTC revenues, relating to two 2% rate reductions offset by a pre tax charge to income related to MTC recovery in 2000. As of December 31, 2001, as required by the Final Order, PSE&G has had rate reductions totaling 9% since August 1, 1999 and will have an additional 4.9% rate reduction effective August 1, 2002, which will be in effect until July 31, 2003. The remaining $39 million of the increase related to the PSE&G segment and was primarily related to increases in electric distribution and appliance service revenue. Gas Distribution In our PSE&G segment, Gas Distribution revenues increased $153 million or 7% in 2001 as compared to 2000 primarily due to higher gas costs experienced in 2001. Customer rates in all classes of business have increased in 2001 to recover a portion of the higher natural gas costs. The commercial and industrial classes fuel recovery rates vary monthly according to the market price of gas. The BPU also approved increases in the fuel component of the residential class rates of 16% in November 2000 and 2% for each month from December 2000 through July 2001. These increased revenues were partially offset by lower sales volumes in the fourth quarter of 2001 than the comparable period in 2000, primarily resulting from warmer weather. Pursuant to a settlement, the BPU issued an order approving a $90 million gas base rate increase effective January 9, 2002. The BPU approved the settlement simultaneously with the implementation of PSE&Gs previously approved Gas Cost Underrecovery Adjustment (GCUA) surcharge to recover its October 31, 2001 gas cost under recovery balance of approximately $130 million over a three year period with interest and also approved PSE&Gs proposal to reduce its 2001/2003 Commodity Charges (formerly Levelized Gas Adjustment Clause (LGAC)) by approximately $140 million. The net impact of simultaneously implementing the above three proceedings for the typical gas residential heating customers is an approximate rate reduction of 2%. Trading Revenues from our energy trading segment decreased by $321 million or 12% for the year ended December 31, 2001 from the comparable periods in 2000, respectively, due to lower energy trading volumes and lower prices as compared to 2000. For information regarding valuation, term, credit and other issues related to Powers energy trading segment, see Accounting Issues, Note 1. Organization and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Note 8. Financial Instruments, Energy Trading and Risk Management of Notes. Other Other revenues increased $169 million or 21% in 2001 as compared to 2000. This increase was due to an increase in revenues at the Global, Resources and Energy Technologies segments of $111 million, $9 million and $50 million, respectively. The increase at Global was primarily realized from the gain of $75 million on the withdrawal and sale of Globals interest in Eagle Point and was partially offset by a loss in equity earnings of $26 million, which was recorded in 2000 and not recorded in 2001, as a result of the withdrawal. In addition, revenues benefited from an increase of $45 million in 44 PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISE GROUP INCORPORATED interest income related to certain loans, notes and approximately $29 million of increased revenues relating primarily to improved earnings of certain non consolidated projects. These increases were partially offset by lower revenues due to a reduction in earnings related to the adverse effect of foreign currency exchange rate movements between the United States dollar and Brazilian Real. The increase at Resources was primarily due to improved revenues of $45 million from higher leveraged lease income from new leveraged lease transactions that was partially offset by lower Net Investment Gains of $37 million. The increase at Energy Technologies was primarily due to increased sales in its mechanical contracting business partially offset by a decrease of energy supply revenues. Operating Expenses Electric Energy Costs Electric Energy Costs increased $159 million or 17% in 2001 as compared to 2000. The increase was primarily due to $85 million of Electric Energy Costs relating to the various majority owned acquisitions and projects going into operation at Global in 2001; higher costs in our generation segment associated with increased load served under the BGS contract due to retail customers returning to PSE&G in 2001 as discussed previously; and higher fuel costs of $73 million for fossil generation from higher natural gas prices in the early part of 2001 and higher gas expense due to increased MMBTU usage. These increases were partially offset by low cost generation from the continued strong performance of our nuclear generation facilities. Gas Costs Gas Costs increased $125 million or 8% in 2001 as compared to 2000 due to higher natural gas prices at our PSE&G segment in the early part of 2001. Under the LGAC in PSE&G, underrecoveries or overrecoveries, together with interest (in the case of net overrecoveries), are deferred and included in operations in the period in which they are reflected in rates. These increases were partially offset by lower costs incurred at Energy Technologies due to the outsourcing of certain supply contracts since June 2000 under its retail gas service agreements. Trading Costs Energy Trading costs decreased $391 million or 15% in 2001 compared to 2000, primarily due to lower energy trading volumes and lower prices. Operation and Maintenance Operation and Maintenance expense increased $280 million or 14% in 2001 as compared to 2000. Contributing to the increase were higher operating expenses relating to various majority owned acquisitions and new plants going into operation at Global in 2001. Additionally, operation and maintenance expenses increased due to planned generation outage work in the first quarter of 2001 and higher expenses relating to projects going into operation during the second quarter of 2000 for our generation segment and the deferral of costs incurred during 2000 in connection with deregulation that PSE&G expects to recover in future rates. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and Amortization expense increased $160 million or 44% in 2001 as compared to 2000. The 2001 increase was due primarily due to $180 million of amortization of the regulatory asset recorded for PSE&Gs stranded costs, which commenced with the issuance of the transition bonds, previously discussed. These increases were partially offset by a reduction in the accrual for the estimated cost of removal in our Generation segment. 45 PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISE GROUP INCORPORATED Taxes Other Than Income Taxes Taxes Other Than Income Taxes decreased $16 million or 9% in 2001 as compared to 2000. This decrease was primarily due to a reduction in the net taxable Transitional Energy Facility Assessment (TEFA) sales and the scheduled phase out of the TEFA. The TEFA was enacted as part of the energy tax reform bill and was scheduled to be phased out by 2003. Recent legislation delayed the phase out until 2007. Interest Expense Interest expense increased $131 million or 23% in 2001 as compared to 2000. The increase was primarily due to increased debt associated with the issuance of $2.525 billion securitization bonds by Transition Funding and the issuance of $1.8 billion of senior notes by Power to finance the generation asset transfer. These increases were offset by a general reduction in the amount of short term and long term debt at PSEG and PSE&G using proceeds from securitization bonds. Interest expense at Energy Holdings increased $53 million primarily from additional borrowings used for equity investments in Global and Resources. Preferred Securities Dividend Requirements of Subsidiaries Preferred Securities Dividend Requirements decreased $22 million or 23% in 2001 as compared to 2000 due to redemption of trust preferred securities. Income Taxes Income Taxes decreased $117 million or 24% in 2001 as compared to 2000. The decrease was primarily due to lower pre tax income and normal adjustments as a result of closing the audit for the 1994 1996 tax years and upon filing our actual tax return for 2000. For the Year Ended December 31, 2000 compared to the Year Ended December 31, 1999 Excluding the $804 million, net of tax, extraordinary charge recorded in 1999, resulting from the deregulation of our generation segment, basic and diluted earnings per share increased $0.26 for the year ended December 31, 2000 as compared to 1999, including $0.08 of accretion as a result of our stock repurchase program. For further discussion, see Note 3. Regulatory Issues and Accounting Impacts of Deregulation of Notes. This increase was primarily due to lower depreciation and amortization resulting from the amortization of the excess depreciation reserve at our PSE&G segment beginning in January 2000 and the lower depreciation resulting from the lower recorded amounts of the generation related assets in our generation segment resulting from the 1999 impairment recorded pursuant to Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 121, "Accounting for the Impairment of Long Lived Assets and for Long Lived Assets to Be Disposed Of" (SFAS 121). Also contributing to the increase were increased sales due to favorable weather conditions in the fourth quarter of 2000 and higher profits realized from our energy trading segment. In addition, better overall performance of our Global segment, which benefited from favorable performance by its domestic generation assets and by its investments made in South America distribution assets in 1999, contributed to the increase. The increase in earnings was partially offset by the 5% electric rate reduction, beginning August 1, 1999 coupled with a charge to income in the third quarter of 2000 related to MTC recovery at our generation segment. Operating Revenues Electric Electric revenues decreased $244 million or 6% in 2000 as compared to 1999 due to a decrease in revenues from our generation segment primarily relating to the 5% rate reduction, which decreased our revenues by approximately $120 million combined with a $115 million deferral of MTC revenues; and reduced retail demand as PSE&G lost retail customers to TPS which amounted to approximately $182 million. See Accounting Issues Accounting for the Effects of Regulation for a discussion of the deferral of MTC revenues. These decreases were partially offset by increased revenues from our PSE&G segment relating to higher transmission and distribution sales. 46 PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISE GROUP INCORPORATED To the extent fuel expense flowed through the Electric Levelized Energy Adjustment Clause (LEAC) through July 31, 1999, the Levelized Gas Adjustment Clause (LGAC), the Societal Benefits Clause (SBC) or the non utility generation market transition charge (NTC) mechanisms, as established by the BPU with respect to PSE&Gs rates, variances in certain revenues and expenses offset and thus had no effect on earnings. On August 1, 1999, the LEAC mechanism was eliminated as a result of the Final Order. This has increased earnings volatility since Power now bears the full risks and rewards of changes in nuclear and fossil generating fuel costs and purchased power costs. See Note 3. Regulatory Issues and Accounting Impacts of Deregulation for a discussion of LEAC, LGAC, SBC, NTC, Remediation Adjustment Clause (RAC) and Demand Side Management (DSM) and their status under the Energy Master Plan Proceedings. Gas Distribution Revenues from our PSE&G segment for gas distribution increased $423 million or 25% in 2000 as compared to 1999 primarily due to increases in natural gas prices being passed along to customers under certain transportation only contracts. Under these contracts, PSE&G is responsible only for delivery of gas to its customers. Such customers are responsible for payment to PSE&G for the cost of the commodity and as PSE&Gs costs for these customers increase, the customers rates will increase. Also contributing to this increase were higher sales resulting from colder weather in the fourth quarter of 2000 as compared to the same period in 1999 and higher rates approved by the BPU to allow PSE&G to recover for increasing natural gas costs. Trading Energy Trading revenues increased $882 million or 48% for the year ended December 31, 2000 from the comparable period in 1999 primarily due to increased energy trading volumes. Other Other revenues increased $107 million or 16% in 2000 as compared to 1999. The increase was due to an increase of $26 million at Resources due to higher leveraged lease income from new leveraged lease investments, and increases in revenue at Energy Technologies due to the addition of revenues from acquisitions of various HVAC companies in 2000 and 1999. These increases were partially offset by a reduction in revenues of $42 million at Global primarily due to a gain on sale of Newark Bay recorded in 1999 as compared to no significant gain on sale of assets in 2000. Operating Expenses Electric Energy Costs Electric Energy Costs increased $38 million or 4% in 2000 as compared to 1999. The increase was primarily due to higher fuel costs in our generation segment and additional costs related to projects at our Global and Energy Technologies segments. Due to the elimination of the LEAC on August 1, 1999, the historical trends can no longer be considered an indication of future Electric Energy Costs. Given the elimination of the LEAC, the lifting of the requirements that electric energy offered for sale in the Pennsylvania New Jersey Maryland Power Pool (PJM) regional pool not exceed the variable cost of producing such energy (capped at $1,000 per megawatt hour), the absence of a PJM price cap in situations involving emergency purchases and the potential for plant outages, price movements could have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations or net cash flows. Gas Costs Gas Costs increased $364 million or 33% in 2000 as compared to 1999 primarily due to the higher prices for natural gas and increased demand for natural gas at our PSE&G segment due to colder weather in the fourth quarter 47 PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISE GROUP INCORPORATED of 2000 as compared to the same period in 1999. This increase was partially offset by the outsourcing of certain supply contracts at Energy Technologies in June 2001, as discussed previously. Due to the operation of the Levelized Gas Adjustment Clause (LGAC) mechanism, variances in gas revenues and costs at PSE&G offset and had no direct effect on earnings. Trading Costs Energy Trading Costs increased $847 million or 47% for the year ended December 31, 2000 from the comparable 1999 period primarily due to increased energy trading volumes. Operation and Maintenance Operation and Maintenance expense increased $81 million or 4% in 2000 as compared to 1999. The increase was primarily due to the addition of $123 million in operating expenses from the HVAC and mechanical service contracting companies acquired by Energy Technologies in 2000 and 1999. The increase was partially offset by the effects of a $55 million pre tax charge to earnings to reduce the carrying value of certain assets at Global and EGDC in 1999. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and Amortization expense decreased $174 million or 32% in 2000 as compared to 1999. The decrease was primarily due to the amortization of the regulatory liability for the excess electric distribution depreciation reserve at PSE&G, which amounted to approximately $125 million as of December 31, 2000. Also contributing to the decrease was lower depreciation resulting from the lower net book value balances of the generation related assets in our generation segment. The generation related asset balances were reduced as of April 1, 1999 as a result of the impairment recorded pursuant to SFAS 121. Taxes Other Than Income Taxes Taxes Other Than Income Taxes, which include TEFA, decreased $14 million or 7% in 2000 as compared to 1999 due to New Jersey Energy tax reform and the five year commencing in January 1999. Effective January 1, 2000, revised rates became effective which reflected two years phase out of the TEFA discussed previously. Interest Expense Interest expense increased $84 million or 17% in 2000 as compared to 1999. The increase was primarily due to interest expense associated with recourse financing activities at Energy Holdings which increased $51 million from additional borrowings incurred as a result of equity investments in distribution and generation facilities and the repayment of non recourse debt. Also contributing to the increase was the interest related to higher levels of short term debt. Income Taxes Income Taxes decreased $73 million or 13% in 2000 as compared to 1999. The decrease is primarily due to a decrease in the foreign tax liability from foreign investments at Global recorded under the equity method. Under such accounting method, Global reflects in revenues its pro rata share of investments net income. Under this accounting method, the foreign income taxes are a component of equity in earnings, thereby distorting the effective tax rate downward. During 1999, there was an increase in state income taxes at Resources totaling $11 million due to the early termination of a leveraged lease. The decrease was also due to lower effective tax rates relating to the amortization of the excess depreciation reserve for electric distribution. 48 PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISE GROUP INCORPORATED LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES The following discussion of our liquidity and capital resources is on a consolidated basis, noting the uses and contributions of our three direct operating subsidiaries in 2001, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings. Our capital requirements and those of our subsidiaries are met and liquidity provided by internally generated cash flow and external financings. PSEG, Power and Energy Holdings from time to time make equity contributions to their respective direct and indirect subsidiaries to provide for part of their capital and cash requirements, generally relating to long term investments. At times, we utilize inter company dividends and inter company loans to satisfy various subsidiary needs and efficiently manage our and our subsidiaries short term cash needs. Any excess funds are invested in accordance with guidelines adopted by our Board of Directors. External funding to meet our needs and the needs of PSE&G, the majority of the requirements of Power and a substantial portion of the requirements of Energy Holdings, is comprised of corporate finance transactions. The debt incurred is the direct obligation of those respective entities. Some of the proceeds of these debt transactions are used by the respective obligor to make equity investments in its subsidiaries. All of our publicly traded debt as well as that of PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings have received investment grade ratings from each of the three major credit rating agencies. The changes in the energy industry and the recent bankruptcy of Enron Corp. are attracting increased attention from the rating agencies which regularly assess business and financial matters. Given the changes in the industry, attention to and scrutiny of our, PSE&Gs, Powers and Energy Holdings performance, capital structure and competitive strategies by rating agencies will likely continue. These changes could affect the bond ratings, cost of capital and market prices of our respective securities. We will continue to evaluate our capital structure, financing requirements, competitive strategies and future capital expenditures to maintain our current credit ratings. The current ratings of securities of PSEG and its subsidiaries are shown below and reflect the respective views of the rating agencies, from whom an explanation of the significance of their ratings may be obtained. There is no assurance that these ratings will continue for any given period of time or that they will not be revised or withdrawn entirely by the rating agencies, if, in their respective judgments, circumstances so warrant. Any downward revision or withdrawal may adversely effect the market price of PSEGs, Energy Holdings Powers and PSE&Gs securities and serve to increase those companies cost of capital. Moodys Standard & Poors Fitch PSEG Extendible Notes Baa2 BBB BBB+ Preferred Securities Baa3 BB+ BBB Commercial Paper P2 A2 Not Rated PSE&G Mortgage Bonds A3 A A Preferred Securities Baa1 BBB A Commercial Paper P2 A2 F1 Power Senior Notes Baa1 BBB BBB+ Energy Holdings Senior Notes Baa3 BBB BBB PSEG Capital Medium Term Notes Baa2 BBB Not Rated Depending on the particular company, external financing may consist of public and private capital market debt and equity transactions, bank revolving credit and term loan facilities, commercial paper and or project financings. Some of these transactions involve special purpose entities. These are corporations, limited liability companies or partnerships formed in accordance with applicable tax, accounting and legal requirements in order to achieve specified beneficial financial advantages, such as favorable tax, legal liability or accounting treatment. 49 PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISE GROUP INCORPORATED The availability and cost of external capital could be affected by each subsidiarys performance as well as by the performance of their respective subsidiaries and affiliates. This could include the degree of structural or regulatory separation between us and our subsidiaries and between PSE&G and its non utility affiliates and the potential impact of affiliate ratings on consolidated and unconsolidated credit quality. Additionally, compliance with applicable financial covenants will depend upon future financial position and levels of earnings and net cash flows, as to which no assurances can be given. Financing for Globals projects and investments is generally provided by non recourse project financing transactions. These consist of loans from banks and other lenders that are typically secured by project and special purpose subsidiary assets and or cash flows. Two of Powers projects currently under construction have similar financing. Non recourse transactions generally impose no obligation on the parent level investor to repay any debt incurred by the project borrower. However, in some cases, certain obligations relating to the investment being financed, including additional equity commitments, are guaranteed by Global, Energy Holdings, and or Power. Further, the consequences of permitting a project level default include loss of any invested equity by the parent. Our debt indentures and credit agreements and those of our subsidiaries contain cross default provisions under which a default by us or by specified subsidiaries involving specified levels of indebtedness in other agreements would result in a default and the potential acceleration of payment under such indentures and credit agreements. For example, a default for a specified amount with respect to any indebtedness of Global and Power, as set forth in various credit agreements, including obligations in non recourse transactions, could cause a cross default in one of our or our subsidiaries credit agreements. Such lenders, or the debt holders under any of our or our subsidiaries indentures, could determine that debt payment obligations may be accelerated as a result of a cross default. These occurrences could severely limit our liquidity and restrict our ability to meet our debt, capital and, in extreme cases, operational cash requirements. Any inability to satisfy required covenants and or borrowing conditions would have a similar impact. This would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and net cash flows, and those of our subsidiaries. In addition, our credit agreements and those of our subsidiaries generally contain provisions under which the lenders could refuse to advance loans in the event of a material adverse change in the borrowers, and as may be relevant, our, Energy Holdings, Powers or PSE&Gs business or financial condition. In the event that we or the lenders in any of our or our subsidiaries credit agreements determine that a material adverse change has occurred, loan funds may not be advanced. Some of these credit agreements also contain maximum debt to equity ratios, minimum cash flow tests and other restrictive covenants and conditions to borrowing. Compliance with applicable financial covenants will depend upon our future financial position and the level of earnings and cash flow, as to which no assurances can be given. As part of our financial planning forecast, we perform stress tests on our financial covenants. These tests include a consideration of the impacts of potential asset impairments, foreign currency fluctuations, and other items. Our current analyses and projections indicate that, even in a worst case scenario with respect to our investments in Argentina and considering other potential events, we will still be able to meet our financial covenants. Our debt indentures and credit agreements and those of our subsidiaries do not contain any "ratings triggers" that would cause an acceleration of the required interest and principal payments in the event of a ratings downgrade. However, in the event of a downgrade we and or our subsidiaries may be subject to increased interest costs on certain bank debt. Also, in connection with its energy trading business, Power must meet certain credit quality standards as are required by counterparties. If Power loses its investment grade credit rating, ER&T would have to provide credit support (letters of credit or cash), which would significantly impact the energy trading business. These same contracts provide reciprocal benefits to Power. Global and Energy Holdings may have to provide collateral for certain of their equity commitments if Energy Holdings ratings should fall below investment grade. This would increase our costs of doing business and limit our ability to successfully conduct our energy trading operations. In addition, our counterparties may require us to meet margin or other security requirements which may include cash payments. Capital resources and investment requirements could be affected by the outcome of proceedings by the BPU pursuant to its Energy Master Plan and Energy Competition Act and the requirements of the 1992 Focused Audit 50 PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISE GROUP INCORPORATED conducted by the BPU, of the impact of our non utility businesses, owned by Energy Holdings, on PSE&G. As a result of the Focused Audit, the BPU ordered that, among other things: (1) We will not permit Energy Holdings investments to exceed 20% of our consolidated assets without prior notice to the BPU; (2) PSE&Gs Board of Directors would provide an annual certification that the business and financing plans of Energy Holdings will not adversely affect PSE&G (3) We will (a) limit debt supported by the minimum net worth maintenance agreement between us and PSEG Capital to $650 million and (b) make a good faith effort to eliminate such support over a six to ten year period from May 1993; and (4) Energy Holdings will pay PSE&G an affiliation fee of up to $2 million a year which is to be used to reduce customer rates. In the Final Order the BPU noted that, due to significant changes in the industry and, in particular, our corporate structure as a result of the Final Order, modifications to or relief from the Focused Audit order might be warranted. PSE&G has notified the BPU that PSEG will eliminate PSEG Capital debt by the end of 2003 and that it believes that the Final Order otherwise supercedes the requirements of the Focused Audit. While we believe that this issue will be satisfactorily resolved, no assurances can be given. In addition, if we were no longer to be exempt under the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 (PUHCA), we and our subsidiaries would be subject to additional regulation by the SEC with respect to financing and investing activities, including the amount and type of non utility investments. We believe that this would not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and net cash flows. Over the next several years, we and our subsidiaries will be required to refinance maturing debt, incur additional debt and provide equity to fund investment activity. Any inability to obtain required additional external capital or to extend or replace maturing debt and or existing agreements at current levels and reasonable interest rates may affect our financial condition, results of operations and net cash flows. We and our subsidiaries have the following credit facilities for various funding purposes and to provide liquidity for our $850 million commercial program and PSE&Gs $900 million commercial paper program. These agreements are with a group of banks and provide for borrowings with maturities of up to one year. The following table summarizes our various facilities as of December 31, 2001. Commercial Maturity Total Primary Amount Paper (Cp) Company Date Facility Purpose Outstanding Outstanding (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS) PSEG 364 day Credit Facility March 2002 $570 CP Support $ $475 5 year Credit Facility March 2002 280 CP Support N/A 5 year Credit Facility December 2002 150 Funding 125 N/A Bilateral Credit Agreement N/A No Limit Funding 153 N/A PSE&G 364 day Credit Facility June 2002 390 CP Support 5 year Credit Facility June 2002 450 CP Support Bilateral Credit Agreement June 2002 60 CP Support Bilateral Credit Agreement N/A No Limit Funding N/A Energy Holdings 364 day Credit Facility May 2002 200 Funding N/A 5 year Credit Facility May 2004 495 Funding 250 N/A Bilateral Credit Agreement N/A 100 Funding 50 N/A Total N/A $578 $475 PSEG As of December 31, 2001, we had repurchased approximately 26.5 million shares of Common Stock, at a cost of approximately $997 million since 1998. The repurchased shares have primarily been 51 PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISE GROUP INCORPORATED held as treasury stock with the balance used for general corporate purposes. Dividend payments on Common Stock were $2.16 per share and totaled approximately $449 million and $464 million for the years ended December 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Our dividend rate has remained constant since 1992 in order to retain additional capital for reinvestment and to reduce the payout ratio as earnings grow. Although we presently believe we will have adequate earnings and cash flow in the future from our subsidiaries to maintain common stock dividends at the current level, earnings and cash flows required to support the dividend will become more volatile as our business continues to change from one that is principally regulated to one that is principally competitive. Future dividends declared will necessarily be dependent upon our future earnings, cash flows, financial requirements, alternate investment opportunities and other factors. We have issued Deferrable Interest Subordinated Debentures in connection with the issuance of tax deductible preferred securities. If payments on these Deferrable Interest Subordinated Debentures are deferred, in accordance with their terms, PSEG may not pay any dividends on its common stock until such default is cured. Currently, there has been no deferral or default. Financial covenants contained in our facilities include the ratio of debt (excluding non recourse project financings and securitization debt and including commercial paper and loans) to total capitalization. At the end of any quarterly financial period such ratio shall not be more than .70 to 1. As of December 31, 2001, the ratio of debt to capitalization was .64 to 1. In June 2001, $300 million of Extendible Notes, Series C matured. In 2001, we invested $400 million in Energy Holdings and expect to make approximately the same contribution in 2002. PSE&G Under its Mortgage, PSE&G may issue new First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds against previous additions and improvements and or retired Mortgage Bonds provided that its ratio of earnings to fixed charges calculated in accordance with its Mortgage is at least 2:1. At December 31, 2001, PSE&Gs Mortgage coverage ratio was 3:1. As of December 31, 2001, the Mortgage would permit up to approximately $1 billion aggregate principal amount of new Mortgage Bonds to be issued against previous additions and improvements. PSE&G will need to obtain BPU authorization to issue any incremental debt financing necessary for its capital program, including refunding of maturing debt and opportunistic refinancing. In January 2002, PSE&G filed a petition with the BPU for authorization to issue $1 billion of long term debt through December 31, 2003. On December 27, 2001, PSE&G filed a shelf registration statement on Form S 3 for the issuance of $1 billion of debt and tax deferred preferred securities, which was declared effective by the SEC in February 2002. 52 PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISE GROUP INCORPORATED On January 31, 2001, $2.525 billion of transition bonds were issued by PSE&G Transition Funding LLC, a bankruptcy remote, wholly owned subsidiary of PSE&G, in eight classes with maturities ranging from 1 year to 15 years. PSE&G also received payment from Power on its $2.786 billion promissory note used to finance the transfer of its generation business to Power. The proceeds from these transactions were used to pay for certain debt issuance and related costs for securitization, retire a portion of PSE&Gs outstanding short term debt, reduce PSE&Gs common equity, loan funds to us and make various short term investments. In March 2001, PSE&G redeemed all of its $150 million of 9.375% Series A cumulative monthly income preferred securities, all of its $75 million of 5.97% preferred stock, $15 million of its 6.75% preferred stock and $52 million of its floating rate notes due December 7, 2002. In June 2001, PSE&G redeemed the remaining $248 million outstanding of floating rate notes due December 7, 2002. In June 2001, PSE&G redeemed all of its $208 million of 8.625% Series A cumulative quarterly income preferred securities. In November 2001, $100 million of PSE&G Mortgage Bonds, Series FF matured. Also in November 2001, PSE&G redeemed $105 million of its variable rate Pollution Control Notes. In December 2001, PSE&G redeemed an additional $19 million of its variable rate Pollution Control Notes. Since 1986, PSE&G has made regular cash payments to us in the form of dividends on outstanding shares of PSE&Gs common stock. PSE&G paid common stock dividends of $112 million and $638 million to us for the years ended December 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively. PSE&G has issued Deferrable Interest Subordinated Debentures in connection with the issuance of tax deductible preferred securities. If payments on those Deferrable Interest Subordinated Debentures are deferred, in accordance with their terms, PSE&G may not pay any dividends on its common or preferred stock until such default is cured. Currently, there has been no deferral or default. Power Powers short term financing needs will be met using our commercial paper program or lines of credit discussed above. As of December 31, 2001, letters of credit were issued in the amount of approximately $100 million. In April 2001, Power issued $500 million of 6.875% Senior Notes due 2006, $800 million of 7.75% Senior Notes due 2011 and $500 million 8.625% Senior Notes due 2031. The net proceeds from the sale of the senior notes were used primarily for the repayment of loans from us. In August 2001, subsidiaries of Power closed on $800 million of non recourse project bank financing for projects in Waterford, Ohio and Lawrenceburg, Indiana. The total combined project cost for Waterford and Lawrenceburg is estimated at $1.2 billion. Powers required estimated equity investment in these projects is approximately $400 million. In connection with these projects, ER&T has entered into a five year tolling agreement pursuant to which it is obligated to purchase the output of these facilities at stated prices. As a result, ER&T will bear the price risk related to the output of these generation facilities which are scheduled to be completed in 2003. In the fourth quarter of 2001, Power issued $124 million in Pollution Control Notes. 53 PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISE GROUP INCORPORATED Energy Holdings As of December 31, 2001, Energy Holdings had two separate senior revolving credit facilities with a syndicate of banks as discussed in the table above. The five year facility permits up to $250 million of letters of credit to be issued of which $57 million are outstanding as of December 31, 2001. Financial covenants contained in these facilities include the ratio of cash flow available for debt service (CFADS) to fixed charges. At the end of any quarterly financial period such ratio shall not be less than 1.50x for the 12 month period then ending. As a condition of borrowing, the pro forma CFADS to fixed charges ratio shall not be less than 1.75x as of the quarterly financial period ending immediately following the first anniversary of each borrowing or letter of credit issuance. CFADS includes, but is not limited to, operating cash before interest and taxes, pre tax cash distributions from all asset liquidations and equity capital contributions from us to the extent not used to fund investing activity. In addition, the ratio of consolidated recourse indebtedness to recourse capitalization, as at the end of any quarterly financial period, shall not be greater than 0.60 to 1.00. This ratio is calculated by dividing the total recourse indebtedness of Energy Holdings by the total recourse capitalization. This ratio excludes the debt of PSEG Capital, which is supported by us. As of December 31, 2001, the latest 12 months CFADS coverage ratio was 4.4 and the ratio of recourse indebtedness to recourse capitalization was .45 to 1. PSEG Capital has a $750 million MTN program which provides for the private placement of MTNs. This MTN program is supported by a minimum net worth maintenance agreement between PSEG Capital and us which provides, among other things, that we (1) maintain its ownership, directly or indirectly, of all outstanding common stock of PSEG Capital, (2) cause PSEG Capital to have at all times a positive tangible net worth of at least $100,000 and (3) make sufficient contributions of liquid assets to PSEG Capital in order to permit it to pay its debt obligations. We believe that we are capable of eliminating our support of PSEG Capital debt within the time period set forth in the Focused Audit. In October 2001, $135 million of 6.74% MTNS matured and were refinanced with funds from the issuance of short term debt at Energy Holdings. At December 31, 2001 and December 31, 2000, total debt outstanding under the MTN program was $480 million and $650 million, respectively maturing from 2002 to 2003. In February 2001, Energy Holdings sold $400 million of 8.625% Senior Notes due 2008 and in July 2001, sold $550 million of 8.50% Senior Notes due 2011. The net proceeds were used to repay short term debt outstanding from intercompany loans and borrowings under Energy Holdings revolving credit facilities and for general corporate purposes. In March 2001, $160 million of non recourse bank debt originally incurred to fund a portion of the purchase price of Globals interest in Chilquinta Energia, S.A. was refinanced. The private placement offering by Chilquinta Energia Finance Co. LLC, a Global affiliate, of senior notes was structured in two tranches: $60 million due 2008 at an interest rate of 6.47% and $100 million due 2011 at an interest rate of 6.62%. An extraordinary loss of $2 million (after tax) was recorded in connection with the refinancing of the $160 million non recourse bank debt. In October 2001, PSEG Chile Holdings, a wholly owned subsidiary of Global and a United States functional currency entity closed on $150 million of project financing related to its investment in SAESA, a Chilean Peso functional currency entity. The debt is variable and is based on LIBOR. In connection with this project financing, PSEG Chile Holdings entered into two foreign currency forward exchange contracts with a total notional amount of $150 million. The two contracts were entered into to hedge the Peso/United States Dollar exposure on the net investment. 54 PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISE GROUP INCORPORATED CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS For the year ended December 31, 2001, we made net plant additions of $2.053 billion, excluding Allowance for Funds Used During Construction (AFDC) and capitalized interest. The majority of these additions, $1.5 billion, primarily related to Power for developing the Lawrenceburg, Indiana and the Waterford, Ohio sites and adding capacity to the Bergen, Linden, Burlington and Kearny stations in New Jersey. In addition, PSE&G had net plant additions of $398 million related to improvements in its transmission and distribution system, gas system and common facilities. Also in 2001, Energy Holdings subsidiaries made investments totaling approximately $1.7 billion. These investments included leveraged lease investments totaling $460 million by Resources and new acquisitions by Global and additional investments in existing domestic and international facilities. Forecasted Expenditures Our subsidiaries have substantial commitments as part of their growth strategies and ongoing construction programs. We expect that the majority of each subsidiaries capital requirements over the next five years will come from internally generated funds, with the balance to be provided by the issuance of debt at the subsidiary or project level and equity contributions from us. Projected construction and investment expenditures for our subsidiaries for the next five years are as follows: 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 (Millions of Dollars) Power........................ $ 960 $ 700 $ 340 $ 250 $ 230 Energy Holdings.............. 450 600 600 600 600 PSE&G........................ 485 440 440 450 465 Total................... $ 1,895 $ 1,740 $ 1,380 $ 1,300 $ 1,295 For a discussion of new generation and development and other commitments to purchase equipment and services, all of which are included in our forecasts above, see Note 9. Commitments and Contingent Liabilities Powers capital needs will be dictated by its strategy to continue to develop as a profitable, growth oriented supplier in the wholesale power market. Power will size its fleet of generation assets to take advantage of market opportunities, while seeking to increase its value and manage commodity price risk through its wholesale energy trading activity. A significant portion of Powers projected investment expenditures in the latter part of this forecast are not yet committed to specific projects. 55 PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISE GROUP INCORPORATED Energy Holdings plans to continue the growth of Global and Resources. The majority of Energy Holdings projected investment expenditures are not yet committed to specific projects. Investment activity is subject to periodic review and revision and may vary significantly depending upon the opportunities presented. PSE&Gs construction expenditures are primarily to maintain the safety and reliability of its electric and gas transmission and distribution facilities. Factors affecting our subsidiaries actual expenditures and investments, including ongoing construction programs, include: availability of capital, suitable investment opportunities, prices of energy and supply in markets in which we participate, economic and political trends, revised load forecasts, business strategies, site changes, cost escalations under construction contracts, requirements of regulatory authorities and laws, and the timing of and amount of electric and gas transmission and or distribution rate changes. Disclosures about Contractual Obligations and Commercial Obligations and Certain Investments The following tables, reflect our and our subsidiaries contractual cash obligations and other commercial commitments in the respective periods in which they are due. Less Total Amounts Than Contractual Cash Obligations Committed 1 year 2 3 years 4 5 years Over 5 years (Millions of Dollars) Long Term Debt $10,301 $1,093 $1,364 $1,622 $6,222 Capital Lease Obligations 102 8 16 16 62 Operating Leases 64 14 20 11 19 Total Contractual Cash Obligations $10,467 $1,115 $1,400 $1,649 $6,303 We, Power, and Energy Holdings have guaranteed certain obligations of affiliates, including the successful completion, performance or other obligations and have contract equity contribution obligations related to certain projects in an aggregate amount of approximately $730 million, as of December 31, 2001. A substantial portion of such guarantees is eliminated upon successful completion, performance and or refinancing of construction debt with non recourse project term debt. In the normal course of business, Energy Technologies secures construction obligations with performance bonds issued by insurance companies. In the event that Energy Technologies tangible equity falls below $100 million, Energy Holdings would be required to provide additional support for the performance bonds. As of December 31, 2001, Energy Technologies had tangible equity of $114 million and performance bonds outstanding of $124 million. The performance bonds are not included in the table below. Total Less Amounts Than Other Commercial Commitments Committed 1 year 2 3 years 4 5 years Over 5 years (Millions of Dollars) Standby Letters of Credit $159 $144 $5 $4 $ 6 Guarantees and Equity Commitments 571 428 101 42 Total Commercial Commitments $730 $572 $106 $4 $ 48 Off Balance Sheet Arrangements Global has certain investments that are accounted for under the equity method in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Accordingly, an amount is recorded on our balance sheet which is primarily Energy Holdings equity investment and is increased for Energy Holdings pro rata share of earnings less any dividend distribution from such investments. The companies in which we invest that are accounted for under the equity method have an aggregate $1.88 billion of debt on their combined, consolidated financial statements. Our pro rata share of such debt is $737 million and is non recourse to us, Energy Holdings and Global. We are generally not required to support the debt service obligations of these companies. However, default with respect to this non recourse debt could result in a loss of invested equity. 56 PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISE GROUP INCORPORATED Resources has investments in leveraged leases that are accounted for in accordance with SFAS 13 "Accounting for Leases." Leveraged lease investments generally involve three parties: an owner/lessor, a creditor, and a lessee. In a typical leveraged lease financing, the lessor purchases an asset to be leased. The purchase price is typically financed 80% with debt provided by the creditor and the balance comes from equity funds provided by Resources. The creditor provides long term financing to the transaction, and is secured by the property subject to lease. Such long term financing is non recourse to Resources. As such, in the event of default the creditor may only look to the leased asset as security for his loan. As a lessor, Resources has ownership rights to the property and rents the property to the lessee for use in its business operation. As of December 31, 2001 Resources equity investment in leased assets was approximately $1.6 billion, net of deferred taxes of approximately $1.2 billion. In the event that collectibility of the minimum lease payments to be received by the lessor is no longer reasonably predictable, the accounting treatment for some of the leases may change. In such cases, Resources may deem that a lessee has a high probability of defaulting on the lease obligation. In many instances, Resources has protected its equity investment in such transactions by providing for the direct right to assume the debt obligation. Debt assumption would be at Resources sole discretion, and normally only would occur if an appraisal of the leased property yielded a value that exceeds the present value of the debt outstanding. Should Resources ever directly assume a debt obligation, the fair value of the underlying asset and the associated debt would be recorded on the balance sheet instead of the net equity investment in the lease. In the events described above, the lease essentially changes from being classified as a capital lease to a conventional operating lease. QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The market risk inherent in our market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, equity security prices, and interest rates as discussed in the notes to the financial statements. Our policy is to use derivatives to manage risk consistent with our business plans and prudent practices. We have a Risk Management Committee comprised of executive officers which utilizes an independent risk oversight function to ensure compliance with corporate policies and prudent risk management practices. Counterparties expose us to credit losses in the event of non performance or non payment. We have a credit management process which is used to assess, monitor and mitigate counterparty exposure for us and our subsidiaries. In the event of non performance or non payment by a major counterparty, there may be a material adverse impact on our and our subsidiaries financial condition, results of operations or net cash flows. 57 PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISE GROUP INCORPORATED Foreign Currencies The objective of our foreign currency risk management policy is to preserve the economic value of cash flows in non functional currencies. Toward this end, Energy Holdings policy is to hedge all significant firmly committed cash flows identified as creating foreign currency exposure. In addition, we typically hedge a portion of exposure resulting from identified anticipated cash flows, providing the flexibility to deal with the variability of longer term forecasts as well as changing market conditions, in which the cost of hedging may be excessive relative to the level of risk involved. As of December 31, 2001, Global and Resources had assets located or held in international locations of approximately $3.4 billion and $1.3 billion, respectively. Resources international investments are primarily leveraged leases of assets located in Australia, Austria, Belgium, China, Germany, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom, and New Zealand with associated revenues denominated in United States Dollars ($US) and therefore, not subject to foreign currency risk. Globals international investments are primarily in companies that generate or distribute electricity in Argentina, Brazil, Chile, China, India, Italy, Oman, Peru, Poland, Taiwan, Tunisia and Venezuela. Investing in foreign countries involves certain additional risks. Economic conditions that result in higher comparative rates of inflation in foreign countries are likely to result in declining values in such countries currencies. As currencies fluctuate against the $US, there is a corresponding change in Globals investment value in terms of the $US. Such change is reflected as an increase or decrease in the investment value and Other Comprehensive Income (Loss), a separate component of Stockholders Equity. As of December 31, 2001, net foreign currency devaluations have reduced the reported amount of Energy Holdings total Stockholders Equity by $258 million (after tax), of which $79 million (after tax) was caused by the devaluation of the Chilean Peso and $169 million (after tax) was caused by the devaluation of the Brazilian Real. Global holds a 60% ownership interest in a Tunisian generation facility under construction. The Power Purchase Agreement, signed in 1999, contains an embedded derivative that indexes the fixed Tunisian dinar payments to United States Dollar exchange rates. The embedded derivative is being marked to market through the income statement. As of January 1, 2001, a $9 million gain was recorded in the cumulative effect of accounting change for SFAS No. 133. During 2001, an additional gain of $1.4 million was recorded to the income statement as a result of favorable movements in the United States Dollar to Tunisian dinar exchange rate. Global holds approximately a 32% ownership interest in RGE whose debt is denominated in United States Dollars. In December 2001, the distribution company entered into a series of three forward exchange contracts to purchase United States Dollars for Brazilian Reals in order to hedge the risk of fluctuations in the exchange rate between the two currencies associated with the upcoming principal payments on the debt. These contracts expire in May, June and July 2002. As of December 31, 2001, Globals share of the fair value and aggregate notional value of the contracts was approximately $13 million. These contracts were established as hedges for accounting purposes resulting in an after tax charge to Other Comprehensive Income (OCI) of approximately $1.2 million. In addition, in order to hedge the foreign currency exposure associated with the outstanding portion of the debt, Global entered into a forward exchange contract in December 2001 to purchase United States Dollars for Brazilian Reals in approximately their share of the total debt outstanding ($61 million). The contract expired prior to December 31, 2001 and was not designated as a hedge for accounting purposes. As a result of unfavorable movements in the United States Dollars to Brazilian Real exchange rates, a loss of $4 million, after tax was recorded related to this derivative upon maturity of the contract. This amount was recorded in Other Income. Through its 50% joint venture, Meiya Power Company, Global holds a 17.5% ownership interest in a Taiwanese generation project under construction where the construction contractors fees, payable in installments through July 2003, are payable in Euros. To manage the risk of foreign exchange rate fluctuations associated with these payments, the project entered into a series of forward exchange contracts to purchase Euros in exchange for Taiwanese dollars. As of December 31, 2001, Globals share of the fair value and aggregate notional value of these forward exchange contracts was approximately $1 million and $16 million, respectively. These forward exchange contracts were not designated as hedges for accounting purposes, resulting in an after tax gain of approximately $0.5 million. In addition, after tax gains of $1 million were recorded during 2001 on similar forward exchange contracts expiring during the year. 58 PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISE GROUP INCORPORATED During 2001, Global purchased approximately 100% of a Chilean distribution company. In order to hedge final Chilean peso denominated payments required to be made on the acquisition, Global entered into a forward exchange contract to purchase Chilean Pesos for United States Dollars. This transaction did not qualify for hedge accounting, and, as such, upon settlement of the transaction, Global recognized an after tax loss of $0.5 million. Furthermore, as a requirement to obtain certain debt financing necessary to fund the acquisition, and in order to hedge against fluctuations in the United States Dollars to Chilean Peso foreign exchange rates, Global entered into a forward contract with a notional value of $150 million to exchange Chilean Pesos for United States Dollars. This transaction expires in October 2002 and is considered a hedge for accounting purposes. As of December 31, 2001, the derivative asset value of $4 million has been recorded to OCI, net of taxes ($1.4 million). In addition, Global holds a 50% interest in another Chilean distribution company, which was anticipating paying its U.S. investors a return of capital. In order to hedge the risk of fluctuations in the Chilean peso to U.S. dollar exchange rate, the distribution company entered into a forward exchange contract to purchase United States Dollars for Chilean Pesos. Globals after tax share of the loss on settlement of this transaction (recorded by the distribution company) was $0.3 million. In January 2002, RGE entered into a series of nine cross currency interest rate swaps for the purpose of hedging its exposure to fluctuations in the Brazilian Real to United States Dollars exchange rates with respect to its United States Dollars denominated debt principal payments due in 2003 through 2006. The instruments convert the variable LIBOR based interest payments on the loan balance to variable CDI based interest payments. CDI is the Brazilian interbank interest rate. As a result, the distribution company has hedged its foreign currency exposure but is still at risk for variability in the Brazilian CDI interest rate during the terms of the instruments. Globals share of the notional value of the instruments is approximately $15 million for the instruments maturing in May, June and July of 2003 through 2005 and approximately $19 million for the instruments maturing in May, June and July 2006. Also in January 2002, the distribution company entered into two similar cross currency interest rate swaps to hedge the United States Dollar denominated interest payments due on the debt in February 2002 and May 2002. Globals share of the notional value of these two instruments is approximately $3 million each. Commodity Contracts During 2001, Power entered into electric physical forward contracts and gas futures and swaps with a maximum term of approximately one year, to hedge our forecasted BGS requirements and gas purchases requirements for generation. These transactions qualified for hedge accounting treatment under SFAS 133 and were settled prior to the end of 2001. The majority of the marked to market valuations were reclassified from OCI to earnings during the quarter ended September 30, 2001. As of December 31, 2001, we did not have any outstanding derivatives accounted for under this methodology. However, there was substantial activity during the year ended December 31, 2001. In 2001, the values of these forward contracts, gas futures and swaps as of June 30 and September 30 were $(34.2) million and $(0.4) million. Also as of December 31, 2001, PSE&G had entered into 330 MMBTU of gas futures, options and swaps to hedge forecasted requirements. As of December 31, 2001, the fair value of those instruments was $(137) million with a maximum term of approximately one year. PSE&G utilizes derivatives to hedge its gas purchasing activities which, when realized, are recoverable through its Levelized Gas Adjustment Clause (LGAC). Accordingly, these commodity contracts are recognized at fair value as derivative assets or liabilities on the balance sheet and the offset to the change in fair value of these derivatives is recorded as a regulatory asset or liability. The availability and price of energy commodities are subject to fluctuations from factors such as weather, environmental policies, changes in supply and demand, state and federal regulatory policies and other events. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, we enter into derivative contracts, including forwards, futures, swaps and options with approved counterparties, to hedge our anticipated demand. These contracts, in conjunction with owned electric generation capacity, are designed to cover estimated electric customer commitments. We use a value at risk (VAR) model to assess the market risk of our commodity business. This model includes fixed price sales commitments, owned generation, native load requirements, physical contracts and financial derivative instruments. VAR represents the potential gains or losses for instruments or portfolios due to changes in market factors, for a specified time period and confidence level. PSEG estimates VAR across its commodity business using a model with historical volatilities and correlations. The Risk Management Committee (RMC) established a VAR threshold of $25 million. If this threshold was reached, the RMC would be notified and the portfolio would be closely monitored to reduce risk and potential adverse movements. In anticipation of the completion of the current BGS contract with PSE&G on July 31, 2002, and the BGS auction, the VAR threshold was increased to $75 million. 59 PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISE GROUP INCORPORATED The measured VAR using a variance/co variance model with a 95% confidence level and assuming a one week time horizon as of December 31, 2001 was approximately $18 million, compared to the December 31, 2000 level of $19 million. This estimate was driven by our assumption that Power would enter into contracts for approximately 50% of its generating capacity during the BGS auction. Since Power obtained contracts in excess of this amount, the VAR at December 31, 2001 would have been even lower. This estimate, however, is not necessarily indicative of actual results, which may differ due to the fact that actual market rate fluctuations may differ from forecasted fluctuations and due to the fact that the portfolio of hedging instruments may change over the holding period and due to certain assumptions embedded in the calculation. Interest Rates PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings are subject to the risk of fluctuating interest rates in the normal course of business. Their policy is to manage interest rate risk through the use of fixed rate debt, floating rate debt, interest rate swaps and interest rate lock agreements. As of December 31, 2001, a hypothetical 10% change in market interest rates would result in a $3 million, $4 million, and $2 million, change in annual interest costs related to short term and floating rate debt at PSEG, PSE&G, and Energy Holdings, respectively. The following table shows details of the interest rate swaps at PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings and their associated values that are still open at December 31, 2001: Total Fair Other Project Notional Pay Receive Market Comprehensive Underlying Securities Percent Amount Rate Rate Value Income PSEG: Enterprise Capital Trust II 100% $150.0 5.975% 3 month LIBOR $(5.1) $(3.0) Securities PSE&G: Transition Funding Bonds 100% $497.0 6.287% 3 month LIBOR $(18.5) $ Power: Construction Loan Waterford 100% $177.5 4.23% 3 month LIBOR $2.3 $1.3 Energy Holdings: Construction Loan Tunisia (US$) 60% $60.0 6.9% 3 month LIBOR $(4.4) $(1.7) Construction Loan Tunisia (EURO) 60% $67.2 5.2% 3 month EURIBOR* $(1.5) $(0.6) Construction Loan Poland (US$) 55% $85.0 8.4% 3 month LIBOR $(30.1) $(8.5) Construction Loan Poland (PLN) 55% $37.6 13.2% 3 month WIBOR** $(21.9) $(9.3) Construction Loan Oman 81% $18.2 6.3% 3 month LIBOR $(3.3) $(1.7) Construction Loan Kalaeloa 50% $57.3 6.6% 3 month LIBOR $(1.8) $(1.2) Construction Loan Guadalupe 50% $126.8 6.57% 3 month LIBOR $(4.1) $(2.7) Construction Loan Odessa 50% $138.3 7.39% 3 month LIBOR $(6.0) $(3.9) Total Energy Holdings $590.4 $(73.1) $(29.6) Total PSEG $1,414.9 $(94.4) $(31.3) * EURIBOR EURO Area Inter Bank Offered Rate ** WIBOR Warsaw Inter Bank Offered Rate We expect to reclass approximately $14.0 million of open interest rate swaps from OCI to earnings during the next twelve months. As of December 31, 2001, there was a $31.3 million balance remaining in the Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss Account, as indicated in the table above. We have also entered into several interest rate swaps that were closed out during 2001 and are being amortized to earnings over the life of the underlying debt. These items, along with their current and anticipated effect on earnings discussed below. In February 2001, we entered into various forward interest rate swaps, with an aggregate notional amount of $400 million, to hedge the interest rate risk related to the anticipated issuance of debt. On April 11, 2001, Power issued $1.8 billion in fixed rate Senior Notes and closed out the forward starting interest rate swaps. The aggregate loss, net of tax, of $3.2 million was classified as Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss and is being amortized and charged to interest expense over the life of the debt. During the year ended December 31, 2001, approximately $0.6 million was reclassified from OCI to earnings. Management expects it will amortize approximately $0.8 million from OCI to earnings during the next twelve months. In March 2001, $160 million of non recourse bank debt originally incurred to fund a portion of the purchase price of Globals interest in Chilquinta Energia, S.A. was refinanced. The private placement offering by Chilquinta Energia Finance Co. LLC, a Global affiliate, of senior notes was structured in two tranches: $60 million due 2008 at an interest rate of 6.47% and $100 million due 2011 at an interest rate of 6.62%. An extraordinary loss of $2 million (after tax) was recorded in connection with the refinancing of the $160 million non recourse bank debt. 60 PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISE GROUP INCORPORATED Equity Securities Resources has investments in equity securities and limited partnerships. Resources carries its investments in equity securities at their approximate fair value as of the reporting date. Consequently, the carrying value of these investments is affected by changes in the fair value of the underlying securities. Fair value is determined by adjusting the market value of the securities for liquidity and market volatility factors, where appropriate. The aggregate fair values of such investments, which had quoted market prices at December 31, 2001 and December 31, 2000 were $34 million and $115 million, respectively. The potential change in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% change in quoted market prices of these investments amounted to $3 million and $9 million at December 31, 2001 and December 31, 2000, respectively. Credit Risk Credit risk relates to the risk of loss that we would incur as a result of non performance by counterparties pursuant to the terms of their contractual obligations. We have established credit policies that we believe significantly minimize credit risk. These policies include an evaluation of potential counterparties financial condition (including credit rating), collateral requirements under certain circumstances and the use of standardized agreements, which may allow for the netting of positive and negative exposures associated with a single counterparty. As a result of the BGS auction, Power has contracted to provide generating capacity to the direct suppliers of New Jersey electric utilities, including PSE&G, commencing August 1, 2002. These bilateral contracts are subject to credit risk. This credit risk relates to the ability of counterparties to meet their payment obligations for the power delivered under each BGS contract. This risk is substantially higher than the risk associated with potential nonpayment by PSE&G under the BGS contract expiring July 31, 2002 since PSE&G is a rate regulated entity. Any failure to collect these payments under the new BGS contracts could have a material impact on our results of operations, cash flows, and financial position. In December 2001, Enron Corp. (Enron) filed for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. Power had entered into a variety of energy trading contracts with Enron and its affiliates in the Pennsylvania New Jersey Maryland Power Pool (PJM) area as part of its energy trading activities. We took proper steps to mitigate our exposures to both Enron and other counterparties who could have been affected by Enron. As of December 31, 2001, we owed Enron approximately $23 million, net, and Enron held a letter of credit from Power for approximately $40 million. As a result of the California Energy Crisis, Pacific Gas & Electric Company (PG&E) filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the US Bankruptcy Code on April 16, 2001. GWF, Hanford and Tracy had combined pre petition receivables due from PG&E, for all plants amounting to approximately $62 million. Of this amount, approximately $25 million had been reserved as an allowance for doubtful accounts resulting in a net receivable balance of approximately $37 million. Globals pro rata share of this gross receivable and net receivable was approximately $30 million and $18 million, respectively. In December 2001, GWF, Hanford and Tracy reached an agreement with PG&E which stipulates that PG&E will make full payment of the $62 million in 12 equal installments, including interest by the end of 2002. On December 31, 2001, PG&E paid GWF $8 million, representing the initial installment payment and all accrued interest due, pursuant to the agreement. As of December 31, 2001, GWF, Hanford and Tracy still had combined pre petition receivables due from PG&E for all plants amounting to approximately $57 million. Globals pro rata share of this receivable was $27 million. As a result of this agreement, GWF, Hanford and Tracy reversed the reserve of $25 million which increased operating income by $25 million (of which Globals share was $11 million). FOREIGN OPERATIONS As of December 31, 2001, Global and Resources had approximately $3.4 billion and $1.3 billion, respectively, of international assets. As of December 31, 2001, foreign assets represented 19% of our consolidated assets and the revenues related to those foreign assets contributed 4% to consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2001. For discussion of foreign currency risk and potential asset impairments related to our investments in Argentina, see the above discussion in Qualitative and Quantitive Disclosures About Market Risk and Note 9. Commitments and Contingent Liabilities and Note 17. Subsequent Events of Notes. ACCOUNTING ISSUES Critical Accounting Policies and Other Accounting Matters Our most critical accounting policies include the application of: SFAS No. 71 "Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation" (SFAS 71) for PSE&G, our regulated 61 PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISE GROUP INCORPORATED transmission and distribution business; Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) 98 10, "Accounting for Contracts Involved in Energy Trading and Risk Management Activities" (EITF 98 10) and EITF 99 19, "Reporting Revenue Gross as a Principal versus Net as an Agent" (EITF 99 19), for our Energy Trading business; and SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities", as amended (SFAS 133), to account for the various hedging transactions, and SFAS 52, "Foreign Currency Translation" and its impacts on Globals foreign investments. Accounting for the Effects of Regulation PSE&G prepares its financial statements in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 71, which differs in certain respects from the application of GAAP by non regulated businesses. In general, SFAS 71 recognizes that accounting for rate regulated enterprises should reflect the economic effects of regulation. As a result, a regulated utility is required to defer the recognition of costs (a regulatory asset) or the recognition of obligations (a regulatory liability) if it is probable that, through the rate making process, there will be a corresponding increase or decrease in future rates. Accordingly, PSE&G has deferred certain costs, which will be amortized over various future periods. To the extent that collection of such costs or payment of liabilities is no longer probable as a result of changes in regulation and or PSE&Gs competitive position, the associated regulatory asset or liability is charged or credited to income. As a result of New Jersey deregulation legislation and regulatory orders issued by the BPU, certain regulatory assets and liabilities were recorded. The amortization of two of these regulatory liabilities will have a significant effect on our annual earnings. They include the estimated amount of MTC revenues to be collected in excess of the authorized amount of $540 million and the amount of excess electric distribution depreciation reserves. The amount of these regulatory liabilities will be amortized to earnings over the four year transition period from August 1, 1999 through July 31, 2003. The MTC was authorized by the BPU as an opportunity to recover up to $540 million (net of tax) of our unsecuritized generation related stranded costs on a net present value basis. As a result of the appellate reviews of the Final Order, PSE&Gs securitization transaction was delayed until the first quarter of 2001, causing a delay in the implementation of the Securitization Transition Charge (STC) which would have reduced the MTC. As a result, MTC was being recovered at a faster rate than intended under the Final Order and a significant overrecovery was probable. In order to properly recognize the recovery of the allowed unsecuritized stranded costs over the transition period, PSE&G recorded a regulatory liability and Power recorded a charge to net income of $88 million, pre tax, or $52 million, after tax, in the third quarter of 2000 for the cumulative amount of estimated collections in excess of the allowed unsecuritized stranded costs from August 1, 1999 through September 30, 2000. PSE&G then began deferring a portion of these revenues each month to recognize the estimated collections in excess of the allowed unsecuritized stranded costs. As of December 31, 2001, this deferred amount was $168 million and is aggregated with the Societal Benefits Clause. After deferrals, pre tax MTC revenues recognized were $220 million in 1999, $239 million in 2000, and $196 million in 2001. In 2002 and 2003, we expect to record approximately $90 million and $121 million, respectively. The amortization of the Excess Depreciation Reserve is another significant regulatory liability affecting our earnings. As required by the BPU, PSE&G reduced its depreciation reserve for its electric distribution assets by $569 million and recorded such amount as a regulatory liability to be amortized over the period from January 1, 2000 to July 31, 2003. In 2000 and 2001, $125 million was amortized and recorded as a reduction of depreciation expense pursuant to the Final Order. The remaining $319 million will be amortized through July 31, 2003. See Note 4. Regulatory Assets and Liabilities of Notes for further discussion of these and other regulatory issues. Accounting, Valuation and Presentation of Our Energy Trading Business Accounting We account for our energy trading business in accordance with the provisions of EITF Issue No. 98 10 which requires that energy trading contracts be marked to market with gains and losses included in current earnings. 62 PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISE GROUP INCORPORATED Valuation Since the vast majority of our energy trading contracts have terms of less than one year, valuations for these contracts are readily obtainable from the market exchanges, such as PJM, and over the counter quotations. The valuations also include a credit reserve and a liquidity reserve, which is determined using financial quotation systems, monthly bid ask prices and spread percentages. We have consistently applied this valuation methodology for each reporting period presented. The fair values of these contracts and a more detailed discussion of credit risk are reflected in Note 8. Financial Instruments, Energy Trading and Risk Management. Presentation EITF 99 19 provided guidance on the issue of whether a company should report revenue based on the gross amount billed to the customer or the net amount retained. The guidance states that whether a company should recognize revenue based on the gross amount billed or the net retained requires significant judgment, which depends on the relevant facts and circumstances. Based on the analysis and interpretation of EITF 99 19, we report all of the energy trading revenues and energy trading related costs on a gross basis for physical bilateral energy and capacity sales and purchases. We report swaps, futures, option premiums, firm transmission rights, transmission congestion credits, and purchases and sales of emission allowances on a net basis. The prior year financial statements have been reclassified accordingly. One of the primary drivers of our determination that these contracts should be presented on a gross basis was that we retain counterparty risk. SFAS 133 Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities SFAS 133 established accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments, including certain derivative instruments embedded in other contracts, and for hedging activities. It requires an entity to recognize the fair value of derivative instruments held as assets or liabilities on the balance sheet. In accordance with SFAS 133, the effective portion of the change in the fair value of a derivative instrument designated as a cash flow hedge is reported in OCI, net of tax, or as a Regulatory Asset (Liability). Amounts in accumulated OCI are ultimately recognized in earnings when the related hedged forecasted transaction occurs. The change in the fair value of the ineffective portion of the derivative instrument designated as a cash flow hedge is recorded in earnings. Derivative instruments that have not been designated as hedges are adjusted to fair value through earnings. We have entered into several derivative instruments, including hedges of anticipated electric and gas purchases, interest rate swaps and foreign currency hedges which have been designated as cash flow hedges. The fair value of the derivative instruments is determined by reference to quoted market prices, listed contracts, published quotations or quotations from counterparties. In the absence thereof, we utilize mathematical models based on current and historical data. The fair value of most of our derivatives is determined based upon quoted market prices. Therefore, the effect on earnings of valuations from our models is minimal. For additional information regarding Derivative Financial Instruments, See Note 8 Financial Instruments, Energy Trading and Risk Management Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities of Notes. SFAS 52 Foreign Currency Translation Our financial statements are prepared using the United States Dollar as the reporting currency. In accordance with SFAS 52 "Foreign Currency Translation", foreign operations whose functional currency is deemed to be the local (foreign) currency, asset and liability accounts are translated into United States Dollars at current exchange rates and revenues and expenses are translated at average exchange rates prevailing during the period. Translation gains and losses (net of applicable deferred taxes) are not included in determining net income but are reported in other comprehensive income. Gains and losses on transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currency are included in the results of operations as incurred. 63 PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISE GROUP INCORPORATED The determination of an entitys functional currency requires managements judgment. It is based on an assessment of the primary currency in which transactions in the local environment are conducted, and whether the local currency can be relied upon as a stable currency in which to conduct business. As economic and business conditions change, we are required to reassess the economic environment and determine the appropriate functional currency. The impact of foreign currency accounting could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operation and net cash flows. Other Accounting Issues For additional information on our accounting policies and the implementation of recently issued accounting standards, see Note 1. Organization and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Note 2. Accounting Matters of Notes, respectively. FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS Except for the historical information contained herein, certain of the matters discussed in this report constitute "forward looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties which could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated. Such statements are based on managements beliefs as well as assumptions made by and information currently available to management. When used herein, the words "will", "anticipate", "intend", "estimate", "believe", "expect", "plan", "hypothetical", "potential", variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify forward looking statements. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. The following review of factors should not be construed as exhaustive or as any admission regarding the adequacy of our disclosures prior to the effective date of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. In addition to any assumptions and other factors referred to specifically in connection with such forward looking statements, factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated in any forward looking statements include, among others, the following: o because a portion of our business is conducted outside the United States, adverse international developments could negatively impact our business; o credit, commodity, and financial market risks may have an adverse impact; o energy obligations, available supply and trading risks may have an adverse impact; o the electric industry is undergoing substantial change; o generation operating performance may fall below projected levels; o ability to obtain adequate and timely rate relief; o we and our subsidiaries are subject to substantial competition from well capitalized participants in the worldwide energy markets; o our ability to service debt could be limited; o if our operating performance or cash flow from minority interests falls below projected levels, we may not be able to service our debt; o power transmission facilities may impact our ability to deliver our output to customers; o government regulation affects many of our operations; o environmental regulation significantly impacts our operations; o we are subject to more stringent environmental regulation than many of our competitors; o insurance coverage may not be sufficient; o acquisition, construction and development may not be successful; and o recession, acts of war or terrorism could have an adverse impact. 64 PUBLIC SERVICE ENTERPRISE GROUP INCORPORATED ITEM 7A. QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Information relating to quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk is set forth under the caption "Qualitative and Quantitative Disclosures About Market Risk" in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Such information is incorporated herein by reference. 
 
