ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (MD&A) This combined MD&A is separately filed by Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated (PSEG), Public Service Electric and Gas Company (PSE&G), PSEG Power LLC (Power), and PSEG Energy Holdings LLC (Energy Holdings). Information contained herein relating to any individual company is filed by such company on its own behalf. PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings each make representations only as to itself and make no other representations whatsoever as to any other company. OVERVIEW OF 2002 AND FUTURE OUTLOOK Overview PSEG PSEGs subsidiaries consist of a mix of energy related businesses that together are designed to produce a balanced energy market strategy. Because the nature and risks of these businesses are different, and because they operate in different geographic locations, the combined entity is intended to produce consistent earnings growth in a manner that will mitigate the adverse financial effects of business losses or an economic downturn in any one sector or geographic region. During 2002, PSEGs strategy to maintain a diverse portfolio of energy related businesses helped it to achieve results from its ongoing operations that were well within the revised earnings guidance of $3.70 to $3.90 per share provided to investors in July 2002, and within 6% of the original earnings guidance provided at the beginning of 2002. Management believes that this portfolio approach will help to balance changes in the earnings profiles for PSEGs individual subsidiaries, providing a foundation for PSEGs earnings in 2003 and supporting PSEGs attempt to achieve its targeted long term 7% annual growth rate as market conditions improve. However, even with this portfolio approach to the business, greater volatility in earnings and cash flows will occur due to the continuing evolution of the energy industry, both in the United States (US) and internationally. Over recent years, PSEG has realigned its organizational structure to address the competitive environment brought about by the deregulation of the electric generation industry and has transitioned from primarily being a regulated New Jersey utility to operating as a competitive energy company with operations primarily in the Northeastern US and in other select domestic and international markets. As the unregulated portion of the business continues to grow, financial risks and rewards will be greater, financial requirements will change and the volatility of earnings and cash flows will increase. As of December 31, 2002, Power, PSE&G, and Energy Holdings comprised approximately 27%, 48% and 27% of PSEGs consolidated assets and contributed approximately 60%, 26% and 18% of PSEGs results for the year ended December 31, 2002, excluding the charges discussed below. During 2002, the financial markets experienced significant pressures, particularly relating to increased credit and liquidity concerns in the energy industry. In response, PSEG took significant steps to strengthen its balance sheet. Early in 2002, PSEG began issuing approximately $80 million of common stock on an annual basis through its dividend reinvestment program. In September 2002, PSEG issued $460 million of participating units. In the fourth quarter, PSEG issued $458 million of common stock and $180 million of preferred securities. Altogether, PSEG issued over $1.1 billion in equity and equity linked securities since September 2002 and used the proceeds primarily to reduce short term debt. For further information regarding the issuances of these equity and equity linked securities, see Note 10. Schedule of Consolidated Capital Stock and Other Securities. In addition to these equity issuances, PSEG took steps to significantly reduce its capital expenditures, which were at a peak in 2002. Early in 2002, PSEG announced that Energy Holdings is limiting future investments to contractual commitments, primarily those needed to complete the development of generating plants currently under construction, and recently revised the timeline for the completion of several of Powers generating station construction projects. 44 The equity issuances and revised capital expenditure program discussed above enabled PSEG to accelerate its planned reduction of its leverage ratio in the fourth quarter. Going into 2003, PSEGs leverage ratio was 0.61 to 1 as calculated under its credit agreements. This ratio included an after tax charge in Other Comprehensive Income (OCI) of approximately $297 million related to its pension plan, the result of the accumulated benefit obligation of the pension exceeding the value of its pension assets. PSE&G PSE&G operates as an electric and gas public utility in New Jersey under cost based regulation by the New Jersey Board of Public Utilities (BPU) for its distribution operations and by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) for its electric transmission operations. As such, the earnings of PSE&G are largely determined by the regulation of its rates. PSE&G expects stable earnings and cash flows in the future as it continues its transmission and distribution and sale of electric energy and gas service in New Jersey. PSE&Gs success will be determined by its ability to maintain system reliability and safety, effectively manage costs and obtain timely and adequate rate relief. The risks from this business generally relate to the regulatory treatment of the various rate and other issues by the BPU and the FERC. In 2002, PSE&G obtained a successful outcome to its gas base rate case, its first in ten years, transferred its gas supply contracts and gas inventory to Power and filed for an increase in electric rates to be effective August 1, 2003. That will mark the end of PSE&Gs four year transition period, completing its transition to a transmission and distribution business. Power Power is focused on a generation market extending from Maine to the Carolinas and the Atlantic Coast to Indiana (Super Region). Powers strategy is to continue to market its capacity through Basic Generation Service (BGS) related contracts and other bilateral contracts in New Jersey and its target market. Utilizing a generation portfolio diversified by fuel source, technology and market segment, Power seeks to balance its generating capacity, fuel requirements and supply obligations through integrated energy marketing and trading, enhance its ability to produce low cost energy through continued strong nuclear operations and pursue modest growth based on market conditions. Power integrates its electric generation production with its wholesale energy marketing and trading activities and risk management function. During 2002, record capacity factors at its nuclear facilities, coupled with Powers ability to use energy trading to manage the risk of its obligations, enabled Power to meet its fixed price demands under the BGS related contracts with economic supply. Power also added to its generating capacity in the Northeast and established a foothold in the New England Independent System Operator (ISO) through its acquisition of two power plants totaling approximately 1,000 MW. Also, Power enhanced its portfolio by becoming a gas commodity supplier to PSE&G under a Basic Gas Supply Service (BGSS) contract. In response to low energy prices, Power has scaled back its new project anticipated growth, shifting its emphasis more towards potential acquisitions, and has adjusted its generating station construction schedules to better align with anticipated market prices. Power entered into contracts for the period beginning August 1, 2002 and ending July 31, 2003 with various successful bidders in the New Jersey Basic Generation Service (BGS) Auction. Power was also a participant in the recent BGS auction held in February 2003. Power entered into hourly energy price contracts to be a direct supplier of certain large customers for a ten month period beginning August 1, 2003 and expiring May 30, 2004. Power also entered into contracts with third parties who are direct suppliers of New Jerseys Electric Distribution Companies (EDCs). Through these seasonally adjusted fixed price contracts, Power will indirectly serve New Jerseys smaller commercial and residential customers for ten month and 34 month periods beginning August 1, 2003 and expiring on May 30, 2004 and May 30, 2006, respectively. Power believes that its obligations under these contracts are reasonably balanced by its available supply. 45 Energy Holdings During 2002, a merger was consummated at Energy Holdings to change the form of the business from a corporation to a limited liability company. Energy Holdings succeeded to all the assets and liabilities of PSEG Energy Holdings Inc. in accordance with the New Jersey Limited Liability Company Act. As part of the reorganization, PSEG Resources Inc. became a wholly owned subsidiary of PSEG Resources LLC (Resources), a newly formed New Jersey limited liability company. This reorganization was completed to further improve efficiencies within the tax reporting process. Energy Holdings, through PSEG Global Inc. (Global), invests in, owns and operates generation and distribution facilities in select international and US markets. The generation plants sell power under long term agreements as well as on a merchant basis while the distribution companies are rate regulated enterprises. Through Resources, Energy Holdings invests in energy related financial transactions, including leveraged leases, which are designed to produce predictable earnings at reasonable levels. As a result of the worldwide economic downturn and the adverse development of several risks at certain of its investments, in 2002 Energy Holdings refocused its strategy from one of accelerated growth to one that places emphasis on increasing the efficiency and returns of its existing assets, and, going forward, intends to limit its spending to contractual commitments. In 2002, Energy Holdings recorded the financial impact of these events as it wrote down its investment in Argentina, discontinued the operations of PSEG Energy Technologies Inc. (Energy Technologies) and a generating facility in India, and recorded goodwill impairment charges. Global will also selectively review its portfolio and seek to monetize, at reasonable values, investments which may no longer have a strategic fit. Resources has shifted its focus from new investments to monitoring its current investment portfolio, primarily energy related leveraged leases. In 2002, the credit profile of several of the lessees deteriorated. In November 2002, Resources terminated its two lease transactions with affiliates of TXU Europe, recovered its invested capital and recorded a modest gain on the termination. See Item 7A. Qualitative and Quantitative Disclosures About Market Risk Credit Risk for further discussion. Future Outlook PSEG PSEG develops a long range growth target by building business plans and financial forecasts for each major business (PSE&G, Power, Global and Resources). These plans and forecasts incorporate specific, rather than generic, project investments. Key factors which influence the performance of each business, such as fuel input costs and forward power prices, are also incorporated. Sensitivity analyses are performed on the key variables that drive the businesses financial results in order to understand the impact of these assumptions on PSEGs projections. Once plans are in place, PSEG management monitors actual results and the key variables and updates the financial projections to reflect changes in the energy markets, the economy and global conditions. Management believes this monitoring and forecasting process enables it to alter operating and investment plans adequately and appropriately as conditions change. Looking ahead, PSEG forecasts 2003 results of $3.70 to $3.90 per share for continuing operations, comparable to results for 2002, excluding losses from Argentine investments. This earnings per share guidance is expected to be achieved through results from PSEGs ongoing operations which is expected to offset the effects of the common equity issuance in November 2002 and the use of a more conservative financing structure as PSEG issued more costly common and preferred equity and fixed rate debt to replace low cost commercial paper, discussed above. Subsequent to 2003, PSEG seeks to attain its 7% long term annual growth rate target in earnings per share. Several key assumptions in PSEGs 2003 business plan are: Power will continue to be successful in securing BGS related contracts and managing its obligations under such contracts with available supply; PSE&G will have a successful outcome to its recently filed electric rate case seeking an approximately $250 million increase in electric rates beginning in August 2003 and benefit from more normal weather; Global, with significant cost cutting measures in place and limited spending planned over the five year planning horizon, will experience improvements in earnings through its focus on increasing the return on its existing assets; and Resources, with less exposure to its investment in the KKR Associates L.P. (KKR) leveraged buyout funds, will continue to be a steady contributor to 46 earnings and cash flows. In the later years of the business plan, PSEG expects energy and capacity prices to increase as the current overbuild situation dissipates and reserve margins in the Pennsylvania New Jersey Maryland power pool (PJM), the Midwest and Texas return to more reasonable levels. During 2002, the energy segment of the financial markets experienced significant volatility and, in the third quarter, the fair value of Powers and Energy Holdings long term debt decreased significantly. The fair value of Powers and Energy Holdings long term debt rebounded in the fourth quarter of 2002, returning to more reasonable levels. PSEGs business plan assumes that the fair value of its securities and the securities of its subsidiaries will continue to be valued at reasonable levels, enabling PSEG continued access to capital over the long term. However, even if volatility returns to the marketplace and the value of PSEGs securities or its subsidiaries securities are negatively affected, PSEG believes that it has sufficient liquidity to continue meet its business plans. PSEGs business plan also assumes a stable financial marketplace and a reasonable return on its pension plan funds and Nuclear Decommissioning Trust (NDT) Funds which have total investments of approximately $3 billion. Changes in the value of these funds will affect PSEGs earnings, equity balance and the required amount of funding. As a result of PSEGs forecasted operating cash flows and the changes in future capital expenditures, PSEG expects to have funds available to maintain its current dividend policy and have positive cash flow for each of the next five years. PSEG expects to use this free cash flow to continue to enhance its financial profile by reducing leverage. PSEG anticipates that its leverage ratio will decline modestly by the end of the year due capital expenditures being primarily funded with cash from operations, earnings for 2003 exceeding dividend requirements and also the required adoption of SFAS 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations (SFAS 143), which will benefit earnings, and therefore equity. The impact of SFAS 143 is not reflected in PSEGs 2003 earnings guidance and is expected to more than offset the pension related charge to equity discussed above in Overview. Dividend payments on common stock for the year ended December 31, 2002 were $2.16 per share and totaled approximately $456 million. Although PSEG presently believes it will have adequate earnings and cash flow in the future from its subsidiaries to maintain common stock dividends at the current level, earnings and cash flows required to support the dividend will become more uncertain as its business continues to evolve. Future dividends declared will necessarily be dependent upon PSEGs future earnings, cash flows, financial requirements, alternate investment opportunities and other factors. PSEGs payout ratios were 58% in 2002 and 2001, excluding charges discussed above. PSEG would consider increasing the dividend if the payout ratio fell below 50% and could be sustained at that level. PSE&G PSE&Gs success will be dependent, in part, on its ability to obtain a reasonable and timely outcome to its recently filed electric rate case, as well as its ability to continue to recover the regulatory assets it has deferred and the investments it plans to make in its electric and gas transmission and distribution systems. The proposed rate increase would significantly impact PSE&Gs earnings and operating cash flows. The non depreciation portion of the requested rate increase ($232 million) would have a positive effect on PSE&Gs earnings and operating cash flows. The depreciation portion of the requested rate increase ($18 million) would have no impact on PSE&Gs earnings, as the increased operating cash flows would be offset by higher depreciation charges. The outcome of these matters cannot be predicted, but are expected to be material to PSE&G results of operations, financial condition and net cash flows. Power A major risk of Powers business is that the competitive wholesale power prices that it is able to obtain are sufficient to provide a profit and sustain the value of its assets. It is also subject to credit risk of the counterparties to whom it sells energy products, the successful operation of its generating facilities, fluctuations in market prices of energy and imbalances between obligations and available supply. Power is currently constructing projects, which will increase capacity from approximately 13,000 MW to 16,000 MW, net of planned retirements through 2005. Powers success as a BGS provider will depend, in part, on its ability to meet its obligations under its full requirements contracts with the BGS suppliers profitably. Power expects to accomplish this by producing energy from its own generation and or energy purchases in the market. Power also enters into trading positions related to its generation assets and supply obligations. To the extent it does not hedge its obligations, whether long or short, Power will be subject to the risk of price fluctuations that could affect its future results, such as changes in the expected price of energy and capacity that Power sells into the market, increases in the price of energy purchased to meet its supply obligations, the cost of fuel to generate electricity, the cost of emission credits needed for environmental compliance, and the cost of congestion credits which are used by Power to transmit electricity and other factors. In addition, Power is subject to the risk of substandard operating performance of its fossil and nuclear generating units. To the extent there are unexpected outages at Powers generating facilities, changes in environmental or nuclear regulations or other factors that impact the production by such units or the ability to generate and transmit electricity in a cost effective manner, it may cost Power more to acquire or produce electricity. These risks can be exacerbated by, among other things, changes in demand in electricity usage, such as those due to extreme weather and economic conditions. Powers future revenue stream is uncertain because Power cannot accurately predict revenues beyond the termination of the ten month BGS contracts. However, this uncertainty has been partially mitigated by a portion of the BGS demand being contracted for a 34 month period. Also, certain of Powers new projects, such as its 47 investments in the Lawrenceburg and Waterford projects under construction in Indiana and Ohio, the plants Power acquired in 2002 from Wisvest Corporation in Connecticut and its development of the Bethlehem Energy Center in New York are also subject to the risk of changes in future energy prices as Power has not entered into forward sale contracts for the majority of the expected generation capacity of these facilities. Power also expects that capacity prices will increase over its five year planning horizon as the overbuild situation in the Super Region dissipates as older, less efficient units are retired in the region. Also, since the majority of Powers generation facilities are concentrated in the Northeast region, changes in future energy supply and demand and energy related prices in this region could materially affect Powers results. Also, changes in the rules and regulation of these markets by FERC, particularly changes in the rules in the power pools in which Power conducts business and ability to maintain market based rates, could have an adverse impact on Powers results. Lastly, in accordance with the Final Decision and Order (Final Order), issued by the BPU in 1999 relating to PSE&Gs rate unbundling, stranded costs and restructuring proceedings, Power will cease collection of Market Transition Charge (MTC) revenues at the end of the transition period in 2003. Power expects MTC revenues will amount to approximately $115 million in 2003. As a result of these variables and risks, Power cannot predict the impact of these potential future changes on its forecasted results of operations, financial position or net cash flows; however, such impact could be material. In addition, Powers earnings projections assume that it will continue to optimize the value of its portfolio of generating assets and supply obligations through its energy trading operations. This will depend, in part, on Powers, as well as its counterparties, ability to maintain sufficient creditworthiness and to display a willingness to participate in energy trading activities at anticipated volumes. Potential changes in the mechanisms of conducting trading activity could positively or negatively affect trading volumes and liquidity in these energy trading markets compared to the assumptions of these factors embedded in Powers business plans. Power marks to market derivative instruments designated as trading activities and includes the resulting unrealized gains and losses in earnings. The vast majority of these contracts have terms of less than two years and are valued using market exchange prices and broker quotes. Energy trading provides the opportunity for greater returns, but it also is more risky than a regulated business and can be adversely impacted by fluctuating energy market prices and other factors. Power utilizes what it believes to be a conservative risk management strategy to minimize exposure to market and credit risk. For further information, see MD&A Accounting Issues, Note 1. Organization and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Note 12. Risk Management of the Notes. As a result of these variables, Power cannot predict the impact of these potential future changes on its forecasted results of operations, financial position or net cash flows; however, such impact could be material. Energy Holdings Global will focus on improving the profitability of its generation and distribution investments. Resources, with recent investments and less exposure to its investment in the KKR leveraged buyout funds, expects to continue to be a steady contributor to earnings and cash flows. Global While Global realized substantial growth prior to 2002, significant challenges began developing during the fourth quarter of 2001 and continued into 2002. These challenges include the Argentine economic, political and social crisis, the soft power market in Texas, recent developments in India and the worldwide economic downturn. The financial effects of several of these challenges are behind Energy Holdings as a result of the charges recorded in 2002. Global has recently reached a settlement with The AES Corporation (AES) related to certain of Globals investments held for sale in Argentina. Similarly, Global has completed the sale of its investment in Tanir Bavi Power Company Private Ltd. (Tanir Bavi) in India at its reduced carrying value, receiving proceeds of approximately $45 million in October 2002. Global has refocused its strategy from one of accelerated growth to one that places emphasis on increasing the efficiency and returns of its existing assets and intends to limit its spending to contractual commitments. Global is also selectively reviewing its portfolio and will seek to monetize, at reasonable values, investments which may no longer have a strategic fit. As part of this review, Global recently entered into a memorandum of understanding to sell its interest in Prisma, a generation business in Italy, to its partners for approximately $69 million. The sale is expected to close in the first half of 2003, contingent upon successful project financing. Energy Holdings success will be dependent, in part, on its ability to mitigate risks presented by its international strategy. The economic and political conditions in certain countries where Global has investments present risks that may be different than those found in the US including: unilateral renegotiation or nullification of existing contracts, changes in law or tax policy, interruption of business, risks of nationalization, expropriation, war and other factors. 48 Operations in foreign countries also present risks associated with currency exchange and convertibility, inflation and repatriation of earnings. In some countries in which Global has interests, economic, political and monetary conditions and other factors could affect Globals ability to convert its cash distributions to US Dollars or other freely convertible currencies. Although Global generally seeks to structure power purchase contracts and other project revenue agreements to provide for payments to be made in, or indexed to, US Dollars or a currency freely convertible into US Dollars, its ability to do so in all cases may be limited. The international risks discussed above can potentially be magnified due to the volatility of foreign currencies. The foreign exchange rates of the Venezuelan Bolivar and Brazilian Real materially weakened in 2002 due to various political and economic factors. This resulted in a reduction in Globals investment and equity balances and resulted in comparatively lower contributions from Globals distribution investments in US Dollar terms. While Energy Holdings still expects certain of its investments in Latin America to contribute favorably to its earnings in the future, the political and economic risks associated with this region could have a material adverse impact on its remaining investments in the region. The table below reflects Energy Holdings investment exposure in Latin American countries: Investment Exposure Equity Exposure December 31, December 31, 2002 2001 2002 2001 (Millions) Argentina $ $ 632 $ $ 632 Brazil 436 467 234 298 Chile 578 542 475 465 Peru 454 387 455 388 Venezuela 51 53 51 53 The investment exposure consists of Globals invested equity plus equity commitment guarantees. Equity exposure is equal to Globals investment net of foreign currency translation adjustments, reflected in OCI. Venezuela As of December 31, 2002, Global had $49 million, or less than 1%, of its assets invested in the Turboven generation facilities in Maracay and Cagua, Venezuela. This project was fully funded by equity. Venezuela is undergoing a period of significant political instability, as participation in prolonged work stoppages and violent street protests have caused a drastic reduction in economic activity. Following its 45% decline against the US Dollar in 2002, the Venezuelan currency, the Bolivar, has declined further in value in 2003, and additional declines are possible. Turbovens earnings and cash flows are expected to be affected by the prospects of reduced economic activity and increased exchange rate volatility. Although Turbovens power purchase contracts are indexed to the US Dollar, the sharp decline in economic activity and in the exchange rate make the local sales price of Turbovens energy supplies less attractive to local manufacturers. Turbovens revenues have already declined and are expected to remain below previous levels due to weakening demand for the products manufactured by Turbovens customers, which includes a utility and certain industrial companies. Brazil As of December 31, 2002, Global owns a 32% interest in Rio Grande Energia (RGE), a distribution company in Brazil. The carrying value of this investment as of December 31, 2002 was $211 million, net of pre tax cumulative translation adjustments of $225 million. For a discussion of the impairment of a portion of the goodwill balance at RGE due to the adoption of SFAS No. 142 "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets" (SFAS 142), see Note 2. New Accounting Standards of the Notes. 49 The Brazilian economy is in a period of slowed growth that has resulted from the high public and private sector debt levels, as well as increased interest rates used by the Central Bank of Brazil to control rising inflation and to support the value of the Brazilian Real following its 34% decline in 2002. In January 2003, a new government administration assumed office and has a stated goal of reducing the effect of currency devaluations and wholesale prices as inputs to final consumer prices for electricity. Additionally, the new administrations energy industry policy is to cancel future privatizations of state owned energy companies and increase federal government control and coordination of energy industry policies previously controlled by state and regional entities. The current regulatory regime adjusts consumer electric tariffs based on a multiple factor formula that includes recovery of wholesale inflation for previous periods, as well as an additional entitlement to pass through deferred US Dollar costs. This current regulatory structure would result in an increase of approximately 40% in the tariffs RGE would charge its customers starting in April 2003. Failure to receive a reasonable tariff increase, unfavorable developments relating to potential changes in the regulatory structure and or greater exertion of price controls by the Brazilian government could have a materially adverse impact on Energy Holdings ability to earn a reasonable return on its investment and could materially impact its ability to recover its investment balance, including a potential impairment. Other risk factors that could affect future revenues and cash flows from Energy Holdings investment in RGE are continued high interest rate levels, currency devaluation, extended recession and slow economic growth. Texas As of December 31, 2002, Global had $222 million, net of derivative valuations, invested in a 50/50 joint venture which operates two 1,000 MW gas fired combined cycle electric generating facilities in Texas, including approximately $73 million of loans earning an annual interest rate of 12%. The loan structure was put in place to provide Global with a preferential cash and earnings flow from the projects after third party debt service. Losses from Texas Independent Energy L.P. (TIE) were greater than expected due to lower energy prices resulting from over supply of energy in the Texas power market for the year ended December 31, 2002. Global expects this trend of lower energy prices to continue until the 2004 2005 time frame when market prices are expected to increase, as older less efficient plants in the Texas power market are expected to be retired and the demand for electricity is expected to increase. However, no assurances can be given as to the accuracy of these estimates. Continued weakness in the Texas power market will put pressure on TIEs ability to meet financial covenants in its loan documents. Discussions are underway with the projects lenders to improve flexibility in meeting these covenants. Potential remedies may include modest additional equity investments by Global in the Texas facilities. Total project level non recourse debt of $527 million at the Texas facilities is due over the next five years. These debt maturities include $210 million in 2006 and $213 million in 2007. In the event the project level debt cannot be repaid or refinanced at the project level, Global may consider certain alternatives including additional equity investments. Resources Over the longer term, Resources earnings and cash flow streams are dependent upon the availability of suitable transactions and its ability to continue to enter into these transactions. Based on current market conditions and Energy Holdings intent to limit capital expenditures, it is unlikely that Resources will make significant investments in the near term. Resources faces risks with regard to the creditworthiness of its counterparties, as well as the risk of a change in the current tax treatment of its investments in leveraged leases. The manifestation of either of these risks could cause a materially adverse effect on Energy Holdings strategy and its forecasted results of operations, financial position, and net cash flows. For discussion of the five counterparties to these leases, including Resources aggregate gross investment of $749 million, or $455 million, net of deferred taxes of $294 million, as of December 31, 2002, with those who have been downgraded to below investment grade by at least one of the rating agencies, see Item 7A. Qualitative and Quantitative Disclosures about Market Risk. 50 Energy Technologies is a business that principally constructs, installs, and maintains heating, ventilating and air conditioning (HVAC) equipment and related services. Energy Technologies is comprised of 11 HVAC and mechanical operating companies. In June 2002, Energy Holdings adopted a plan to sell its interests in the HVAC/mechanical operating companies which is expected to be completed by June 30, 2003. Also, the Demand Side Management (DSM) business previously conducted by Energy Technologies and which Energy Holdings decided to retain during the third quarter of 2002, was transferred to Resources as of December 31, 2002. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS PSEG PSEGs business consists of four reportable segments, which are Power, PSE&G, Global and Resources. The following is a discussion of the major year to year financial statement variances and follows the financial statement presentation as it relates to each of its segments. PSEGs results of operations are primarily comprised of the results of operations of its operating subsidiaries, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings. For a more detailed discussion of the changes referenced for PSEG, see the applicable results of operations discussion for each respective subsidiary registrant. Net income for the period ended December 31, 2002 was $245 million or $1.17 per share of common stock, both basic and diluted, based on approximately 209 million average shares outstanding. Excluding certain after tax charges of $541 million or $2.59 per share for the year ending December 31, 2002, results were $786 million or $3.76 per share. The charges relate to the asset impairment of investments in Argentina and losses from operations of those impaired assets, discontinued operations of Energy Technologies, and a generating facility in India, and goodwill impairment charges related to the adoption of SFAS 142. Earnings (Losses) Year Ended December 31, 2002 2001 2000 (Millions) Power $ 468 $ 394 $ 313 PSE&G 201 230 369 Energy Holdings: Resources 78 71 75 Global (302 ) 100 40 Other (A) (8 ) (4 ) (13 ) Other (B) (21 ) (15 ) (8 ) Subtotal 416 776 776 Loss from Discontinued Operations, including Loss on Disposal (51 ) (15 ) (12 ) Cumulative Effect of a Change in Accounting Principle (C) (120 ) 9 Total PSEG Net Income $ 245 $ 770 $ 764 Total PSEG Excluding Charges (D) $ 786 $ 776 $ 776 51 Contribution to Earnings Per Share (Basic and Diluted) Year Ended December 31, 2002 2001 2000 Power $ 2.24 $ 1.89 $ 1.46 PSE&G 0.96 1.11 1.71 Energy Holdings: Resources 0.37 0.34 0.35 Global (1.44 ) 0.48 0.19 Other (A) (0.04 ) (0.02 ) (0.06 ) Other (B) (0.10 ) (0.07 ) (0.04 ) Subtotal 1.99 3.73 3.61 Loss from Discontinued Operations, including Loss on Disposal (0.24 ) (0.07 ) (0.06 ) Cumulative Effect of a Change in Accounting Principle (C) (0.58 ) 0.04 Total PSEG Net Income $ 1.17 $ 3.70 $ 3.55 Total PSEG Excluding Charges (D) $ 3.76 $ 3.73 $ 3.61 (A) Other activities include amounts specific to Energy Holdings, Energy Technologies, Enterprise Group Development Corporation (EGDC) and intercompany eliminations. Specific amounts include interest on certain financing transactions and certain other administrative and general expenses at Energy Holdings. (B) Other activities include amounts specific to PSEG and intercompany eliminations. Specific amounts include interest on certain financing transactions and certain other administrative and general expenses at PSEG (parent company). (C) Relates to the adoption of SFAS 142 in 2002 and the adoption of SFAS No. 133 Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities (SFAS 133) in 2001. (D) Amount for 2002 excludes after tax charges presented in the summary table below of $541 million or $2.59 per share for the year ended December 31, 2002. For 2001 and 2000, these amounts reflect Income Before Discontinued Operations and Cumulative Effects of Changes in Accounting Principle. 52 The after tax charges relating to the items discussed above are summarized in the following table: Year Ended December 31, 2002 (Millions) PerShareImpact Global Argentina EDEERSA (A) and Assets Held for Sale to AES Write down of Project Investments $ 370 $ 1.77 Goodwill impairment 36 0.18 Total Argentina 406 1.95 India Tanir Bavi Discontinued Operations 9 0.04 Goodwill impairment 18 0.09 Total Tanir Bavi 27 0.13 Brazil RGE Goodwill impairment 34 0.16 Subtotal for Global 467 2.24 Energy Technologies Discontinued Operations 42 0.20 Goodwill impairment 32 0.15 Subtotal Energy Technologies 74 0.35 Total $ 541 $ 2.59 (A) Empresa Distribuidora de Electricidad de Entre Rios S.A. (EDEERSA) Excluding the charges discussed above, earnings for the year ended December 31, 2002 were largely consistent with the prior year. This is primarily due to higher margins at Power due to its successful participation as an indirect supplier of energy to New Jerseys utilities resulting from the recent BGS auction. The BGS related contracts, which went into effect on August 1, 2002 had a meaningful effect on PSEGs earnings, particularly during the fourth quarter when Power served its contractual obligations with low cost energy during the colder months. The strong performance of Powers nuclear generation facilities, which operated at a combined capacity factor of 94% during 2002, accounted for 60% of Powers generation output, providing low cost energy to meet its demand and delivering solid margins. PSE&G also improved earnings, due to stronger margins from gas rate relief, more favorable weather effects as compared to the prior year and a cost containment effort which reduced operating expenses during 2002. These positive factors were offset by higher interest costs at PSEG, Power and Energy Holdings, the absence of certain tax benefits realized by PSE&G in 2001 and comparatively lower contributions from investments at Energy Holdings, particularly the loss of earnings from Energy Holdings Argentine investments, continued weakness in the Texas markets and a lower gain from the Eagle Point Cogeneration Partnership (Eagle Point) transactions. Basic and diluted earnings per share of PSEGs common stock (Common Stock) was $3.70 for the year ended December 31, 2001, an increase of $0.15 per share, or 4.2% from the comparable 2000 period, including $0.12 of accretion as a result of PSEGs stock repurchase program, discussed in Liquidity and Capital Resources. In addition, PSEGs increased earnings for 2001 as compared to 2000 resulted from improved energy trading margins from Power, Globals withdrawal and sale of its interest in Eagle Point, acquisitions and expanded operations at Global, new leveraged lease investments at Resources and strong performance of Powers nuclear facilities. These increases more than offset the effects of unfavorable weather conditions at PSE&G, two BPU mandated 2% rate reductions effective in February 2001 and August 2001, which reduced Powers revenues and the effects of the securitization transaction that occurred on January 31, 2001. 53 PSEG Operating Revenues For the year ended December 31, 2002, Operating Revenues increased by $1.3 billion or 19%, due primarily to Powers BGS or commodity revenues subsequent to July 2002 not being eliminated in consolidation by PSEG. Under the BGS contract, which terminated on July 31, 2002, Power sold energy directly to PSE&G, which in turn sold this energy to its customers. These revenues were properly recognized on each companys stand alone financial statements and were eliminated when preparing PSEGs consolidated financial statements. For the new BGS contract period which began on August 1, 2002, Power entered into contracts with third parties who are direct suppliers of New Jerseys EDCs and PSE&G purchases the energy for its customers needs from such direct suppliers. Due to this change in the BGS model, these revenues are no longer intercompany revenues and therefore are not eliminated in consolidation. For the year ended December 31, 2002, PSEGs elimination related to intercompany BGS and MTC revenues decreased by approximately $798 million as compared to 2001 due to this change. Also related to this change in the BGS model, PSE&G, in 2002, began selling energy purchased under non utility generation (NUG) contracts, which it had previously sold to Power, to third parties. As a result, for the year ended December 31, 2002, PSEGs revenues related to NUG contracts increased by approximately $82 million. The remaining increase was due primarily to a $516 million increase from Power primarily related to the new BGS related revenues from third party wholesale electric suppliers which went into effect August 1, 2002 and revenues from off system gas sales, partially offset by lower MTC revenues and lower net trading revenues as discussed further under the Power segment discussion. Also contributing to the increase was a $111 million increase at Energy Holdings driven by higher electric revenues at Global, relating to acquisitions and projects going into operation and higher leveraged lease income at Resources, partially offset by lower investment earnings, as discussed below under Energy Holdings segment discussion. Additionally, increases were partially offset by a $172 million decrease in revenues from PSE&G primarily due to a decrease in gas distribution revenues, resulting partially from an average cost reduction of more than 10% in the cost of gas, in addition to other items discussed below under the PSE&G segment discussion. Operating Revenues increased by $534 million or 8% for the year ended December 31, 2001 as compared to 2000 due to a $204 million increase at PSE&G, primarily due to increased gas distribution revenues due to higher gas costs experienced in 2001, discussed further below in PSE&G, a $177 million increase at Power, primarily due to increased BGS revenue which resulted from customers returning to PSE&G in 2001, discussed further below in the Power segment discussion, and a $166 million increase at Energy Holdings primarily due to revenues related to various majority owned acquisitions and plants going into operation in 2001 at Global, the gain on the withdrawal and sale of Globals interest in Eagle Point and improved revenues from higher leveraged lease income from new leveraged lease transactions at Resources, partially offset by lower net investment gains at Resources and lower energy supply revenues, discussed further below under the Energy Holdings segment discussion. Operating Expenses Energy Costs For the year ended December 31, 2002, as compared to the prior year, Energy Costs increased approximately $1.1 billion or 41% due primarily to the fact that PSE&G no longer purchases electric energy directly from Power, as discussed above in Operating Revenues, but rather from third party wholesalers. In 2001, and through July 31, 2002, PSE&G incurred energy costs related to electric energy transactions between it and Power. Accordingly, these costs were properly recognized on each companys stand alone financial statements and were eliminated when preparing PSEGs consolidated financial statements. Amounts attributable to this change totaled $880 million between the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001. 54 The remaining increase was due to a $352 million increase at Power primarily related to increased energy purchases and third party wholesale electric supplier contracts, discussed further below in Power, and a $92 million increase at Energy Holdings, relating to acquisitions and projects going into operation at Global, discussed further below in Energy Holdings. These increases were partially offset by a $229 million decrease at PSE&G due primarily to decreased gas costs which resulted from lower demand, discussed further below in PSE&G. Energy Costs increased $251 million or 10% in 2001 as compared to 2000 due to a $91 million increase at Power, largely due to increased volumes under the BGS related contracts, discussed further below in Power, and increases at PSE&G, primarily due to a $167 million increase in gas costs related to increased demand and higher prices for gas, as discussed further below in PSE&G. These increases were partially offset by an $11 million decrease at Energy Holdings due to a decision to exit the energy supply business, partially offset by higher costs relating to acquisitions. Operations and Maintenance For the year ended December 31, 2002, Operations and Maintenance expense increased $55 million or 3% as compared to 2001 due primarily to increases caused by scheduled outages at certain of Powers electric generating stations, and an increase at Energy Holdings of $46 million, primarily due to costs associated with acquisitions and projects going into operation. This increase was partially offset by a $14 million decrease at PSE&G primarily due to decreased labor and professional service costs and partially offset by higher DSM amortization, discussed further below in PSE&G, and other charges of $12 million at PSEG. Operation and Maintenance expense increased $135 million or 8% in 2001 as compared to 2000 due primarily to increases of $56 million at PSE&G, partially relating to the deferral of costs incurred during 2000 in connection with deregulation that PSE&G expects to recover in future rates, $52 million of higher expenses at Power, primarily relating to projects going into operation during the second quarter of 2000, and a $29 million increase at Energy Holdings, primarily related to costs associated with acquisitions late in 2000 and during 2001. Depreciation and Amortization For the year ended December 31, 2002, Depreciation and Amortization increased $75 million or 15% as compared to 2001, primarily due to increases of $39 million at PSE&G, mainly due to a full periods recognition of amortization of the regulatory asset related to stranded costs for securitization, $13 million at Power, primarily due to increases from Bergen 2 being placed into service in 2002 and the absence of a prior year reversal of cost of removal reserves in 2002, and $19 million at Energy Holdings, primarily related to costs associated with acquisitions and projects going into operation. For the year ended December 31, 2001, Depreciation and Amortization increased $146 million or 42% as compared to 2000 primarily due to the amortization of the regulatory asset recorded for stranded costs, which commenced with the issuance of the transition bonds on January 31, 2001, and $10 million at Energy Holdings related to costs associated with acquisitions late in 2000 and during 2001. These increases were partially offset by a $41 million decrease at Power, primarily due to a reduction in the accrual for the estimated cost of removal of Powers generating stations. There was an additional increase of $13 million at PSEG primarily due to asset additions made in 2001. Taxes Other Than Income Taxes Taxes Other Than Income Taxes is comprised of the Transitional Energy Facility Assessment (TEFA) at PSE&G. Taxes Other Than Income Taxes increased $10 million or 8% in 2002 as compared to 2001. This increase was primarily due to a reduction of $7 million in the prior years TEFA recorded in 2001 and an increase of $3 million in the 2002 TEFA due to increased sales. Legislation enacted in January 2002 freezes the TEFA unit rate surcharges at the 2001 levels through 2004 and then reduces the rates over the next three years, phasing out the TEFA by 2007. Taxes Other Than Income Taxes decreased $14 million or 10% in 2001 as compared to 2000. This decrease was due primarily to a reduction of $7 million in the prior years TEFA recorded in 2001 and a reduction of $7 million from lower net taxable sales subject to the TEFA combined with a reduction in the TEFA rate. 55 Other Deductions For the year ended December 31, 2002, Other Deductions increased by $64 million as compared to 2001, primarily due to a $61 million increase in foreign currency transaction losses at Energy Holdings. For the year ended December 31, 2001, Other Deductions increased by $12 million as compared to 2001, primarily due to a $9 million increase in foreign currency transaction losses at Energy Holdings. Interest Expense For the year ended December 31, 2002, Interest Expense increased $61 million or 8% as compared to 2001 primarily due to higher amounts of debt outstanding at PSEG, Power and Energy Holdings used to support various projects and acquisitions and for other general corporate purposes, partially offset by decreases at PSE&G due to lower debt levels. For the year ended December 31, 2001, Interest Expense increased $151 million or 26% as compared to 2000 due primarily to the securitization debt issued in January 2001 at PSE&G. The increases in Interest Expense were also due to generally higher levels of debt at PSEG, Power and Energy Holdings used to support various projects and acquisitions and for other general corporate purposes. Preferred Securities Dividends For the year ended December 31, 2002, Preferred Securities Dividends decreased approximately $15 million primarily due to PSE&Gs redemptions of $448 million of preferred securities in March and June of 2001, partially offset by the issuance of $460 million of participating units and $180 million of trust preferred securities at PSEG in September 2002 and December 2002, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2001, Preferred Securities Dividends decreased approximately $22 million primarily due to PSE&Gs redemptions of $448 million of preferred securities in March and June of 2001. Income Taxes For the year ended December 31, 2002, Income Taxes decreased $133 million or 35% as compared to 2001 primarily due to lower pre tax income partially offset by adjustments in 2001 reflecting the conclusion of the 1994 96 IRS audit settlement and the actual filing of the 2000 tax return. For the year ended December 31, 2001, Income Taxes decreased $115 million or 23% as compared to 2000. The decrease was primarily due to lower pre tax income, adjustments in 2001 as a result of closing the audit for the 1994 1996 tax years and the actual filing of the tax return for 2000. PSE&G Operating Revenues For the year ended December 31, 2002, PSE&Gs Operating Revenues decreased $172 million or 3%, primarily due to a decrease of $155 million in gas distribution revenues. This decrease was due to lower commodity revenues resulting from an average cost reduction of more than 10% in the cost of gas (approximately $125 million). Also contributing to the decrease were lower sales to interruptible customers resulting from the lower cost of gas (approximately $88 million) and lower off system sales revenues (approximately $26 million). These decreases were partially offset by increased gas base rates and increased volumes, primarily due to residential usage driven by favorable weather conditions (approximately $75 million) and increased appliance service revenues (approximately $14 million). In addition, electric transmission and distribution revenues decreased $17 million, primarily due to a 4.9% rate reduction implemented in August 2002 under the Final Order and rate reductions in February and August 2001 totaling 4%, (approximately $123 million) which were recorded as reductions in MTC 56 revenues. Also affecting 2002 performance were decreases in NUG sales at market prices (approximately $15 million), lower DSM sales due to revenue adjustments in 2001 (approximately $19 million) and lower fiber optic revenues due to unfavorable market conditions (approximately $7 million). These were offset by increased BGS revenues, primarily due to customers returning to PSE&G from third party suppliers (approximately $104 million), and higher distribution volumes for residential and commercial customers (approximately $37 million) due to favorable weather conditions. For the year ended December 31, 2001, PSE&Gs Operating Revenues increased $204 million or 3%, primarily due to increased gas distribution revenues of $153 million due to higher gas costs experienced in 2001. Customer rates in all classes of business had increased in 2001 to recover a portion of the higher natural gas costs. The commercial and industrial classes fuel recovery rates vary monthly according to the market price of gas. The BPU also approved increases in the fuel component of the residential class rates of 16% in November 2000 and 2% for each month from December 2000 through July 2001. These increased revenues were partially offset by lower sales volumes in the fourth quarter of 2001 than the comparable period in 2000, primarily resulting from warmer weather. Also contributing to the higher revenues were increases in electric distribution and appliance service revenue (approximately $39 million) and increased electric commodity sales volumes (approximately $17 million) offset by rate reductions. The MTC tariff rate decreased 2% in February 2001, effective with the implementation of securitization. Effective August 1, 2001, PSE&G implemented another 2% rate reduction as required by the Final Order, which brought, at that time, the total rate decrease to 9% since August 1, 1999. These rate reductions amounted to approximately $100 million in 2001, an increase of approximately $40 million as compared to 2000, and were funded through the MTC component of rates, which, along with BGS revenues, was remitted to Power through Energy Costs. Under the BGSS, BGS and Levelized Gas Adjustment Clause (LGAC in 2001), PSE&Gs electric and gas costs in excess of (or below) the amount included in current commodity rates, are probable of being recovered from (returned to) customers through future commodity rates. PSE&G defers (records) costs in excess of (or below) the amount included in current commodity rates. Therefore any increase or decrease in PSE&Gs electric and gas commodity revenue is offset by a corresponding increase or decrease in gas costs on the Consolidated Statements of Operations. PSE&Gs electric and gas commodity revenues consist of BGS revenues, MTC revenues, NUG revenues, gas firm commodity revenues and gas interruptible revenues. Operating Expenses Energy Costs For the year ended December 31, 2002, PSE&Gs Energy Costs decreased $229 million or 6% due primarily to a decrease in gas costs of approximately $230 million which resulted from lower commodity sales volumes (approximately $125 million), lower volumes from interruptible customers due to lower rates (approximately $88 million) and lower off system sales volumes (approximately $18 million). Also contributing to the decrease were lower electric costs due to the MTC rate reductions discussed above in Operating Revenues (approximately $123 million) and decreased NUG energy sales due to lower rates (approximately $15 million). Offsetting these decreases were increased electric energy costs due to higher commodity sales volumes from customers returning from third party suppliers and a scheduled increase in the shopping credit (approximately $104 million) and higher amounts paid to Power relating to the amortization of the excess electric distribution depreciation reserve, a component of MTC (approximately $30 million). For the year ended December 31, 2001, Energy Costs increased $1.0 billion as compared to 2000 primarily due to higher electric energy costs (approximately $845 million) resulting from higher sales volumes and from PSE&G purchasing electricity from Power subsequent to August 2000. Also contributing to the increased Energy Costs were increased gas costs primarily due to higher natural gas costs (approximately $167 million). The increase was partially offset by lower natural gas purchases due to lower sales volumes resulting from warmer weather in the fourth quarter of 2001 as compared to the same period in 2000. Due to the LGAC, gas costs are increased or decreased to offset a corresponding increase or decrease in fuel revenues with no impact on income. 57 Operations and Maintenance Operations and Maintenance expense decreased $14 million or 1% in 2002 as compared to 2001 primarily comprised of decreased labor costs (approximately $9 million), decreased use of professional and contract services (approximately $7 million), lower charges for administrative and general services (approximately $7 million) and lower equipment rental (approximately $8 million). These decreases were offset by increased DSM amortization (approximately $14 million) and increased miscellaneous accounts receivable reserves (approximately $3 million). Operations and Maintenance expense decreased $301 million or 23% in 2001 as compared to 2000 primarily due to the elimination of $357 million in Operations and Maintenance expenses resulting from the transfer of the generation business to Power in August 2000. The decrease was partially offset by the deferral of costs incurred during 2000 in connection with deregulation that PSE&G expects to recover in future rates. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and Amortization expense increased $39 million or 11% in 2002 as compared to 2001 primarily due to a full periods recognition of amortization of the regulatory asset related to stranded costs for securitization (approximately $37 million). Also contributing was an increase in depreciable fixed assets (approximately $13 million) and higher depreciation expense recorded in accordance with increased gas base rates for plant assets (approximately $7 million). The increases were partially offset by higher amortization of the excess electric distribution depreciation reserve (approximately $22 million). Depreciation and Amortization expense increased $84 million or 29% in 2001 as compared to 2000 primarily due to approximately $180 million of amortization of the regulatory asset recorded for stranded costs, which commenced with the issuance of the transition bonds on January 31, 2001. This increase was partially offset by the elimination of $77 million of Depreciation and Amortization expense resulting from the transfer of the generation business to Power in August 2000. Taxes Other Than Income Taxes Taxes Other Than Income Taxes increased $10 million or 8% in 2002 as compared to 2001. This increase was primarily due to a reduction of $7 million in the prior years TEFA recorded in 2001 and an increase of $3 million in the 2002 TEFA due to increased sales. Legislation enacted in January 2002 freezes the TEFA unit rate surcharges at the 2001 levels through 2004 and then reduces the rates over the next three years, phasing out the TEFA by 2007. Taxes Other Than Income Taxes decreased $14 million or 10% in 2001 as compared to 2000. This decrease was due primarily to a reduction of $7 million in the prior years TEFA recorded in 2001 and a reduction of $7 million from lower net taxable sales subject to the TEFA combined with a reduction in the TEFA rate. Other Income Other Income decreased $83 million or 75% in 2002 as compared to 2001, due primarily to PSEGs settlement of an intercompany loan from PSE&G in 2001 (approximately $65 million) and lower interest income on investments (approximately $16 million). This was offset by a gain on disposal of properties (approximately $6 million). Other Income decreased $62 million or 36% in 2001 as compared to 2000, due primarily to PSE&Gs intercompany loans to PSEG and Power in 2001 (approximately $65 million) and decreased interest income (approximately $125 million). The intercompany loan was a step in PSE&Gs recapitalization as a result of the transfer of its generation business to Power. This was offset by lower gains on disposal of properties (approximately $3 million). 58 Interest Expense Interest Expense decreased $44 million or 10% for the year ended December 31, 2002 as compared to 2001, due to the redemption of short term debt in the third quarter of 2001 and lower interest rates in 2002 (approximately $14 million), the redemption of a floating rate note in 2001 (approximately $8 million), the maturity of long term debt (approximately $14 million), the repurchase of Pollution Control Bonds (approximately $3 million), the carrying costs on the deferred repair allowance (approximately $7 million) and NJ state accrued tax interest adjustments (approximately $2 million). These decreases were partially offset by higher securitization bond interest expense (approximately $7 million) related to Transition Fundings securitization bonds. Interest Expense increased $53 million or 13% in 2001 as compared to 2000 primarily due to interest of approximately $176 million on the bonds issued by Transition Funding on January 31, 2001. These were partially offset by $118 million in lower interest resulting from the reduction of short term and long term debt with the proceeds from the securitization bonds and the transfer of generation related assets to Power. Income Taxes Income taxes increased $26 million or 29% for the year ended December 31, 2002 as compared to 2001 primarily due to prior period tax adjustments recorded in 2001 reflecting the conclusion of the 1994 96 IRS audit settlement and the actual filing of the 2000 tax return. Income taxes decreased $318 million or 78% in 2001 as compared to 2000. These decreases were primarily due to lower operating income due to the transfer of the generation business in 2000. In addition, taxes decreased due to normal adjustments as a result of closing the 1994 96 IRS audit and upon filing the actual tax return for the year 2000. Power Operating Revenues For the year ended December 31, 2002, Powers Operating Revenues increased $1.2 billion or 50% primarily due to the inclusion of $804 million of gas revenues relating to its BGSS contract and off system gas sales resulting from the operations under the Gas Contracts transferred from PSE&G in May 2002. Also contributing to the increase was a $560 million increase in BGS related revenues, primarily due to the new BGS related revenues from third party wholesale electric suppliers which went into effect August 1, 2002 which was partially offset by lower MTC revenues of $98 million mostly due to a 4.9% rate reduction in August 2002 and two 2% rate reductions in August 2001 and February 2001. Also offsetting the increases were lower net trading revenues of approximately $83 million due to lower trading volumes and prices during 2002 as compared to 2001. For the year ended December 31, 2001, Powers Operating Revenues increased $177 million or 8% primarily due to an increase of $180 million in BGS revenue which resulted from customers returning to PSE&G in 2001 from third party suppliers as wholesale market prices exceeded fixed BGS rates. At December 31, 2001, third party suppliers were serving less than 1% of the customer load traditionally served by PSE&G as compared to the December 31, 2000 level of 10.5%. Also, net revenues from energy trading increased by $57 million or 78% for the year ended December 31, 2001. Partially offsetting this increase was a net $40 million decrease in MTC revenues, relating to two 2% rate reductions, discussed above, offset by a pre tax charge to income related to the recognition of MTC revenues in 2000. Operating Expenses Energy Costs For the year ended December 31, 2002, Powers energy costs increased $1.1 billion or 127% compared to 2001 primarily due to increased energy purchase volumes and third party wholesale electric supplier contracts of approximately $297 million and $738 million of increased gas purchases to satisfy Powers BGSS contract with 59 PSE&G. Also contributing to the increase were higher network transmission expenses of $102 million. These higher expenses were partially offset by a $67 million decrease in NUG purchases. Additionally, the record capacity factor of its nuclear units enabled Power to produce low cost generation for much of its supply needs. For the year ended December 31, 2001, energy costs increased $91 million over the 2000 period. The increase was largely due to increased volumes under the BGS related contracts. The higher volumes produced, coupled with increased fuel costs, mainly natural gas, contributed to the increase. These increases were partially offset by low cost generation from the continued strong performance of Powers nuclear generation facilities. Operations and Maintenance For the period ended December 31, 2002, Operations and Maintenance expense increased $35 million or 5% as compared to the same period in 2001 due primarily to increases caused by scheduled outage work at electric generating stations. Operation and Maintenance expense increased $52 million or 8% in 2001 as compared to 2000. Contributing to the increase were higher expenses relating to projects going into operation during the second quarter of 2000. Depreciation and Amortization For the period ended December 31, 2002, Depreciation and Amortization expense increased $13 million or 14% as compared to the same period in 2001 due primarily to increases from Bergen 2 being placed into service in 2002 and the absence of a prior year reversal of cost of removal reserves in 2002. Depreciation and Amortization expense decreased $41 million or 30% in 2001 as compared to 2000. The decrease was primarily due to a reduction in the accrual for the estimated cost of removal of Powers generating stations. Interest Expense Interest Expense decreased $21 million or 15% for the year ended December 31, 2002 from the comparable period in 2001 primarily due to improved financing rates and the repayment of intercompany notes, which resulted in a decrease in expense of $83 million. Offsetting these reductions were $94 million of increased interest expense associated with the issuance of the $2.4 billion of senior notes including $600 million issued in 2002, $124 million of pollution control bonds and increased non recourse financing associated with Lawrenceburg and Waterford, offset by capitalized interest relating to various construction projects of $32 million. Interest Expense decreased $55 million or 28% for the year ended December 31, 2001 from the comparable period in 2000 primarily due to the repayment of the $2.8 billion 14.2% promissory note to PSE&G, issued to finance the acquisition of PSE&Gs generation business. Income Taxes Income Taxes increased $63 million or 25% for the year ended December 31, 2002 as compared to 2001, and increased $42 million or 20% for the year ended December 31, 2001 as compared to 2000. The increases for both years were due primarily to increases in pre tax income. Energy Holdings Operating Revenues Energy Holdings revenues increased $111 million, or 17%, to $749 million in 2002 from $638 million in 2001. This increase was driven by higher electric revenues at Global and higher leveraged lease income at Resources, partially offset by lower investment earnings, as discussed below. 60 Energy Holdings revenues increased $166 million, or 35%, to $638 million in 2001 from $472 million in 2000. Increases totaling $235 million at Global and Resources, described below, were partially offset by $67 million of lower Energy Supply Revenues, as Energy Holdings exited that business in 2000. Global For the year ended December 31, 2002, the operating revenues increase of $105 million or 27% at Global was due primarily to the acquisitions in the second half of 2001 of Sociedad Austral de Electricidad S.A. (SAESA) ($79 million), a Chilean distribution company and Empresa de Electricidad de los Andes S.A. (Electroandes) ($46 million), a Peruvian hydroelectric generation and transmission company. Globals operating revenues also increased $57 million due to the generation facility located in Rades, Tunisia commencing operation in the second quarter of 2002. Also contributing $49 million to the increase in revenues was Skawina CHP Plan (Skawina), a generation facility in Poland, in which Global purchased a majority ownership in the second quarter of 2002. Revenues increased at the GWF Power System LP (GWF) energy peaking plants by $20 million as the Hanford and Henrietta Peaking Plants became operational in the second quarter of 2001 and 2002, respectively. Revenues further increased by $12 million due to improved earnings from RGE as new regulatory changes allowed RGE to recover from customers prior tariff charges previously expensed. Partially offsetting these increases was a decrease of $43 million at Empresa Distribuidora de Electricidad de Entre Rios S.A. (EDEERSA) due to the economic crisis in Argentina. Reduced earnings of $21 million at the GWF San Francisco Bay Area facilities and of $26 million at TIE, both as a result of lower energy prices in those markets, partially offset the revenue increases as well. Also partially offsetting the increase in revenues at Global were $31 million of losses at Prisma, including operational losses and an impairment to reduce the investment to its net realizable value, net of $11 million of interest income on a Euro denominated loan owed by the project. Prisma is currently held for sale to Globals partner in this joint venture, and the sale is expected to be completed in the first half of 2003. In addition, in 2001, Global recorded $75 million for the gain on the sale and withdrawal from the Eagle Point facility compared to the $47 million recorded for the withdrawal in 2002, resulting in a reduction of approximately $28 million. For the year ended December 31, 2001, revenues in the Global segment increased $227 million primarily due to $128 million of revenues related to various majority owned acquisitions and plants going into operation in 2001. Globals revenues also increased from the gain of $75 million on the withdrawal and sale of Globals interest in Eagle Point and was partially offset by a loss in equity earnings of $17 million, which was recorded in 2000 and not recorded in 2001, as a result of the withdrawal. In addition, revenues benefited from an increase of $45 million in interest income related to certain loans and notes, and approximately $29 million of increased revenues relating primarily to improved earnings of certain non consolidated projects. These increases were partially offset by lower revenues due to a reduction in earnings related to the adverse effect of foreign currency exchange rate movements between the US Dollar and Brazilian Real. Resources Resources operating revenues increased $6 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, as compared to 2001, primarily due to an increase of $44 million from higher leveraged lease income. The increase was mostly offset by lower net investment gains (losses) of $39 million, of which $37 million resulted from other than temporary impairments of non publicly traded equity securities within certain leveraged buyout funds and other investments, and $8 million resulted from a net decrease in the gains on the sale of properties subject to leveraged leases. For further discussion of other than temporary impairments, see Note 12. Risk Management Equity Securities. There was also a net increase of $6 million associated with the change in the carrying value of publicly traded equity securities in certain leveraged buyout funds. The decreases in the values of the publicly traded equity securities in 2002 and 2001 were $10 million and $16 million, respectively. Of the $44 million increase in leveraged lease income in 2002, $29 million resulted from a gain due to a recalculation of certain leveraged leases. A change in an essential assumption which affects the estimated total net income over the life of a leveraged lease requires a recalculation of the leveraged lease, from inception, using the revised information. The change in the net investment in the leveraged leases is recognized as a gain or loss in the year the assumption is changed. The change in assumption which occurred was related to a change in New Jersey tax rates applied in the leveraged lease calculations. This was due to the restructuring of Resources from a corporation to an LLC, which resulted in the ability to more efficiently match state tax expenses of an affiliate company with the state tax benefits associated with Resources lease portfolio. The remaining $15 million increase in leveraged lease income was due to additional investments in leveraged lease transactions in 2002 and 2001. 61 Revenues in the Resources segment increased by $8 million in 2001 compared to 2000 primarily due to improved revenues of $45 million from higher leveraged lease income from new leveraged lease transactions that was partially offset by lower net investment gains of $37 million. Operating Expenses Operating expenses increased $647 million for the year ended December 31, 2002 as compared to the same period in 2001. These operating expenses include a $497 million charge associated with the write down of all Argentine investments and certain loss contingencies. Operating expenses, less expenses associated with the $497 million impairment of Globals Argentine investments, increased $141 million for the year ended 2002 versus 2001 primarily due to operating expenses incurred at SAESA and Electroandes, two acquisitions that occurred in the second half of 2001. For the year ended December 31, 2001, operating expenses increased $35 million as compared to the same period in 2000, primarily due to costs at Global increasing by $103 million due to energy costs of $55 million for plant acquisitions and other projects commencing operation in 2001, partially offsetting a decrease in the cost of energy sales as Energy Holdings exited the energy supply business in 2000. Other Income Other Income increased $19 million in 2002, as compared to 2001 primarily driven by $12 million of net derivative gains resulting from a gain at SAESA of $11 million, with no comparable amount in 2001, and a $13 million gain on the Early Retirement of Debt. Other Income increased $3 million in 2001, as compared to 2000. Other Deductions Other Deductions increased $61 million in 2002, as compared to 2001 primarily due to the re measuring of the US Dollar denominated debt at EDEERSA to the devaluing Argentine Peso, which resulted in a loss of $68 million. Foreign exchange currency transaction losses were also impacted by a loss of $7 million related to the Chilean Peso at SAESA and a gain of $9 million related to a Euro denominated loan. Such loan is expected to be repaid in connection with the sale of Prisma. These net increases were partially offset by a $3 million loss on the Early Retirement of Debt in 2001, with no comparable amount in 2002. Other Deductions increased by $9 million in 2001, as compared to 2000 as a result of higher foreign exchange currency transaction losses related to the Brazilian Real at Globals investment in RGE and a loss on the early Retirement of Debt of $3 million in 2001. Interest Expense Interest Expense increased $34 million or 19% from $180 million in 2001 to $214 million in 2002. The increase was the result of selling $135 million of 8.625% Senior Notes in July 2002 and an increase in project level debt at Global of $273 million. The increase was partially offset by a decrease in interest expense from the repayments of borrowings under the revolving credit facilities. Interest Expense increased $46 million or 34% from $134 million to $180 million in 2001 as compared to 2000. Interest Expense associated with recourse financing activities increased $45 million primarily due to additional borrowings incurred as a result of equity investments in distribution and generation facilities. 62 Income Taxes Income taxes were a benefit of $150 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, a decrease of $215 million as compared to 2001. This is primarily a result of the write downs and asset impairments recorded during 2002, which resulted in a pre tax loss, thereby creating a tax benefit. Income taxes increased $14 million or 27% from $51 million to $65 million in 2001 as compared to 2000, primarily attributable to increased pre tax income. Losses From Discontinued Operations Energy Technologies Energy Holdings reduced the carrying value of the investments in the 11 HVAC/mechanical operating companies to their fair value less costs to sell, and recorded a loss on disposal for the year ended December 31, 2002 of $21 million, net of $11 million in taxes. Energy Holdings remaining investment position in Energy Technologies is approximately $56 million, of which approximately $32 million relates to deferred tax assets from discontinued operations, and $12 million relates to certain intercompany payables included in the current liabilities of Discontinued Operations. Although Energy Holdings believes that it will be able to sell the HVAC/mechanical companies, it can give no assurances that it will be able to realize their total carrying values. Operating results of Energy Technologies HVAC/mechanical operating companies, less certain allocated costs from Energy Holdings, have been reclassified into discontinued operations in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. The results of operations of these discontinued operations for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000 yielded additional losses of $21 million (after tax), $22 million (after tax) and $12 million (after tax), respectively. Tanir Bavi In the fourth quarter of 2002, Global sold its 74% interest in Tanir Bavi, a 220 MW barge mounted, combined cycle generating facility in India. Tanir Bavi meets the criteria for classification as a component of discontinued operations and all prior periods have been reclassified to conform to the current years presentation. Global reduced the carrying value of Tanir Bavi to the contracted sales price of $45 million and recorded a loss on disposal of $14 million (after tax) for the year ended December 31, 2002. The operating results of Tanir Bavi for the year ended December 31, 2002 yielded income of $5 million (after tax). See Note 5. Discontinued Operations of the Notes. Cumulative Effect of Change in Accounting Principle In 2002, Energy Holding finalized the evaluation of the effect of adopting SFAS 142 on the recorded amount of goodwill. Under this standard, PSEG was required to complete an impairment analysis of its recorded goodwill and record any resulting impairment. The total amount of goodwill impairments was $120 million, net of tax of $66 million and was comprised of $36 million (after tax) at EDEERSA, $34 million (after tax) at RGE, $32 million (after tax) at Energy Technologies and $18 million (after tax) at Tanir Bavi. All of the goodwill on these companies, other than RGE, was fully impaired. In accordance with SFAS 142, this impairment charge was recorded as of January 1, 2002 as a component of the Cumulative Effect of a Change in Accounting Principle and is reflected in the Consolidated Statements of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2002. See Note 2. New Accounting Standards of the Notes. In 2001, Energy Holdings adopted SFAS 133, which established accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments. Energy Holdings recorded an after tax gain of $9 million as a result of adopting SFAS 133. 63 Other Global The following summarizes the net contribution to Operating Income and Other Income and Other Deductions by Globals projects in the following regions for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000. Certain of these amounts include results from Globals equity method subsidiaries which are recorded net of taxes and financing costs. Years Ended December 31, Operating Income and Other Income (Deductions) (A) 2002 2001 2000 (Millions) North America $ 108 $ 159 $ 91 Chile 61 39 14 Peru 54 31 26 Brazil 20 1 21 Asia Pacific 6 9 6 All Other 16 6 1 Global Unallocated Administrative and General Expenses (B) (58 ) (58 ) (50 ) (A) Operating Income plus Other Income and Deductions in Argentina for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000 was $(558) million, $45 million and $14 million, respectively. (B) Includes $9 million of Loss Contingencies and Other expenses recorded in 2002 related to Energy Holdings investment in EDEERSA. Resources The following summarizes Resources lease revenue for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000 by credit quality of lease counterparties: Years Ended December 31 2002 2001 2000 (Millions) Lease Revenue Investment Grade(1) $ 164 $ 199 $ 155 Lease Revenue Non Investment Grade or not rated 96 16 15 Total (2) $ 260 $ 215 $ 170 Cash Flow Available From Leveraged Leases (3) (4) $ 215 $ 209 $ 244 Proceeds from Sale of Capital Leases (5) 183 104 89 Gross Cash Flow from Leveraged Leases $ 398 $ 313 $ 333 (1) Investment Grade means rated investment grade by both S&P and Moodys. For S&P, the minimum investment grade rating is BBB. For Moodys, the equivalent minimum investment grade rating is Baa3. (2) Operating lease income does not reflect operating lease expense. (3) Over 80% of lease cash flow is provided by tax payments from PSEG pursuant to a tax allocation agreement between PSEG and Energy Holdings. (4) The amounts are equal to Income from Capital and Operating Leases from the Consolidated Statements of Operations plus Leveraged Lease Income, Adjusted for Rents Received from the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. (5) In 2002, Resources received $183 million of cash proceeds associated with the termination of two lease transactions with affiliates of TXU Europe. As a result of these terminations, Resources will pay income taxes of $115 million in 2003. 64 LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES The following discussion of liquidity and capital resources is on a consolidated basis for PSEG, noting the uses and contributions of PSEGs three direct operating subsidiaries, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings. Financing Methodology PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings Capital requirements are met through liquidity provided by internally generated cash flow and external financings. PSEG, Power and Energy Holdings from time to time make equity contributions or otherwise provide credit support to their respective direct and indirect subsidiaries to provide for part of their capital and cash requirements, generally relating to long term investments. At times, PSEG utilizes intercompany dividends and intercompany loans (except that PSE&G may not make loans to its parent or to affiliates that are not its direct subsidiaries) to satisfy various subsidiary needs and efficiently manage short term cash needs. Any excess funds are invested in accordance with guidelines adopted by PSEGs Board of Directors. External funding to meet PSEGs and PSE&Gs needs, the majority of the requirements of Power and a substantial portion of the requirements of Energy Holdings, is comprised of corporate finance transactions. The debt incurred is the direct obligation of those respective entities. Some of the proceeds of these debt transactions are used by the respective obligor to make equity investments in its subsidiaries. As discussed below, depending on the particular company, external financing may consist of public and private capital market debt and equity transactions, bank revolving credit and term loans, commercial paper and or project financings. Some of these transactions involve special purpose entities (SPEs), formed in accordance with applicable tax and legal requirements in order to achieve specified beneficial financial advantages, such as favorable tax and legal liability treatment. All SPEs are consolidated where PSEG has controlling interest. The availability and cost of external capital could be affected by each subsidiarys performance, as well as by the performance of their respective subsidiaries and affiliates. This could include the degree of structural separation between PSEG and its subsidiaries and the potential impact of affiliate ratings on consolidated and unconsolidated credit quality. Additionally, compliance with applicable financial covenants will depend upon future financial position and levels of earnings and net cash flows, as to which no assurances can be given. Over the next several years, PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings will be required to refinance maturing debt and expect to incur additional debt and provide equity to fund investment activities. Any inability to obtain required additional external capital or to extend or replace maturing debt and or existing agreements at current levels and reasonable interest rates may adversely affect PSEGs financial condition, results of operations and net cash flows. From time to time, PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings may repurchase portions of their respective debt securities using funds from operations, asset sales, commercial paper, debt issuances, equity issuances and other sources of funding and may make exchanges of new securities, including common stock, for outstanding securities. Such repurchases may be at variable prices below, at or above prevailing market prices and may be conducted by way of privately negotiated transactions, open market purchases, tender or exchange offers or other means. PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings may utilize brokers or dealers or effect such repurchases directly. Any such repurchases may be commenced or discontinued at any time without notice. Power and Energy Holdings A portion of the financing for Globals projects and investments is generally provided by non recourse project financing transactions. These consist of loans from banks and other lenders that are typically secured by project and SPE assets and or cash flows. Two of Powers projects currently under construction have similar financing. 65 Nonrecourse transactions generally impose no material obligation on the parent level investor to repay any debt incurred by the project borrower. However, in some cases, certain obligations relating to the investment being financed, including additional equity commitments, are guaranteed by Global, Energy Holdings and or Power for their respective subsidiaries. The consequences of permitting a project level default include loss of any invested equity by the parent. PSEG has not currently provided any guarantees or credit support to PSE&G, Power or Energy Holdings, except for the minimum net worth maintenance support agreement to PSEG Capital Corporation (PSEG Capital), a subsidiary of Energy Holdings, which is planned to be eliminated upon maturity of PSEG Capital Corporations debt in May 2003. Cross Default Provisions PSEG The PSEG credit agreements contain default provisions under which a default by it, PSE&G, Power or Energy Holdings in an aggregate amount of $50 million would result in a default and the potential acceleration of payment under those agreements. The $350 million PSEG Credit Agreement which expires in December 2005 contains provisions that will eliminate the cross default to Energy Holdings, once the $495 million Energy Holdings Credit Agreement expires in May 2004, or is renewed prior to that time. PSEG expects to negotiate similar provisions in PSEGs other credit agreements. PSE&G PSE&Gs First and Refunding Mortgage (Mortgage) and its credit agreements have no cross defaults. The PSE&G Medium Term Note Indenture has a cross default to the PSE&G Mortgage. The credit agreements have cross defaults under which a default by PSE&G in the aggregate of $50 million would result in a default and the potential acceleration of payment under the credit agreements. Power The Power Senior Debt Indenture contains a default provision under which a default by it, Nuclear, Fossil or PSEG Energy Resources & Trade LLC (ER&T) in an aggregate amount of $50 million would result in a default and the potential acceleration of payment under the indenture. There are no cross defaults within Powers indenture from PSEG, Energy Holdings or PSE&G. Energy Holdings Energy Holdings credit agreements contain default provisions under which a default by it, Resources or Global in an aggregate amount of $5 million, or a default by PSEG in an aggregate amount of $75 million would result in an event of default and the potential acceleration of payment under those agreements. The Energy Holdings Senior Note Indenture contains cross default provisions under which a default by it, Resources or Global in an aggregate amount of $25 million would result in a default and the potential acceleration of payment under the indenture. Debt Covenants PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings The credit agreements generally contain customary provisions under which the lenders could refuse to advance loans in the event of a material adverse change in the borrowers business or financial condition. In that event, loan funds may not be advanced. As explained in detail below, some of these credit agreements also contain maximum debt to equity ratios, minimum cash flow tests and other restrictive covenants and conditions to borrowing. Compliance with applicable financial covenants will depend upon PSEGs future financial position and the level of earnings and cash flow, as to which no assurances can be given. 66 PSEG Financial covenants contained in PSEGs credit facilities include a ratio of debt (excluding non recourse project financings and securitization debt and including commercial paper and loans, certain letters of credit and similar instruments) to total capitalization covenant. This covenant requires that at the end of any quarterly financial period, such ratio not be more than 0.70 to 1. As of December 31, 2002, PSEGs ratio of debt to capitalization was 0.61 to 1. PSEGs expects that this ratio will decrease slightly later in 2003 due to earnings exceeding dividends and a onetime benefit due to the adoption of SFAS 143. See Note 2. New Accounting Standards of the Notes. PSEG has issued Deferrable Interest Subordinated Debentures in connection with the issuance of tax deductible preferred securities. If payments on those Deferrable Interest Subordinated Debentures are deferred, in accordance with their terms, PSEG may not pay any dividends on its common stock until such default is cured. Currently, there has been no deferral or default. PSE&G Financial covenants contained in PSE&Gs credit facilities include a ratio of Long Term Debt (excluding Long Term Debt Maturing within 1 Year) to Total Capitalization covenant. This covenant requires that at the end of any quarterly financial period, such ratio will not be more than 0.65 to 1. As of December 31, 2002, PSE&Gs ratio of Long Term Debt to Total Capitalization was 0.53 to 1. Under its Mortgage, PSE&G may issue new First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds against previous additions and improvements, provided that its ratio of earnings to fixed charges calculated in accordance with its Mortgage is at least 2:1, and or against retired Mortgage Bonds. At December 31, 2002, PSE&Gs Mortgage coverage ratio was 3.6:1. As of December 31, 2002, the Mortgage would permit up to approximately $1 billion aggregate principal amount of new Mortgage Bonds to be issued against previous additions and improvements. PSE&G has issued Deferrable Interest Subordinated Debentures in connection with the issuance of tax deductible preferred securities. If payments on those Deferrable Interest Subordinated Debentures are deferred, in accordance with their terms, PSE&G may not pay any dividends on its common or preferred stock until such default is cured. Currently, there has been no deferral or default. Energy Holdings Financial covenants contained in Energy Holdings credit facilities include the ratio of cash flow available for debt service (CFADS) to fixed charges. At the end of any quarterly financial period such ratio shall not be less than 1.50x for the 12 month period then ending. As a condition of borrowing, the pro forma CFADS to fixed charges ratio shall not be less than 1.75x as of the quarterly financial period ending immediately following the first anniversary of each borrowing or letter of credit issuance. CFADS includes, but is not limited to, operating cash before interest and taxes, pre tax cash distributions from all asset liquidations and equity capital contributions from PSEG to the extent not used to fund investing activity. As of December 31, 2002, Energy Holdings ratio of CFADS to fixed charges was 5.5x. In addition, the ratio of consolidated recourse indebtedness to recourse capitalization, as at the end of any quarterly financial period, shall not be greater than 0.60 to 1.00. This ratio is calculated by dividing the total recourse indebtedness of Energy Holdings by the total recourse capitalization. This ratio excludes the debt of PSEG Capital, which is supported by PSEG. As of December 31, 2002, Energy Holdings ratio of consolidated recourse indebtedness to recourse capitalization was 0.43 to 1.00. PSEG Capital has a Medium Term Note program which provides for the private placement of Medium Term Notes. Medium Term Notes are debt instruments, which may be issued with a maturity of 1 to 30 years. This Medium Term Note program is supported by a minimum net worth maintenance agreement between PSEG Capital and PSEG which provides, among other things, that PSEG (1) maintain its ownership, directly or indirectly, of all outstanding common stock of PSEG Capital, (2) cause PSEG Capital to have at all times a positive tangible net worth of at least $100,000 and (3) make sufficient contributions of liquid assets to PSEG Capital in order to permit it to pay its debt obligations. PSEG will eliminate its support of PSEG Capital debt by May 2003 at which time the total debt outstanding of $252 million will be repaid and the program will terminate. Ratings Triggers PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings The debt indentures and credit agreements of PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings do not contain any material ratings triggers that would cause an acceleration of the required interest and principal payments in the event of a ratings downgrade. However, in the event of a downgrade, any one or more of the affected companies may be subject to increased interest costs on certain bank debt. Power In connection with its energy marketing and trading activities, Power must meet certain credit quality standards as are required by counterparties. If Power loses its investment grade credit rating, ER&T would have to provide credit support (letters of credit or cash), which would significantly impact the cost of the energy trading activities. Powers Master Agreements and other supply contracts contain margin and or other collateral requirements that, as of December 31, 2002, could require Power to post additional collateral of approximately $320 67 million if Power were to lose its investment grade credit rating. These same contracts provide reciprocal benefits to Power. Providing this credit support would increase Powers costs of doing business and limit Powers ability to successfully conduct its energy trading operations. In addition, Power may be required by its counterparties to meet margin or other security requirements that may include cash payments. Power may also have to provide credit support for certain of its equity commitments if Power loses its investment grade rating. Energy Holdings Global and Energy Holdings may have to provide collateral of approximately $85 million for certain of their equity commitments if Energy Holdings ratings should fall below investment grade. Credit Ratings The current ratings of securities of PSEG and its subsidiaries are shown below and reflect the respective views of the rating agencies, from whom an explanation of the significance of their ratings may be obtained. There is no assurance that these ratings will continue for any given period of time or that they will not be revised by the rating agencies, if, in their respective judgments, circumstances so warrant. Any downward revision or withdrawal may adversely effect the market price of PSEGs, Energy Holdings, Powers and PSE&Gs securities and serve to increase those companies cost of capital and access to capital. Moodys(1) Standard & Poors(2) Fitch(3) PSEG: Preferred Securities Baa3 BB+ BBB Commercial Paper P2 A2 Not Rated PSE&G: Mortgage Bonds A3 A A Preferred Securities Baa2 BB+ BBB+ Commercial Paper P2 A2 F1 Power: Senior Notes Baa1 BBB BBB+ Energy Holdings: Senior Notes Baa3 BBB BBB PSEG Capital: Medium Term Notes Baa2 BBB BBB+ (1) On October 11, 2002 Moodys reaffirmed these credit ratings but changed the outlook from stable to negative for PSEG, Power and Energy Holdings. (2) Affirmed in the second quarter of 2002 and noted an outlook of stable. Standard and Poors has established an overall corporate credit rating of BBB for PSEG and each of its subsidiaries listed above. (3) Affirmed in the second quarter of 2002 and noted an outlook of stable, except for PSE&G Mortgage Bonds, which was noted as negative. Short Term Liquidity PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings In order to support its short term financing requirements as well as those of Power, PSEG has revolving credit facilities that are used both as a source of short term funding and to provide backup liquidity for its $1.0 billion commercial paper program. As of December 31, 2002, PSEGs consolidated total short term debt outstanding was $762 million consisting of $300 million of commercial paper and $101 million in loans outstanding under its uncommitted bilateral agreement and the amounts discussed below in PSE&G, Energy Holdings and Power. See Note 11. Schedule of Consolidated Debt of the Notes for a table illustrating the credit facilities, amounts outstanding and available liquidity as of December 31, 2002. 68 PSE&G PSE&G maintains credit facilities to provide backup for its $400 million commercial paper program. As of December 31, 2002, PSE&G had $183 million in commercial paper and $41 million in loans outstanding under its uncommitted bilateral agreement. See Note 11. Schedule of Consolidated Debt of the Notes for a table illustrating the credit facilities, amounts outstanding and available liquidity as of December 31, 2002. Power Power has a $50 million credit facility, but primarily relies on PSEG for its short term financing needs. As of December 31, 2002, there was $6 million outstanding in letters of credit under the credit facility of Power. See Note 11. Schedule of Consolidated Debt of the Notes for a table illustrating the credit facilities, amounts outstanding and available liquidity as of December 31, 2002. Energy Holdings Energy Holdings has credit facilities that are used both as a source of short term funding and to issue letters of credit. As of December 31, 2002, there was $74 million outstanding in letters of credit under the credit facilities of Energy Holdings and $137 million of non recourse short term financing at Global. See Note 11. Schedule of Consolidated Debt of the Notes for a table illustrating the credit facilities, amounts outstanding and available liquidity as of December 31, 2002. For information regarding the refinancing of maturing non recourse short term financing at SAESA, see Note 13. Commitments and Contingent Liabilities of the Notes. External Financings PSEG In 2002, PSEG began issuing new shares of its common stock under its Dividend Reinvestment Program (DRASPP) and its Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP), rather than purchasing them on the open market. For the year ended December 31, 2002 PSEG issued approximately 2.2 million shares for approximately $78 million pursuant to these plans. On May 21, 2002, $275 million of Floating Rate Notes matured. In September 2002, PSEG issued 9.2 million Participating Units with a stated amount of $50 per unit. Each unit consists of a 6.25% trust preferred security of PSEG Funding Trust I due 2007 having a liquidation value of $50, and a stock purchase contract obligating the purchasers to purchase shares of PSEG common stock in an amount equal to $50 on November 16, 2005. In exchange for the obligations under the purchase contract, the purchasers will receive quarterly contract adjustment payments at the annual rate of 4% until such date. The number of new shares issued on November 16, 2005 will depend upon the average closing price per share of PSEG common stock for the 20 consecutive trading days ending the third trading day immediately preceding November 16, 2005. Based on the formula described in the purchase contract, at that time PSEG will issue between 11,429,139 and 13,714,967 shares of its common stock based on a range of closing prices from $33.54 to $40.25 per share. The net proceeds from the sale of the Participating Units were $446 million and were used primarily to reduce short term debt. 69 In October 2002, PSEG closed on a $245 million private placement debt transaction with a five year average life and seven year final maturity. The coupon rate was 6.89% and the proceeds were used to reduce short term debt. In November 2002, PSEG issued 17.25 million shares of common stock pursuant to an underwritten public offering at a price of $26.55 per share. The net proceeds from the sale of common stock were $443 million and were used to reduce short term debt. In December 2002, PSEG Funding Trust II issued 7.2 million shares of $25 par value trust preferred securities. The net proceeds of $174 million were used to reduce short term debt. During 2002, PSEG contributed $400 million of equity to Energy Holdings, $200 million to Power and on January 21, 2003, PSEG contributed $170 million of equity to PSE&G. PSE&G PSE&G is required to obtain BPU authorization to issue any financing necessary for its capital program, including refunding of maturing debt and opportunistic refinancing. PSE&G has authorization from the BPU to issue up to an aggregate of $1 billion of long term debt through December 31, 2003 for the refunding of maturing debt and opportunistic refinancing of debt. PSE&G currently has authority to issue up to $750 million of short term debt through January 4, 2005. In addition, PSE&G expects to securitize approximately $250 million of deferred BGS costs. In August 2002, $257 million of 6.125% Series RR Mortgage Bonds matured. In September 2002, PSE&G issued $300 million of 5.125% Medium Term Notes due 2012, the proceeds of which were used to repay $290 million of 7.19% Medium Term Notes that matured. In January 2003, PSE&G issued $150 million of 5.00% Medium Term Notes due 2013. The proceeds were used to repay $150 million of 6.875% Series MM Mortgage Bonds which matured in January 2003. Also in January 2003, PSEG contributed $170 million to PSE&G to offset a minimum pension liability charge to OCI in order to maintain its targeted regulated equity ratio at approximately 42%. During 2002, PSE&G Transition Funding LLC (Transition Funding), a wholly owned subsidiary of PSE&G, repaid $121 million of securitization bonds. Since 1986, PSE&G has made regular cash payments to PSEG in the form of dividends on outstanding shares of its common stock. PSE&G paid common stock dividends of $305 million and $112 million to PSEG for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Power Powers short term financing needs are substantially met using PSEGs commercial paper program or lines of credit discussed above. 70 In June 2002, Power issued $600 million of 6.95% Senior Unsecured Notes due 2012. The proceeds were used to repay short term funding from PSEG, including amounts related to the gas contract transfer from PSE&G in May 2002. Energy Holdings In June 2002, Energy Holdings issued an additional $135 million of its 8.625% Series of Senior Notes due February 2008. In June 2002, July 2002 and October 2002, $98 million, $100 million and $30 million of PSEG Capital medium term notes (MTNs) with average borrowing rates of 3.12%, 6.95% and 6.80% matured, respectively. These MTNs were refunded with funds from operations and proceeds from borrowings under Energy Holdings credit facilities. The remaining maturity under the PSEG Capital Corporation program is $252 million, which matures in May 2003 and is expected to be refinanced through operating cash flows and existing short term credit facilities. During 2002, Energy Holdings repurchased approximately $54 million of its outstanding Senior Notes at prices below par value. OCI Charge for Pension Liability PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings Due to the weak financial markets over the past few years, PSEGs, PSE&Gs, Powers and Energy Holdings pension plan assets have not experienced the returns necessary to outpace the growth of the related pension liabilities. In accordance with SFAS No. 87, Employers Accounting for Pensions (SFAS 87), PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings were required to record a minimum pension liability on their respective Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2002. As calculated under SFAS 87, a minimum pension liability exists and must be recorded when the accumulated benefit obligation (ABO) of the plan exceeds the fair value of the plan assets. The excess of the ABO over the fair value of the plan assets is recorded as a charge to OCI within the equity section of the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The offsetting adjustment is recorded as a pension liability or as a reduction of certain pension plan intangible assets as applicable. The minimum pension liability is reduced or reversed when cash funding occurs, or when the fair value of the pension plan assets grow to a level above that of the ABO. As of December 31, 2002, PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings recorded after tax charges to OCI as follows: (Millions) PSE&G $ 172 Power 84 Energy Holdings 6 Services 35 Total PSEG $ 297 PSEG funded the pension plan by $250 million in 2002 and plans on contributing $175 million in 2003, but will consider increasing this planned contribution to remove the OCI charge based on market conditions. For additional information, see Note 17. Pension, Other Postretirement Benefit (OPEB) and Savings Plans of the Notes. 71 CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS Forecasted Expenditures PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings PSEG, Power and Energy Holdings have substantially reduced their respective capital expenditure forecasts in response to tightening market conditions resulting from market and lender concerns regarding the overall economy and the industry in particular, including an investor and rating agency focus on leverage ratios. It is expected that the majority of each subsidiarys capital requirements over the next five years will come from internally generated funds, with the balance to be provided by the issuance of debt at the subsidiary or project level and equity contributions from PSEG. Projected construction and investment expenditures, excluding nuclear fuel purchases for Power, for PSEGs subsidiaries for the next five years are as follows: 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 (Millions) PSE&G $ 450 $ 450 $ 450 $ 450 $ 500 Power 500 675 250 75 50 Energy Holdings 100 50 50 50 Total PSEG $ 1,050 $ 1,125 $ 750 $ 575 $ 600 PSE&G PSE&G projects future capital needs in order to maintain continuous additions to its transmission and distribution systems to manage reliability. In 2002, PSE&G had net plant additions of $472 million related to improvements in its transmission and distribution system, gas system and common facilities. Power Powers capital needs will be dictated by its strategy to continue to develop as a profitable, growth oriented supplier in the wholesale power market. Power has revised its schedule for completion of several projects under development to provide better sequencing of its construction program with anticipated market demand. This should allow Power to conserve capital in 2003 and will allow it to take advantage of the expected recovery of the electric markets and its anticipated need for capacity in 2005. Powers subsidiaries have substantial commitments as part of their ongoing construction programs. Power will continue to evaluate its development and construction requirements in relation to the energy and financial markets. In 2002, Power made approximately $1.3 billion of capital expenditures, primarily related to developing the Lawrenceburg, Indiana, Waterford, Ohio and Bethlehem, New York (Albany) sites and adding capacity to the Bergen and Linden stations in New Jersey. Energy Holdings Energy Holdings capital needs in 2003 are limited to fulfilling existing contractual commitments. All of the forecasted expenditures in 2005 through 2007 related to Energy Holdings are discretionary. In 2002, Energy Holdings subsidiaries made net investments totaling approximately $237 million. These investments include a majority interest in a coal fired generation facility in Poland, additional investments in existing generation and distribution facilities and projects by Global and investments in capital leases by Resources. Partially offsetting these investments was a loan repayment from TIE and proceeds from the termination of two lease transactions with affiliates of TXU Europe. For further discussion of the loans to TIE and the termination of the two lease transactions, see Note 22. Related Party Transactions and Note 8. Long Term Investments of the Notes. 72 Disclosures about Long Term Maturities, Contractual and Commercial Obligations and Certain Investments The following table summarizes anticipated recourse and non recourse debt maturities for the years shown. Payments for Transition Funding are based on expected payment dates rather than final maturity dates. Long Term Debt Maturities: 2003 2004 2005 2006 Thereafter (Millions) PSEG $ $ $ $ $ 248 PSE&G 300 286 125 147 2,069 Transition Funding (PSE&G) 129 138 146 155 1,783 Power 500 2,016 Energy Holdings(A) 252 276 1,449 Non recourse project financing Power 800 Energy Holdings 68 42 48 53 710 Total $ 749 $ 742 $ 1,119 $ 855 $ 8,275 (A) The $252 million in 2003 for Energy Holdings represents the total remaining maturities under the PSEG Capital Corporation program. The following tables, reflect PSEG and its subsidiaries contractual cash obligations and other commercial commitments in the respective periods in which they are due. Contractual Cash Obligations Total Amounts Committed Less Than 1 Year 2 3 years 4 5 years Over 5 years (Millions) Short Term Debt Maturities PSEG $ 401 $ 401 $ $ $ PSE&G 224 224 Energy Holdings 137 137 Long Term Debt Maturities PSEG 248 248 PSE&G 2,927 300 411 260 1,956 Transition Funding (PSE&G) 2,351 129 284 317 1,621 Power 3,316 800 500 2,016 Energy Holdings 2,898 320 366 106 2,106 Preferred Securities Redemptions PSEG 705 705 PSE&G 155 155 Capital Lease Obligations PSE&G 80 6 12 12 50 Power 19 1 2 4 12 Operating Leases PSE&G 13 3 6 4 Energy Holdings 37 6 9 8 14 Services 8 1 2 2 3 Fuel Purchase Commitments: Power 545 163 140 101 141 Total Contractual Cash Obligations $ 14,064 $ 1,691 $ 2,032 $ 1,314 $ 9,027 Power As of December 31, 2002, Power had guaranteed equity contribution commitments with respect to its subsidiaries of $134 million. Power also issued guarantees with respect to certain energy trading contracts, see Note 13. Commitments and Contingent Liabilities of the Notes for further discussion. 73 Energy Holdings As of December 31, 2002, Energy Holdings had guaranteed equity contribution commitments of $141 million and other guarantees of $167 million. In the normal course of business, Energy Technologies secures construction obligations with performance bonds issued by insurance companies. As of December 31, 2002, Energy Technologies had performance bonds outstanding of $228 million which were supported by Energy Holdings and of which $45 million was at risk for projects currently under construction. This amount is expected to decrease as Energy Technologies construction projects are completed. The performance bonds are not included in the table below. See Note 13. Commitments and Contingent Liabilities of the Notes for further discussion. Other Commercial Commitments: Total Amounts Committed Less Than 1 year 2 3 years 4 5 years Over 5 years (Millions) Standby Letters of Credit Power $ 73 $ 28 $ 2 $ $ 43 Energy Holdings 74 70 4 Guarantees and Equity Commitments Power 134 134 Energy Holdings 265 123 55 87 Total Commercial Commitments $ 546 $ 355 $ 2 $ 59 $ 130 Off Balance Sheet Arrangements Energy Holdings Global has certain investments that are accounted for under the equity method in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Accordingly, amounts recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets for such investments represents Globals equity investment which is increased for Globals pro rata share of earnings less any dividend distribution from such investments. The companies in which PSEG invest that are accounted for under the equity method have an aggregate $1.7 billion of debt on their combined, consolidated financial statements. PSEGs pro rata share of such debt is $700 million. This debt is non recourse to PSEG, Energy Holdings, and Global. PSEG is generally not required to support the debt service obligations of these companies. However, default with respect to this nonrecourse debt could result in a loss of invested equity. Resources has investments in leveraged leases that are accounted for in accordance with SFAS No. 13 Accounting for Leases. Leveraged lease investments generally involve three parties: an owner/lessor, a creditor and a lessee. In a typical leveraged lease financing, the lessor purchases an asset to be leased. The purchase price is typically financed 80% with debt provided by the creditor and the balance comes from equity funds provided by Resources, as the lessor. The creditor provides long term financing to the transaction, and is secured by the property subject to the lease. Such long term financing is non recourse to Resources. As such, in the event of default, the creditor may only look to the leased asset as security for its loan. As a lessor, Resources has ownership rights to the property and rents the property to the lessee for use in its business operation. As of December 31, 2002, Resources equity investment in leased assets was approximately $1.5 billion, net of deferred taxes of approximately $1.3 billion. For additional information, see Note 8. Long Term Investments of the Notes. In the event that collectibility of the minimum lease payments to be received by the lessor is no longer reasonably predictable, the accounting treatment for some of the leases may change. In such cases, Resources may deem that a lessee has a high probability of defaulting on the lease obligation. In many instances, Resources has protected its equity investment in such transactions by providing for the direct right to assume the debt obligation under certain circumstances. Debt assumption would be at Resources sole discretion and normally only would occur if an appraisal of the leased property yielded a value that exceeds the present value of the debt outstanding. 74 Should Resources ever directly assume a debt obligation, the fair value of the underlying asset and the associated debt would be recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets instead of the net equity investment in the lease. In 2000, Resources reclassified an investment in a real estate leveraged lease due to the unpredictability of future rent collections, and assumed a debt obligation of $24 million. ACCOUNTING ISSUES New Accounting Standards SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets (SFAS 142) PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings On January 1, 2002, PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings adopted SFAS 142. Under this standard, PSEG was required to complete an impairment analysis of goodwill by June 30, 2002 and record any required impairment retroactive to January 1, 2002. Under SFAS 142, goodwill is considered a nonamortizable asset and is subject to an annual review for impairment and an interim review when certain events or changes in circumstances occur. The effect of no longer amortizing goodwill on an annual basis was not material to PSEGs, PSE&Gs, or Powers financial position and results of operations upon adoption. Power and Energy Holdings Power and Energy Holdings evaluated the recoverability of the recorded amount of goodwill based on certain operating and financial factors. Such impairment testing included discounted cash flow tests which require broad assumptions and significant judgment to be exercised by management. As a result of adopting this new standard, in 2002 Energy Holdings recorded after tax charges to reflect the goodwill impairment of $120 million and such amount has been recognized as a Cumulative Effect of a Change in Accounting Principle in accordance with the new standard. All of these charges related to investments of Energy Holdings. See Note 2. New Accounting Standards of the Notes for additional discussion on the adoption of this standard. SFAS No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations (SFAS 143) PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings Effective January 1, 2003, PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings will adopt SFAS 143. SFAS 143 addresses accounting and reporting for obligations associated with the retirement of tangible long lived assets and the associated asset retirement costs. It applies to legal obligations associated with the retirement of long lived assets that result from the acquisition, construction, development and or the normal operation of a long lived asset. A legal obligation is a liability that a party is required to settle as a result of an existing or enacted law, statute, ordinance or contract. Under SFAS 143, a company must initially recognize the fair value of a liability for an asset retirement obligation in the period in which it is incurred and concurrently capitalize an asset retirement cost by increasing the carrying amount of the related long lived asset by the same amount as the liability. A company shall subsequently allocate that asset retirement cost to expense over its useful life. In periods subsequent to the the initial measurement, an entity shall recognize changes in the liability resulting from the passage of time (accretion) or due to revisions to either the timing or the amount of the originally estimated cash flows. Changes in the liability due to accretion will be charged to the Consolidated Statements of Operations whereas changes due to the timing or amount of cashflows shall be an adjustment to the carrying amount of the related asset. PSE&G and Power Power has performed a review of its potential obligations under SFAS 143 and believes that its quantifiable obligations are primarily related to the decommissioning of its nuclear power plants. Amounts collected from PSE&G customers are remitted to Power and deposited into the Nuclear Decommissioning Trust (NDT) Fund and realized and unrealized gains and losses in the trust were all recorded as changes in the NDT Fund with an offsetting charge to 75 the liability. As of December 31, 2002, Power had a $766 million asset and liability recorded on its Consolidated Balance Sheets for nuclear decommissioning. In addition to the quantifiable obligations, Power identified certain legal obligations that meet the criteria of SFAS 143 which at this time are not quantifiable. These obligations relate to certain industrial establishments subject to the Industrial Site Recovery Act, underground storage tanks subject to the Spill Compensation and Control Act, permits and authorizations, the restoration of an area occupied by a reservoir when the reservoir is no longer needed, an obligation to retire certain plants from operation, prior to the initial burning of fuel from a new plant and the demolition of certain plants and the restoration of the sites on which reside when the plants are no longer in service. In August 2002, PSE&G filed a petition requesting clarification from the BPU regarding the future cost responsibility for nuclear decommissioning and whether: (a) PSE&Gs customers will continue to pay for such costs; or (b) such customer responsibility will terminate at the end of the four year transition period on July 31, 2003 and become the sole responsibility of Power. The outcome of this petition will affect the treatment of a material portion of the liability recorded for Powers nuclear decommissioning obligation. If the BPU determines that PSE&Gs customers will continue to pay for these costs, the majority of the difference between the previously recorded amount of the liability and the liability calculated under SFAS 143 will continue to be deferred on the balance sheet. If the BPU determines that such customer responsibility terminates at the end of the transition period, then the net effect of implementation will be recorded as a one time benefit as a Cumulative Effect of a Change in Accounting Principle. A decision is expected as part of PSE&Gs electric base rate case, which is expected to be completed prior to July 2003. Although the outcome of this petition cannot be predicted, management believes that the net effect of adopting this accounting standard should be recorded in earnings. Power also has $131 million of liabilities, $7 million of which relates to legal obligations, recorded on its Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2002 related to the Cost of Removal associated with its fossil generating stations. These potential obligations are required to be reversed upon implementation of SFAS 143. Therefore, upon adoption of this standard on January 1, 2003, PSEG and Power will record an adjustment for a Cumulative Effect of a Change in Accounting Principle in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings by reducing the existing liabilities to their present value. It is anticipated that the result will be a benefit to net income, and therefore equity, in a range of $300 million to $400 million. Of this amount, $200 million to $300 million relates to interests in certain nuclear units Power purchased from PSE&G which are subject to the BPU issue discussed above, approximately $55 million relates to interests in certain nuclear units Power purchased from Atlantic City Electric Company (ACE) and Delmarva Power and Light Company (DP&L) which are not subject to BPU approval and approximately $70 million relates to the cost of removal liabilities for the fossil units being reversed. The BPU could decide that the future cost for decommissioning the nuclear units rests with PSE&Gs customers. If that is the case, the portion of the benefit recorded to equity related to the nuclear units Power purchased from PSE&G would be reversed and a regulatory liability would be established. The $55 million related to the nuclear units purchased from ACE and DP&L and the $70 million related to the cost of removal liabilities for the fossil units would be unaffected. PSE&G As of December 31, 2002, PSE&G had no legal liabilities, as contemplated under SFAS 143, recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets and therefore the effect of adoption will not result in an adjustment to the Consolidated Statement of Operations. PSE&G does, however, have cost of removal liabilities embedded within Accumulated Depreciation pursuant to SFAS 71. Since PSE&G is a regulated enterprise, these amounts will continue to be recorded and presented in Accumulated Depreciation and will be disclosed in accordance with SFAS 143. PSE&G has identified certain legal obligations that meet the criteria of SFAS 143 which at this time are not quantifiable and therefore unable to be recorded. These obligations relate to certain industrial establishments subject to the Industrial Site Recovery Act, underground storage tanks subject to the Spill Compensation and Control Act, leases and licenses, and the requirement to seal natural gas pipelines at all sources of gas when the pipelines are no longer in service. 76 Energy Holdings Energy Holdings identified certain legal obligations that met the criteria of SFAS 143 and are not expected to be material to the Consolidated Statement of Operations. SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets (SFAS 144) PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings On January 1, 2002, SFAS 144 which provides guidance on the accounting for the impairment or disposal of long lived assets, became effective. For long lived assets to be held and used, the new rules are similar to previous guidance which required the recognition of an impairment when the undiscounted cash flows will not recover its carrying amount. The impairment to be recognized will continue to be measured as the difference between the carrying amount and fair value of the asset. The computation of fair value now removes goodwill from consideration and incorporates a probability weighted cash flow estimation approach if fair value is not readily determinable. The previous guidance provided in SFAS No. 121, Accounting for the Impairment of Long Lived Assets and Long Lived Assets to be Disposed of, (SFAS 121) is to be applied to assets that are to be disposed of by sale. Additionally, assets qualifying for discontinued operations treatment have been expanded beyond the former major line of business or class of customer approach. Long lived assets to be disposed of by other than sale will now recognize impairment at the date of disposal, but will be considered assets to be held and used until that time. There was no impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements due to adoption of these rules. SFAS No. 145, Rescission of FASB Statements Nos. 4, 44 and 64, Amendment of FASB Statement No. 13, and Technical Corrections (SFAS 145) PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings Effective January 1, 2002, PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings adopted SFAS 145. This Statement rescinds SFAS No. 4, Reporting Gains and Losses from Extinguishments of Debt, (SFAS 4) and an amendment of that Statement, SFAS No. 64, Extinguishments of Debt Made to Satisfy Sinking Fund Requirements (SFAS 64). SFAS 4 required that gains and losses from extinguishments of debt that were included in the determination of net income be aggregated, and if material, classified as an extraordinary item. Since the issuance of SFAS 4, the use of debt extinguishments has become part of the risk management strategy of many companies, representing a type of debt extinguishment that does not meet the criteria for classification as an extraordinary item. Based on this trend, the FASB issued this rescission of SFAS 4 and SFAS 64. Accordingly, under SFAS 145, PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings now record these gains and losses in Other Income and Other Deductions, respectively. Energy Holdings Energy Holdings recorded pre tax gains of $13 million ($8 million after tax) from the early retirement of debt as a component of Other Income for the period ended December 31, 2002. Also, Energy Holdings reclassified a pre tax loss of $3 million ($2 million after tax) from the early retirement of debt to a component of Other Deductions for the period ended December 31, 2001. Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue No. 02 3, Accounting for Contracts Involved in Energy Trading and Risk Management Activities (EITF 02 3) PSEG, PSE&G and Power EITF 02 3 requires all gains and losses on energy trading contracts to be reported on a net basis. Also, energy trading contracts that do not qualify as derivatives will no longer be marked to market. Instead, accrual accounting will be used. The consensus was effective for all new contracts executed after October 25, 2002, and requires a cumulative effect adjustment to income in the first quarter of 2003 for all contracts executed prior to October 25, 2002. The vast majority of PSEGs energy contracts qualify as derivatives under SFAS 133 and will therefore continue to be marked to market. Management believes the impact of adopting this consensus will not be material to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Pursuant to EITF Issue No. 99 19, Reporting Revenue Gross as a Principal versus Net as an Agent (EITF 99 19), PSE&G and Power had been recording trading revenues and trading related costs on a gross basis for physical energy and capacity sales and purchases. In accordance with EITF 02 3, beginning in the third quarter of 2002, 77 Power started reporting energy trading revenues and energy trading costs on a net basis and have reclassified prior periods to conform with this net presentation. As a result, both Operating Revenues and Energy Costs were reduced by approximately $1.9 billion, $2.3 billion and $2.6 billion for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. This change in presentation did not have an effect on trading margins, net income or cash flows. Financial Interpretation (FIN) No. 45, Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others (FIN 45) PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings FIN 45 enhances the disclosures to be made by a guarantor in its interim and annual Financial Statements about its obligations under certain guarantees that it has issued. It also clarifies that a guarantor is required to recognize, at the inception of a guarantee, a liability for the fair value of the obligation undertaken in issuing the guarantee, although PSEG does not anticipate the recording of such liabilities will be material to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The initial recognition and initial measurement provisions of this Interpretation are applicable on a prospective basis to guarantees issued or modified after December 31, 2002. The disclosure requirements are effective for financial statements of interim or annual periods ending after December 15, 2002. For further information regarding Powers and Energy Holdings respective guarantees, refer to Note 13. Commitments and Contingent Liabilities of the Notes. FIN No. 46, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities (VIE) (FIN 46) PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings FIN 46 clarified the application of Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51, Consolidated Financial Statements, to certain entities in which equity investors do not have the characteristics of a controlling financial interest. Because a controlling financial interest in an entity may be achieved through arrangements that do not involve voting interests, FIN 46 sets forth specific requirements with respect to consolidation, measurement and disclosure of such relationships. Disclosure requirements for existing qualifying entities are effective for financial statements issued after January 31, 2003. All enterprises with VIEs created after February 1, 2003, shall apply the provisions of FIN 46 no later than the beginning of the first interim period beginning after June 15, 2003. Although, PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings are evaluating the potential impact of this standard, it is not expected to have a material impact. Other PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings In connection with the January 2003 EITF meeting, the FASB was requested to reconsider an interpretation of SFAS 133. The interpretation, which is contained in the Derivatives Implementation Groups C 11 guidance, relates to the pricing of contracts that include broad market indices. In particular, that guidance discusses whether the pricing in a contract that contains broad market indices (e.g., Consumer Price Index) could qualify as a normal purchase or sale under SFAS 133. PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings are currently reevaluating which contracts, if any, that have previously been designated as normal purchases or sales, would now not qualify for this exception. PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings are currently evaluating the effects that this guidance will have on their respective results of operations, financial position and net cash flows. Critical Accounting Estimates PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings Under GAAP, there are many accounting standards that require the use of estimates, variable inputs and assumptions (collectively referred to as estimates) that are subjective in nature. Because of this, differences between the actual measure realized versus the estimate can have a material impact on results of operations, financial position and cash flows. The management of PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy 78 Holdings has each, respectively, determined that the following estimates are considered critical to the application of rules that relate to its business. Accounting for Pensions PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings account for pensions under SFAS 87. Under these rules, certain assumptions which are subjective by nature are made. There are many subjective assumptions involved in determining an entitys pension liabilities and costs each period including demographic information such as life expectancy and pay increases, and financial metrics, such as discount rates used to determine the pension liability and assumed rate of return on the pension assets which affects annual pension costs. PSEGs assumptions are supported by historical data and reasonable projections and are reviewed with an outside actuary firm and investment advisors. As of December 31, 2002, PSEG used a 6.75% discount rate and a 9% annual rate of return. In selecting an assumed discount rate, PSEG uses a rate based on a blend of the Aa Moodys Corporate and Utility Indices. The 9% annual rate of return is consistent with PSEGs cumulative returns on the pension funds since inception and with a study performed late in 2002 of projected returns for PSEGs pension funds based on their asset allocation, maturities and an active investment manager. The following chart reflects the sensitivities associated with a change in certain actuarial assumptions by the indicated percentage. While the chart below reflects an increase or decrease in the percentage for each assumption, PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings and its actuaries expect that the inverse of this change would impact the projected benefit obligation (PBO), the reported pension liability on the Consolidated Balance Sheets and the reported annual pension cost on the Consolidated Statements of Operations by a similar amount in the opposite direction. Each sensitivity below reflects an evaluation of the change based solely on a change in that assumption only. Actuarial Assumption Current Change/ (Decrease) Impact on PBO Increase to Pension Expense (Millions) Discount Rate 6.75 % (1 %) $ 350 $ 26 Rate of Return on Plan Assets 9.0 % (1 %) $ 22 Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities SFAS 133 requires an entity to recognize the fair value of derivative instruments held as assets or liabilities on the balance sheet. In accordance with SFAS 133, the effective portion of the change in the fair value of a derivative instrument designated as a cash flow hedge is reported in OCI, net of tax, or as a regulatory asset (liability). Amounts in accumulated OCI are ultimately recognized in earnings when the related hedged forecasted transaction occurs. The change in the fair value of the ineffective portion of the derivative instrument designated as a cash flow hedge is recorded in earnings. Derivative instruments that have not been designated as hedges, such as energy trading contracts, are adjusted to fair value through earnings. PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings have entered into various derivative instruments, including hedges of anticipated electric and gas purchases, interest rate swaps and foreign currency hedges which have been designated as cash flow hedges. Management may choose to designate these contracts as hedges based on its business practices, if such derivatives meet the effectiveness test under SFAS 133. The fair value of the derivative instruments is determined by reference to quoted market prices, listed contracts, published quotations or quotations from counterparties. In the absence thereof, PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings utilize mathematical models 79 based on current and historical data. The fair value of most of PSEGs derivatives is determined based upon quoted market prices. For additional information regarding Derivative Financial Instruments, see Note 12. Risk Management of the Notes. Accounting for Deferred Taxes PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings provide for income taxes based on the asset and liability method required by SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases, as well as net operating loss and credit carryforwards. PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings evaluate the need for a valuation allowance of their respective deferred tax assets based on the likelihood of expected future taxable benefits. PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings do not believe a valuation allowance is necessary; however, if the expected level of future taxable income changes or certain tax planning strategies become unavailable, PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings would record a valuation allowance through income tax expense in the period the valuation allowance is deemed necessary. Accounting for Long Lived Assets SFAS 144, a new standard related to testing long lived assets for impairment, was adopted on January 1, 2002. Testing under SFAS 144 is essentially the same as the asset impairment tests PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings performed under SFAS 121. This test consisted of an undiscounted cash flow analysis to determine if an impairment existed, and, if an impairment existed, a discounted cash flow test would be performed to quantify it. The new standard is broader in that it includes discontinued operations as part of its scope. This test requires the same judgment to be employed by management in building assumptions related to future earnings of individual assets or an investment as was required in determining potential impairments of goodwill as discussed above. These tests are required whenever events or circumstances indicate an impairment may exist. Examples of potential events which could require an impairment test are when power prices become depressed for a prolonged period in a market, when a foreign currency significantly devalues, or when an investment generates negative operating cash flows. Any potential impairment of investments under these circumstances is recorded as a component of operating expenses. PSE&G Unbilled Revenues Electric and gas revenues are recorded based on services rendered to customers during each accounting period. PSE&G records unbilled revenues for the estimated amount customers will be billed for services rendered from the time meters were last read to the end of the respective accounting period. Unbilled usage is calculated in two steps. The initial step is to apply a base usage per day to the number of unbilled days in the period. The second step estimates seasonal loads based upon the time of year and the variance of actual degree days and temperature humidity index hours of the unbilled period from expected norms. The resulting usage is priced at current rate levels and recorded as revenue. A calculation of the associated energy cost for the unbilled usage is recorded as well. Each month the prior months unbilled amounts are reversed and the current months amounts are accrued. The resulting revenue and expense reflect the billed data less the portion booked in the prior month plus the unbilled portion of the current month. SFAS 71 Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation PSE&G prepares its Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with the provisions of SFAS 71, which differs in certain respects from the application of GAAP by non regulated businesses. In general, SFAS 71 recognizes that accounting for rate regulated enterprises should reflect the economic effects of regulation. As a result, a regulated 80 utility is required to defer the recognition of costs (a regulatory asset) or the recognition of obligations (a regulatory liability) if it is probable that, through the rate making process, there will be a corresponding increase or decrease in future rates. Accordingly, PSE&G has deferred certain costs, which will be amortized over various future periods. To the extent that collection of such costs or payment of liabilities is no longer probable as a result of changes in regulation and or PSE&Gs competitive position, the associated regulatory asset or liability is charged or credited to income. See Note 7. Regulatory Assets and Liabilities of the Notes for further discussion of these and other regulatory issues. Power and Energy Holdings Accounting for Goodwill SFAS 142 requires an entity to evaluate its goodwill for impairment at least annually or when indications of impairment exist. An impairment may exist when the carrying amount of goodwill exceeds its implied fair value. Accounting estimates related to goodwill fair value are highly susceptible to change from period to period because they require management to make cash flow assumptions about future sales, operating costs, economic conditions and discount rates over an indefinite life and the impact of recognizing an impairment could have a material impact on financial position and results of operations. Power and Energy Holdings perform annual goodwill impairment tests and continuously monitor the business environment in which they operate for any impairment issues that may arise. As indicated above, certain assumptions are used to arrive at a fair value for goodwill testing. Such assumptions are consistently employed and include, but are not limited to, free cash flow projections, interest rates, tariff adjustments, economic conditions prevalent in the geographic regions in which Power and Energy Holdings do business, local spot market prices for energy, foreign exchange rates and the credit worthiness of customers. If an adverse event were to occur, such an event could materially change the assumptions used to value goodwill and could result in impairments of goodwill. For further information, see Note 2. New Accounting Standards of the Notes. 81 FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS Except for the historical information contained herein, certain of the matters discussed in this report constitute forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated. Such statements are based on managements beliefs, as well as assumptions made by and information currently available to management. When used herein, the words will, anticipate, intend, estimate, believe, expect, plan, hypothetical, potential, forecast, projections variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify forward looking statements. PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. The following review of factors should not be construed as exhaustive or as any admission regarding the adequacy of PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings disclosures prior to the effective date of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. In addition to the risks identified in MD&A Overview and Future Outlook and in addition to any assumptions and other factors referred to specifically in connection with such forward looking statements discussed above, factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated in any forward looking statements include, among others, the following: PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings credit, commodity, interest rate, counterparty and other financial market risks, could have an adverse impact; liquidity and the ability to access capital and credit markets, could have an adverse impact; acquisitions, divestitures, mergers, restructurings or strategic initiatives that change PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings structure; business combinations among competitors and major customers could change financial position, results of operations or net cash flows; general economic conditions including inflation; changes to accounting standards or generally accepted accounting principles, which may require adjustments to financial statements and may affect future results; changes in tax laws and regulations which could affect cash flows and business prospects; energy obligations, available supply and trading risks may have an adverse impact; changes in the electric industry including changes to power pools could have an adverse impact; regulation and availability of power transmission facilities may impact ability to deliver output to customers; growth in costs and expenses could have an adverse impact; environmental regulation significantly impacts operations; changes in rates of return on overall debt and equity markets could have an adverse impact on the value of pension assets and the NDT fund; changes in political conditions, recession, acts of war or terrorism could have an adverse impact; insurance coverage may not be sufficient; involvement in lawsuits, including liability claims and commercial disputes, could affect profits or ability to sell and market products; inability to attract and retain management and other key employees could have an adverse impact; ability to service debt as a result of any of the aforementioned events could have an adverse impact; PSE&G & Energy Holdings ability to obtain adequate and timely rate relief; regulatory issues significantly impact operations; 82 Power and Energy Holdings low energy prices could adversely affect revenues and cash flows; excess supply due to overbuild in the industry may have adverse effects; generation operating performance may fall below projected levels; the operations are subject to substantial competition from well capitalized participants in the worldwide energy markets; inability to effectively manage trading risk could have an adverse impact; margin posting requirements could have an adverse effect on cash flows; availabililty of fuel at reasonable prices; competitive position could be adversely affected by actions involving competitors or major customers; changes in product or sourcing mix could have an adverse impact; acquisition, construction and development may not be timely or successful; changes in technology may make power generation assets less competitive; Energy Holdings because a significant portion of business is conducted outside the United States, adverse international developments could negatively impact its business; changes in foreign currency exchange rates; unavailability of leveraged lease investments with adequate returns at reasonable risk could have an adverse impact; inadequate operating performance or legal protections of leveraged lease investments could have an adverse impact; substandard operating performance or cash flow from investments could fall below projected levels, adversely impacting the ability to service its debt; and credit of lessees to service the leases. Consequently, all of the forward looking statements made in this report are qualified by these cautionary statements and PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings cannot assure you that the results or developments anticipated by management will be realized, or even if realized, will have the expected consequences to, or effects on PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings or its business prospects, financial condition or results of operations. Undue reliance should not be placed on these forward looking statements in making any investment decision. Each PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings expressly disclaim any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to these forward looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that occur or arise or are anticipated to occur or arise after the date hereof. In making any investment decision regarding PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings securities, PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings is not making, and you should not infer, any representation about the likely existence of any particular future set of facts or circumstances. The forward looking statements contained in this report are intended to qualify for the safe harbor provisions of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. 83 ITEM 7A. QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings The market risk inherent in PSEGs, PSE&Gs, Powers and Energy Holdings market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, equity security prices and interest rates as discussed in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Each of PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings policy is to use derivatives to manage risk consistent with its respective business plans and prudent practices. PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings utilize the PSEG Risk Management Committee (RMC) comprised of executive officers which utilizes an independent risk oversight function to ensure compliance with corporate policies and prudent risk management practices. Additionally, PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings are exposed to counterparty credit losses in the event of non performance or non payment. PSEG has a credit management process which is used to assess, monitor and mitigate counterparty exposure for PSEG and its subsidiaries. In the event of non performance or non payment by a major counterparty, there may be a material adverse impact on PSEG and its subsidiaries financial condition, results of operations or net cash flows. Foreign Exchange Rate Risk Energy Holdings Global is exposed to foreign currency risk and other foreign operations risk that arise from investments in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. A key component of this risk is that some of its foreign subsidiaries and affiliates utilize currencies other than the consolidated reporting currency, the US Dollar. Additionally, certain of Globals foreign subsidiaries and affiliates have entered into monetary obligations and maintain receipts/receivables in US Dollars or currencies other than their own functional currencies. Primarily, Global is exposed to changes in the US Dollar to Brazilian Real exchange rate, the US Dollar to Euro exchange rate, the US Dollar to Polish Zloty exchange rate and the US Dollar to Chilean Peso exchange rate. With respect to the foreign currency risk associated with the Brazilian Real and the Chilean Peso, there has already been significant devaluation since the initial acquisition of these investments, which has resulted in reduced US Dollar earnings and cash flows relative to initial projections. Whenever possible, these subsidiaries and affiliates have attempted to limit potential foreign exchange exposure by entering into revenue contracts that adjust to changes in foreign exchange rates. Global also uses foreign currency forward, swap and option agreements, wherever possible, to manage risk related to certain foreign currency fluctuations. As of December 31, 2002, the devaluing Brazilian Real has resulted in a cumulative $225 million loss of value which is recorded as a $202 million after tax charge to Other Comprehensive Income related to Globals equity method investments in RGE, a Brazilian distribution company. An additional devaluation in the December 31, 2002 Brazilian Real to the US Dollar exchange rate of 10% would result in a $3 million change in the value of the investment in RGE and an after tax $3 million impact to Other Comprehensive Income. Additionally, Global has $52 million of monetary receivables in Euros subject to fluctuations in the US Dollar to Euro exchange rate. If the December 31, 2002 Euro to US Dollar exchange rate were to change by 10%, Global would record a $4 million after tax foreign currency transaction gain or loss. Global also has net monetary positions in the Polish Zloty related to its consolidated investments in ELCHO and Skawina, Polish generation companies. If the December 31, 2002 Polish Zloty to US Dollar exchange rate were to change by 10%, Global would record a $4 million after tax foreign currency transaction gain or loss. An additional exposure related to foreign currency risk includes the $157 million of monetary obligations in US Dollars subject to fluctuations in the US Dollar to Chilean Peso exchange rate. If the December 31, 2002 exchange rate of the Chilean Peso to the US Dollar were to change by 10%, Energy Holdings would record an after tax $9 million foreign currency transaction gain or loss. Such gain or loss should be materially offset by gains or 84 losses on the Chilean Peso forward exchange contract hedging such exposure. See Note 12. Risk Management of the Notes. With respect to any other monetary assets or liabilities subject to foreign currency risk, a 10% change in any individual US Dollar to local currency exchange rate would not be material. Commodity Contracts Power and Energy Holdings The availability and price of energy commodities are subject to fluctuations from factors such as weather, environmental policies, changes in supply and demand, state and Federal regulatory policies and other events. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, Power and Energy Holdings enter into supply contracts and derivative contracts, including forwards, futures, swaps and options with approved counterparties, to hedge their respective anticipated supply and demand differential. These contracts, in conjunction with owned electric generation capacity and demand obligations, make up the portfolio. Power and Energy Holdings use a value at risk (VaR) model to assess the market risk of their respective commodity businesses. This model includes fixed price sales commitments, owned generation, load requirements, physical contracts and financial derivative instruments. VaR represents the potential gains or losses, under normal market conditions, for instruments or portfolios due to changes in market factors, for a specified time period and confidence level. Power and Energy Holdings estimate VaR across their respective commodity businesses. Power VaR Model Power manages its exposure at the portfolio level. Its portfolio consists of owned generation, gas or electric load serving contracts, gas supply contracts and energy derivatives designed to manage the risk around the differential between generation and load. The RMC established a VaR threshold of $50 million for a one week (5 business days) holding period at a 95% (two tailed) confidence level. The RMC will be notified if the VaR reaches $40 million and the portfolio will be closely monitored. The risk is monitored by area of responsibility. The Board of Directors of PSEG is notified if a VaR threshold of $75 million is reached. The current modeling process and methodology has been reviewed by a third party consulting firm. This review included analysis and comparison of Powers current VaR process and methodology to other processes and methodologies used in the energy industry. PSEG believes the evaluation indicates that Powers methodology to calculate VaR is reasonable. The model is an augmented variance/covariance model adjusted for the delta of positions with a 95% two tailed confidence level for a one week holding period. The model is augmented to incorporate, the non log normality of energy related commodity prices, especially emissions and capacity and the non stationary nature of energy volatility. The model also assumes no hedging activity throughout the holding period whereas Power actively manages its portfolio. As of December 31, 2002, VaR was approximately $7 million, compared to the December 31, 2001, level of $18 million. Previous to 2002, Powers load was considered an indefinite obligation; therefore, for consistency purposes Power decided to model both the cost to serve its load obligation and the value of its generation assets on a rolling 12 month basis. At present, Powers load obligation is determined by the results of the annual BGS auction. In February 2003, the BPU held two simultaneous auctions for load obligations covering overlapping time periods. Two thirds of New Jerseys fixed price BGS load was auctioned for the 10 months from August 2003 through May 2004 and the remaining one third was auctioned for the 34 months from August 2003 through May 2006. The combined result is that all of New Jerseys fixed price BGS load is auctioned through May 2004, while only one third is auctioned for the 24 months from June 2004 through May 2006. To maintain an actionable VaR, generation 85 and load (based on an assumed success rate in the auction) are both modeled at 100% of their assumed value through May 2004 and at one third of the assumed value of each from June 2004 through May 2006. Powers VaR Associated with Generating Assets and Commodity Contracts For the Year Ended December 31, 2002 Total VaR (Millions) 95% Confidence Level, Five Day Holding Period, Two Tailed: Period End $ 7.5 Average for the Period $ 18.1 High $ 33.8 Low $ 7.5 99% Confidence Level, One Day Holding Period, Two Tailed: Period End $ 4.4 Average for the Period $ 10.7 High $ 19.9 Low $ 4.4 Energy Holdings VaR Model In general, Energy Holdings manages its commodity exposure through power purchase agreements. One notable exception is its partial ownership of TIE, which owns two merchant energy plants that manage their risk through short term energy sales. The model is a variance/covariance model with a two tailed 95% confidence level for a one week holding period. Expected energy output and fuel usage are modeled as forward obligations. The Electric Reliability Council of Texas (ERCOT) system is a closed system and is less liquid than PJM. This makes estimates of volatility and correlation less reliable. As of December 31, 2002 and December 31, 2001, VaR was approximately $4 million. Energy Holdings VaR Associated with Generating Assets and Commodity Contracts For the Year Ended December 31, 2002 Total VaR (Millions) 95% Confidence Level, Five Day Holding Period, Two Tailed: Period End $ 4.2 Average for the Period $ 4.9 High $ 8.1 Low $ 2.5 99% Confidence Level, One Day Holding Period, Two Tailed: Period End $ 2.5 Average for the Period $ 2.9 High $ 4.8 Low $ 1.5 86 Interest Rates PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings are subject to the risk of fluctuating interest rates in the normal course of business. PSEGs, PSE&G, Power & Energy Holdings policy is to manage interest rate risk through the use of fixed rate debt, floating rate debt, interest rate swaps and interest rate lock agreements. PSEG, PSE&G, Power & Energy Holdings manages its interest rate exposure by maintaining a targeted ratio of fixed and floating rate debt. As of December 31, 2002, a hypothetical 10% change in market interest rates would result in a $1 million, $4 million, $2 million, and $2 million, change in annual interest costs related to debt at PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings, respectively. In addition, as of December 31, 2002, a hypothetical 10% change in market interest rates would result in a $8 million, $216 million, $122 million, and $50 million change in the fair value of the debt of PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings, respectively. Debt and Equity Securities PSEG PSEG has approximately $2.1 billion invested in its pension plan. Although fluctuations in market prices of securities within this portfolio do not directly affect PSEGs earnings in the current period, changes in the value of these investments could affect PSEGs future contributions to these plans, its financial position if the accumulated benefit obligation under its pension plan exceeds the fair value of its pension funds and future earnings as PSEG would earn a lower return on the fund balance and could be required to adjust its assumed rate of return. Power Powers Nuclear Decommissioning Trust (NDT) fund is comprised of both fixed income and equity securities totaling $766 million at December 31, 2002. The equity securities are independently marked to market each month by the Trustee. As of December 31, 2002, the portfolio was comprised of approximately $445 million of equity securities and approximately $321 million in fixed income securities. The fair market value of the NDT assets will fluctuate depending on the performance of equity markets. As of December 31, 2002, a hypothetical 10% change in the equity market would impact the value of Powers equity securities by approximately $45 million. Power uses duration to measure the interest rate sensitivity of the fixed income portfolio. Duration is a summary statistic of the effective average maturity of the fixed income portfolio. Also, it is an essential tool in immunizing portfolios from interest rate risk. The benchmark for the fixed income component of the NDT Fund is the Lehman Brothers Aggregate Bond Index which currently has a duration of 3.79 years and a yield of 3.66%. The portfolios value will appreciate or depreciate by the duration with a 1% change in interest rates. As of December 31, 2002, a hypothetical 1% increase in interest rates would result in a decline in the market value for the fixed income portfolio of approximately $12 million. Energy Holdings Resources has investments in equity securities and limited partnerships. Resources carries its investments in equity securities at their approximate fair value as of the reporting date. Consequently, the carrying value of these investments is affected by changes in the fair value of the underlying securities. Fair value is determined by adjusting the market value of the securities for liquidity and market volatility factors, where appropriate. As of December 31, 2002, Resources had investments in leveraged buyout funds of approximately $93 million, of which $24 million was comprised of public securities with available market prices and $69 million was comprised of non publicly traded securities. The 87 potential change in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% change in quoted market prices of the publicly traded investments amounted to $2 million as of December 31, 2002. Credit Risk PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings Credit risk relates to the risk of loss that PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings would incur as a result of non performance by counterparties pursuant to the terms of their contractual obligations. PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings have established credit policies that they believe significantly minimize credit risk. These policies include an evaluation of potential counterparties financial condition (including credit rating), collateral requirements under certain circumstances and the use of standardized agreements, which may allow for the netting of positive and negative exposures associated with a single counterparty. Power Counterparties expose Power to credit losses in the event of non performance or non payment. Power has a credit management process which is used to assess, monitor and mitigate counterparty exposure for Power and its subsidiaries. In the event of non performance or non payment by a major counterparty, there may be a material adverse impact on Power and its subsidiaries financial condition, results of operations or net cash flows. As of December 31, 2002 over 89% of the credit exposure (mark to market plus net receivables and payables, less cash collateral) for Powers trading operations was with investment grade counterparties. The majority of the credit exposure with non investment grade counterparties is with certain companies that supply fuel to Power. Therefore, this exposure relates to the risk of a counterparty performing under its obligations rather than payment risk. As of December 31, 2002, Powers trading operations had over 177 active counterparties. As a result of the New Jersey BGS auction, Power contracted to provide energy to the direct suppliers of New Jersey electric utilities, including PSE&G, commencing August 1, 2002. Subsequently certain bidders failed to meet the credit standards required under the BGS auction process and a portion of the contracts with those bidders was reassigned to Power. Therefore, for a limited portion of the New Jersey retail load, Power is a direct supplier to one utility, although this utility is not PSE&G. Power sells electricity to nine direct supplier counterparties that serve the load of the utilities, and one utility directly. Four of these supplier counterparties pay Power directly, and one of the four prepays its purchases. The revenue from the remaining five counterparties is paid directly from the utilities that those suppliers serve, and the related margin due to the counterparties is recorded as a liability and will be remitted to those counterparties separately. These bilateral contracts are subject to credit risk. This risk is substantially higher than the risk that was associated with potential nonpayment by PSE&G or any other electric distribution company (EDC) making direct payment under the BGS contract which expired on July 31, 2002, since the EDCs are rate regulated entities. This credit risk relates to the ability of counterparties to meet their payment obligations for the power delivered under each BGS related contract. Any failure to collect these payments under the BGS related contracts could have a material impact on Powers results of operations, cash flows and financial position. Power expects the credit risk and risk mitigation measures to be similar under the BGS related contracts commencing August 1, 2003. In December 2001, Enron Corp. (Enron) and its subsidiaries filed for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the US Bankruptcy Code. Power had entered into a variety of energy trading contracts with Enron and its affiliates as part of its energy trading activities. Enron has guaranteed the obligations of its subsidiaries. Power undertook various measures to mitigate its exposure to Enron and its subsidiaries and other counterparties which could have been affected by the Enron bankruptcy. As of December 31, 2002, Enron has claimed that Power owes Enron North America approximately $52 million and has asserted that payment obligations of Enron Power Marketing to Power in the amount of $14 million may not be offset against this amount. The parties have engaged in settlement discussions. Power believes that it has valid claims and defenses against Enron and its subsidiaries, which it will vigorously pursue. Based on these discussions, rulings in the bankruptcy proceeding and its evaluations of its legal rights and obligations, Power believes the net amount payable in this matter may approximate $30 million. 88 Energy Holdings Leveraged Leases Resources has credit risk related to its investments in leveraged leases, totaling $1.5 billion, which is net of deferred taxes of $1.3 billion, as of December 31, 2002. These investments are significantly concentrated in the energy related industry and have some exposure to the airline industry. Resources is the lessor of various aircraft to several domestic and foreign airlines. Resources leases a Boeing B767 aircraft to United Airlines (UAL). In December 2002, UAL filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection. UAL has stated that it intends to retain B767 aircraft and use them in place of the Boeing 747. UAL has an additional debt obligation of $53 million associated with this aircraft. Resources will work constructively with UAL to keep the leveraged lease in place. However, if UAL is unable to meet the lease requirements, Energy Holdings could realize an adverse impact to its Consolidated Statements of Operations and net cash flows. The gross invested balance of this investment as of December 31, 2002 was $21 million. Resources is the lessor of domestic generating facilities in several US energy markets. As a result of recent actions of the rating agencies due to concerns over forward energy prices, the credit of some of the transaction lessees, or ultimate guarantors of the lease obligations, was downgraded. As of December 31, 2002, 65% of counterparties in the lease portfolio were rated investment grade by both S&P and Moodys. Specifically, the lessees in the following transactions were downgraded below investment grade during 2002 by these rating agencies. Resources investment in such transactions was approximately $455 million, net of deferred taxes of $294 million as of December 31, 2002. Resources leases 1,173 MW of coal fired generation to Reliant Energy Mid Atlantic Power Holdings LLC (REMA), an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Reliant Resources Incorporated (RRI). The leased assets are the Keystone, Conemaugh and Shawville generating facilities located in the PJM West market in Pennsylvania. In addition to the leased assets, REMA also owns and operates another 2,830 MW located within PJM. REMA is capitalized with over $1 billion of equity from RRI and has no debt obligations senior to the lease obligations. REMA is currently rated B by S&P and B3 by Moodys. As the lessor/equity participant in the lease, Resources is protected with significant lease covenants that restrict the flow of dividends from REMA to its parent, and by over collateralization of REMA with an additional 2,830 MWs of non leased assets, transfer of which is restricted by the financing documents. Restrictive covenants include historical and forward cash flow coverage tests that prohibit discretionary capital expenditures and dividend payments to the parent/lessee if stated minimum coverages are not met, and similar cash flow restrictions if ratings are not maintained at stated levels. The covenants are designed to maintain cash reserves in the transaction entity for the benefit of the non recourse lenders and the lessor/equity participants in the event of a market downturn or degradation in operating performance of the leased assets. The lease capitalization includes approximately $578 million of non recourse debt. Resources investment in the REMA transaction was $128 million, net of deferred taxes of $92 million as of December 31, 2002. Resources is the lessor of the Collins facility to Midwest Generation LLC (Midwest), an indirect subsidiary of Edison Mission Energy (EME). Collins is comprised of 2,698 MWs of oil and natural gas fired assets located in the Mid American Interconnected Network (MAIN) power market located in the mid western region of the US. Midwest has a contract with Exelon to supply capacity and energy for 1,078 MWs for Collins through December 2003 with an option to extend. Both Midwest and EME are rated BB by S&P and Ba3 by Moodys. In addition to the leased assets, Midwest owns and operates an additional 4,459 MWs of generation assets, excluding the Powerton and Joliet generating stations discussed below. The restrictive covenants protecting Resources are similar to those noted above in the REMA transaction. Midwest has a debt obligation of approximately $1.5 billion at a holding company above Midwest. The Collins lease is pari passu with this debt obligation. The lease capitalization includes approximately $774 million of non recourse debt. Resources investment in the Collins facility was $107 million, net of deferred taxes of $78 million as of December 31, 2002. Resources also leases the Powerton and Joliet generating stations located in the MAIN market to Midwest. Both Powerton and Joliet are coal fired stations comprising 2,896 MWs of gross generating capacity. The lease obligations are guaranteed by EME. The guarantee contains certain restrictive covenants including, but not limited to, additional investment, liens and sales of non leased collateral. In addition, EME is required to maintain a minimum net worth equal to $400 million plus cumulative, consolidated net income earned by it and its subsidiaries since 1992 (without subtracting losses). The lease capitalization includes 89 approximately $733 million of non recourse debt. Resources investment in the Powerton and Joliet transaction was $90 million, net of deferred taxes of $80 million as of December 31, 2002. Resources is the lessor of the 370 MW coal fired Danskammer plant to Dynegy Danskammer LLC (Danskammer) and the 1,200 MW natural gas/oil fired Roseton plant to Dynegy Roseton LLC (Roseton). Both Danskammer and Roseton are indirect subsidiaries of Dynegy Holdings Inc (DHI). The lease obligations are guaranteed by DHI which is currently rated B by S&P and Caa2 by Moodys. The lease capitalization includes approximately $800 million of non recourse debt. Resources investment in the Danskammer and Roseton transaction was $129 million, net of deferred taxes of $43 million as of December 31, 2002. The non recourse debt and Resources equity investment in this transaction represented the full acquisition price of the underlying plants. In the domestic lease transactions described above, Resources has protected its equity investment by providing for the right to assume the debt obligation at its discretion in the event of default by the lessee with the condition that the lease debt is rated at least equal to the rating that existed at the date of the original transaction. If Resources were pursuing a debt assumption, it would first seek to renegotiate all relevant terms of the agreement with the lenders. Debt assumption normally only would occur if an appraisal of the leased property yielded a value that exceeds the present value of the debt outstanding. Should Resources ever directly assume a debt obligation, the fair value of the underlying asset and the associated debt would be recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets instead of the net equity investment in the lease. As of December 31, 2002, Resources determined that the collectibility of the minimum lease payments under its leveraged lease investments is still reasonably predictable and therefore continues to account for these investments as leveraged leases. Other In 2000, Global withdrew from its interest in the Eagle Point Cogeneration Partnership (EPCP) with El Paso Corp. in exchange for a series of contingent payments over five years. These payments are expected to total $290 million, subject to certain subsequent annual facility performance factors. When such factors are met on an annual basis the earnings are recorded and the payments are ordinarily received in the same period. The payments to date have been received in accordance with the terms of the agreement, including a payment of $44 million in January 2003. Currently under the withdrawal agreement Global is owed in a form of a note from EPCP approximately $81 million, with the last payment anticipated in January 2005. In the event that EPCP operating cash flows are insufficient to make payment, mandatory capital contributions are required from the partners to pay the note to PSEG Global as amounts become due. Additional covenants in the note security package include mandatory restrictions on cash distributions to the partners and performance guaranties of EPCPs obligations are required. El Paso Corp indirectly owns in excess of 85% of the partnership interests of EPCP. In February 2003, S&P downgraded El Paso Corp long term corporate credit rating to B+ from BB and Moodys reduced El Paso Corp. debt rating to Caa1 from Ba2. If El Paso Corp or its subsidiaries or affiliates is required to fulfill an obligation in accordance with the terms of the agreement and is unable to perform, the impact would adversely effect Energy Holdings statements of operations and net cash flows in the years 2004 and 2005. 
 
