ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (MD&A) This combined MD&A is separately filed by Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated (PSEG), Public Service Electric and Gas Company (PSE&G), PSEG Power LLC (Power), and PSEG Energy Holdings LLC (Energy Holdings). Information contained herein relating to any individual company is filed by such company on its own behalf. PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings each make representations only as to itself and make no other representations whatsoever as to any other company. As discussed in Note 2. Restatement of Financial Statements of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Notes), the Consolidated Financial Statements of PSEG and Energy Holdings have been restated. The following discussion gives effect to this restatement. OVERVIEW OF 2003 AND FUTURE OUTLOOK Overview PSEG PSEGs business consists of four reportable segments, which are PSE&G, Power and the two direct subsidiaries of Energy Holdings: PSEG Global LLC (Global) and PSEG Resources LLC (Resources). The following is a discussion of the markets in which PSEG and its subsidiaries compete, the corporate strategy for the conduct of PSEGs businesses within these markets and significant events that have occurred during 2003. PSEGs results of operations are primarily comprised of the results of operations of its operating subsidiaries, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings. For a more detailed discussion of PSEGs results of operations, see the applicable results of operations discussion for each respective subsidiary registrant. As energy markets have changed dramatically in recent years, PSEG and its subsidiaries have transitioned from a vertically integrated utility to an energy company with a diversified business mix. PSEG has realigned its organizational structure to address the competitive environment brought about by the deregulation of the electric generation industry and has evolved from primarily being a state regulated New Jersey utility to operating as a competitive energy company with operations primarily in the Northeastern United States (U.S.) and in other select markets. As the competitive portion of PSEGs business has grown, the resulting financial risks and rewards have become greater, causing financial requirements to change and increasing the volatility of earnings and cash flows. PSEGs objective is to reduce future volatility of earnings and cash flows by entering into longer term contracts for substantial portions of its anticipated energy output and reducing exposure to its international businesses by seeking to opportunistically monetize investments of Energy Holdings that may no longer have a strategic fit. PSEG also expects a gradual decline in earnings from Resources leveraged leasing business due to the maturation of its investment portfolio. The proceeds from Energy Holdings asset sales will be used, over time, to reduce debt and equity, to maintain credit requirements. During 2003, PSEG continued to take steps to strengthen its balance sheet, capital structure and enhance its credit quality. Total equity increased by more than $1.6 billion and PSEGs debt ratio, as measured by its lending covenants, decreased from 62% as of December 31, 2002 to 57% as of December 31, 2003. This equity increase included $667 million of retained earnings, approximately $439 million of common stock issued, through a combination of a public offering in October 2003 and under its employee stock purchase and dividend reinvestment plans during the year, and an increase of $538 million in Other Comprehensive Income (OCI) due primarily to the effects of pension related activity and the favorable change in foreign currency exchange rates. The equity increase related to the pension 47 plan was due to PSEG fully recapturing the unfavorable 2002 year end pension adjustment of $292 million charged to OCI as its pension fund earned a return of almost 25% during 2003 coupled with approximately $210 million of contributions. Furthermore, the adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations (SFAS 143), resulted in an after tax benefit to Net Income of $370 million due primarily to the re measurement of nuclear decommissioning obligations. For further information regarding SFAS 143 see Note 3. Recent Accounting Standards and Note 4. Adoption of SFAS 143 of the Notes. PSEG also took steps to reduce business risk at each of the operating companies. The PSE&G electric rate case was completed in July 2003 with annual rate relief of approximately $160 million, effective August 1, 2003, providing the opportunity to earn an acceptable return. As allowed for in the order issued in the case by the New Jersey Board of Public Utilities (BPU), PSE&G expects to file for an additional $64 million annual increase in electric distribution rates to be effective on January 1, 2006, subject to BPU approval, including a review of PSE&Gs earnings and other relevant financial information. An unfavorable outcome could have a material adverse affect on PSEGs and PSE&Gs earnings and cash flows. In the February 2003 New Jersey Basic Generation Service (BGS) auction process, Power secured contracts for a material portion of its anticipated output as an indirect supplier of New Jersey electric utility customers. In addition, Power entered into long term fixed price contracts with certain companies in other states, including Connecticut and Pennsylvania. At Energy Holdings, PSEG has continued to limit future investments to existing contractual commitments, primarily those needed to complete the development of generating plants currently under construction. In addition, Global announced the sale of its investment in a generating facility in Rades, Tunisia. Energy Holdings also executed a project refinancing, resulting in a return of capital of $137 million in 2003. In addition, PSEG revised its credit agreements to eliminate all cross defaults to Energy Holdings debt. PSE&G PSE&G operates as an electric and gas public utility, or Electric Distribution Company (EDC), in New Jersey under cost based regulation by the BPU for its distribution operations and by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) for its electric transmission operations. As such, the earnings of PSE&G are largely determined by the regulation of its rates by those agencies. In July 2003, PSE&G received an order from the BPU in its electric base rate case, which provided for the following: PSE&G received an annual increase in electric distribution rates of approximately $160 million commencing August 1, 2003. PSE&G reduced electric distribution depreciation rates from 3.52% to 2.49%, effective August 1, 2003, which is expected to reduce Depreciation and Amortization Expense by approximately $40 million per year. PSE&G recorded a regulatory liability in the second quarter of 2003 by reducing its depreciation reserve for its electric distribution assets by $155 million and will amortize this liability from August 1, 2003 through December 31, 2005. The $64 million annual amortization of this liability results in a reduction of Depreciation and Amortization expense. Subsequent to the amortization of this reserve, the BPUs order allows PSE&G to file for an additional $64 million annual increase in electric distribution rates effective January 1, 2006, subject to BPU approval, including a review of PSE&Gs earnings and other relevant financial information. PSE&G is refunding approximately $238 million to ratepayers from August 1, 2003 through December 31, 2005, through an adjustment of rates, which include certain overrecovered amounts related to the order PSE&G received from the BPU in 1999 relating to its rate unbundling, stranded costs and restructuring proceedings. These amounts also include a $30 million, pre tax, refund related to amounts previously collected through rates for nuclear decommissioning, which was accounted for as an Extraordinary Item as discussed further in Note 6. Extraordinary Item of the Notes. Also, PSE&G has begun to refund through rates an $18 million, pre tax, amount for Market Transition Charge (MTC) overcollections which was recorded during the second quarter of 2003 as a reduction to Operating Revenues and a $4 48 million, pre tax, reduction in interest capitalized on various deferred balances, which was recorded as a charge to Interest Expense. PSE&G began to recover deferred tax expenses associated with Repair Allowances and deferred Restructuring Costs over a ten year period commencing August 1, 2003. Power Power is an electric generation and wholesale energy marketing and trading company that is focused on a generation market extending from Maine to the Carolinas and the Atlantic Coast to Indiana (Super Region). Power seeks to balance its generating capacity, fuel requirements and supply obligations through integrated energy marketing and trading, enhance its ability to produce low cost energy through efficient nuclear operations and pursue modest growth in its target market based on market conditions. As a result of the first New Jersey BGS Auction, Power entered into energy supply contracts for the period August 1, 2002 through July 31, 2003. In February 2003, Power secured contracts for energy and capacity as an indirect supplier in New Jerseys BGS Auction process by entering into contracts with third parties who are direct suppliers of New Jerseys EDCs. Power also entered into hourly energy price contracts to be a supplier of certain large customers through the BGS auction for a ten month period beginning August 1, 2003 and expiring May 30, 2004. Through these seasonally adjusted fixed price contracts, Power is indirectly serving New Jerseys smaller commercial and residential customers for ten month and 34 month periods that began August 1, 2003 and expires on May 30, 2004 and May 30, 2006, respectively. Also in 2003, Power entered into a three year contract to supply energy to a New England utility. Power believes that its obligations under these contracts are reasonably balanced by its available supply. As discussed further under Future Outlook Power, Power has entered into commitments to achieve its objective to sufficiently hedge at least 75% of its anticipated output over an 18 month to 24 month horizon. Energy Holdings Energy Holdings, through Global, has invested in, owns and operates generation and distribution facilities in select international and U.S. markets. The generation plants sell power under long term agreements, as well as on a merchant basis, while the distribution companies are rate regulated enterprises. Through Resources, Energy Holdings invests in energy related financial transactions, including leveraged leases, which are designed to produce predictable earnings. In 2003, Energy Holdings continued to experience a challenging environment in its foreign investments as it refocused its strategy from one of accelerated growth to one that places emphasis on increasing the efficiency and returns of its existing assets. As part of this change in strategy, Energy Holdings limited its capital spending during 2003 to existing contractual commitments. Also in 2003, Global began to review its portfolio and is seeking to opportunistically monetize investments which may no longer have a strategic fit. In keeping with this strategy, Global committed to a plan to sell its investment in Carthage Power Company (CPC), a generating facility in Rades, Tunisia in December 2003. See Note 5. Discontinued Operations of the Notes for further discussion. Due to credit concerns with respect to certain lessees, Resources has shifted its focus from new investments to maintaining its current investment portfolio. See Item 7A. Qualitative and Quantitative Disclosures About Market Risk Credit Risk. Future Outlook PSEG PSEG develops a long range growth target by building business plans and financial forecasts for each major business (PSE&G, Power, Global and Resources). These plans and forecasts incorporate specific, rather than generic, capital expenditures. Key factors which may influence the performance of each business, such as fuel costs and forward power prices, are also incorporated. Sensitivity analyses are performed on the key variables that drive the businesses financial results in order to understand the impact of these assumptions on PSEGs projections. Once plans are in place, PSEG management 49 monitors actual results and key variables and updates financial projections to reflect changes in the energy markets, the economy and regional and global conditions. Management believes this monitoring and forecasting process enables it to alter operating and investment plans as conditions change. Looking ahead, the business plan for 2004 has been adjusted and financial objectives have been aligned with significant changes to both earnings growth and dividend policy. As a result of industry growth prospects moderating in recent years, PSEG has lowered its targeted earnings per share growth rate. Over the next five years PSEG has targeted a 4%6% range for its earnings per share growth rate. This target is dependent upon various assumptions, including an increase in capacity prices which is not expected to occur until the later part of the planning period. As a result, a substantial portion of the earnings growth occurs in the later years of the planning period. PSEG has reaffirmed earnings guidance for 2004 of $3.60 to $3.80 per share from continuing operations and expects to continue to generate stable earnings in the near term even given current historically low capacity prices. PSEG foresees a return to reasonable growth in the future as capacity prices are expected to improve in the latter part of the planning period. However, given the volatility of the power sector and the uncertainty of investment opportunities, it has become more difficult to accurately predict future results. In addition to factors affecting near term earnings and the long term growth rate referenced above, the results of the annual New Jersey BGS auction will continue to have a significant impact on future results. In the future, each annual New Jersey BGS auction is expected to have less of a dramatic impact on Powers results as less volume will be bid annually and as Power continually explores opportunities to enter into medium term and long term contracts in the Super Region to provide power to other states, such as Connecticut and Maryland, which have issued requests to suppliers to provide energy through bilateral agreements. Although earnings growth has moderated, PSEG expects sufficient future operating cash flows to fund investments and meet dividend requirements. Over the next five years, PSEG expects to be in an excess cash position and may employ this excess cash to reduce debt over the near term, invest in its businesses, and increase dividends or repurchase stock over the long term. At PSE&G, while rate relief is expected to improve earnings and cash flows in 2004, future growth is expected to be moderate and capital expenditures are expected to remain stable at levels needed to continue safe and reliable operations. PSEG will look to Power to provide incremental cash flows and begin to provide dividends to PSEG after the conclusion of its construction program in 2005. Energy Holdings will continue to curtail new investments, focus on cash flow contribution and opportunistically monetize certain of Globals assets. Dividend payments on common stock for the year ended December 31, 2003 were $2.16 per share and totaled approximately $493 million. PSEGs payout ratio, based on Income from Continuing Operations, was 58% in 2003. In January 2004, PSEGs Board of Directors approved an increase in the quarterly dividend by $0.01 per share, from $0.54 to $0.55 for the first quarter of 2004, indicative of an annual dividend rate of $2.20 per share. PSEG will continue to evaluate its dividend payments and, if appropriate, will adjust its dividend payout in future years. PSE&G In 2004 and beyond, PSE&Gs success will be dependent, in part, on its ability to maintain a reasonable rate of return, realize a $64 million electric distribution rate increase in 2006, continue cost containment initiatives, maintain system reliability and safety levels and continue to recover the regulatory assets it has deferred and the investments it plans to make in its electric and gas transmission and distribution systems. PSE&G is required to file a transmission rate case with FERC by the end of 2004, which could impact its transmission rates beginning January 1, 2005. The risks from this business generally relate to the treatment of the various rate and other issues by the state and federal regulatory agencies, specifically BPU and FERC. For 2004, a full year effect of the electric rate case is expected to have a significant impact on results compared to 2003. PSE&G expects stable earnings and cash flows in the future. PSE&G has minimal risks relating to commodity price volatility as this risk is largely borne by customers and or commodity suppliers in the competitive markets. 50 Power Powers success as an energy provider will depend, in part, on its ability to meet its obligations under its full requirements contracts efficiently and profitably. Over the next few years, earnings are expected to be pressured due to a generating capacity overbuild affecting the U.S. merchant power sector. Also, Power will no longer benefit from MTC revenues which had contributed approximately $111 million in 2003, the final year of the transition period. Power expects to largely offset the loss of these revenues by achieving increased output from its large base of low cost nuclear and fossil generating stations compared to 2003 and increased margins from the management of its generation portfolio and supply obligations. To reduce earnings and cash flow volatility, Powers objective is to enter into load serving contracts, firm sales and trading positions sufficient to hedge at least 75% of its anticipated output over an 18 month to 24 month horizon. As a result of the conclusion of the BGS auction in February 2004, the contracts Power has entered into in Pennsylvania and Connecticut and other firm sales and trading positions, commitments have been entered into to achieve this objective. Powers ability to increase the term of its forward sales is constrained by the multiple tranche structure of the BGS auction process in New Jersey. Due to the soft market conditions in the Midwest, Power expects only modest output from its Lawrenceburg and Waterford facilities in the near term. In addition to the BGS auction process in New Jersey, Power expects to take advantage of other opportunities elsewhere in its market region. Power expects to meet its obligations through a combination of generation and energy purchases managed by PSEG Energy Resources & Trade LLC (ER&T). Power also enters into trading positions related to its generation assets and supply obligations. To the extent Power does not hedge its costs, Power will be subject to the risk of price fluctuations that could affect its future results including variability in costs, such as changes in the expected price of energy and capacity that Power sells into the market, increases in the price of energy purchased to meet its supply obligations or the amount of excess energy sold into the market, the cost of fuel to generate electricity, the cost of emission credits and congestion credits that are used by Power to transmit electricity and other factors. In addition, Power is subject to the risk of substandard operating performance of its generating units. To the extent there are unplanned outages at Powers generating facilities, changes in environmental or nuclear regulations or other factors that impact the production by such units or the ability to generate and transmit electricity in a cost effective manner, it may cost Power more to acquire or produce electricity. Changes in the rules and regulation of these markets by FERC, particularly changes in the rules in the power pools in which Power conducts business and ability to maintain market based rates, could adversely impact Powers results. These risks can be exacerbated by, among other things, changes in demand in electricity usage, such as those caused by extreme weather or economic conditions. Power is currently constructing projects that are expected to increase capacity from approximately 13,700 MW to approximately 16,000 MW, net of planned retirements. In response to low energy and capacity prices, Power shifted its emphasis away from new plant construction and has adjusted certain of its generating station construction schedules to better align with anticipated market prices. The near term environment is challenging largely because current capacity levels in the Pennsylvania, New Jersey, and Maryland Interconnection (PJM) and the Midwest are significantly in excess of the reserves required to maintain reliability by the respective Independent System Operator (ISO). Power anticipates this situation will ease in the latter part of its five year planning horizon and improve thereafter. Such reductions in excess capacity assumes load growth and the expected retirement of certain plants, primarily older plants of competitors due to increased Operation and Maintenance costs, increased costs associated with higher levels of environmental compliance and a lack of return on investment associated with major capital upgrade requirements because of the weak market conditions. In addition, Powers earnings projections assume that it will continue to optimize the value of its portfolio of generating assets and supply obligations through its energy trading operations. This will depend, in part, on Powers, as well as its counterparties, ability to maintain sufficient creditworthiness and to display a willingness to participate in energy trading activities. Changes in the mechanisms of conducting trading activity could positively or negatively affect trading volumes and liquidity in these energy trading markets compared to the assumptions of these factors embedded in Powers business plans. Energy trading provides the opportunity for greater returns, but it also has more risk than the 51 generation business and can be adversely impacted by fluctuating energy market prices and other factors. Power utilizes what it believes to be a conservative risk management strategy to minimize exposure to market and credit risk. As a result of these variables, Power cannot predict the impact of these potential future changes on its forecasted results of operations, financial position or net cash flows; however, such impact could be material. Energy Holdings Global In 2003, Global refocused its strategy from one of accelerated growth to one that places emphasis on increasing the efficiency and returns of its existing assets. Global limited its spending to existing contractual commitments and is reviewing its portfolio and, over time, will seek to opportunistically monetize investments that may no longer have a strategic fit. Energy Holdings success will depend, in part, on its ability to mitigate risks presented by its international strategy. The economic and political conditions in certain countries where Global has investments present risks that may be different than those found in the U.S. including: renegotiation or nullification of existing contracts, changes in law or tax policy, interruption of business, nationalization, expropriation, war and other factors. Operations in foreign countries also present risks associated with currency exchange and convertibility, inflation and repatriation of earnings. In some countries in which Global has interests, economic and monetary conditions and other factors could affect its ability to convert its cash distributions to U.S. Dollars or other freely convertible currencies. Furthermore, the central bank of any such country may have the authority to suspend, restrict or otherwise impose conditions on foreign exchange transactions or to limit distributions to foreign investors. Although Global generally seeks to structure power purchase contracts and other project revenue agreements to provide for payments to be made in, or indexed to, U.S. Dollars or a currency freely convertible into U.S. Dollars, its ability to do so in all cases may be limited. Global continues to face challenges with respect to certain of its investments as discussed below: Brazil The Brazilian economy is in a period of slowed growth that has resulted from the high public and private sector debt levels, as well as increased interest rates used by the Central Bank of Brazil to control rising inflation and to support the value of the Brazilian Real. In 2003, a new government administration assumed office that is attempting to reduce the effect of currency devaluations and wholesale prices on final consumer prices for electricity. Additionally, the new administrations energy industry policy is to eliminate future privatizations of state owned energy companies and increase federal government control and coordination of energy industry policies previously controlled by state and regional entities. In April 2003, the Brazilian regulatory authority approved a 36.07% tariff increase for Rio Grande Energia S.A. (RGE). The majority of this increase became effective on April 16, 2003 while a portion of this increase will become effective in 2004. The result of this rate case was in line with managements recent expectations. Unfavorable developments relating to potential changes in the regulatory structure and or greater exertion of price controls by the Brazilian government could have a materially adverse impact on Globals ability to earn a reasonable return on its investment in RGE and could materially impact its ability to recover its investment balance, including a potential impairment. Other risk factors that could affect future revenues and cash flows from Globals investment in RGE are continued high interest rate levels, currency devaluation, extended recession and slow economic growth. India PPN Power Generating Company Limiteds (PPN) output is sold under a long term Power Purchase Agreement (PPA) with the Tamil Nadu Electricity Board (TNEB) which sells the power to retail end user customers. Beginning in April 2003, TNEB has not made full payment to PPN for the purchase of energy under the PPA. The past due receivable at PPN as of December 31, 2003 was approximately $95 million, of which Globals share is approximately $8 million, net of a $10 million reserve. If TNEB continues to fail to make required payments under the PPA, PPN may have further 52 liquidity problems. The TNEB has agreed to pay approximately $30 million of the $95 million owed and negotiations have begun regarding the remaining $65 million. An adverse outcome to such negotiations could potentially result in an impairment of this investment, which could be material to PSEGs and Globals respective results of operations. As of December 31, 2003, Globals total investment exposure in PPN was approximately $41 million. Poland Elektrocieplownia Chorzow Sp. Z o.o. (Elcho) has a 20 year PPA with the Polish governments power grid company. The Polish government has embarked on a process with the intention of terminating all of the more than 30 long term PPAs it has with energy suppliers. The Polish government has expressed its intention to compensate each entity whose contract is terminated with monies raised by the government by securitizing a charge that will be passed on to ratepayers. The Polish government informally proposed compensation for the termination of the PPA that Global does not believe to be adequate. Global is in discussions with the Polish government in order to ensure that, if the PPA is terminated, it is financially neutral to Elcho. Inadequate compensation could lead to lower future revenues and earnings and could have a material adverse impact on Globals financial position. Texas As of December 31, 2003, Global had $240 million invested in two gas fired combined cycle electric generating facilities in Texas. Texas Independent Energy (TIE) continues to experience energy pricing pressures in the overbuilt Texas power market. To mitigate the risks associated with the spot market, in 2003 TIE entered into an asset management agreement to enhance its forward trading capabilities. In addition to forward trades, TIE has also entered into new PPAs for approximately 31% of the capacity of the plants for 2004 with an agreement to renew for 2005. As a result, the margins earned by TIE in 2003 have covered its fixed costs, bringing TIE to a break even position in 2003 compared to a loss in 2002. Although project cash flows have improved, weakness in the Texas power market continues to put pressure on TIEs ability to meet financial covenants in its loan documents. Global expects the current depressed level of energy prices in Texas to continue through the 2005 2006 time frame when market prices are expected to increase, as older less efficient plants in the Texas power market are expected to be retired and the demand for electricity is expected to increase. Global cannot predict the impact of these potential future changes on its forecasted results of operations, financial position or net cash flows; however, such impact could be material. Venezuela As of December 31, 2003, Global had approximately $50 million invested in its generation facilities in Venezuela which was fully funded by equity. Venezuela continues to undergo a period of significant political instability, as participation in prolonged work stoppages and violent street protests have caused a drastic reduction in economic activity. Following its 45% decline against the U.S. Dollar in 2002, the Venezuelan currency, the Bolivar, weakened further in 2003. Earnings and cash flows are expected to be affected by the prospects of reduced economic activity and increased exchange rate volatility. Although PPAs are indexed to the U.S. Dollar, the sharp decline in economic activity and in the exchange rate make the local sales price of energy supplies less attractive to local manufacturers. Revenues have already declined and are expected to remain below previous levels due to weakening demand. Resources Based on current market conditions and Energy Holdings intent to limit capital expenditures, it is unlikely that Resources will make significant additional investments in the near term. As a result, Resources earnings and cash flows are expected to decrease in the future as the investment portfolio matures. Resources faces risks with regard to the creditworthiness of its counterparties, specifically, certain lessees that collectively comprise a substantial portion of Resources investment portfolio as discussed further below. Resources also faces risks related to potential changes in the current tax treatment of its investments in leveraged leases. The manifestation of either of these risks could cause a materially adverse effect on Resources strategy and its forecasted results of operations, financial position and net cash flows. 53 Resources has credit risk related to its investments in leveraged leases, totaling $1.4 billion, which is net of deferred taxes of $1.6 billion, as of December 31, 2003. These investments are largely concentrated in the energy industry and have some exposure to the airline industry. As of December 31, 2003, 65% of counterparties in the lease portfolio were rated investment grade by both S&P and Moodys. As a result of recent actions of the rating agencies due to concerns over forward energy prices, the credit of some of the lessees was downgraded. Specifically, the lessees in the following transactions were downgraded below investment grade during 2002 by these rating agencies. Resources investment in such transactions was approximately $412 million, net of deferred taxes of $398 million as of December 31, 2003. Resources is the lessor of the Keystone, Conemaugh and Shawville generating facilities located in the PJM West market in Pennsylvania to Reliant Energy Mid Atlantic Power Holdings LLC (REMA), an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Reliant Resources Incorporated (RRI). Resources investment in the REMA transaction was $117 million, net of deferred taxes of $122 million as of December 31, 2003. Resources expects $17 million of earnings from these leases in 2004. Resources is the lessor of the Danskammer generation facility in New York to Dynegy Danskammer LLC (Danskammer) and the Roseton generation facility to Dynegy Roseton LLC (Roseton). Both Danskammer and Roseton are indirect subsidiaries of Dynegy Holdings Inc. (DHI). The lease obligations are guaranteed by DHI which is currently rated B by S&P and Caa2 by Moodys. Resources investment in Danskammer and Roseton was $122 million, net of deferred taxes of $68 million as of December 31, 2003. Resources expects $17 million of earnings from these leases in 2004. Resources is the lessor/equity participant of the Collins facility, as well as the Powerton and Joliet stations to Midwest Generation LLC (Midwest), an indirect subsidiary of Edison Mission Energy (EME). Edison Mission Midwest Holdings (EMM Holdings) is also an indirect subsidiary of EME. Resources investment in the Collins facility and the Powerton and Joliet facilities were $101 million and $72 million, respectively, net of deferred taxes of $98 million and $110 million, respectively. Resources expects $8 million and $6 million of earnings from the Powerton and Joliet facilities, respectively, in 2004. Resources is the lessor of various aircraft to several domestic airlines. Resources leases a Boeing B767 aircraft to United Airlines (UAL). In December 2002, UAL filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection. UAL has stated that it intends to retain its B767 aircraft to use in place of other aircraft. UAL has an additional debt obligation of $53 million associated with this aircraft. Resources will work constructively with UAL to keep the leveraged lease in place. The gross invested balance of this investment as of December 31, 2003 was $21 million. As accounted for under SFAS 13, Resources does not expect earnings from these leases in 2004. As of December 31, 2003, lease payments on these facilities were current. If the collection of rental payments could not be reasonably assured, Resources would stop accruing earnings on these investments in accordance with SFAS 13, Accounting for Leases. If that occurred, Resources would need to review the investments for impairment and, if necessary, reduce them to net realizable value. In the event of a default, Resources would exercise its rights and attempt to seek recovery of its investment. The results of such efforts may not be known for a period of time. Under a worst case scenario, if a foreclosure were to occur, Resources would record a pre tax write off up to its gross investment in these facilities. Also, in the event of a potential foreclosure, the net tax benefits generated by Resources portfolio of investments could be materially reduced in the period in which gains associated with the potential forgiveness of debt at these projects occurs. The amount and timing of any potential reduction in net tax benefits is dependent upon a number of factors including, but not limited to, the time of a potential foreclosure, the amount of lease debt outstanding, any cash trapped at the projects and negotiations during such potential foreclosure process. The potential loss of earnings, impairment and or tax payments could have a material impact to PSEGs and Energy Holdings financial position, results of operations and net cash flows. As of December 31, 2003, Resources determined that the collectibility of the minimum lease payments under its leveraged lease investments is still reasonably probable and therefore continues to account for these investments as leveraged leases. For further discussion of these leveraged leases, see Item 7A. Qualitative and Quantitative Discussion of Market Risk Credit Risk Resources. 54 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Net Income for the year ended December 31, 2003 was $1.2 billion or $5.07 per share of common stock, diluted, based on approximately 229 million average shares outstanding. For the year ended December 31, 2002, Net Income was $235 million or $1.13 per share of common stock, diluted, including certain after tax charges of $538 million or $2.57 per share. The charges relate to the abandoned Argentine investments and losses from operations of those assets, discontinued operations of Energy Technologies Inc. (Energy Technologies) and Tanir Bavi Power Company Private Ltd. (Tanir Bavi), a generating facility in India, and goodwill impairment charges. Earnings (Losses) Years Ended December 31, 2003 2002 2001 (Millions) PSE&G $ 247 $ 205 $ 235 Power 474 468 394 Energy Holdings: Global(A) 121 (297 ) 106 Resources 72 84 77 Other(B) (4 ) (7 ) (4 ) Total Energy Holdings(A) 189 (220 ) 179 Other(C) (58 ) (48 ) (42 ) PSEG Income from Continuing Operations 852 405 766 Loss from Discontinued Operations, including Loss on Disposal(D) (44 ) (49 ) (12 ) Extraordinary Item(E) (18 ) Cumulative Effect of a Change in Accounting Principle(F) 370 (121 ) 10 PSEG Net Income(A) $ 1,160 $ 235 $ 764 Contribution to Earnings Per Share (Diluted) Years Ended December 31, 2003 2002 2001 (Millions) PSE&G $ 1.08 $ 0.98 $ 1.13 Power 2.07 2.24 1.90 Energy Holdings: Global(A) 0.53 (1.42 ) 0.51 Resources 0.31 0.40 0.37 Other(B) (0.02 ) (0.04 ) (0.02 ) Total Energy Holdings(A) 0.82 (1.06 ) 0.86 Other(C) (0.25 ) (0.22 ) (0.21 ) PSEG Income from Continuing Operations 3.72 1.94 3.68 Loss from Discontinued Operations, including Loss on Disposal(D) (0.19 ) (0.23 ) (0.06 ) Extraordinary Item(E) (0.08 ) Cumulative Effect of a Change in Accounting Principle(F) 1.62 (0.58 ) 0.05 PSEG Net Income(A) $ 5.07 $ 1.13 $ 3.67 (A)Includes after tax write down and losses related to Argentine investments of $368 million or $1.76 for the year ended December 31, 2002. (footnotes continued on next page) 55 (footnotes continued from previous page) (B)Other activities include non segment amounts of Energy Holdings, Energy Technologies, Enterprise Group Development Corporation (EGDC) and intercompany eliminations. Specific amounts include interest on certain financing transactions and certain other administrative and general expenses at Energy Holdings. (C)Other activities include non segment amounts of PSEG (parent company) and intercompany eliminations. Specific amounts include preferred securities dividends requirements for PSE&G and Energy Holdings, interest on certain financing transactions and certain other administrative and general expenses at PSEG (parent company). (D) Includes Discontinued Operations of Energy Technologies in 2003 and 2002, CPC in 2003 and 2002, and Tanir Bavi in 2002. See Note 5. Discontinued Operations of the Notes. (E)Relates to charge recorded in the second quarter of 2003 from PSE&Gs Electric Base Rate Case. See Note 6. Extraordinary Item of the Notes. (F)Relates to the adoption of SFAS 143 in 2003 and the adoption of SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets (SFAS 142) in 2002. See Note 3. Recent Accounting Standards and Note 4. Adoption of SFAS 143 of the Notes. The $447 million increase in Income from Continuing Operations for the year ended December 31, 2003, as compared to the same period in 2002, was primarily due to higher earnings from Energy Holdings due to the absence of the $368 million after tax losses at Energy Holdings Argentine investments recorded in 2002. In addition, PSE&G improved earnings due to increased electric base rates, seasonality differences in pricing that are a component of those rates, favorable weather effects and lower interest costs. In addition, Power had slightly higher earnings primarily related to the benefits resulting from the operation of the two generating facilities in Connecticut that were acquired in December 2002, higher margins driven by an increase in volume as a result of the BGS contracts that went into effect in August 2002 and realized gains in its Nuclear Decommissioning Trust (NDT) portfolio, partially offset by the effects of storm related weather and higher Operation and Maintenance expense. Also contributing to Energy Holdings increase in earnings were improved results from Global. The growth in Income from Continuing Operations did not result in higher per share amounts due to dilution caused mainly by the common stock issuance in the fourth quarter of 2003. Included in PSEGs 2003 Net Income was an after tax benefit of $370 million related to the adoption of SFAS 143 during the first quarter of 2003. This benefit was due mainly to the required remeasurement of Powers nuclear decommissioning obligations. Conversely, in 2002, PSEG adopted SFAS 142 and incurred an after tax charge of $121 million related to goodwill impairments at certain of Energy Holdings investments. Also contributing to the changes in Net Income was a decrease in Energy Holdings Loss from Discontinued Operations, including Loss or Disposal of $5 million, after tax, for the year ended December 31, 2003, as compared to the same period in 2002, and an $18 million, after tax, extraordinary charge recorded at PSE&G in the second quarter of 2003 related to the outcome of its electric base rate case, discussed above in PSE&Gs Overview. Excluding the charges discussed above, earnings for the year ended December 31, 2002 were largely consistent with 2001. This is primarily due to higher margins at Power due to its successful participation as an indirect supplier of energy to New Jerseys utilities resulting from the 2002 BGS auction. The BGS contracts which went into effect on August 1, 2002 had a meaningful effect on PSEGs earnings, particularly during the fourth quarter when Power served its contractual obligations with low cost energy during the colder months. PSE&G also improved earnings, due to stronger margins from gas rate relief and favorable weather as compared to the prior year and a reduction in operating expenses during 2002. These positive factors were offset by higher interest costs at PSEG and its subsidiaries, the absence of certain tax benefits realized by PSE&G in 2001 and comparatively lower contributions from investments at Energy Holdings, particularly the loss of earnings from Energy Holdings Argentine investments, continued weakness in the Texas power markets and a lower gain from Eagle Point Cogeneration Partnership (EPCP) transactions. 56 PSEG Operating Revenues For the year ended December 31, 2003, Operating Revenues increased by $2.9 billion or 35%, as compared to the same period in 2002, primarily due to the $1.1 billion of consolidation effects related to the BGS changes discussed below. Also contributing to the increase was an approximate $860 million increase in revenues from Power mainly related to contract volume increases under the load contracts which commenced on August 1, 2002 and increased revenues from two generation facilities in Connecticut acquired in 2002, an $821 million increase in PSE&Gs Operating Revenues due primarily to increased prices and sales volumes for gas and a $116 million increase in Energy Holdings Operating Revenues relating to higher revenues from Globals generation projects and a higher partnership withdrawal payment from EPCP. A portion of the increase in Operating Revenues for the year ended December 31, 2003, as compared to the same periods in 2002, was due to Powers electric revenues no longer required to be eliminated in consolidation by PSEG subsequent to July 2002. Under the BGS contracts that terminated on July 31, 2002, Power sold energy directly to PSE&G, which in turn sold this energy to its customers. These revenues were properly recognized on each companys stand alone financial statements and were eliminated when preparing PSEGs Consolidated Financial Statements. For the BGS contract period beginning August 1, 2002, Power entered into contracts with third parties who were direct suppliers of New Jerseys EDCs and PSE&G purchased the energy for its customers needs from such third party suppliers. Due to this change in the BGS model, with the exception of a small portion of energy sold under the new contracts effective August 1, 2003, as discussed below, these revenues were no longer intercompany revenues and, therefore, were not eliminated in consolidation. For the year ended December 31, 2003, PSEGs elimination related to the combined intercompany BGS and MTC revenues, decreased for that period by approximately $1.0 billion as compared to the prior year due primarily to this change. Also related to this change in the BGS model, PSE&G, in August 2002, began selling energy purchased under non utility generation (NUG) contracts, which Power had previously paid PSE&G for at market prices, to the PJM, with the capacity purchased under these contracts being provided to the BGS suppliers on a pro rata basis. As a result, for the year ended December 31, 2003, PSEGs revenues related to NUG contracts increased by approximately $78 million. For the year ended December 31, 2002, Operating Revenues increased by $1.3 billion or 19%, as compared to the same period in 2001, due primarily to Powers BGS or commodity revenues subsequent to July 2002 not being eliminated in consolidation by PSEG. For the year ended December 31, 2002, PSEGs elimination related to intercompany BGS and MTC revenues decreased by approximately $798 million as compared to 2001 due to this change. In addition, for the year ended December 31, 2002, PSEGs revenues related to NUG contracts increased by approximately $82 million. The remaining increase was due primarily to a $516 million increase from Power primarily related to the new BGS related revenues from third party wholesale electric suppliers which went into effect August 1, 2002 and revenues from off system gas sales, partially offset by lower MTC revenues and lower net trading revenues as discussed further under the Power segment discussion. Also contributing to the increase was a $155 million increase at Energy Holdings driven by higher electric revenues at Global, relating to acquisitions and projects going into operation, and higher leveraged lease income at Resources, as discussed below under Energy Holdings segment discussion. These increases were partially offset by a $172 million decrease in revenues from PSE&G primarily due to a decrease in gas distribution revenues resulting in part from an average cost reduction of more than 10% in the cost of gas, in addition to other items discussed below under the PSE&G segment discussion. Operating Expenses Energy Costs For the year ended December 31, 2003, as compared to the same period in 2002, Energy Costs increased approximately $2.7 billion or 72% due primarily to the fact that PSE&G no longer purchases 57 electric energy directly from Power, as discussed above in Operating Revenues. Amounts attributable to this change totaled approximately $1.1 billion between the year ended December 31, 2003 and 2002. Also contributing to the increase were an approximate $831 million net increase in gas costs, a $624 million increase at Power primarily related to increased power purchases and third party wholesale electric supply contracts, discussed further below under Power, a $79 million increase in electric energy costs at PSE&G discussed further below under PSE&G and a $37 million increase at Energy Holdings, relating to projects at Global, discussed further below under Energy Holdings. For the year ended December 31, 2002, as compared to the prior year, Energy Costs increased approximately $1 billion or 38% due primarily to the fact that PSE&G no longer purchased electric energy directly from Power, as discussed above in Operating Revenues, but rather from third party wholesalers. In 2001, and through July 31, 2002, PSE&G incurred energy costs related to electric energy transactions between it and Power. Accordingly, these costs were eliminated when preparing PSEGs consolidated financial statements. Amounts attributable to this change totaled $880 million between the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001. The remaining increase was due to a $352 million increase at Power primarily related to increased energy purchases and third party wholesale electric supplier contracts, discussed further below in Power, and a $63 million increase at Energy Holdings, relating to acquisitions and projects going into operation at Global, discussed further below in Energy Holdings. These increases were partially offset by a $229 million decrease at PSE&G due primarily to decreased gas costs which resulted from lower demand, discussed further below in PSE&G. Operation and Maintenance For the year ended December 31, 2003, Operation and Maintenance expense increased $221 million or 12%, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2002, due to a $141 million increase at Power primarily due to the acquisition of the generating facilities in Connecticut in December 2002, higher accretion expense associated with the nuclear decommissioning liabilities, higher pension costs, higher nuclear refueling outage costs and higher real estate taxes, a $68 million increase at PSE&G due primarily to higher labor and fringe benefit costs, higher Demand Side Management (DSM) amortization, higher bad debt expense and storm related costs, discussed further below under PSE&G. In addition, Operation and Maintenance expense increased at Energy Holdings by $8 million, due mainly to costs associated with projects at Global, as discussed further below under Energy Holdings. For the year ended December 31, 2002, Operation and Maintenance expense increased $55 million or 3%, as compared to 2001 due to an increase of $35 million at Power primarily caused by scheduled outages at certain electric generating stations, and an increase at Energy Holdings of $46 million, primarily due to costs associated with acquisitions and projects going into operation. This increase was partially offset by a $14 million decrease at PSE&G primarily due to decreased labor and professional service costs, partially offset by higher DSM amortization, and a decrease in other charges of $12 million at PSEG. Depreciation and Amortization For the year ended December 31, 2003, Depreciation and Amortization decreased by $38 million or 7%, as compared to the same period in 2002. The decrease was primarily due to a $37 million decrease at PSE&G, as discussed further below. For the year ended December 31, 2002, Depreciation and Amortization increased $70 million or 14%, as compared to 2001, primarily due to increases of $39 million at PSE&G, mainly due to a full periods recognition of amortization of the regulatory asset related to stranded costs for securitization, $13 million at Power, primarily due to increases from Bergen 2 being placed into service in 2002 and a 2001 reversal of cost of removal reserves, and $13 million at Energy Holdings, primarily related to costs associated with acquisitions and projects going into operation. 58 Taxes Other Than Income Taxes Taxes Other Than Income Taxes is comprised of the Transitional Energy Facility Assessment (TEFA) tax at PSE&G. Taxes Other Than Income Taxes increased $5 million or 4% for the year ended December 31, 2003, as compared to the same period in 2002. The change in the amount of the TEFA related to changes in PSE&Gs higher taxable sales in 2003. Legislation enacted in January 2002 freezes the TEFA unit rate surcharges at the 2001 levels through 2004 and then reduces the rates over the next three years, phasing out the TEFA by 2007. Taxes Other Than Income Taxes increased $10 million or 8% in 2002, as compared to 2001. This increase was primarily due to a reduction of $6 million in the prior years TEFA recorded in 2001 and an increase of $3 million in the 2002 TEFA due to increased sales. Other Income For the year ended December 31, 2003, Other Income increased by $139 million, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2002, due primarily to a $148 million increase at Power. Powers increase was primarily due to the recognition of realized gains and income related to Powers Nuclear Decommissioning Trust (NDT) Fund. Other Deductions For the year ended December 31, 2003, Other Deductions increased by $21 million, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2002, due primarily an increase at Power of $77 million, partially offset by a decrease at Energy Holdings of approximately $72 million. Powers increase was primarily due to the recognition of realized losses in Powers NDT Fund. The decrease at Energy Holdings was largely attributable to lower foreign currency transaction losses, primarily related to U.S. Dollar debt in Argentina recorded in 2002. For the year ended December 31, 2002, Other Deductions increased by $59 million as compared to 2001, primarily due to a $60 million increase in foreign currency transaction losses at Energy Holdings. Interest Expense For the year ended December 31, 2003, Interest Expense increased by $17 million or 2%, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2002, primarily due to a $40 million and $1 million increase at PSEG and Energy Holdings, respectively related to higher levels of debt outstanding, partially offset by decreases of $16 million and $8 million at PSE&G and Power, respectively, as discussed below. For the year ended December 31, 2002, Interest Expense increased $43 million or 6% as compared to 2001 primarily due to higher amounts of debt outstanding at PSEG, Power and Energy Holdings used to support various projects and acquisitions and for other general corporate purposes, partially offset by decreases at PSE&G due to lower debt levels. Income Taxes For the year ended December 31, 2003, Income Taxes increased by $210 million or 83%, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2002, due primarily to higher pre tax Income from Continuing Operations. For the year ended December 31, 2002, Income Taxes decreased $119 million or 32% as compared to 2001 primarily due to lower pre tax Income from Continuing Operations partially offset by adjustments in 2001 reflecting the conclusion of the 1994 96 Internal Revenue Service (IRS) audit. Loss From Discontinued Operations For the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, Energy Holdings recorded Losses From Discontinued Operations of $44 million, $49 million and $12 million, after tax, respectively, as detailed further below under Energy Holdings. 59 Extraordinary Item For the year ended December 31, 2003, PSE&G recorded an $18 million, after tax, charge relating to its Electric Base Rate Case, as detailed further below under PSE&G. Cumulative Effect of a Change in Accounting Principle For the year ended December 31, 2003, Power recorded a $370 million, after tax, benefit relating to the adoption of SFAS 143, as detailed further below under Power. For the year ended December 31, 2002, Energy Holdings recorded a $121 million, after tax, charge due to goodwill impairments relating to the adoption of SFAS 142, as detailed further below under Energy Holdings. PSE&G Operating Revenues PSE&Gs Operating Revenues increased by $821 million or 14% for the year ended December 31, 2003, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2002, due to a $758 million increase in gas revenues and a $63 million increase in electric revenues for the year ended December 31, 2003. The increase in gas revenues primarily related to a $531 million increase due to price changes and $227 million due to higher sales volumes. The average cost of gas, which is passed through to customers, increased by 26% and total gas sales volumes increased by 10% due primarily to colder weather conditions. The $63 million increase in electric revenues resulted from a $191 million increase due to price changes primarily relating to higher rates set in the BGS auction and the impact of the BPU order in its Electric Base Rate Case, both of which took effect on August 1, 2003. These were partially offset by the 4.9% rate reduction which was effective from August 1, 2002 through July 31, 2003, combined with increased sales of NUG power, primarily due to higher locational marginal pricing (LMP) in the PJM market. The increase related to price changes was partially offset by $129 million in lower sales volumes. While distribution sales volumes were higher by 1%, BGS volumes were down 7% due to the milder weather plus large customers switching to third party suppliers. For the year ended December 31, 2002, PSE&Gs Operating Revenues decreased $172 million or 3%, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2001, primarily due to a decrease of $155 million in gas distribution revenues. This decrease was due to lower commodity revenues resulting from an average cost reduction of more than 10% in the cost of gas of approximately $125 million. Also contributing to the decrease were lower sales of approximately $88 million to interruptible customers resulting from the lower cost of gas and lower off system sales revenues of approximately $26 million. These decreases were partially offset by increased gas base rates and increased volumes of approximately $75 million, primarily due to residential usage driven by favorable weather conditions and increased appliance service revenues of approximately $14 million. In addition, electric transmission and distribution revenues decreased $17 million, primarily due to a 4.9% rate reduction implemented in August 2002 under the Final Decision and Order in PSE&Gs rate unbundling, stranded costs and restructuring proceedings (Final Order) and approximately $123 million in rate reductions in February and August 2001 totaling 4%, which were recorded as reductions in MTC revenues. Also affecting 2002 performance were decreases of approximately $15 million in NUG sales at market prices, lower DSM sales due to revenue adjustments in 2001 of approximately $19 million and approximately $7 million in lower fiber optic attachment revenues due to unfavorable market conditions. These were offset by increased BGS revenues, primarily due to customers returning to PSE&G from third party suppliers of approximately $104 million, and higher distribution volumes for residential and commercial customers of approximately $37 million due to favorable weather conditions. 60 Operating Expenses Energy Costs For the year ended December 31, 2003, Energy Costs increased $737 million or 20%, as compared to the same period in 2002. Energy costs represent the cost of electric and gas purchases necessary to meet customer load. The differences between energy cost incurred and associated energy revenue is deferred for future collection or refund to customers. Gas costs increased $658 million or 48% for the year ended December 31, 2003, as compared to the same period in 2002. The increase is a combination of a 26% increase in the price of gas ($527 million) and a 9% increase in sales volumes ($131 million). Electric costs increased $79 million or 3% for the year ended December 31, 2003, as compared to the same period in 2002. The increase is the combination of higher prices for BGS and NUG purchases and higher MTC payments ($250 million) offset by lower BGS and NUG volumes ($170 million). As described above under revenues, BGS volumes are declining due to large customers switching to third party suppliers. NUG volumes are a function of the NUG generator and contract limits. For the year ended December 31, 2002, PSE&Gs Energy Costs decreased $229 million or 6%, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2001, due primarily to a decrease in gas costs of approximately $230 million which resulted from lower commodity sales volumes of approximately $125 million, lower volumes of $88 million from interruptible customers due to lower rates and lower off system sales volumes of approximately $18 million. Also contributing to the decrease were lower electric costs of $123 million due to the MTC rate reductions discussed above in Operating Revenues and decreased NUG energy sales of $15 million due to lower rates. Offsetting these decreases were increased electric energy costs of $104 million due to higher commodity sales volumes from customers returning from third party suppliers and a scheduled increase in the shopping credit and $30 million in higher amounts paid to Power relating to the amortization of the excess electric distribution depreciation reserve, which is a component of MTC. Operation and Maintenance Operation and Maintenance costs increased $68 million or 7% for the year ended December 31, 2003, as compared to the same periods in 2002. The increase primarily related to higher labor and fringe benefits of $49 million, due primarily to wage and incentive increases, the costs of an incentive program, higher pension costs and increased weather and storm related expenses due to Hurricane Isabel and the extreme winter weather. Also contributing to the increase were higher bad debt expense of $10 million due to high winter gas sales and higher DSM costs of approximately $38 million relating to the increased sales, discussed above. DSM costs are deferred when incurred and amortized to expense when recovered in revenues. Partially offsetting these increases is a reduction in real estate tax expense of $18 million and the reversal of a $10 million reserve against a regulatory asset that is now being recovered. Operation and Maintenance expense decreased $14 million or 1% in 2002, as compared to 2001, primarily comprised of decreased labor costs of approximately $9 million, decreased use of professional and contract services of approximately $7 million, $7 million in lower charges for administrative and general services and lower equipment rental of approximately $8 million. These decreases were offset by $14 million in increased DSM amortization and increased miscellaneous accounts receivable reserves of approximately $3 million. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and Amortization decreased $37 million or 9% for the year ended December 31, 2003, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2002, due primarily to a $52 million additional amortization of an excess electric distribution depreciation reserve and an $11 million decrease from the use of a lower book depreciation rate for electric distribution plant. Partially offsetting this decrease was a $13 million increase in depreciation expense due to increased plant in service and $9 million increase 61 in the amortization of the regulatory asset related to securitization, resulting from higher Securitization Transition Charge (STC) revenues. Depreciation and Amortization expense increased $39 million or 11% in 2002, as compared to 2001, primarily due to $37 million in amortization of the regulatory asset related to stranded costs for securitization, $13 million in increased plant in service and $7 million in gas base rates for plant assets. Offsetting this increase is $22 million in amortization of an excess electric distribution depreciation reserve. Taxes Other Than Income Taxes Taxes Other Than Income Taxes is comprised of the Transitional Energy Facility Assessment (TEFA) tax at PSE&G. Taxes Other Than Income Taxes increased $5 million or 4% for the year ended December 31, 2003, as compared to the same period in 2002. The change in the amount of the TEFA related to changes in PSE&Gs higher taxable sales in 2003. Legislation enacted in January 2002 freezes the TEFA unit rate surcharges at the 2001 levels through 2004 and then reduces the rates over the next three years, phasing out the TEFA by 2007. Taxes Other Than Income Taxes increased $10 million or 8% in 2002, as compared to 2001. This increase was primarily due to a reduction of $6 million in the prior years TEFA recorded in 2001 and an increase of $3 million in the 2002 TEFA due to increased sales. Other Income Other Income decreased $9 million or 60% for the year ended December 31, 2003, as compared to the same period in 2002, due primarily to equity return adjustments to regulatory assets of $11 million offset by $1 million in increased gains on the disposal of various electric transmission properties. Other Income decreased $80 million or 84% in 2002, as compared to 2001, due primarily to $65 million related to PSEGs settlement of an intercompany loan from PSE&G in 2001 and $16 million related to lower interest income on investments. This was offset by a $6 million gain on disposal of properties. Interest Expense Interest Expense decreased by $16 million or 4% for the year ended December 31, 2003, as compared to the same period in 2002. These decreases were due primarily to lower interest on long term debt of $23 million for the year ended December 31, 2003, as compared to the same period in 2002, due to various maturities and redemptions of approximately $250 million. These decreases were partially offset by increased short term interest expense of $2 million due to higher short term debt balances outstanding due to increased working capital needs and $6 million in increased interest related to certain regulatory assets. Interest Expense decreased $52 million or 11% for the year ended December 31, 2002, as compared to 2001, due to the $14 million in decreased debt redemptions, particularly of short term debt in third quarter of 2001 and lower interest rates in 2002, $8 million related to the redemption of a floating rate note in 2001, the maturity of long term debt of approximately $14 million, $3 million related to the repurchase of Pollution Control Bonds, the carrying costs on the deferred repair allowance of approximately $7 million and $2 million in New Jersey state accrued tax interest adjustments. These decreases were partially offset by higher securitization bond interest expense of approximately $7 million related to PSE&G Transition Funding LLCs (Transition Funding) securitization bonds. Income Taxes Income Taxes increased by $14 million or 12% for the year ended December 31, 2003, as compared to the same period in 2002, due primarily to increases in pre tax Income from Continuing Operations, offset by tax benefits recorded in 2003 attributable to the actual filing of the 2002 tax return. 62 Income taxes increased $26 million or 29% for the year ended December 31, 2002, as compared to 2001, primarily due to prior period tax adjustments recorded in 2001 reflecting the conclusion of the 1994 96 IRS audit. Extraordinary Item As discussed previously, included in the Electric Base Rate Case decision issued by the BPU was a refund related to revenues collected through the Societal Benefits Charge (SBC) for nuclear decommissioning. Because this amount reflects the final accounting for PSEGs generation related business pursuant to the four year transition plan mandated by the Final Order, the adjustment has been recorded as an $18 million, after tax, Extraordinary Item as required under Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 30, Reporting the Results of Operations Reporting the Effects of Disposal of a Segment of a Business, and Extraordinary, Unusual and Infrequently Occurring Events and Transactions (APB 30) and SFAS No. 101, Regulated Enterprises Accounting for the Discontinuation of Application of FASB Statement No. 71. Power Operating Revenues For the year ended December 31, 2003, Operating Revenues increased approximately $2.0 billion, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2002, primarily due to an increase in gas supply revenues of approximately $1.3 billion. The increase is due to 2003 being the first full year of the Basic Gas Supply Service (BGSS) contract with PSE&G compared to a partial year in 2002 since the contract commenced in May 2002. Gas revenues for the first four months of 2003, totaled $1.1 billion. Also contributing to the increase in gas revenues were higher sales volumes and higher gas prices. Generation revenues also increased approximately $640 million for the year ended December 31, 2003, as compared to the same period in 2002, due to the increased supply obligations and new operations, as discussed above, as compared to the same period in 2002. For the year ended December 31, 2002, Powers Operating Revenues increased $1.2 billion, as compared to 2001, primarily due to the inclusion of $804 million of gas revenues relating to its BGSS contract and off system gas sales resulting from the operations under the Gas Contracts transferred from PSE&G in May 2002. Also contributing to the increase was a $560 million increase in BGS related revenues, primarily due to the new BGS related revenues from third party wholesale electric suppliers which went into effect August 1, 2002 which was partially offset by lower MTC revenues of $98 million mostly due to a 4.9% rate reduction in August 2002 and two 2% rate reductions in August 2001 and February 2001. Also offsetting the increases were lower net trading revenues of approximately $104 million due to lower trading volumes and prices during 2002, as compared to 2001. Operating Expenses Energy Costs For the year ended December 31, 2003, Energy Costs increased approximately $1.9 billion, as compared to the same period in 2002, primarily due to a $1.3 billion increase in gas costs due to the effect of a full year under the BGSS contract combined with higher gas sales volumes and prices and higher gas, oil and coal costs for generation. The increase in Energy Costs was also due to increased energy purchases on the spot market, as well as bilateral energy purchases, of approximately $413 million. Also, Power incurred an increase of approximately $116 million in network transmission expenses given that there were no payments for the first seven months in 2002. Additional charges associated with fuel and energy purchases to satisfy wholesale power agreements related to its Connecticut generating facilities totaled approximately $80 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. 63 For the year ended December 31, 2002, Powers energy costs increased $1 billion compared to 2001 primarily due to increased energy purchase volumes and third party wholesale electric supplier contracts of approximately $297 million and $738 million of increased gas purchases to satisfy Powers BGSS contract with PSE&G. Also contributing to the increase were higher network transmission expenses of $102 million. These higher expenses were partially offset by a $67 million decrease in NUG purchases. Additionally, the record capacity factor of its nuclear units enabled Power to produce low cost generation for a greater portion of its supply needs. Operation and Maintenance Operation and Maintenance expense increased $141 million or 18% for the year ended December 31, 2003 from the comparable period in 2002 due to costs of generating facilities in Connecticut acquired in December 2002 of $56 million, accretion expense of $24 million associated with the nuclear decommissioning liabilities, higher pension expense of $20 million, higher nuclear refueling outage costs of $24 million and other items. For the period ended December 31, 2002, Operation and Maintenance expense increased $35 million or 5% as compared to the same period in 2001, due primarily to increases caused by scheduled outage work at electric generating stations. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and Amortization expense decreased $6 million or 6% for the year ended December 31, 2003 from the comparable periods in 2002. The net decrease was composed of lower depreciation costs of approximately $30 million due to the absence of decommissioning charges, which are no longer recorded as a result of the implementation of SFAS 143, partially offset by higher depreciation and amortization primarily related to generating facilities in Connecticut acquired in December 2002 and a higher asset base. For the period ended December 31, 2002, Depreciation and Amortization expense increased $13 million or 14%, as compared to the same period in 2001, due primarily to increases from Bergen 2 being placed into service in 2002 and a 2001 reversal of cost of removal reserves. Other Income Other Income increased $148 million for the year ended December 31, 2003 from the comparable period in 2002, due primarily to the recording of realized gains and income on the NDT Fund. Other Deductions Other Deductions increased $77 million for the year ended December 31, 2003 from the comparable period in 2002, due primarily to the recording of realized losses on the NDT Fund. Interest Expense Interest Expense decreased by $8 million for the year ended December 31, 2003, as compared to the same period in 2002. Power incurred additional interest charges of $20 million due primarily to the new long term financing of $600 million in June 2002, this increase was more than offset by lower interest expense on variable rate debt and other lower charges of approximately $15 million. Additionally, capitalized interest relating to various construction projects reduced interest expense by approximately $13 million for the year ended December 31, 2003, as compared to the same period in 2002. Interest Expense decreased $21 million for the year ended December 31, 2002 from the comparable period in 2001 primarily due to improved financing rates and the repayment of intercompany notes, which resulted in a decrease in expense of $83 million. Offsetting these reductions were $94 million of increased interest expense associated with the issuance of the $2.4 billion of senior notes, including $600 million issued in 2002, $124 million of Pollution Control Notes and increased non recourse financing 64 associated with the Lawrenceburg and Waterford construction projects, offset by increased capitalized interest relating to various construction projects of $32 million. Income Taxes Income taxes increased by $13 million or 4% for the year ended December 31, 2003, as compared to the same period in 2002. The increase was due primarily to higher pre tax income. Income Taxes increased $63 million or 25% for the year ended December 31, 2002, as compared to comparable period in 2001. The increase was due primarily to higher pre tax income. Cumulative Effect of Change in Accounting Principle Upon adoption of SFAS 143 on January 1, 2003, Power recorded a Cumulative Effect of a Change in Accounting Principle in the amount of $370 million, after tax. For additional information, see Note 4. Adoption of SFAS 143 of the Notes. Energy Holdings Operating Revenues For the year ended December 31, 2003, Energy Holdings Operating Revenues increased $116 million or 19%, from the comparable period in 2002. Higher electric generation and distribution revenues at Global of $115 million and $6 million, respectively, was the primary reason for this increase. This increase was partially offset by lower revenues at Resources of $10 million, as discussed below. For the year ended December 31, 2002, Energy Holdings Operating Revenues increased $155 million or 34%, from the comparable period in 2001. Higher electric generation and distribution revenues at Global of $116 million and $56 million, respectively, was the primary reason for this increase. Also contributing to this increase was higher revenues at Resources of $8 million. Partially offsetting the increase was a lower gain from partnership withdrawal relating to EPCP of $28 million compared to the same period in 2001. In 2001, Global withdrew from its interest in EPCP in exchange for a series of payments through 2005, provided certain operating contingencies are met. Global For the year ended December 31, 2003, Globals Operating Revenues increased $124 million or 35% from the comparable period in 2002. Contributing to the increase was a $47 million increase from Skawina CHP (Skawina), a generation facility in Poland, in which Global purchased a majority ownership in June 2002, a $38 million increase from Salalah, a generation facility in Oman, which began commercial operation in May 2003 and a $28 million increase in revenue from GWF Energy LLC (GWF Energy). This increase in revenue at GWF Energy was due to the Henrietta and Tracy Peaking Plants becoming operational in the second quarter of 2003 and 2002, respectively and consolidation of GWF Energy from the fourth quarter 2002 to the fourth quarter 2003. In the second half of 2002, Globals ownership of GWF Energy exceeded 75% and under the operating agreement Global gained a controlling interest. Accordingly, Global consolidated GWF Energy for the first three quarters of 2003 as compared to the first three quarters of 2002 when it was accounted for under the equity method. Global recommenced recording GWF Energy under the equity method in the fourth quarter of 2003 when its ownership was reduced to less than 75%. Also contributing to the increase was a $19 million increase in revenue from Sociedad Austral de Electricidad S.A. (SAESA), a distribution facility in Chile, due to improved sales volume compared to same period in 2002. These increases were partially offset by the absence of $19 million in revenue from Empresa Distribuidora de Electricidad de Entre Rios S.A. (EDEERSA), in Argentina, which was abandoned in 2003. For the year ended December 31, 2002, Globals, Operating Revenues increased $148 million or 73% from the comparable period in 2001. The increase was primarily due to the acquisition in the second half of 2001 of SAESA and Electroandes, a Peruvian hydroelectric generation and transmission company, resulting in increased revenue of $97 million and $42 million, respectively. Also contributing 65 was $49 million related to the increase in revenues at Skawina, in which Global purchased a majority ownership in the second quarter of 2002. Revenues increased at the GWF Energy peaker plants by $25 million as the Hanford and Henrietta Peaker Plants became operational in the third quarter of 2001 and second quarter of 2002, respectively. Partially offsetting these increases was a decrease in revenue of $37 million at EDEERSA due to the economic crisis in Argentina. In addition, in 2001, Global recorded $76 million for the gain on the sale and withdrawal from the EPCP compared to the $47 million recorded for the withdrawal in 2002, resulting in a reduction of approximately $29 million. Resources For the year ended December 31, 2003, Resources Operating Revenues decreased $10 million or 4% from the comparable period in 2002. This decrease was primarily related to a $45 million net decrease in leveraged lease income and a $6 million decrease in realized income due to the termination of two leveraged leases in December 2002. Partially offsetting this decrease was the absence of an other than temporary impairment of non publicly traded equity securities held within the leveraged buyout funds of $42 million that was recorded in 2002. For the year ended December 31, 2002, Resources Operating Revenues increased $8 million from the comparable period in 2001. This increase was primarily due to $45 million from higher leveraged lease income. The increase was mostly offset by lower net investment results of $39 million, of which $37 million resulted from other than temporary impairments of non publicly traded equity securities within certain leveraged buyout funds and other investments, and $9 million resulted from a net decrease in the gains on the sale of properties subject to leveraged leases. For further discussion of other than temporary impairments, see Note 16. Risk Management Equity Securities of the Notes. There was also a net increase of $6 million associated with the change in the carrying value of publicly traded equity securities in certain leveraged buyout funds. The values of the publicly traded equity securities in 2002 decreased by $10 million compared to the same period in 2001. Of the $45 million increase in leveraged lease income in 2002, $29 million resulted from a gain due to a recalculation of certain leveraged leases. A change in an essential assumption which affects the estimated total net income over the life of a leveraged lease requires a recalculation of the leveraged lease, from inception, using the revised information. The change in the net investment in the leveraged leases is recognized as a gain or loss in the year the assumption is changed. The change in assumption which occurred was related to a change in New Jersey tax rates applied in the leveraged lease calculations. This was due to the restructuring of Resources from a corporation to a limited liability company, which resulted in the ability to more efficiently match state tax expenses of an affiliate company with the state tax benefits associated with Resources lease portfolio. The remaining $16 million increase in leveraged lease income was due to additional investments in leveraged lease transactions in 2002 and 2001. Operating Expenses For the year ended December 31, 2003, Energy Holdings Operating Expenses decreased $450 million or 55% from the comparable period in 2002. This decrease was primarily due to Globals $511 million write down of investments in 2002, primarily in Argentina, as well as decreased operating expenses in 2003 compared to the same period in 2002. Also contributing were decreased expenses at Global of $28 million related to the abandonment of Globals Argentine investments combined with lower labor and administrative costs due to reduced headcounts. Partially offsetting this decrease was an increase in operating expenses of $42 million from Skawina and $28 million from Salalah. Also offsetting the decrease was an increase of approximately $16 million from GWF Energy, primarily due to the consolidation of this project beginning in the fourth quarter of 2002. For the year ended December 31, 2002, Energy Holdings Operating Expenses increased $626 million from the comparable period in 2001, primarily due to the investment write down in 2002 discussed above. In addition to the write down, Operating Expenses, increased $115 million for the year ended 2002 compared to 2001 primarily due to an increase at SAESA of $64 million and Empresa de Electricidad de los Andes S.A. (Electroandes) of $20 million, two acquisitions that occurred in the 66 second half of 2001 and Skawina of $45 million which became operational in 2002. Partially offsetting these increases were decreased operating expenses at EDEERSA which was accounted for under the equity method of accounting for the second half of 2002. Income from Equity Method Investments For the year ended December 31, 2003, Energy Holdings Income from Equity Method Investments decreased by $5 million or 4% from the comparable period in 2002. This decrease was primarily due to lower earnings in 2003 of $17 million at GWF Energy, which was recorded as a consolidated company for the first three quarters in 2003, as well as decreased earnings at Chilquinta of $4 million. Partially offsetting this decrease was improved earnings at TIE of $14 million related to PPAs entered into in early 2003 and improved market conditions in Texas. For the year ended December 31, 2002, Energy Holdings Income from Equity Method Investments decreased by $59 million or 33% from the comparable period in 2001. The decrease is due to lower earnings from Globals Argentine investments in 2002 of $26 million due to the economic crisis in Argentina, which led to Globals abandonment of its assets in Argentina. The decrease also resulted from reduced earnings of $21 million at the GWF facilities and a $17 million decrease at TIE, both due to lower energy prices in those markets. Also contributing to this decrease were operational losses at Prisma of $5 million and reduced earnings at PPN of $3 million. Partially offsetting these decreases were increased earnings at GWF Energy of $24 million related to the Hanford and Henrietta Peaker Plants, which became operational in the third quarter of 2001 and second quarter of 2002, respectively. Other Income For the year ended December 31, 2003, Energy Holdings Other Income decreased by $6 million from the comparable period in 2002. This decrease is primarily due to the absence of favorable changes in fair value mainly relating to foreign exchange contracts held by Energy Holdings. For the year ended December 31, 2002, Energy Holdings Other Income increased $22 million, from the comparable period in 2001. This increase was primarily driven by $11 million of net gains on foreign exchange contracts from SAESA, with no comparable amount in 2001, and a $14 million gain on the early retirement of debt in 2002. Other Deductions For the year ended December 31, 2003, Energy Holdings Other Deductions decreased by $72 million from the comparable period in 2002. The decrease was largely due to a $77 million foreign currency transaction loss during 2002, which primarily related to Globals Argentine investments. For the year ended December 31, 2002, Energy Holdings Other Deductions increased $60 million from the comparable period in 2001 primarily due to higher foreign currency exchange losses, primarily due to the remeasuring of the U.S. Dollar denominated debt relative to the devaluing Argentine Peso, which resulted in a loss of $66 million. Interest Expense For the year ended December 31, 2003, Energy Holdings Interest Expense increased by $1 million or 1% from the comparable period in 2002. For the year ended December 31, 2002, Energy Holdings Interest Expense increased $34 million or 19% from the comparable period in 2001. The increase was the result of issuing $135 million of 8.625% Senior Notes in July 2002 and an increase in project level debt at Global. The increase was partially offset by the repayments of borrowings under the revolving credit facilities. Income Taxes For the year ended December 31, 2003, Energy Holdings Income Taxes from continuing operations increased $203 million from the comparable period in 2002. This increase is primarily 67 attributed to increased pre tax income for the year ended December 31, 2003, as compared to pre tax losses in the same period in 2002. The pre tax losses in 2002 resulted from the write off of $511 million, primarily related to investments in Argentina. For the year ended December 31, 2002, Energy Holdings had Income Tax benefits of $144 million, compared to $58 million of Income Tax Expense in 2001. The tax benefits in 2002 resulted primarily from the write offs recorded during 2002, which resulted in a pre tax loss. Loss From Discontinued Operations CPC Global has a 60% ownership interest in CPC which owns and operates the Rades Power Plant, an electric generation facility located in Tunisia. In December 2003, Global entered into a purchase and sale agreement related to its majority interest in CPC for approximately $43 million, plus interest. Global has reduced its carrying value of CPC to its fair value less cost to sell and recorded a loss on disposal for the year ended December 31, 2003 of $23 million (after tax). The results of operations of these discontinued operations for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 yielded additional (after tax) losses of $1 million and income of $1 million and $4 million, respectively. See Note 5. Discontinued Operations of the Notes. Energy Technologies Energy Holdings reduced the carrying value of the investments in the 11 HVAC/mechanical operating companies to their fair value less costs to sell, and recorded a loss on disposal for the year ended December 31, 2002 of $20 million, net of $11 million in taxes. During 2003, Energy Holdings re evaluated the carrying value of Energy Technologies assets and liabilities and determined that market conditions required an additional write down to fair value less cost to sell. Energy Holdings recorded an additional loss on disposal of Energy Technologies of $9 million, net of a $3 million tax benefit. In September 2003, Energy Holdings completed the sale of the remaining companies of Energy Technologies. The results of operations of these discontinued operations for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 yielded additional (after tax) losses of $11 million, $21 million and $23 million, respectively. See Note 5. Discontinued Operations of the Notes. Tanir Bavi In the fourth quarter of 2002, Global sold its 74% interest in Tanir Bavi, a 220 MW barge mounted, combined cycle generating facility in India. Global reduced the carrying value of Tanir Bavi to the contracted sales price of $45 million and recorded a loss on disposal of $14 million (after tax) for the year ended December 31, 2002. The operating results of Tanir Bavi for the years ended December 31, 2002 and December 31, 2001 yielded (after tax) income of $5 million and $7 million, respectively. See Note 5. Discontinued Operations of the Notes. Cumulative Effect of Change in Accounting Principle In 2002, Energy Holding finalized the evaluation of the effect of adopting SFAS 142 on its recorded amount of goodwill. Under this standard, PSEG was required to complete an impairment analysis of its recorded goodwill and record any resulting impairment. The total amount of goodwill impairments was $121 million, net of tax of $66 million and was comprised of $36 million (after tax) at EDEERSA, $35 million (after tax) at RGE, $32 million (after tax) at Energy Technologies and $18 million (after tax) at Tanir Bavi. All of the goodwill on these companies, other than RGE, was fully impaired. In accordance with SFAS 142, this impairment charge was recorded as of January 1, 2002 as a component of the Cumulative Effect of a Change in Accounting Principle and is reflected in the Consolidated Statement of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2002. See Note 3. Recent Accounting Standards of the Notes. 68 In 2001, Energy Holdings adopted SFAS 133, which established accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments. Energy Holdings recorded an after tax gain of $10 million as a result of adopting SFAS 133. Other Global The following table summarizes the net contribution to Earnings Before Interest and Taxes (EBIT) by Globals projects in the following regions for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001. For the Years Ended December 31, Earnings Before Interest and Taxes (EBIT) 2003 2002 2001 (Millions) North America $ 87 $ 76 $ 87 Latin America Chilquinta 28 33 32 Electroandes 28 25 (1 ) LDS 19 16 16 RGE 17 6 5 SAESA 55 51 21 Other(A) 1 (555 ) 46 Total Latin America 148 (424 ) 119 Asia Pacific 9 7 9 Europe 24 (18 ) (3 ) India 9 1 4 EBIT 277 (358 ) 216 Interest Expense(B) (119 ) (118 ) (81 ) Income (Loss) Before Income Taxes $ 158 $ (476 ) $ 135 (A)Primarily relates to investments in Argentina which were abandoned in 2002. (B)For the consolidated projects above, interest associated with nonrecourse debt totaled $31 million, $26 million and $13 million for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. For additional information, see Note 23. Financial Information by Business Segment of the Notes. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES The following discussion of liquidity and capital resources is on a consolidated basis for PSEG, noting the uses and contributions of PSEGs three direct operating subsidiaries, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings. Financing Methodology PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings Capital requirements for PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings are met through liquidity provided by internally generated cash flow and external financings. Although earnings growth has moderated, PSEG expects to be able to fund existing commitments, reduce debt and meet dividend requirements using internally generated cash. PSEG, Power and Energy Holdings from time to time make equity contributions or otherwise provide credit support to their respective direct and indirect subsidiaries to provide for part of their capital and cash requirements, generally relating to long term investments. PSEG does not intend to contribute additional equity to Energy Holdings. 69 At times, PSEG utilizes intercompany dividends and intercompany loans (except however, that PSE&G may not, without prior BPU approval, make loans to its parent or to affiliates that are not its direct subsidiaries) to satisfy various subsidiary or parental needs and efficiently manage short term cash. Any excess funds are invested in short term liquid investments. External funding to meet PSEGs and PSE&Gs needs and a majority portion of the requirements of Power and Energy Holdings consist of corporate finance transactions. The debt incurred is the direct obligation of those respective entities. Some of the proceeds of these debt transactions are used by the respective obligor to make equity investments in its subsidiaries. As discussed below, depending on the particular company, external financing may consist of public and private capital market debt and equity transactions, bank revolving credit and term loans, commercial paper and or project financings. Some of these transactions involve special purpose entities (SPEs), formed in accordance with applicable tax and legal requirements in order to achieve specified beneficial financial advantages, such as favorable legal liability treatment. PSEG consolidates SPEs, as applicable, in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Interpretation No. 46, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities (VIEs)(FIN 46). See Note 3. Recent Accounting Standards of the Notes. The availability and cost of external capital could be affected by each entitys performance, as well as by the performance of their respective subsidiaries and affiliates. This could include the degree of structural separation between PSEG and its subsidiaries and the potential impact of affiliate ratings on consolidated and unconsolidated credit quality. Additionally, compliance with applicable financial covenants will depend upon future financial position and levels of earnings and net cash flows, as to which no assurances can be given. Over the next several years, PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings may be required to extinguish or refinance maturing debt and to the extent there is not sufficient internally generated funds may incur additional debt and or provide equity to fund investment activities. Any inability to obtain required additional external capital or to extend or replace maturing debt and or existing agreements at current levels and reasonable interest rates may adversely affect PSEGs, PSE&Gs, Powers and Energy Holdings respective financial condition, results of operations and net cash flows. From time to time, PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings may repurchase portions of their respective debt securities using funds from operations, asset sales, commercial paper, debt issuances, equity issuances and other sources of funding and may make exchanges of new securities, including common stock, for outstanding securities. Such repurchases may be at variable prices below, at or above prevailing market prices and may be conducted by way of privately negotiated transactions, open market purchases, tender or exchange offers or other means. PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings may utilize brokers or dealers or effect such repurchases directly. Any such repurchases may be commenced or discontinued at any time without notice. Power and Energy Holdings A portion of the financing for Globals projects and investments is normally provided by non recourse project financing transactions. These consist of loans from banks and other lenders that are typically secured by project assets and or cash flows. Powers projects in Ohio and Indiana currently have similar financing. Nonrecourse transactions generally impose no material obligation on the parent level investor to repay any debt incurred by the project borrower. The consequences of permitting a project level default includes loss of any invested equity by the parent. However, in some cases, certain obligations relating to the investment being financed, including additional equity commitments, may be guaranteed by Global, Energy Holdings and or Power for their respective subsidiaries. PSEG has not currently provided any guarantees or credit support to Power and does not provide guarantees or credit support to Energy Holdings or its subsidiaries. 70 Operating Cash Flows PSEG For the year ended December 31, 2003, PSEGs operating cash flow increased by approximately $135 million from $1.3 billion to $1.4 billion, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2002 due to net increases from its subsidiaries as discussed below. PSE&G PSE&Gs operating cash flow decreased approximately $225 million from $830 million to $605 million for the year ended December 31, 2003, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2002. The 2002 operating cash flow was abnormally high primarily due to the sale of the gas inventory totaling approximately $415 million in 2002, $183 million of which related to PSE&Gs sale of the gas supply business to Power. Working capital needs also increased during 2003 due to changes in the over/under collected balances of PSE&Gs energy clauses and increased Accounts Receivable balances resulting from higher billings. Power Powers operating cash flow increased approximately $163 million from $417 million to $580 million for the year ended December 31, 2003, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2002. The 2002 operating cash flow was abnormally low, due to the purchase of the gas contracts from PSE&G in May 2002 for approximately $183 million and gas storage volume requirements, including higher gas prices, to meet its BGSS and generation requirements in 2002. However, higher gas prices in 2003 led to higher working capital requirements for fuels than in 2002. Energy Holdings Energy Holdings operating cash flow increased approximately $188 million from $108 million to $296 million for the year ended December 31, 2003, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2002. This increase is primarily related to increased earnings and realization of deferred tax assets, partially offset by a $115 million tax payment in the first quarter of 2003 related to two leveraged lease transactions at Resources with affiliates of TXU Europe that were terminated in the fourth quarter of 2002 and other miscellaneous items. Also, Global received a $137 million return of capital from its investment in GWF Energy that is reflected in financing activities rather than operating cash flows as that project had been consolidated at that time. PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings The cash flow metric PSEG uses to manage the business is cash available to pay down recourse debt (i.e., excess cash). This metric is calculated by taking PSEGs operating cash flows, less investing activities, less dividends and adjusted for the operating and investing activities of consolidated subsidiaries of Energy Holdings that do not affect its liquidity position, such as capital expenditures made by SAESA that are funded locally, rather than through Global. In 2003, PSEG did not achieve its target of up to $200 million in excess cash due to increased working capital requirements of about $200 million at PSE&G and Power driven by increases in gas prices and because of the delay of securitization financing at PSE&G. In the future, PSEG expects operating cash flows to be sufficient to fund the majority of future capital requirements and dividend payments. PSEG expects that cash available to pay down recourse debt will increase substantially in the later part of its business plan as capital expenditures are expected to decrease materially after 2005 when the current construction program at Power is completed. 71 Debt Covenants PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings PSEGs, PSE&Gs, Powers and Energy Holdings respective credit agreements generally contain customary provisions under which the lenders could refuse to advance loans in the event of a material adverse change in the borrowers business or financial condition. As explained in detail below, some of these credit agreements also contain maximum debt to equity ratios, minimum cash flow tests and other restrictive covenants and conditions to borrowing. Compliance with applicable financial covenants will depend upon the respective future financial position, level of earnings and cash flows of PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings, as to which no assurances can be given. The ratios presented below are for the benefit of the investors of the related securities to which the covenants apply. They are not intended as a financial performance or liquidity measure. The debt underlying the preferred securities of PSEG, which is presented in Long Term Debt in accordance with FIN 46, is not included as debt when calculating these ratios, as provided for in the various credit agreements. PSEG Financial covenants contained in PSEGs credit facilities include a ratio of debt (excluding non recourse project financings, securitization debt and debt underlying preferred securities and including commercial paper and loans, certain letters of credit and similar instruments) to total capitalization covenant. This covenant requires that at the end of any quarterly financial period, such ratio not be more than 70.0%. As of December 31, 2003, PSEGs ratio of debt to capitalization (as defined above) was 57.0%. PSEG expects to continue to meet the financial covenants necessary to maintain its credit ratings. PSE&G Financial covenants contained in PSE&Gs credit facilities include a ratio of long term debt (excluding securitization debt and long term debt maturing within one year) to total capitalization covenant. This covenant requires that at the end of any quarterly financial period, such ratio will not be more than 65.0%. As of December 31, 2003, PSE&Gs ratio of long term debt to total capitalization (as defined above) was 54.5%. In addition, under its First and Refunding Mortgage (Mortgage), PSE&G may issue new First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds against previous additions and improvements, provided that its ratio of earnings to fixed charges calculated in accordance with its Mortgage is at least 2:1, and or against retired Mortgage Bonds. As of December 31, 2003, PSE&Gs Mortgage coverage ratio was 3:1 and the Mortgage would permit up to approximately $1.5 billion aggregate principal amount of new Mortgage Bonds to be issued against previous additions and improvements. PSEG and Power Financial covenants contained in the PSEG/Power joint and several credit facility include a ratio of debt to total capitalization for each specific borrower. Where PSEG is the borrower, the covenant described above in PSEG is applicable. Where Power is the borrower, a debt (excluding non recourse project financings and including loans, certain letters of credit and similar instruments) to total capitalization, adjusted for the $986 million Basis Adjustment (see Consolidated Balance Sheets), covenant applies. This covenant requires that at the end of any quarterly financial period, such ratio will not exceed 65.0%. As of December 31, 2003, Powers ratio of debt to capitalization (as defined above) was 44.7%. Energy Holdings In April 2003, Energy Holdings issued $350 million of Senior Notes which contain financial covenants that include debt incurrence tests consisting of a debt service coverage test and a ratio of 72 consolidated recourse indebtedness to recourse capitalization test, which covenants require that Energy Holdings will not incur additional consolidated recourse indebtedness, other than certain permitted indebtedness, unless, on a pro forma basis, giving effect to the incurrence of the additional consolidated recourse indebtedness: (i) the debt service coverage ratio would be at least 2 to 1 and (ii) the ratio of consolidated recourse indebtedness to recourse capitalization would not exceed 0.60 to 1. Certain permitted indebtedness, such as permitted refinancings and borrowings are excluded from the requirements under this test. The provisions of the Senior Notes also restrict Energy Holdings from selling assets with a net book value greater than 10% of its assets in any four consecutive quarters, unless the proceeds are used to reduce debt of Energy Holdings or its subsidiaries or are retained by Energy Holdings. Energy Holdings entered into a new $200 million three year bank revolving credit agreement in October 2003 with a covenant requiring the ratio of Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization (EBITDA) to fixed charges to be greater than 1.75x. As of December 31, 2003, Energy Holdings coverage of this covenant was 2.60x. Additionally, Energy Holdings must maintain a ratio of net debt to EBITDA of less than 5.25. As of December 31, 2003, Energy Holdings ratio under this covenant was 3.87. Energy Holdings is a co borrower under this facility with Global and Resources, which are joint and several obligors. The terms of the agreement include a pledge of Energy Holdings membership interest in Global, restrictions on the use of proceeds related to material sales of assets and the satisfaction of certain financial covenants. Cash proceeds from asset sales in excess of 5% of total assets of Energy Holdings during any 12 month period must be used to repay any outstanding amounts under the credit agreement. Cash proceeds in excess of 10% must be retained by Energy Holdings or used to repay the debt of Energy Holdings, Global or Resources. Energy Holdings has been informed that its indirect subsidiary, CPC, has incurred a non payment related default under its non recourse project financing. There are no cross defaults associated with this technical default. CPC is seeking a waiver and although no acceleration of the approximately $160 million of outstanding project debt is expected, no assurances can be given. Cross Default Provisions PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings The PSEG credit agreements contain default provisions under which a default by it, PSE&G or Power in an aggregate amount of $50 million or greater would result in a default and the potential acceleration of payment under those agreements. PSEGs bank credit agreements and note purchase agreements (collectively, Credit Agreements) related to its private placement of debt contain cross default provisions under which certain payment defaults by PSE&G or Power, certain bankruptcy events relating to PSE&G or Power, the failure by PSE&G or Power to satisfy certain final judgments or the occurrence of certain events of default under the financing agreements of PSE&G or Power, would each constitute an event of default under the PSEG Credit Agreements. It is also an event of default under the PSEG Credit Agreements if PSE&G or Power ceases to be wholly owned by PSEG. PSEG removed Energy Holdings from all cross default provisions effective with the cancellation of Energy Holdings $495 million revolving credit agreement in September 2003. In October 2003, Energy Holdings entered into a new three year bank revolving credit agreement in the amount of approximately $200 million that does not include PSEG level covenants other than the maintenance of ownership of at least 80% of the capital stock of Energy Holdings. PSE&G PSE&Gs Mortgage has no cross defaults. The PSE&G Medium Term Note Indenture has a cross default to the PSE&G Mortgage. The credit agreements have cross defaults under which a default by PSE&G in the aggregate of $50 million or greater would result in an event of default and the potential acceleration of payment under the credit agreements. 73 Power The Power Senior Debt Indenture contains a default provision under which a default by it, Nuclear, Fossil or ER&T in an aggregate amount of $50 million would result in an event of default and the potential acceleration of payment under the indenture. There are no cross defaults within Powers indenture from PSEG, Energy Holdings or PSE&G. Energy Holdings Energy Holdings Credit Agreement and Senior Note Indenture contain default provisions under which a default by it, Resources or Global in an aggregate amount of $25 million or greater would result in an event of default and the potential acceleration of payment under those agreements or the Indenture. Ratings Triggers PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings The debt indentures and credit agreements of PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings do not contain any material ratings triggers that would cause an acceleration of the required interest and principal payments in the event of a ratings downgrade. However, in the event of a downgrade, any one or more of the affected companies may be subject to increased interest costs on certain bank debt and certain collateral requirements. PSE&G In accordance with the BPU credit requirements under the BGS contracts that PSE&G enters into with suppliers, PSE&G is required to maintain an investment grade credit rating. If PSE&G were to lose its investment grade rating, PSE&G would be required to file with the BPU a plan to assure continued payment for the BGS requirements of its customers. Power In connection with its energy marketing and trading activities, Power must meet certain credit quality standards required by counterparties. If Power loses its investment grade credit rating, ER&T would have to provide credit support (letters of credit or cash), which would materially impact the cost of its energy trading activities. In addition, all master agreements and other supply contracts contain margin and or other collateral requirements that, as of December 31, 2003, could require Power to post additional collateral of approximately $377 million if Power were to lose its investment grade credit rating and all counterparties to contracts in which Power is out of the money were entitled to and called for collateral. Providing this credit support would increase Powers costs of doing business and could limit Powers ability to successfully conduct its energy trading operations. See Note 17. Commitments and Contingent Liabilities of the Notes. Energy Holdings Energy Holdings and Global posted letters of credit of approximately $9 million and $35 million for certain of their equity commitments in September 2003 and October 2003, respectively, as a result of Energy Holdings ratings falling below investment grade. The letters of credit totaling $35 million issued in October 2003 have been reduced to approximately $10 million as of December 31, 2003. Under existing agreements, no further letters of credit will need to be posted should there be a future downgrade. 74 Credit Ratings PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings The current ratings of securities of PSEG and its subsidiaries are shown below and reflect the respective views of the rating agencies. Any downward revision or withdrawal may adversely affect the market price of PSEGs, PSE&Gs, Powers and Energy Holdings securities and serve to increase those companies cost of capital and limit their access to capital. All ratings have a stable outlook unless otherwise noted. (N) denotes a negative outlook. There is no assurance that the ratings will continue for any given period of time or that they will not be revised by the rating agencies, if, in their respective judgments, circumstances so warrant. Each rating given by an agency should be evaluated independently of the other agencies ratings. The ratings should not be construed as an indication to buy, hold or sell any security. The financial objectives for PSEG include maintaining credit ratings for each of PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings. To accomplish this, PSEG expects to improve its funds from operations and interest coverage ratios and continue to lower its leverage ratio over the planning period. Failure to meet these targets could lead to a lower credit rating. In the fourth quarter of 2003, Standard & Poors (S&P) affirmed the corporate credit ratings of PSEG, PSE&G and Power, and downgraded the credit rating of Energy Holdings from BBB to BB . Moodys Investors Service (Moodys) similarly has recently affirmed the credit ratings of PSEG, PSE&G and Power and downgraded Energy Holdings credit rating from Baa3 to Ba3. These actions concluded the review for possible downgrade of Power and Energy Holdings that was initiated by Moodys in June 2003. On September 26, 2003, Moodys confirmed PSEGs P2 commercial paper rating. The current ratings of securities of PSEG and its subsidiaries are shown below: Moodys(A) S&P(B) Fitch(C) PSEG: Preferred Securities Baa3(N) BB+ BBB(N) Commercial Paper P2(N) A2 Not Rated PSE&G: Mortgage Bonds A3 A A(N) Preferred Securities(D) Baa3 BB+ BBB+(N) Commercial Paper P2 A2 F1 Power: Senior Notes Baa1 BBB BBB+ Energy Holdings: Senior Notes Ba3(N) BB BBB (A)Moodys ratings range from Aaa (highest) to C (lowest) for long term securities and P 1 (highest) to NP (lowest) for short term securities. (B)S&P ratings range from AAA (highest) to D (lowest) for long term securities and A 1 (highest) to D (lowest) for short term securities. (C)Fitch ratings range from AAA (highest) to D (lowest) for long term securities and F 1 (highest) to D (lowest) for short term securities. (D)Rating for PSE&G Cumulative Preferred Stock without Mandatory Redemption. 75 Short Term Liquidity PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings As of December 31, 2003, PSEG and its subsidiaries had a total of approximately $1.9 billion of committed credit facilities with approximately $1.5 billion of available liquidity under these facilities, supplemented by cash investments of approximately $200 million. In addition to this amount, PSEG and PSE&G have access to certain uncommitted credit facilities. Neither PSEG nor PSE&G had any loans outstanding under these facilities as of December 31, 2003. Each facility is restricted to availability and use to the specific companies as listed below. Company Expiration Date Total Facility Primary Purpose Usage at 12/31/2003 Available Liquidity at 12/31/2003 (Millions) PSEG: 364 day Credit Facility March 2004 $ 350 CP Support $ 299 $ 51 5 year Credit Facility March 2005 $ 280 CP Support $ $ 280 3 year Credit Facility December 2005 $ 350 CP Support/ $ 10 (C) $ 340 Funding/Letters of Credit Uncommitted Bilateral Agreement N/A N/A Funding $ N/A PSE&G: 364 day Credit Facility June 2004 $ 200 CP Support $ $ 200 3 year Credit Facility June 2005 $ 200 CP Support $ $ 200 Uncommitted Bilateral Agreement N/A N/A Funding $ N/A PSEG and Power: 364 day Credit Facility(A) March 2004 $ 250 CP Support/ Funding $ $ 250 Power: 3 year Credit Facility August 2005 $ 25 Funding/Letters $ 19 (C) $ 6 of Credit Energy Holdings: 3 year Credit Facility(B) October 2006 $ 200 Funding/ $ 56 (C) $ 144 Letters of Credit (A) PSEG/Power co borrower facility (B)The facility could be reduced to a total of $100 million on June 30, 2004 if available liquidity during the period, after repayment of the Energy Holdings Senior Notes due in February 2004 to June 30, 2004 does not reach $100 million for 15 days. (C)These amounts relate to letters of credit outstanding. Energy Holdings As of December 31, 2003, in addition to amounts outstanding under Energy Holdings credit facilities shown in the above table, subsidiaries of Global had $35 million of non recourse short term financing at the project level. As of December 31, 2003, Energy Holdings had loaned $300 million of excess cash to PSEG. For information regarding affiliate borrowings, see Note 26. Related Party Transactions of the Notes. 76 External Financings PSEG On October 7, 2003, PSEG issued $356 million (approximately 8.8 million shares) of common equity. Proceeds from the offering were used for the repayment of short term debt. In 2002, PSEG began issuing shares of its common stock under its Dividend Reinvestment Program and Employee Stock Purchase Plan, rather than purchasing shares on the open market. For the year ended December 31, 2003, PSEG issued approximately 2.1 million shares for approximately $85 million pursuant to these plans. Dividend payments on common stock for the year ended December 31, 2003 were $2.16 per share and totaled approximately $493 million. In January 2004, PSEGs Board of Directors approved an increase in the quarterly dividend by $0.01 per share, from $0.54 to $0.55. Future dividends declared will be dependent upon PSEGs future earnings, cash flows, financial requirements, alternative investment opportunities and other factors. PSE&G In January 2003, PSE&G issued $150 million of 5.000% Medium Term Notes due 2013. The proceeds of this issuance were used to repay $150 million of 6.875% Series MM Mortgage Bonds which matured in January 2003. Also in January 2003, PSEG contributed $170 million to PSE&G to support its capital structure. PSE&G paid a common stock dividend of approximately $200 million to PSEG in September 2003. In June 2003, $150 million of 8.875% Series DD Mortgage Bonds matured. In September 2003, PSE&G issued $300 million of 5.375% Medium Term Notes due 2013. The proceeds of this issuance were used to both repay short term debt incurred to pay for the previously matured $150 million of Series DD Mortgage Bonds, as well as to reduce other short term debt. In November 2003, PSE&G issued $250 million of 4.000% Medium Term Notes due 2008. The proceeds of this issuance were used to retire $60 million and $95 million of its subordinated debt which supported cumulative Monthly Income Preferred Securities and cumulative Quarterly Income Preferred Securities, respectively, in December as detailed below and to reduce short term debt. During 2003, PSE&G Transition Funding LLC repaid approximately $129 million of its transition bonds. On December 31, 2003, PSE&G Capital, L.P., a limited partnership of which PSE&G is the sole general partner, redeemed all of its $60 million outstanding 8.000% Cumulative Monthly Income Preferred Securities, Series B at a price of $25 per preferred security for approximately $60 million. On December 31, 2003, PSE&G Capital Trust II, a statutory trust of which PSE&G is the sole depositor, redeemed all of its $95 million outstanding 8.125% Cumulative Quarterly Income Preferred Securities, Series B at a price of $25 per preferred security for approximately $95 million. In December 2003, PSE&G redeemed $64 million of its 5.700% First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, Pollution Control Series L due 2028 (Series L Bonds) and $145 million of its 5.550% First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, Pollution Control Series N due 2033 (Series N Bonds). Each of these series of mortgage bonds serviced and secured like principal amounts of pollution control revenue refunding bonds of The Pollution Control Financing Authority of Salem County, New Jersey (Salem Authority). The Series L Bonds and the Series N Bonds were refinanced through the issuance of new series of mortgage bonds that are multi mode and that were initially issued in a floating rate 35 day auction mode. The Series L Bonds were refinanced by the issuance of $64 million of First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, Pollution Control Series Y due 2028, with an initial auction rate of 1.100%. The Series N Bonds were refinanced by the issuance of three separate series of mortgage bonds: $50 million First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, Pollution Control Series Z due 2033 with an initial rate of 1.140%, $50 million First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, Pollution Control Series AA due 2033 with an initial rate of 1.100%, and a $45.2 million First and Refunding Mortgage Bonds, Pollution Control Series AB due 77 2033 with an initial rate of 1.150%. Similarly, these new mortgage bonds service and secure like principal amounts of pollution control revenue refunding bonds of the Salem Authority. Power In December 2003, PSEG contributed approximately $150 million of equity to Power. In December 2003, Power issued $300 million of 5.500% Senior Notes due 2015. The proceeds of this issuance were used to repay intercompany debt and for general corporate purposes. Energy Holdings In April 2003, Energy Holdings, in a private placement, issued $350 million of 7.750% Senior Notes due in 2007. The proceeds were used in part to repay PSEG Capitals remaining $252 million of 6.250% Medium Term Notes that matured in May 2003. The remaining proceeds from the sale of the Senior Notes were used for general corporate purposes. In July 2003, Energy Holdings completed an exchange of the Senior Notes for registered securities. In September 2003, Energy Holdings repurchased approximately $12 million of its outstanding Senior Notes. In February 2004, Energy Holdings redeemed the remaining $267 million of these Senior Notes at maturity. In addition, Energy Holdings expects to redeem approximately $75 million of preferred securities held by PSEG in the first quarter of 2004. In addition, as detailed below, a number of entities in which Global has invested engaged in financing transactions, each of which is non recourse to Global and Energy Holdings: During January and February of 2003, Sociedad Austral de Electricidad S.A. (SAESA) and Empresa Electrica de la Frontera S.A. (Frontel), two distribution companies in Chile, refinanced certain short term obligations through a combination of bonds, a syndicated bank facility and equity from Global. SAESA issued two series of bonds equivalent to $117 million with respective final maturities in 2009 and 2023. Frontel executed a syndicated loan facility equivalent to $23 million with final maturity in 2010. In addition, during January 2003, Global made equity contributions to SAESA and Frontel totaling $55 million. In March 2003, Electroandes, a generation facility in Peru, refinanced a $100 million bridge loan with a $70 million seven year amortizing facility and two $15 million one year facilities (each guaranteed by Energy Holdings). Additionally, in June 2003, Electroandes sold $50 million of bonds in the local market. These bonds have a 6.440% coupon and mature in 2013. The bonds include a five year grace period on principal payments. Proceeds from this bond issue were used to repay the two $15 million one year facilities, at which time the related guarantees by Energy Holdings were eliminated, along with $20 million of the $70 million seven year facility. In September 2003, Electroandes sold an additional $30 million of Peruvian Sol denominated bonds with a coupon of 6.000%. The proceeds from this bond issue were used to repay $30 million of the $50 million balance of the seven year facility. In the fourth quarter of 2003, Electroandes completed the refinancing of the final $20 million of the seven year facility with a ten year bond issued at 5.875%. In May 2003, GWF Power Systems, L.P. (GWF) and Hanford L.P. (Hanford) closed on a $55 million syndicated bank loan along with an additional $7 million letter of credit facility. Interest on this bank loan is at LIBOR plus 2.000% through September 30, 2004 and LIBOR plus 2.250% thereafter. Global and Harbert Power (Harbert) each own 50% of GWF and Hanford. GWF and Hanford used the net proceeds from the bank loan to pay back investments from Global and Harbert. Global received a cash distribution of approximately $27 million in May 2003 and reduced its investment in GWF to $66 million as of September 30, 2003. In September 2003, GWF Energy issued $226 million of 6.131% senior secured notes that mature on December 30, 2011. The note proceeds were used by GWF Energy to repay a $45 million bank loan that matured on September 30, 2003, to make distributions to its members and for general corporate purposes. GWF Energy also closed a $35 million letter of credit and working capital facility simultaneous with the issuance of the notes. The bank facility is available to GWF Energy to provide letters of credit to fund the debt service reserve account required by the notes indenture and to secure 78 project obligations. The portion of the bank facility that is not used to provide letters of credit may be used to provide working capital loans to GWF Energy up to a maximum of $7.5 million. GWF Energy has approximately $27 million of issued and undrawn letters of credit outstanding under the bank facility and approximately $8 million available for working capital loans and or additional letters of credit, subject to the $7.5 million cap on working capital loans. GWF Energy made cash distributions to Global prior to September 30, 2003 of approximately $137 million from the proceeds of this financing. As of December 31, 2003, RGE had total outstanding debt equivalent to approximately $240 million of which approximately $204 million matures over the next two years. RGE is currently in discussions with various financial institutions to obtain financing for approximately $35 million. Proceeds from these facilities will be used to refinance certain short term obligations and to fund capital expenditures. Due to the macroeconomic conditions in Brazil, the countrys debt markets have become increasingly short term in nature, impacting RGEs ability to refinance on a long term basis, which could negatively impact RGEs liquidity and increase their costs of borrowing. RGEs current average interest rate is approximately 18%. OCI Charge for Pension Liability PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings PSEG maintains certain pension plans for the benefit of its and its subsidiaries employees. Due to general market conditions in 2002, the master trust fund for PSEGs pension plans experienced significant unrealized losses and deteriorated below the accumulated benefit obligation (ABO) of these plans. In accordance with SFAS No. 87, Employers Accounting for Pensions (SFAS 87), PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings were required to record a minimum pension liability on their respective Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2002. As calculated under SFAS 87, a minimum pension liability was recorded because the ABO of the plan exceeded the fair value of the plan assets as of December 31, 2002. The excess of the ABO over the fair value of the plan assets was recorded as a charge to OCI within the equity section of the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The offsetting adjustment was recorded as a pension liability or as a reduction of certain pension plan intangible assets as applicable. The minimum pension liabilities totaling $289 million related to the qualified pension plans were reversed as of December 31, 2003, as the fair value of the pension plan assets exceeded the ABO. This was achieved by improved conditions in the financial markets, as well as contributions by the respective companies of approximately $210 million during 2003. In 2004, PSEG plans to contribute approximately $90 million to fund the pension plans. For additional information, see Note 21. Pension, Other Postretirement Benefit (OPEB) and Savings Plans of the Notes. 79 CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS Forecasted Expenditures PSEG, Power and Energy Holdings PSEG, Power and Energy Holdings have materially reduced their respective capital expenditure forecasts in response to tightening market conditions resulting from market and lender concerns regarding the overall economy and the industry in particular, including an investor and rating agency focus on leverage ratios. It is expected that the majority of each subsidiarys capital requirements over the next five years will come from internally generated funds, with the balance to be provided through equity from PSEG (other than to Energy Holdings) and by the issuance of debt at the project level. Projected construction and investment expenditures, excluding nuclear fuel purchases, for PSEGs subsidiaries for the next five years are as follows: 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 (Millions) PSE&G Facilities Support $ 40 $ 45 $ 45 $ 70 $ 90 Environmental/Regulatory 20 15 20 20 20 Facility Replacement 160 135 150 145 155 System Reinforcement 90 100 90 95 90 New Business 150 145 150 155 155 Total PSE&G 460 440 455 485 510 Power Non recurring (new MWs and Environmental) 590 150 75 75 80 Maintenance 110 140 100 90 110 Total Power 700 290 175 165 190 Energy Holdings 40 30 15 20 20 Other 20 10 10 10 15 Total PSEG $ 1,220 $ 770 $ 655 $ 680 $ 735 PSE&G PSE&G projects future capital needs for additions to its transmission and distribution systems to meet expected growth and to manage reliability. Power Power has revised its schedule for completion of several projects under development to provide better sequencing of its construction program with anticipated market demand. In 2003, Power made approximately $655 million of capital expenditures, primarily related to developing the Lawrenceburg, Indiana, Waterford, Ohio and Bethlehem, New York (Albany) sites and adding capacity to the Linden station in New Jersey. The Waterford, Ohio facility was placed in service in August 2003. Energy Holdings Energy Holdings capital needs in 2004 will be limited to fulfilling existing contractual and potential contingent commitments. The balance relates to capital requirements of consolidated subsidiaries, which will be financed from internally generated cash flow within the projects, from local sources on a non recourse basis or discretionary investments at Energy Holdings. In 2003, Energy Holdings invested approximately $307 million of capital expenditures, primarily related to capital projects at SAESA, Salalah, Elcho and the GWF Energy plants. This amount exceeded Energy Holdings original 2003 plan largely due to capital expenditures at Globals 80 investments using internally generated funds or local financing, but is included in Energy Holdings capital expenditures as certain of these investments are consolidated. Approximately $133 million of this amount was funded by Energy Holdings equity contributions to Global primarily to fulfill existing commitments for projects in construction. Disclosures about Long Term Maturities, Contractual and Commercial Obligations and Certain Investments The following tables, reflect PSEGs and its subsidiaries contractual cash obligations and other commercial commitments in the respective periods in which they are due. In addition the table summarizes anticipated recourse and non recourse debt maturities for the years shown. The chart below does not reflect debt maturities of non consolidated investments. If those obligations were not able to be refinanced by the project, Energy Holdings may elect to make additional contributions in these investments. For additional information, see Note 15. Schedule of Consolidated Debt of the Notes. Contractual Cash Obligations Total Amounts Committed Less Than 1 year 23 years 45 years Over 5 years (Millions) Short Term Debt Maturities: PSEG $ 299 $ 299 $ $ $ Energy Holdings 2 2 Long Term Debt Maturities: Recourse Debt Maturities PSEG (A) 1,462 98 558 806 PSE&G 3,330 286 272 363 2,409 Transition Funding (PSE&G) 2,222 137 302 331 1,452 Power 2,816 500 2,316 Energy Holdings 2,067 267 857 943 Non Recourse Project Financing Power 800 800 Energy Holdings 974 36 99 147 692 Capital Lease Obligations PSEG 76 6 13 14 43 Power 18 1 2 4 11 Operating Leases PSE&G 11 3 5 3 Energy Holdings 48 8 13 11 16 Services 8 1 2 2 3 Energy Related Purchase Commitments Power 1,493 414 510 336 233 Restructuring Commitments Power 6 6 Energy Holdings 4 4 Total Contractual Cash Obligations $ 15,636 $ 1,470 $ 2,616 $ 2,626 $ 8,924 Standby Letters of Credit Power $ 74 $ 74 $ $ $ Energy Holdings 56 51 5 Guarantees and Equity Commitments Power 25 25 Energy Holdings 125 49 76 Total Commercial Commitments $ 280 $ 150 $ 5 $ 49 $ 76 (A) Includes debt supporting trust preferred securities of $1.2 billion. * Power has also entered into contractual commitments for a variety of services for which annual amounts are not quantifiable. See Note 17, Commitments and Contingent Liabilities. 81 OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS Power Power issues guarantees in conjunction with certain of its energy trading activities, see Note 17. Commitments and Contingent Liabilities of the Notes for further discussion. Energy Holdings Global has certain investments that are accounted for under the equity method in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (GAAP). Accordingly, amounts recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets for such investments represent Globals equity investment, which is increased for Globals pro rata share of earnings less any dividend distribution from such investments. The companies in which PSEG invests that are accounted for under the equity method have an aggregate $1.8 billion of debt on their combined, consolidated financial statements. PSEGs pro rata share of such debt is $800 million. This debt is non recourse to PSEG, Energy Holdings and Global. PSEG is generally not required to support the debt service obligations of these companies. However, default with respect to this non recourse debt could result in a loss of invested equity. Resources has investments in leveraged leases that are accounted for in accordance with SFAS No. 13, Accounting for Leases. Leveraged lease investments generally involve three parties: an owner/lessor, a creditor and a lessee. In a typical leveraged lease financing, the lessor purchases an asset to be leased. The purchase price is typically financed 80% with debt provided by the creditor and the balance comes from equity funds provided by the lessor. The creditor provides long term financing to the transaction, and is secured by the property subject to the lease. Such long term financing is non recourse to the lessor. As such, in the event of default, the leased asset, and in some cases the lessee, secure the loan. As a lessor, Resources has ownership rights to the property and rents the property to the lessees for use in their business operation. As of December 31, 2003, Resources equity investment in leased assets was approximately $1.4 billion, net of deferred taxes of approximately $1.6 billion. For additional information, see Note 12. Long Term Investments of the Notes. In the event that collectibility of the minimum lease payments to be received by the lessor is no longer reasonably assumed, the accounting treatment for some of the leases may change. In such cases, Resources may deem that a lessee has a high probability of defaulting on the lease obligation. Should Resources ever directly assume a debt obligation, the fair value of the underlying asset and the associated debt would be recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets instead of the net equity investment in the lease. Energy Holdings have guaranteed certain obligations of their subsidiaries or affiliates related to certain projects. See Note 17. Commitments and Contingent Liabilities of the Notes for further discussion. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings Under GAAP, there are many accounting standards that require the use of estimates, variable inputs and assumptions (collectively referred to as estimates) that are subjective in nature. Because of this, differences between the actual measure realized versus the estimate can have a material impact on results of operations, financial position and cash flows. The managements of PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings have each, respectively, determined that the following estimates are considered critical to the application of rules that relate to its business. Accounting for Pensions PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings account for pensions under SFAS 87. Pension costs under SFAS 87 are calculated using various economic and demographic assumptions. Economic assumptions include the discount rate and the long term rate of return on trust assets. Demographic assumptions include projections of future mortality rates, pay increases and retirement patterns. In 82 2003, PSEG recorded pension expense of $147 million, compared to $89 million in 2002 and $58 million in 2001. Additionally, in 2003, PSEG and its respective subsidiaries contributed cash of approximately $210 million compared to cash contributions of $240 million in 2002, and $90 million in 2001. PSEGs discount rate assumption, which is determined annually, is based on the rates of return on high quality fixed income investments currently available and expected to be available during the period to maturity of the pension benefits. The discount rate used to calculate pension obligations is determined as of December 31 each year, PSEGs SFAS 87 measurement date. The discount rate used to determine year end obligations is also used to develop the following years net periodic pension cost. The discount rates used in PSEGs 2002 and 2003 net periodic pension costs were 7.25% and 6.75%, respectively. PSEGs 2004 net periodic pension cost was developed using a discount rate of 6.25%. PSEGs expected rate of return on plan assets reflects current asset allocations, historical long term investment performance, and an estimate of future long term returns by asset class using input from PSEGs actuary and investment advisors, as well as long term inflation assumptions. For 2002, and 2003, PSEG assumed a rate of return of 9.0% on PSEGs pension plan assets. For 2004, PSEG has reduced the rate of return assumption to 8.75%. As indicated above, the 2004 pension expense is calculated using a reduced discount rate of 6.25%, which is based on high quality fixed income rates as of December 31, 2003, and a reduced expected rate of return on plan assets of 8.75%. However, PSEGs 2004 pension costs are expected to decrease significantly as a result of the material increase in the value of its pension funds during 2003. This increase was driven by PSEGs contributions of approximately $210 million and a 2003 return of 25%. Based on the above assumptions, PSEG has estimated net period pension costs of approximately $90 million and contributions of up to $100 million in 2004. As part of the business planning process, PSEG has modeled its future costs assuming an 8.75% rate of return and the return to a 6.75% discount rate for 2005 and beyond. Based on these assumptions, PSEG has estimated net period pension costs of approximately $60 million in 2005 and $50 million in 2006. Actual future pension expense and funding levels will depend on future investment performance, changes in discount rates, market conditions, funding levels relative to PSEGs Pension Benefit Obligation (PBO) and ABO and various other factors related to the populations participating in PSEGs pension plans. The following chart reflects the sensitivities associated with a change in certain actuarial assumptions. The effects of the assumption changes shown below solely reflect the impact of that specific assumption. Actuarial Assumption Current Change/ (Decrease) As of December 31, 2003 Impact on Pension Benefit Obligation Increase to Pension Expense in 2004 (Millions) Discount Rate 6.25% (1%) $ 473 $81 Rate of Return on Plan Assets 8.75% (1%) $ $27 Accounting for Deferred Taxes PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings provide for income taxes based on the asset and liability method required by SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases, as well as net operating loss and credit carryforwards. PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings evaluate the need for a valuation allowance against their respective deferred tax assets based on the likelihood of expected future taxable income. PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings do not believe a valuation allowance is necessary; however, if the expected level of future taxable income changes or certain tax planning strategies become unavailable, PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings would record a valuation allowance through income tax expense in the period the valuation allowance is deemed necessary. Resources and Globals ability to realize their deferred tax assets are dependent on PSEGs subsidiaries ability to generate ordinary income and capital gains. 83 PSE&G Unbilled Revenues Electric and gas revenues are recorded based on services rendered to customers during each accounting period. PSE&G records unbilled revenues for the estimated amount customers will be billed for services rendered from the time meters were last read to the end of the respective accounting period. Unbilled usage is calculated in two steps. The initial step is to apply a base usage per day to the number of unbilled days in the period. The second step estimates seasonal loads based upon the time of year and the variance of actual degree days and temperature humidity index hours of the unbilled period from expected norms. The resulting usage is priced at current rate levels and recorded as revenue. A calculation of the associated energy cost for the unbilled usage is recorded as well. Each month the prior months unbilled amounts are reversed and the current months amounts are accrued. Using benchmarks other than those used in this calculation could have a material effect on the amounts accrued for in a reporting period. The resulting revenue and expense reflect the billed data less the portion recorded in the prior month plus the unbilled portion of the current month. SFAS No. 71, Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation (SFAS 71) PSE&G prepares its Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with the provisions of SFAS 71, which differs in certain respects from the application of GAAP by non regulated businesses. In general, SFAS 71 recognizes that accounting for rate regulated enterprises should reflect the economic effects of regulation. As a result, a regulated utility is required to defer the recognition of costs (a regulatory asset) or recognize obligations (a regulatory liability) if it is probable that, through the rate making process, there will be a corresponding increase or decrease in future rates. Accordingly, PSE&G has deferred certain costs, which will be amortized over various future periods. To the extent that collection of such costs or payment of liabilities is no longer probable as a result of changes in regulation and or PSE&Gs competitive position, the associated regulatory asset or liability is charged or credited to income. See Note 10. Regulatory Assets and Liabilities of the Notes for further discussion of these and other regulatory issues. Power and PSEG Nuclear Decommissioning Trust (NDT) Fund Power accounts for the assets in the NDT Fund under SFAS No. 115, Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities (SFAS 115). The assets in the NDT Fund are classified as available for sale securities and are marked to market with unrealized gains and losses recorded in OCI. Realized gains, losses, and dividend and interest income are recorded on Powers and PSEGs Statements of Operations under Other Income and Other Deductions. Unrealized losses that are deemed to be Other Than Temporarily Impaired (OTTI), as defined under SFAS 115, Emerging Issues Task Force 03 1, The Meaning of Other Than Temporary Impairment and Its Application to Certain Investments (EITF 03 1), and related interpretive guidance, will be charged against earnings rather than OCI. These factors, such as the length of time and extent to which the fair value is below carrying value, the potential for impairments of securities when the issuer or industry is experiencing significant financial difficulties and Powers intent and ability to continue to hold securities, are used as indicators of the prospects of the securities to recover their value 10% test. ITEM 7A. QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings The market risk inherent in PSEGs, PSE&Gs, Powers and Energy Holdings market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, equity security prices and interest rates as discussed in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. It is the policy of each entity to use derivatives to manage risk 84 consistent with its respective business plans and prudent practices. PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings use a Risk Management Committee (RMC) comprised of executive officers who utilize an independent risk oversight function to ensure compliance with corporate policies and prudent risk management practices. Additionally, PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings are exposed to counterparty credit losses in the event of non performance or non payment. PSEG has a credit management process, which is used to assess, monitor and mitigate counterparty exposure for PSEG and its subsidiaries. In the event of non performance or non payment by a major counterparty, there may be a material adverse impact on PSEG and its subsidiaries financial condition, results of operations or net cash flows. Foreign Exchange Rate Risk Energy Holdings Global is exposed to foreign currency risk and other foreign operations risk that arise from investments in foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. A key component of this risk is that some of its foreign subsidiaries and affiliates utilize currencies other than the consolidated reporting currency, the U.S. Dollar. Additionally, certain of Globals foreign subsidiaries and affiliates have entered into monetary obligations and maintain receipts/receivables in U.S. Dollars or currencies other than their own functional currencies. Primarily, Global is exposed to changes in the U.S. Dollar to Brazilian Real, Euro, Polish Zloty, Peruvian Nuevo Sol and the Chilean Peso exchange rates. With respect to the foreign currency risk associated with the Brazilian Real, there has already been significant devaluation since the initial acquisition of these investments, which has resulted in reduced U.S. Dollar earnings and cash flows relative to initial projections. However, there have been material improvements during 2003. Whenever possible, these subsidiaries and affiliates have attempted to limit potential foreign exchange exposure by entering into revenue contracts that adjust to changes in foreign exchange rates. Global also uses foreign currency forward, swap and option agreements, wherever possible, to manage risk related to certain foreign currency fluctuations. As of December 31, 2003, the devaluing Brazilian Real has resulted in a cumulative $253 million loss of value which is recorded as a $228 million after tax charge to OCI related to Globals equity method investments in RGE. An additional devaluation in the December 31, 2003 Brazilian Real to the U.S. Dollar exchange rate of 10% would result in a $18 million change in the value of the investment in RGE and corresponding impact to OCI. In addition, Global had transactional exposure to the Real in which a 10% adverse change in the exchange rate would result in a loss to earnings of $3 million. Additionally, Global has $64 million of Euro denominated receivables subject to fluctuations in the U.S. Dollar to Euro exchange rate. If the December 31, 2003 Euro to U.S. Dollar exchange rate were to appreciate by 10%, Global would record a $6 million after tax foreign currency transaction gain. If the December 31, 2003 Euro to U.S. Dollar exchange rate were to devalue by 10%, Global would record a $5 million after tax foreign currency transaction loss. Global also has net monetary positions in the Polish Zloty related to its consolidated investments in Elcho. If the December 31, 2003 Polish Zloty to U.S. Dollar exchange rate were to appreciate by 10%, Global would record a $4 million after tax foreign currency transaction gain. If the December 31, 2003 Polish Zloty to U.S. Dollar exchange rate were to devalue by 10%, Global would record a $5 million after tax foreign currency transaction loss. Global has various other foreign currency exposures related to translation adjustments. In aggregate, a 10% devaluation in such foreign currencies would result in an after tax charge to OCI of $93 million. Commodity Contracts PSEG and Power The availability and price of energy commodities are subject to fluctuations from factors such as weather, environmental policies, changes in supply and demand, state and federal regulatory policies 85 and other events. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, Power enters into supply contracts and derivative contracts, including forwards, futures, swaps and options with approved counterparties, to hedge its anticipated supply and demand differential. These contracts, in conjunction with owned electric generation capacity and demand obligations, make up the portfolio. VaR Model Power Power uses value at risk (VaR) models to assess the market risk of its commodity businesses. The model for Power includes its owned generation and physical contracts, as well as fixed price sales requirements, load requirements and financial derivative instruments. VaR represents the potential gains or losses, under normal market conditions, for instruments or portfolios due to changes in market factors, for a specified time period and confidence level. Power estimates VaR across its commodity businesses. Power manages its exposure at the portfolio level. Its portfolio consists of owned generation, load serving contracts (both gas and electric), fuel supply contracts and energy derivatives designed to manage the risk around the differential between generation and load. The RMC established a VaR threshold of $50 million for a one week (5 business days) holding period at a 95% (two tailed) confidence level. The RMC will be notified if the VaR reaches $40 million and the portfolio will be closely monitored. The Board of Directors of PSEG is notified if a VaR threshold of $75 million is reached. The model is an augmented variance/covariance model adjusted for the delta of positions with a 95% two tailed confidence level for a one week holding period. The model is augmented to incorporate the non log normality of energy related commodity prices, especially emissions and capacity and the non stationary nature of energy volatility. In many commodities, the natural log of prices is normally distributed. This is not true of energy commodities which have a higher frequency of extreme events than would be predicted by a normal distribution. The model also assumes no hedging activity throughout the holding period, whereas Power actively manages its portfolio. As of December 31, 2003, VaR was approximately $18 million, compared to the December 31, 2002 level of $7 million. As of December 31, 2003, Powers load obligation is determined primarily by the results of the annual BGS auction. To maintain an actionable VaR and to match the terms of the auction, generation is modeled at 100% of its expected output through May 2004 and at one third of the expected output from June 2004 through May 2006. For the Year Ended December 31, 2003 Total VaR (Millions) 95% Confidence Level, Five Day Holding Period, Two Tailed: Period End $ 18 Average for the Period $ 18 High $ 35 Low $ 9 99% Confidence Level, One Day Holding Period, Two Tailed: Period End $ 11 Average for the Period $ 10 High $ 20 Low $ 5 Energy Holdings In general, Energy Holdings manages its commodity exposure through long term power purchase agreements. One notable exception is Globals partial ownership of TIE, which owns two merchant energy plants that sell their output in the day ahead and forward market. As a result of this open 86 position, as of December 31, 2003, VaR was approximately $11 million, compared to the December 31, 2002 level of $4 million. The model is a variance/covariance model with a two tailed 95% confidence level for a one week holding period. Expected energy output and fuel usage are modeled as forward obligations over a rolling 12 month period. The Electric Reliability Council of Texas (ERCOT) system is a closed system and is less liquid than the PJM. This lack of liquidity in ERCOT limits how far forward TIE is able to sell. This lack of liquidity also makes estimates of volatility and correlation less reliable. Interest Rates PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings are subject to the risk of fluctuating interest rates in the normal course of business. PSEGs, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings policy is to manage interest rate risk through the use of fixed and floating rate debt, interest rate swaps and interest rate lock agreements. PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings manage their respective interest rate exposures by maintaining a targeted ratio of fixed and floating rate debt. As of December 31, 2003, a hypothetical 10% change in market interest rates would result in a $3 million, $2 million and $2 million change in annual interest costs related to debt at PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings, respectively. In addition, as of December 31, 2003, a hypothetical 10% change in market interest rates would result in a $5 million, $233 million, $118 million and $53 million change in the fair value of the debt of PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings, respectively. Debt and Equity Securities PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings PSEG has approximately $2.7 billion invested in its pension plans. Although fluctuations in market prices of securities within this portfolio do not directly affect PSEGs earnings in the current period, changes in the value of these investments could affect PSEGs future contributions to these plans, its financial position if its ABO under its pension plans exceeds the fair value of its pension funds and future earnings as PSEG would earn a different return on the fund balance and could be required to adjust its assumed rate of return. Power Powers NDT Fund is comprised of both fixed income and equity securities totaling $985 million as of December 31, 2003. The fair value of equity securities is determined independently each month by the Trustee. As of December 31, 2003, the portfolio was comprised of approximately $619 million of equity securities and approximately $344 million in fixed income securities. The fair market value of the NDT assets will fluctuate depending on the performance of equity markets. As of December 31, 2003, a hypothetical 10% change in the equity market would impact the value of the equity securities in the NDT Fund by approximately $61 million. Power uses duration to measure the interest rate sensitivity of the fixed income portfolio. Duration is a summary statistic of the effective average maturity of the fixed income portfolio. The benchmark for the fixed income component of the NDT Fund is the Lehman Brothers Aggregate Bond Index, which currently has a duration of 4.5 years and a yield of 4.1%. The portfolios value will appreciate or depreciate by the duration with a 1% change in interest rates. As of December 31, 2003, a hypothetical 1% increase in interest rates would result in a decline in the market value for the fixed income portfolio of approximately $14 million. Energy Holdings Resources has investments in equity securities and limited partnerships. Resources carries its investments in equity securities at their fair value as of the reporting date. Consequently, the carrying value of these investments is affected by changes in the fair value of the underlying securities. Fair value 87 is determined by adjusting the market value of the securities for liquidity and market volatility factors, where appropriate. As of December 31, 2003, Resources had investments in leveraged buyout funds of approximately $74 million, of which $25 million was comprised of public securities with available market prices and $49 million was comprised of privately held interests in certain companies. The potential change in fair value resulting from a hypothetical 10% change in quoted market prices of the publicly traded investments amounted to $3 million as of December 31, 2003. Credit Risk PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings Credit risk relates to the risk of loss that PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings would incur as a result of non performance by counterparties pursuant to the terms of their contractual obligations. PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings have established credit policies that they believe significantly minimize credit risk. These policies include an evaluation of potential counterparties financial condition (including credit rating), collateral requirements under certain circumstances and the use of standardized agreements, which may allow for the netting of positive and negative exposures associated with a single counterparty. PSE&G BGS suppliers expose PSE&G to credit losses in the event of non performance or non payment upon a default of the BGS supplier. Credit requirements are governed under the BPU approved BGS contract. Power Counterparties expose Powers trading operation to credit losses in the event of non performance or non payment. Power has a credit management process, which is used to assess, monitor and mitigate counterparty exposure for Power and its subsidiaries. Powers counterparty credit limits are based on a scoring model that considers a variety of factors, including leverage, liquidity, profitability, credit ratings and risk management capabilities. Powers trading operations have entered into payment netting agreements or enabling agreements that allow for payment netting with the majority of its large counterparties, which reduce Powers exposure to counterparty risk by providing the offset of amounts payable to the counterparty against amounts receivable from the counterparty. In the event of non performance or non payment by a major counterparty, there may be a material adverse impact on Power and its subsidiaries financial condition, results of operations or net cash flows. As of December 31, 2003 over 96% of the credit exposure (mark to market plus net receivables and payables, less cash collateral) for Powers trading operations was with investment grade counterparties. The majority of the credit exposure with non investment grade counterparties is with certain companies that supply fuel to Power. Therefore, this exposure relates to the risk of a counterparty performing under its obligations rather than payment risk. As of December 31, 2003, Powers trading operations had over 160 active counterparties. As a result of the 2003 New Jersey BGS auction, Powers trading operation contracted to provide energy to the direct suppliers of New Jersey electric utilities, including PSE&G, commencing August 1, 2003. The revenue from the majority of the suppliers is paid directly to Power from the utilities that those suppliers serve. These bilateral contracts are subject to credit risk. A material portion of credit risk relates to the ability of suppliers to meet their payment obligations for the power delivered under each contract. Any failure to collect these payments under the contracts could have a material impact on Powers results of operations, cash flows and financial position. The payment risk that is associated with potential nonpayment by any EDC making direct payment under the BGS contracts is lower than the risk under standard bilateral contracts, since the EDCs are rate regulated entities. 88 Energy Holdings Global Eagle Point In 2000, Global withdrew from its interest in the Eagle Point Cogeneration Project (EPCP) with El Paso Corporation (El Paso) in exchange for a series of contingent payments over five years. The payments to date have been received in accordance with the terms of the agreement, including a payment of $44 million in January 2004. The final principal payment of $37 million under the terms of the agreement is expected to occur in the first quarter of 2005. In the event that EPCP operating cash flows are insufficient to make payment, mandatory capital contributions are required from the partners to pay the note to Global as amounts become due. Additional covenants in the note security package include mandatory restrictions on cash distributions to the partners and performance guarantees of EPCPs obligations are required. El Paso indirectly owns more than 85% of the partnership interests of EPCP. In February 2003, S&P downgraded El Pasos long term corporate credit rating to B+ from BB and Moodys reduced El Pasos debt rating to Caa1 from Ba2. If El Paso or its subsidiaries or affiliates is required to fulfill an obligation in accordance with the terms of the agreement and is unable to perform, there could be a material impact to Energy Holdings Consolidated Statements of Operations and net cash flows in 2005. Other Global has credit risk with respect to its counterparties to PPAs and other parties. For further discussion, see MD&A Future Outlook Energy Holdings. Resources Resources has credit risk related to its investments in leveraged leases, totaling $1.4 billion, which is net of deferred taxes of $1.6 billion, as of December 31, 2003. These investments are largely concentrated in the energy industry and have some exposure to the airline industry. As of December 31, 2003, 65% of counterparties in the lease portfolio were rated investment grade by both S&P and Moodys. Resources is the lessor of various aircraft to several domestic airlines. Resources leases a Boeing B767 aircraft to United Airlines (UAL). In December 2002, UAL filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection. UAL has stated that it intends to retain its B767 aircraft to use in place of other aircraft. UAL has an additional debt obligation of $53 million associated with this aircraft. Resources will work constructively with UAL to keep the leveraged lease in place. The gross invested balance of this investment as of December 31, 2003 was $21 million. Resources is the lessor of domestic generating facilities in several U.S. energy markets. As a result of recent actions of the rating agencies due to concerns over forward energy prices, the credit of some of the lessees was downgraded. Specifically, the lessees in the following transactions were downgraded below investment grade during 2002 by these rating agencies. Resources investment in such transactions was approximately $412 million, net of deferred taxes of $398 million as of December 31, 2003. Resources leases a generation facility to Reliant Energy Mid Atlantic Power Holdings LLC (REMA), an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Reliant Resources Incorporated (RRI). The leased assets are the Keystone, Conemaugh and Shawville generating facilities located in the PJM West market in Pennsylvania. REMA is capitalized with over $1 billion of equity from RRI and has no debt obligations senior to the lease obligations. REMA is currently rated B by S&P and B3 by Moodys. As the lessor/equity participant in the lease, Resources is protected with significant lease covenants that restrict the flow of dividends from REMA to its parent, and by over collateralization of REMA with non leased assets, transfer of which is restricted by the financing documents. Restrictive covenants include historical and forward cash flow coverage tests that prohibit discretionary capital expenditures and dividend payments to the parent/lessee if stated minimum coverages are not met, and similar cash flow restrictions if ratings are not maintained at stated levels. The covenants are designed to maintain cash reserves in the transaction entity for the benefit of the non recourse lenders and the lessor/equity participants in the event of a market downturn or degradation in operating performance of the leased 89 assets. Resources investment in the REMA transaction was $117 million, net of deferred taxes of $122 million as of December 31, 2003. Resources is the lessor of the Danskammer generation facility in New York to Dynegy Danskammer LLC (Danskammer) and the Roseton generation facility to Dynegy Roseton LLC (Roseton). Both Danskammer and Roseton are indirect subsidiaries of Dynegy Holdings Inc. (DHI). The lease obligations are guaranteed by DHI which is currently rated B by S&P and Caa2 by Moodys. Resources investment in Danskammer and Roseton was $122 million, net of deferred taxes of $68 million as of December 31, 2003. Resources is the lessor/equity participant of the Collins facility, as well as the Powerton and Joliet stations to Midwest Generation LLC (Midwest), an indirect subsidiary of Edison Mission Energy (EME). Edison Mission Midwest Holdings (EMM Holdings) is also an indirect subsidiary of EME. As of December 31, 2003, the gross investment balances for the Collins facility and the Powerton and Joliet facilities were $101 million and $72 million, respectively net of taxes of $98 million and $110 million, respectively. On October 16, 2003, certain of EMM Holdings corporate credit ratings were placed on credit watch with negative implications. On December 12, 2003, after completion of a refinancing, S&P removed EMM Holdings from credit watch and affirmed its B rating. Resources has lease covenants that include historical and forward cash flow coverage tests that prohibit certain capital expenditures and dividend payments to the parent/lessee if stated minimum coverages are not met, and similar cash flow restrictions if ratings are not maintained at stated levels. The covenants are designed to maintain cash reserves in the transaction entity for the benefit of the non recourse lenders and the lessor/equity participants in the event of a market downturn or degradation in operating performance of the leased assets. In the event of default under the lease covenants, Resources among others would have rights to the cash trapped at EMM Holdings. While these covenants help to provide liquidity to the creditors and the lease equity in the transaction, no assurances can be given that such covenants will be sufficient to prevent Resources from incurring a material loss of its equity investment and future earnings and cash flow. In the event of a default, Energy Holdings would exercise its rights and attempt to seek recovery of its investment. The results of such efforts may not be known for a period of time. A bankruptcy of a lessor and failure to recover adequate value could lead to a foreclosure of the lease. Under a worst case scenario, if a foreclosure were to occur, Resources would record a pre tax write off up to its gross investment in these facilities. The investment balance increases as earnings are recognized and decreases as rental payments are received by the lessor. Also, in the event of a potential foreclosure, the net tax benefits generated by Resources portfolio of investments could be materially reduced in the period in which gains associated with the potential forgiveness of debt at these projects occurs. The amount and timing of any potential reduction in net tax benefits is dependent upon a number of factors including, but not limited to, the time of a potential foreclosure, the amount of lease debt outstanding, any cash trapped at the projects and negotiations during such potential foreclosure process. The potential loss of earnings, impairment and or tax payments could have a material impact to PSEGs and Energy Holdings financial position, results of operations and net cash flows. As of December 31, 2003, lease payments on these facilities were current. Also, as of December 31, 2003, Resources determined that the collectibility of the minimum lease payments under its leveraged lease investments is still reasonably probable and therefore continues to account for these investments as leveraged leases. Other Supplemental Information Regarding Market Risk PSEG and Power The following presentation of the activities of Power is included to address the recommended disclosures by the energy industrys Committee of Chief Risk Officers. For additional information, see Note 16. Risk Management of the Notes. Normal Operations and Hedging Activities Power enters into physical contracts, as well as financial contracts, including forwards, futures, swaps and options designed to eliminate risk associated with volatile commodity prices. Commodity 90 price risk is associated with market price movements resulting from market generation demand, changes in fuel costs and various other factors. Powers derivative contracts are accounted for under SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities (SFAS 133), its amendments and related guidance. Most non trading contracts qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales exemption under SFAS 133 and or SFAS No. 149, Amendment of Statement 133 on Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities (SFAS 149). Changes in the fair value of qualifying cash flow hedge transactions are recorded in OCI, and gains and losses are recognized in earnings when the underlying transaction occurs. Changes in the fair value of derivative contracts that do not meet hedge criteria under SFAS 133 and the ineffective portion of hedge contracts are recognized in earnings currently. Additionally, changes in the fair value attributable to fair value hedges are similarly recognized in earnings. Trading Powers objective for its trading activities is to produce net earnings from trading energy related products around its owned electric generation assets, gas supply contracts and electric and gas supply obligations. These activities are marked to market in accordance with SFAS 133, its amendments and related guidance, with gains and losses recognized in earnings. The following table describes the drivers of Powers energy trading and marketing activities and operating revenues included in its Consolidated Statements of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2003. Normal operations and hedging activities represent the marketing of electricity available from Powers owned or contracted generation sold into the wholesale market. As the information in this table highlights, mark to market activities represent a small portion of the total Operating Revenues for Power. Activities accounted for under the accrual method, including normal purchases and sales, account for the majority of the revenue. The mark to market activities reported here are those relating to changes in fair value due to external movement in prices. 91 Operating RevenuesFor the Year Ended December 31, 2003 Normal Operations and Hedging(A) Trading Total (Millions) Mark to Market Activities: Unrealized Mark to Market Gains (Losses) Changes in Fair Value of Open Positions $ 29 $ 66 $ 95 Origination Unrealized Gain at Inception Changes in Valuation Techniques and Assumptions Realization at Settlement of Contracts (41 ) (87 ) (128 ) Total Change in Unrealized Fair Value (12 ) (21 ) (33 ) Realized Net Settlement of Transactions Subject to Mark to Market 41 87 128 Broker Fees and Other Related Expenses (8 ) (8 ) Net Mark to Market Gains 29 58 87 Accrual Activities Accrual Activities Revenue, Including Hedge Reclassifications 5,518 5,518 Total Operating Revenues $ 5,547 $ 58 $ 5,605 (A)Includes derivative contracts that Power enters into to hedge anticipated exposures related to its owned and contracted generation supply, all asset backed transactions (ABT) and hedging activities, but excludes owned and contracted generation assets. The following table indicates Powers energy trading assets and liabilities, as well as Powers hedging activity related to asset backed transactions and derivative instruments that qualify for hedge accounting under SFAS 133, its amendments and related guidance. This table presents amounts segregated by portfolio which are then netted for those counterparties with whom Power has the right to set off and therefore, are not necessarily indicative of amounts presented on the Consolidated Balance Sheets since balances with many counterparties are subject to offset and are shown net on the Consolidated Balance Sheets regardless of the portfolio in which they are included. Energy Contract Net Assets/LiabilitiesAs of December 31, 2003 Normal Operations and Hedging Trading Total (Millions) Mark to Market Energy Assets Current Assets $ 33 $ 69 $ 102 Noncurrent Assets 12 12 Total Mark to Market Energy Assets $ 33 $ 81 $ 114 Mark to Market Energy Liabilities Current Liabilities $ (41 ) $ (74 ) $ (115 ) Noncurrent Liabilities (5 ) (5 ) Total Mark to Market Current Liabilities $ (41 ) $ (79 ) $ (120 ) Total Mark to Market Energy Contract Net Assets (Liabilities) $ (8 ) $ 2 $ (6 ) 92 The following table presents maturity of net fair value of mark to market energy trading contracts. Maturity of Net Fair Value of Mark to Market Energy Trading Contracts As of December 31, 2003 Maturities within 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 Total (Millions) Trading $ (4 ) $ 7 $ (1 ) $ $ 2 Normal Operations and Hedging 5 (7 ) (6 ) (8 ) Total Net Unrealized Gains (Losses) on Mark to Market Contracts $ 1 $ $ (1 ) $ (6 ) $ (6 ) Wherever possible, fair values for these contracts were obtained from quoted market sources. For contracts where no quoted market exists, modeling techniques were employed using assumptions reflective of current market rates, yield curves and forward prices as applicable to interpolate certain prices. The effect of using such modeling techniques is not material to Powers financial results. PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings The following table identifies gains (losses) on cash flow hedges that are currently in Accumulated OCI, a separate component of equity. Power uses forward sale and purchase contracts, swaps and fixed transmission rights (FTRs) contracts to hedge forecasted energy sales from its generation stations. Power also enters into swaps, options and futures transactions to hedge the price of fuel to meet its fuel purchase requirements for generation. PSEG, PSE&G, Power and Energy Holdings are subject to the risk of fluctuating interest rates in the normal course of business. PSEGs policy is to manage interest rate risk through the use of fixed rate debt, floating rate debt and interest rate derivatives. Affiliates of Energy Holdings purchase forward exchange contracts as hedges of anticipated payments to contractors for projects under construction. These contracts are designed to hedge against the risk that the future cash payments will be adversely affected by changes in foreign currency rates. The table also provides an estimate of the gains (losses) that are expected to be reclassified out of OCI and into earnings over the next twelve months. Cash Flow Hedges Included in OCIAs of December 31, 2003 Accumulated OCI Portion Expected to be Reclassified in next 12 months (Millions) Cash Flow Hedges Included in OCI Commodities $ (25 ) $ (17 ) Interest Rates (104 ) (31 ) Foreign Currency 7 Net Cash Flow Hedge Loss Included in OCI $ (122 ) $ (48 ) Power Credit Risk Counterparties expose Power to credit losses in the event of non performance or non payment. Power has a credit management process which is used to assess, monitor and mitigate counterparty exposure for Power and its subsidiaries. Powers counterparty credit limits are based on a variety of factors, including credit ratings, leverage, liquidity, profitability and risk management capabilities. Power has entered into payment netting agreements or enabling agreements that allow for payment netting with the majority of its large counterparties, which reduce Powers exposure to counterparty risk by 93 providing for the offset of amounts payable to the counterparty against amounts receivable from the counterparty. The following table provides information on Powers credit exposure, net of collateral, as of December 31, 2003. Credit exposure, in the table below, is defined as net accounts receivable as well as any net in the money forward mark to market exposure. It further delineates that exposure by the credit rating of the counterparties and provides guidance on the concentration of credit risk to individual counterparties and an indication of the maturity of a companys credit risk by credit rating of the counterparties. Schedule of Credit Risk Exposure on Energy Contracts Net AssetsAs of December 31, 2003 Rating Current Exposure Securities Held as Collateral Net Exposure Number of Counterparties 10% Net Exposure of Counter parties 10% (Millions) (Millions) Investment Grade External Rating $ 406 $ 28 $ 398 1 $186 (A) Non Investment Grade External Rating 18 14 6 Investment Grade No External Rating 13 13 Non Investment Grade No External Rating 13 13 Total $ 450 $ 42 $ 430 1 $186 (A)Represents exposure with PSE&G The net exposure listed above, in some cases, will not be the difference between the current exposure and the collateral held. A counterparty may have posted more collateral than the outstanding exposure, in which case there would not be exposure. As of December 31, 2003, Powers trading operations had over 160 active counterparties. 
 
