ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (MD&A) This combined MD&A is separately filed by PSEG, Power and PSE&G. Information contained herein relating to any individual company is filed by such company on its own behalf. Power and PSE&G each make representations only as to itself and make no representations whatsoever as to any other company. PSEGs business consists of three reportable segments, which are: Power, our wholesale energy supply company that integrates its generating asset operations with its wholesale energy, fuel supply, energy trading and marketing and risk management activities primarily in the Northeast and Mid Atlantic U.S., PSE&G, our public utility company which provides transmission and distribution of electric energy and gas in New Jersey; implements demand response and energy efficiency programs and invests in solar generation, and Energy Holdings, which owns our energy related leveraged leases and other investments. Our business discussion in Item 1 provides a review of the regions and markets where we operate and compete, as well as our strategy for conducting our businesses within these markets, focusing on operational excellence, financial strength and making disciplined investments. The following expands upon that discussion by describing significant events and business developments that have occurred during 2009 and key factors that we believe will drive our future performance. The following discussion refers to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Statements) and the Related Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Notes). This information should be read in conjunction with such Statements and Notes. OVERVIEW OF 2009 AND FUTURE OUTLOOK During 2009, our business has been impacted by many factors, including lower gas prices, mild weather, the economic slowdown and increased pension costs resulting from financial market declines experienced in 2008. The mild weather and the economic slowdown have caused an overall reduction in customer demands for electricity and gas in the markets where we operate. As a result, our generation volumes at Power in 2009 were approximately 5% lower than in 2008. This reduced volume was experienced mainly at our coal facilities as lower gas prices provided an economic advantage to gas fired generation. In addition to an overall reduction in customer demand during 2009, we have experienced a higher number of customers choosing to contract with independent electric suppliers rather than remain under the BGS contracts which has negatively affected Power. This migration away from BGS could be sustained or increase if energy prices continue to be lower than the energy price component of the BGS contracts. Migration has resulted and could continue to result in reduced margins as volumes that were previously sold to satisfy obligations under the BGS contracts are replaced with spot market sales at lower prices. Our distribution operations were also impacted by both the economy and weather conditions in 2009. Our electric delivery volumes for 2009 declined by 4%, 2.5% due to the economy and 1.5% due to a cooler summer in 2009, reflecting a temperature humidity index that was 22% cooler than the summer of 2008. We experienced a 1.1% increase in our gas delivery volumes for 2009 as compared to 2008. Winter weather in 2009, as measured by heating degree days, was 2.4% higher than in 2008, resulting in 1.8% higher gas space heating demand and sales. Economic factors caused a 0.7% drop in gas sales. Excluding the impact of weather, residential electric and gas volumes were down 0.9% and 0.2% respectively. These declines were in line with our expectations for the impact of the economy on sales to this sector. Residential sales contribute approximately 45% of our electric margin and 75% of our gas margin. Margins from Commercial and Industrial electric customers are not based on total energy consumption as measured by kilowatt hours, but are based on fixed, monthly demand charges that are set by the highest electric demand for an hour period during the previous 12 month period or, in the case of some electric rates, by the peak demand during the current month. From May through September 2009, the number of hours exceeding 90 degrees was 67% lower than under normal summer weather conditions. This adversely impacted our billed demands, 49 Table of Contents reducing revenues during the summer months. Commercial and Industrial gas customers also have a significant fixed component to billings. Therefore, any changes in energy usage over comparative periods may not have an equivalent effect on sales margin. Current economic conditions have also caused deterioration in certain customer payment patterns resulting in a higher portion of our accounts receivable balances remaining outstanding for more than 180 days. This represented 14% of our total customer accounts receivable as of December 2009 as compared to 8% last year. We are focusing our efforts on the oldest and largest accounts to expedite collections. We believe we have sufficient liquidity to manage these delays in customer payments. Looking forward, continued lower market prices and reduced demands are likely to result in lower margins for our generation business. To help offset these reduced margins we will explore growth opportunities. We have looked, and are continuing to look for ways to reduce costs while maintaining our safety, reliability and environmental standards. There have also been significant regulatory and legislative developments during the year which may affect our operations in the future as new rules and regulations are adopted. In March 2009, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) issued an order regarding PJM Interconnection LLCs (PJM) Reliability Pricing Model (RPM). The effect of this order includes an increase in the cost of new entry to more accurately reflect construction and equipment costs. This should incent both new build and continued operation of existing facilities. For additional information, see Part I, Item 3. Legal Proceedings. In April 2009, the U.S. Supreme Court concluded that the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) permissibly relied upon cost benefit analysis in setting the national performance standards and in providing for cost benefit variances from those standards as part of the Phase II Section 316(b) regulations of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act. This is important to us because it allows the EPA to continue to use the site specific cost benefit test in determining best technology available for minimizing adverse environmental impact. For additional information, see Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Note 12. Commitments and Contingent Liabilities. In April 2009, the EPA released a proposed finding under the Clean Air Act concluding that CO2 is one of six types of greenhouse gases (GHG) that cause or contribute to climate change and constitute air pollution which endangers both public health and welfare. Later in 2009, the EPA proposed rules to regulate GHG from motor vehicles. When finalized, by design of the Clean Air Act, rules automatically come into effect which would subject many power generating units, including ours, to Clean Air Act permitting for GHG, including CO2. The Clean Air Act would require an analysis of the best available control technologies (BACT) whenever a major modification is made with an associated increase in GHG emissions. The technology would have to be applied if available; however, it is unclear what EPA would consider as BACT for GHG at this time. We cannot predict the ultimate resolution of this matter, nor the effect on our operations; however any additional regulation of CO2 emissions could affect our operations and our ability to renew permits and licenses and could result in additional material compliance costs. In June 2009, the U.S. House of Representatives passed a bill that promotes renewable energy and requires a reduction in the emission of greenhouse gases from the majority of emission sources, including the generation sector. The bill sets forth major initiatives which include: 1) establishing a national renewable energy standard and 2) creating a market mechanism for the sale and purchase of GHG emission allowances (cap and trade program). If enacted in its current form, the bill could reduce or eliminate existing regional inconsistencies in GHG regulations. The Senate has not yet acted, and ultimate enactment into law of a bill with comparable provisions and rules is not certain. In August 2009, the EPA announced that it is reconsidering whether coal ash, a by product of generation at our coal facilities, should be regulated as a hazardous waste material. The EPA indicated that it intended to propose a rule by the end of 2009, but has not yet done so. We currently have a 50 Table of Contents program at Hudson, Mercer and Bridgeport to beneficially reuse the coal ash as currently allowed by Federal and state regulations. Proposed regulations which more stringently regulate coal ash, including the potential regulation of coal ash as hazardous waste, could materially increase costs for our coal facilities. During the year, various legislative proposals have been made with the intention of enacting stricter regulation over derivatives in light of the financial market issues experienced last year, largely caused by derivative trading in connection with mortgage loans. It is difficult to predict what the final legislation might contain. If the final legislation required all trading to be done over an exchange, we would expect to see our collateral requirements increase substantially to support our activities. Our future success will also depend on our ability to respond to the challenges and opportunities presented by these and other regulatory and legislative initiatives. Operational Excellence While total generation volumes were down about 5% in 2009, our generating assets continued to perform well. Our lower cost nuclear generation output was 3% higher in 2009 than in 2008. In addition, our hedging strategy has resulted in higher average realized electric prices which helped to mitigate the effect of reduced generation resulting from recent mild weather and recessionary conditions. The increase in realized prices for 2009 as compared to 2008 was due to comparably higher priced contracts entered into in prior years that replaced older, lower priced contracts, such as the 2005 and 2006 Basic Generation Service (BGS) auction contracts which expired in May 2008 and May 2009. Prices set earlier in 2009 under the most recent RPM auction for the 2012 2013 period were higher than those set for the 2011 2012 period and once again varied based on the constraints in each of the PJM zones, as compared to the uniform zonal pricing set for the periods from June 2010 to May 2012. On October 1, 2009, ownership of the Texas generation facilities was transferred from Energy Holdings to Power (See 
 
