ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (MD&A) This combined MD&A is separately filed by Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated (PSEG), PSEG Power LLC (Power) and Public Service Electric and Gas Company (PSE&G). Information contained herein relating to any individual company is filed by such company on its own behalf. Power and PSE&G each make representations only as to itself and make no representations whatsoever as to any other company. PSEGs business consists of three reportable segments, which are: Power, our wholesale energy supply company that integrates its generating asset operations with its wholesale energy, fuel supply, energy trading and marketing and risk management activities primarily in the Northeast and Mid Atlantic U.S., PSE&G, our public utility company which provides transmission and distribution of electric energy and gas in New Jersey; implements demand response and energy efficiency programs and invests in solar generation, and Energy Holdings LLC (Energy Holdings), which owns lease and other investments. Our business discussion in Item 1 provides a review of the regions and markets where we operate and compete, as well as our strategy for conducting our businesses within these markets, focusing on operational excellence, financial strength and making disciplined investments. Our risk factor discussion in Item 1A. provides information about factors that could have a material adverse impact in our businesses. The following discussion expands upon those sections by describing significant events and business developments that have occurred during 2010 and key factors that we expect will drive our future performance. The following discussion refers to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Statements) and the Related Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Notes). This discussion should be read in conjunction with such Statements and Notes. OVERVIEW OF 2010 AND FUTURE OUTLOOK During 2010, our business continued to face many of the same challenges experienced in 2009. Lower natural gas prices and current economic conditions have had an adverse impact on our results. The market price for electricity is based upon the cost of generation at the margin. In the eastern part of PJM, the marginal generating unit is usually fueled by natural gas. As a result, the sustained decline in natural gas pricing that we have been experiencing has significantly reduced the gross margin we are able to realize on sales from our units in the eastern part of PJM, as nuclear and coal fuel costs have not declined similarly. Our practice of selling a substantial portion of our electricity production in forward transactions has limited the impact of lower wholesale electricity prices on our 2010 results, as much of the electricity that we produced in 2010 was sold at the higher forward market prices that prevailed in 2007 through 2009. We expect that, as these pre 2010 transactions are closed, the lower energy prices that now prevail will have a more significant adverse impact on our results for 2011 and 2012. Our results for 2011 and 2012 will also be impacted by lower capacity pricing set through the Reliability Pricing Model (RPM) auctions as compared to 2010 prices. Economic conditions and other governmental policy initiatives have resulted in increased conservation efforts by residential customers and have also caused some continued erosion in our commercial and industrial customer base. This has contributed to lower demand for electricity, which also tends to reduce congestion, thereby reducing the hours that higher priced units in the eastern part of PJM are called to operate. These factors have put additional downward pressure on Powers revenues. Economic conditions also put downward pressure on delivered volumes and fixed demand revenues from commercial and industrial customers at PSE&G. For both businesses in 2010, the impact on electric volumes caused by economic conditions and pricing was offset to a significant degree by the impact of weather which resulted in higher demand for energy during the third quarter. Lower market prices for electricity also tend to create a greater incentive for customers to choose an alternate electric supplier rather than receive electricity from Power under our Basic Generation Service (BGS) contracts, as the current market prices are lower than the BGS contract energy price components which were set when forward prices were higher. We experienced an increasing level of this migration away from BGS 53 Table of Contents contracts beginning toward the second half of 2009 which continued into 2010. The rate of migration may also increase as certain third party suppliers have started to offer additional incentives for customers to switch to an alternate electric supplier. This customer migration trend could continue in any period where current market prices are below the average BGS rates in effect at the time. This may have a material impact on our financial results by accelerating the impact of declining market prices on Powers results as sales at BGS rates, which are reset gradually with prices set for only one third of the anticipated load through the BGS auction each year, are replaced by lower priced market sales. In an effort to mitigate some of these impacts, Power has entered into additional sales contracts with third parties and increased sales in the spot market. We also requested that the New Jersey Board of Public Utilities (BPU) hold a stakeholder proceeding and collect additional data to evaluate unintended adverse consequences of increased switching activity, with the objective of appropriately allocating risks between BGS suppliers and third party suppliers in future BGS auctions. In an order issued in December 2010 as part of its annual BGS review, the BPU indicated that it would continue to examine future switching activity and take action as it deems may be necessary in the future. No assurances can be given that our efforts to offset any adverse impacts will be successful. Our gas sales volumes were also lower in 2010 due primarily to warmer winter weather early in the year. Heating degree days, as a measure of winter weather in 2010, were 6% lower than in 2009. The weather, the economy and other factors all contributed to an overall reduction of approximately 4% in Powers Basic Gas Supply Service (BGSS) sales volumes and PSE&Gs gas delivery volumes as compared to 2009. In June 2010, the BPU accepted and approved a settlement agreement reached by the parties to our base rate case proceeding. The final settlement agreement included an increase of $73.5 million and $26.5 million in annual electric and gas revenues, respectively, with a return on equity (ROE) of 10.3%. The new rates and rate designs were effective on June 7, 2010 for the electric portion and July 9, 2010 for gas. The BPU also approved PSE&Gs gas weather normalization clause. Also in June 2010, the BPU approved an agreement under which PSE&G will refund $122 million to electric customers during the next two years to resolve an issue regarding the Market Transition Charge (MTC) which was part of New Jerseys deregulation law implemented in 1999. For additional information, see Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Note 13. Commitments and Contingent Liabilities. As part of the gas base rate proceeding, the BPU ordered a supplemental and expedited review of certain issues related to the gas transportation rate that PSE&G charges to Power. The BPU provisionally approved the stipulated Transportation Service Gas Nonfirm (TSG NF) rate subject to refund pending the outcome of this review. In July 2010, a complaint was filed against Power at the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) related to the gas transportation rate. On December 16, 2010, the BPU approved a settlement that resolves these issues, and the FERC complaint has been withdrawn. Under the settlement, there will be no retroactive adjustments or refunds made by PSE&G with respect to the gas delivery charges. For additional information, see Item 1. Business State Regulation. We currently have FERC approved formula rates in effect to recover the costs related to our existing and future transmission investments. The formula rate mechanism provides for an annual setting of our transmission rates, as well as an annual true up, to ensure timely recovery of the annual costs and capital expenditures and an approved base return on equity (ROE) of 11.68% for our transmission investments once the facilities are placed in service. We have received incentive ROE rates of 12.93% for our Susquehanna Roseland line, including an immediate return on the Construction Work in Progress (CWIP) dollars spent on these projects. Our 2010 transmission rates which became effective on January 1 provided for approximately $23 million in increased annual revenues as compared to 2009. We filed our 2011 Annual Formula Rate Update with FERC in October 2010, which will provide approximately $45 million in increased annual revenues in 2011 transmission rates effective January 1, 2011. Whether FERC will continue to authorize incentive rates for new transmission projects, including ROE adders, CWIP and abandonment cost recovery, to the same extent that it has over the last several years is uncertain. FERC has issued several incentive rate orders that either set the rates for hearing or denied the requested 54 Table of Contents incentives finding that the applicants failed to sufficiently demonstrate that the projects justified incentive rate treatment. In December 2010, FERC denied PSE&Gs request for CWIP and 100% abandonment cost recovery for four baseline Regional Transmission Expansion Planning (RTEP) projects. FERCs December order provides that PSE&G may re file its request for incentive rates and demonstrate that each project satisfies FERCs test for incentive rates individually, rather than on an aggregate basis. PSE&G is currently considering this option. There have also been other significant regulatory and legislative developments during the year which may affect our operations in the future as new rules and regulations are adopted. For additional information on these issues, see Item 1. Business Regulatory Issues and Environmental Matters. In March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 were signed into law. This new legislation includes various health care related provisions that will go into effect over the next several years. This legislation eliminates the tax deductibility of retiree health care costs, to the extent of federal subsidies received by plan sponsors that provide retiree prescription drug benefits equivalent to Medicare Part D coverage, which resulted in additional deferred tax liabilities being recorded in the first quarter. For additional information, see Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Note 20. Income Taxes. In October 2010, we made various changes to our active employee medical programs, generally effective January 1, 2011, to comply with the new requirements. For our retiree health care programs, we have contracted with a group Prescription Drug Plan, effective January 1, 2013, for coordination of the government provided Retiree Drug Subsidy. We also applied, and have been approved for funds under the Early Retiree Reinsurance Program. We will evaluate any additional guidance on this legislation as it becomes available. To help mitigate the effect of the increasing health care costs, we are changing our pre 65 and post 65 retiree prescription drug formularies to an incentive design for the majority of retirees, to be phased in over a three year period beginning January 1, 2011. In May 2010, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) finalized a Tailoring Rule that will phase in Clean Air Act permitting requirements beginning in 2011 for major facility modifications that increase the emission of greenhouse gases (GHGs), including carbon dioxide (CO2), at facilities such as ours. The significance of the permitting requirement is that, in cases where a new source is constructed or an existing source undergoes a major modification, the owner of the facility would need to evaluate and perhaps install best available control technology (BACT) for GHG emissions. In December 2010, the EPA announced a schedule to proposed New Source Performance Standards (NSPS) for GHGs from power plants and refineries. The NSPS applies to both the construction of new sources as well as the modification of existing sources. Since a proposed rule has not been published, the outcome of the rulemaking and its significance to the company cannot be predicted. In July 2010, the Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd Frank Act) was passed in an attempt to reduce systemic risk in the financial markets thereby preventing future financial crises and market issues such as those experienced recently. As part of this new legislation, the SEC and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) will be implementing new rules to enact stricter regulation over swaps and derivatives since many of the issues experienced were caused by derivative trading in connection with mortgage loans. CFTC has issued Notices of Proposed Rulemakings (NOPRs) on many of the key issues. Although the Dodd Frank Act specifically recognizes a commercial end user exemption from posting additional collateral in the bilateral Over the Counter swap and derivative markets, we cannot assess the exact scope of the new rules until the SEC and CFTC issue them. Under the current NOPRs, the broad definition of swap dealer could result in us being classified as a dealer, which would limit the benefits of the commercial end user exemption recognized in the Act. Another new issue has arisen in the context of a pending FERC rulemaking proceeding, in which FERC has proposed to significantly change its transmission planning rules to (i) make it easier to plan transmission for public policy considerations and (ii) open up the construction of transmission projects to companies that are not franchised utilities or that seek to build outside of their franchised service territory. We are actively participating in this proceeding. 55 Table of Contents In June 2010, the EPA formally published a proposed rule offering three main options for the management of coal combustion residuals to limit impacts on human health and the environment. The outcome of the EPA rulemaking cannot be predicted. In August 2010, the EPA proposed the Clean Air Transport Rule (CATR) to limit emissions in 32 states that contribute to the ability of downwind states to attain and or maintain air quality standards. The CATR is scheduled to be effective January 1, 2012, with further reductions in emissions as part of a second phase effective January 1, 2014. By 2014, the EPA estimates that this rule, along with other concurrent state and EPA actions, would reduce power plant sulfur dioxide (SO2) emissions by 71% and nitrogen oxide (NOX) emissions by 52% as compared to 2005 levels. In October 2010, we submitted comments generally supporting the EPAs proposal. We would expect the final implementation of this rule to be beneficial to us based on our generation mix and our investment in emissions controls; however, no assurances can be given. During the second quarter, the Governor of New Jersey directed the BPU to review the States current Energy Master Plan (EMP). The current EMP was issued in October 2008 and identified a number of actions to improve energy efficiency, increase the use of renewable resources, ensure a reliable supply of energy and stimulate investment in clean energy technologies. We expect the BPU to release a new draft EMP by the first quarter of 2011 with a final plan expected to be completed later next year. We cannot predict what modifications or new goals will be included in the new EMP or the potential impacts to our businesses. On January 28, 2011, New Jersey enacted the long term capacity agreement pilot program (LCAPP) which provides for 2,000 megawatts of subsidized baseload or mid merit electric power generation. This may have the effect of artificially depressing prices in the competitive wholesale market and thus has the potential to harm competitive markets, on both a short term and a long term basis, if implemented as currently contemplated by the State of New Jersey. Construction of new subsidized local generation also has the potential to reduce the need for the construction of new transmission to transport remote generation and alleviate system constraints. The LCAPP legislation is being challenged both at FERC and in court. Specifically, in February, PSEG and a group of other generators filed a complaint at the FERC seeking to prevent the subsidized generation from interfering with the wholesale capacity market and a case in federal district court arguing that the legislation is unconstitutional and should be invalidated. Both actions are pending. Looking ahead, the key issues our business will confront are: continued downward pressure on natural gas and electricity prices, a slow economy, regulatory and political uncertainty, particularly around environmental regulation, and pressure on competitive markets in many states, including New Jersey. Our future success will also depend on our ability to respond to these challenges and take advantage of opportunities presented by these and other regulatory and legislative initiatives. In order to do this, we must: focus on controlling costs while maintaining operational excellence, successfully recontract open positions, and execute our capital investment program, including continued investments for growth that yield contemporaneous returns. Operational Excellence Generation volumes at Power in 2010 were approximately 9% higher than in 2009, primarily at our combined cycle and coal facilities, to meet increased demands due to hotter weather. Our ability to meet the increased weather related demands through the strong operations of our generation fleet helped to offset the impacts of migration and reduced market prices for electricity. 56 Table of Contents Our generating capacity continues to receive pricing recognizing the locational value of our assets through the RPM auction. Under the most recent auction for the 2013 2014 period, the prices set for our generation assets in PJM were $245 per MW day for the Eastern MAAC and PSEG North zones and $226.15 per MW day for the MAAC zone. These prices were higher than prices set for previous periods. During 2010, PSE&G has continued to demonstrate its commitment to system reliability by limiting customer outages. However, in mid March, PSE&G experienced the worst storm in its history. The storm caused severe damage to our system downing more than 1,000 poles throughout our service territory and disrupting service to over 600,000 customers. With the assistance of mutual aid crews from other utilities, PSE&Gs associates worked to fully restore service to all of its customers within one week. PSE&G has deferred the incremental storm related costs and will be seeking recovery. We have also maintained our focus on reducing our cash tax exposure related to certain leveraged leases by pursuing opportunities to terminate international leases with lessees that are willing to meet certain economic thresholds. As of the end of 2010, we have terminated our entire portfolio of international leases and reduced the related cash tax exposure by $1.1 billion. As of December 31, 2010, an aggregate of approximately $260 million would become currently payable if we conceded all deductions taken through that date. We have deposited $320 million with the IRS to defray potential interest costs associated with this disputed tax liability, eliminating our cash exposure completely. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Note 13. Commitments and Contingent Liabilities for additional information. We continue to look for ways to reduce our operating costs at each of our businesses while maintaining our safety, reliability and compliance standards. Financial Strength Our businesses had strong cash from operations in 2010 which was used to contribute over $400 million into our qualified pension plans, fund our capital expenditures and fund our shareholder dividends. We also completed several financing transactions during 2010, including paying our maturing debt obligations, redeeming PSE&Gs preferred stock and completing a debt exchange at Power to manage long term debt maturities. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Note 14. Schedule of Consolidated Debt for additional information. While we anticipate earnings to be lower in 2011, our cash from operations is expected to remain strong. In addition, two tax provisions enacted in 2010 are expected to generate approximately $750 million of cash benefits for us through accelerated depreciation, most of which is expected to be realized in 2011. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Note 20. Income Taxes for additional information. These funds will be used to support our anticipated capital expenditures in 2011 and fund pension plan contributions and dividend payment amounts similar to those paid in 2010. Disciplined Investment We seek to invest in areas that complement our existing businesses and provide attractive risk adjusted returns. These areas include responding to trends in environmental protection, upgrading critical energy infrastructure and providing new energy supplies in markets with growing demand. We also have several projects where we are investing to continue to improve our operational performance. We are continuing to pursue obtaining the necessary regulatory approvals for the Susquehanna Roseland transmission project but have incurred delays in obtaining environmental approvals. The failure to obtain these approvals on a timely basis has delayed the project implementation date. The estimated cost of construction is up to $750 million for this project. In October, the PJM Board approved a modified Branchburg to Hudson project, specifically a 230 kV project running from Roseland to Hudson. The Roseland to Hudson project has an expected in service date of June 2015. The estimated cost of construction is up to $700 million for this project. Delays in the construction schedules of these projects could impact the timing of expected transmission revenues. For additional information, see Part I, Item 1. Business State Regulation. 57 Table of Contents Our utility has made additional investments in solar initiatives. Under our solar loan program we have provided a total of $70 million in loans for 196 projects as of December 31, 2010, representing over 19 MW to date. Under our Solar 4 All program we have had total expenditures of over $200 million as of December 31, 2010. Over 15 MW of solar panels have been installed on distribution poles and another 13 MW representing 11 projects have been placed into service. Additional projects are in various stages of negotiation and development. Our total anticipated expenditures to develop all 80 MW approved is approximately $465 million. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Note 13. Commitments and Contingent Liabilities for additional information. We made additional expenditures under our Capital Economic Stimulus and Energy Efficiency Economic Stimulus programs. As of December 31, 2010, total expenditures since inception of these projects were $588 million and $108 million, respectively. For additional information on these programs, see Item 1. Business State Regulation. We continued various construction activities at Power, including the completion of installation of back end technology at our Mercer and Hudson stations, a steam path retrofit and extended power uprate at Peach Bottom and construction of new gas fired peaking units at Kearny and in Connecticut (see 
 
