ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (MD&A) This combined MD&A is separately filed by Public Service Enterprise Group Incorporated (PSEG), PSEG Power LLC (Power) and Public Service Electric and Gas Company (PSE&G). Information contained herein relating to any individual company is filed by such company on its own behalf. Power and PSE&G each make representations only as to itself and make no representations whatsoever as to any other company. PSEGs business consists of three reportable segments, which are: Power, our wholesale energy supply company that integrates its generating asset operations with its wholesale energy, fuel supply, energy trading and marketing and risk management activities primarily in the Northeast and Mid Atlantic United States, PSE&G, our public utility company which provides transmission and distribution of electric energy and gas in New Jersey; implements demand response and energy efficiency programs and invests in solar generation, and Energy Holdings, which owns our energy related leveraged leases and other investments. Our business discussion in Item 1 provides a review of the regions and markets where we operate and compete, as well as our strategy for conducting our businesses within these markets, focusing on operational excellence, financial strength and making disciplined investments. Our risk factor discussion in Item 1A. provides information about factors that could have a material adverse impact in our businesses. The following discussion expands upon those sections by describing significant events and business developments that have occurred during 2011 and key factors that we expect will drive our future performance. The following discussion refers to the Consolidated Financial Statements (Statements) and the Related Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Notes). This discussion should be read in conjunction with such Statements and Notes. OVERVIEW OF 2011 AND FUTURE OUTLOOK During 2011, our results continued to be adversely impacted by lower prices for electricity and natural gas in the markets we serve. We began experiencing a greater pricing impact due to a decline in both PJM Reliability Pricing Model (RPM) and Basic Generation Service (BGS) rates which became effective in the second quarter. Our pricing also continues to be affected by customer migration away from our BGS supply contracts as these volumes are replaced with lower priced spot market sales. While the effect of customer migration on our results has been reduced as average BGS rates have been declining to a level more closely resembling current market prices, customers may still see an incentive to switch to third party suppliers. The result of such a switch may affect the price we receive on our sales, shifting from BGS rates that are established in auctions that have taken place over the past three years, to prices offered by third party suppliers which may be more representative of recent market pricing. Partially offsetting this lower commodity pricing are higher revenues due to increased distribution rates at PSE&G as a result of the base rate case settlement in mid 2010. This included an increase of $73.5 million and $26.5 million in annual electric and gas revenues, respectively, with a return on equity (ROE) of 10.3%. We have also realized an increase in transmission revenues as a result of our 2011 Formula Rate Update which provided for approximately $45 million in increased revenues in our 2011 transmission rates effective January 1, 2011. We filed our 2012 Annual Formula Rate Update with FERC in October 2011, which provides for approximately $94 million in increased annual transmission revenues effective January 1, 2012. These increased delivery charges have been offset by lower supply costs. The reduction in supply costs allows us to invest in infrastructure improvements without raising customer rates. Since January 2010, PSE&Gs typical average residential customers who purchased supply from PSE&G have seen a total annual bill reduction of 19% for gas and 1% for electric. For 2012 and beyond, the key issues our business will confront include: the continuing potential for sustained lower natural gas and electricity prices, 53 Table of Contents uncertainty in the economic recovery, regulatory and political uncertainty, particularly with regard to future energy policy, transmission policy and environmental regulation, and challenges to competitive markets, including support for subsidized generation in many states, particularly in New Jersey. Our future success will also depend on our ability to respond to these challenges and take advantage of opportunities presented by these and other regulatory and legislative initiatives. In order to do this, we must: continue to focus on controlling costs while maintaining our safety, reliability and compliance standards, successfully recontract our open supply positions, and execute our capital investment program, including investments for growth that yield contemporaneous and attractive risk adjusted returns. There have also been other significant regulatory and legislative developments during the year which may affect our operations in the future as new rules and regulations are adopted. For additional information on these issues, see Item 1. Business Regulatory Issues and Environmental Matters. In 2011, the State of New Jersey enacted the Long Term Capacity Agreement Pilot Program Act (LCAPP Act) to subsidize up to 2,000 MW of new natural gas fired generation. The LCAPP Act provided that subsidies would be offered through long term standard offer capacity agreements (SOCAs) by New Jersey EDCs, including PSE&G, to generators selected by the BPU. Legal challenges to the BPUs implementation of the LCAPP Act, as well as to the constitutionality of the LCAPP Act were filed and are pending. Maryland is also considering similar subsidies to above market new generation. In September 2011, the Maryland Public Utility Commission (PUC) issued an order requiring its EDCs to issue a Request for Proposals (RFP) to procure up to 1,500 MW of new natural gas fired generation located in the Southwest MAAC electrical region. The RFP is similar to the LCAPP SOCA. These developments in Maryland could impact energy and capacity prices in PJM and may also impact developments in New Jersey regarding the construction of subsidized generation. The LCAPP, Marylands RFP or similar activity in other states may artificially depress prices in the competitive wholesale market and have the potential to harm competitive markets, on both a short term and long term basis. The lack of consistent rules in energy markets can adversely impact the competitiveness of our plants. See Item 1. Business, Federal Regulation, FERC Capacity Market Issues for further information. The United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) published a proposed rule in April 2011 related to 316(b) Clean Water Act requirements. The rule, as proposed, would establish a marine life mortality standard for certain existing cooling water intake structures. We are unable to predict the outcome of this proposed rulemaking, the final form that the proposed regulations may take or the effect, if any, that they may have on our future capital requirements, financial condition or results of operations. In July 2011, the EPA issued the Cross State Air Pollution Rule (CSAPR) that limits power plant emissions in 28 states that contribute to the ability of downwind states to attain and or maintain current particulate matter and ozone emission standards. Emission reductions would have been governed by this rule beginning on January 1, 2012 for Sulfur Dioxide (SO2) and annual Nitrogen Oxide (NOX) and May 1, 2012 for Ozone season NOX. Certain states would have been required to make additional SO2 reductions in 2014. The EPA issued draft technical adjustments to the final CSAPR in October 2011. CSAPR is generally expected to have an upward impact on electricity prices, resulting from the 54 Table of Contents retirement of some units, as well as from the potential cost increase from either the purchase of allowances or the cost of operation of emissions control equipment. Technical revisions to the CSAPR were finalized on February 7, 2012. The EPA increased New Jerseys allocation of annual NOX and ozone season NOX allowances beyond what was proposed. The EPA also finalized the increase in New Jerseys allocation of SO2 allowances from the October proposal. The additional increases in NOx allocations are favorable to PSEG, since both PSEG and New Jersey as a whole are projected to be very tight on NOx allowances (both ozone season and annual). On December 30, 2011, the United States Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit issued a ruling to stay CSAPR pending judicial review. Until a final decision is reached, the court has ordered that the Clean Air Interstate Rule (CAIR) requirements continue temporarily. We have intervened in this litigation, along with other generating companies, in support of the EPA. The continuation of CAIR affects our generating stations in Connecticut, New Jersey and New York. If 2012 operations are similar to those in the past three years, the impact to our operations from the temporary implementation of CAIR in 2012 is not expected to be significant. The EPA proposed a Maximum Achievable Control Technology (MACT) regulation in March 2011 which was finalized on December 21, 2011. This regulation prescribes reduced levels of mercury and other hazardous air pollutants pursuant to the Clean Air Act. As a result of events at the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear facility in Japan following the earthquake and tsunami in March 2011, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) has been performing additional operational and safety reviews of nuclear facilities in the United States. These reviews and the lessons learned from the events in Japan will result in additional regulation for the nuclear industry and could impact future operations and capital requirements for our facilities. We believe that our nuclear plants meet the stringent applicable design and safety specifications of the NRC. We received our requested 20 year license extensions for the Salem and Hope Creek facilities in June and July 2011, respectively. Salem Units 1 and 2 are now licensed through 2036 and 2040, respectively, and Hope Creek is now licensed through 2046. Peach Bottom Units 2 and 3 are currently licensed through 2033 and 2034, respectively. During 2011, the SEC and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) continued efforts enact stricter regulation over swaps and derivatives. The CFTC has issued Notices of Proposed Rulemakings (NOPRs) on many of the key issues. We cannot assess the exact scope of the new rules until they are issued by the SEC and CFTC. We will carefully monitor these new rules as they are developed to analyze the potential impact on our swap and derivatives transactions, including any potential increase in our collateral requirements. In December 2011, New Jersey released its revised Energy Master Plan (EMP) which contains a number of policy recommendations that the State can be expected to pursue through legislative and regulatory responses. The policy recommendations supporting nuclear power, solar and wind energy, energy efficiency and natural gas infrastructure are generally favorable to our business. On July 21, 2011, FERC issued a Final Rule which, among other things directs regional planners such as PJM to (i) consider public policy requirements in planning new transmission, (ii) remove the Right of First Refusal (ROFR) which permits incumbent transmission owners, like us, the first opportunity to construct transmission within their respective service territories from its tariffs and agreements, subject to certain exceptions, and (iii) allocate costs for transmission projects in a way that roughly matches costs with benefits, while leaving flexibility to the regions to determine precise cost allocation methodologies. We cannot predict the final outcome or impact on us; however, specific implementation of the Final Rule in the various regions, including within our utility service territory, may expose us to competition for construction of transmission, additional regulatory considerations and potential delay with respect to future transmission projects. 55 Table of Contents Operational Excellence Our nuclear and fossil facilities continued their strong operating performance through the fourth quarter. Our nuclear units have achieved a capacity factor of 93% for the year and our combined cycle units have continued to improve their forced outage rates. Our generation fleet performed well during the July and August heat waves. During Hurricane Irene, the Salem and Hope Creek nuclear stations remained online. Overall, generation volumes for the year 2011 were 54.0 TWh, approximately 5% lower than in 2010 due primarily to reduced demands. In addition, we continued to demonstrate system reliability by limiting customer outages. In February 2011, our service territory experienced winter storms that affected the electric transmission and distribution systems due to heavy icing and salt spray and in March 2011, our northern gas service territory was impacted by two heavy rainstorms that resulted in widespread flooding. Our personnel were prepared in each case for widespread outages and, as a result, were able to minimize the length of time our customers were without electric or gas service. In August 2011, Hurricane Irene caused severe damage that resulted in flooding throughout our service territory, disrupting service to over 800,000 customers. With the assistance of mutual aid crews from other utilities, our associates worked to fully restore service to the majority of our customers within five days. In October 2011, a wet heavy snow storm caused extensive tree and power line damage, disrupting service to over 570,000 customers. By seeking the assistance of other utilities, as well as hiring a significant number of contractor power line and tree crews, we restored power to most of our customers within seven days. We filed a petition with the BPU asking permission to defer the incremental storm related costs and the opportunity to seek recovery in our next base rate proceeding. We have deferred approximately $60 million of incremental Operation and Maintenance (O&M) storm costs associated with Hurricane Irene and the October snow storm. In December 2011, the Long Island Power Authority (LIPA) selected PSEG Long Island LLC (PSEG LI), a newly formed wholly owned subsidiary of Energy Holdings, to manage its electric transmission and distribution system in Long Island, New York. LIPA issued a press release that it had selected us for a variety of reasons, including our proven track record of first quartile customer service and reliability, commitment to cost control, corporate culture of transparency and local decision making, technical expertise and proven environmental track record. The ten year contract commences January 1, 2014, after LIPAs current contract with another party for utility services management expires. As part of the management contract, PSEG LI will be expected to develop and implement a number of operational improvements to provide safe and reliable service for LIPAs customers, increase customer satisfaction, and manage the operational and maintenance costs of LIPA. On January 31, 2012, we entered into a specific matter closing agreement settling our dispute with the IRS over certain challenged lease transactions. This agreement settles the leasing dispute with finality for all tax periods in which we realized tax deductions from these transactions. In addition, we signed a settlement agreement covering all audit issues for tax years 1997 through 2003. We believe that there will be no material impact on earnings as a result of these settlement agreements. For additional information, see Note 13. Commitments and Contingent Liabilities. Financial Strength For 2011, our cash from operations was over $3.5 billion. Cash from operations for the year has benefited from two federal tax provisions enacted in 2010 which generated a total of approximately $900 million of cash benefits for us through accelerated depreciation. See Note 20. Income Taxes for additional information. These funds, combined with proceeds from asset sales, were used to support our capital expenditures, dividend payments and pension funding for the year. During 2011, we made approximately $2.1 billion in capital expenditures and paid dividends of $693 million. On February 21, 2012, our Board of Directors approved a $0.3550 per share common stock dividend for the first quarter of 2012. This reflects an indicated annual dividend rate of $1.42 per share. The Boards approval represents a change in our dividend policy moving from a strict earnings payout based approach to one that takes into consideration the growing contribution to earnings and cash from our regulated operations and continued cash flow from our generation business. 56 Table of Contents We made our entire planned pension and OPEB contributions for the year 2011 of $426 million and, as of December 31, 2011, we had funded approximately 84% of our projected benefit obligation. For 2012, we expect to fund up to $124 million and $11 million for pension and OPEB, respectively. In December, we were also able to early redeem $600 million of 6.95% Senior Notes due in June 2012 at Power. In April 2011, PSEG, Power and PSE&G entered into new 5 year credit agreements resulting in an increase of $650 million in Powers credit capacity. As of December 31, 2011, our total credit capacity was $4.2 billion and we had over $800 million of cash on hand. Disciplined Investment We seek to invest in areas that complement our existing businesses and provide attractive risk adjusted returns. These areas include upgrading critical energy infrastructure, responding to trends in environmental protection and providing new energy supplies in domestic markets with growing demand. We also have several projects where we are investing to continue to improve our operational performance. Over the past few years, we have shifted our focus to investing at the utility. Our capital expenditure forecast includes over $6.8 billion in spending over the next three years, over 75% of which is at PSE&G. During 2011, we sold our two 1,000 MW combined cycle generating facilities in Texas in separate transactions for a total of $687 million. See Note 4. Discontinued Operations and Dispositions for further information. We are continuing to pursue obtaining the necessary regulatory approvals for the Susquehanna Roseland transmission project including approval from the National Park Service (NPS), which has resulted in a delay to the project implementation date. In October 2011, the NPS issued a Draft Environmental Impact Statement (EIS), which recommended a no action alternative that would require re routing of the project around the affected federal park areas. The NPS has stated that it will select a final preferred route for the project in March 2012. We have submitted comments to the draft EIS and will continue to work with the NPS on mitigation for unavoidable impacts associated with the project. The estimated cost of construction is $750 million for this project. Our project estimate will be refined when we obtain additional information from the NPS regarding mitigation related requirements as well as contractor bids. In October 2010, PJM approved the North East Grid project, a 230 kV project running from Roseland to Hudson. This project has an expected in service date of June 2015 with an estimated cost of construction of $895 million. We have also filed for BPU approval of the North Central Reliability project, a 230 kV upgrade project located in the northern and central portions of New Jersey with an estimated cost of construction of approximately $390 million. The North Central Reliability project has an expected in service date of June 2014. Delays in the construction schedules of these projects could impact the timing of expected transmission revenues. The North East Grid project was approved in place of a previously approved 500 kV Branchburg Roseland Hudson project. On December 30, 2011, FERC granted incentive rates for the Northeast Grid project including recovery of 100% of Construction Work in Process (CWIP) in rate base and abandonment costs, along with a 25 basis point adder to ROE, with an effective date of January 1, 2012. In April 2011, we filed a petition with FERC seeking incentive rates with an effective date of June 14, 2011 for five 230 kV transmission projects, including the North Central Reliability project. In June 2011, FERC granted incentive rates for three of these 230 kV projects, with a total capital investment of approximately $1.0 billion, representing approximately 80% of our request. The incentive rates include recovery for CWIP and 100% recovery of prudently incurred abandonment costs. See Item 1. Business, Federal Regulation, Transmission Regulation Transmission Expansion for further information. 57 Table of Contents We have made additional investments in solar power in New Jersey. Under our solar loan program we have provided a total of $127 million in loans for 518 projects as of December 31, 2011, representing 38 MW to date. Under our Solar 4 All program we have made total program expenditures of approximately $361 million as of December 31, 2011. Approximately 25 MW of solar panels have been installed on distribution poles and another 33 MW representing 19 projects have been placed into service. Additional projects are in various stages of development. Our total anticipated expenditures to develop all approved 80 MW is approximately $451 million. The BPU is currently conducting a generic stakeholder proceeding, however, to examine whether utility rate based solar programs should be modified, expanded or terminated in the future. We made additional expenditures under our Capital Infrastructure Programs (CIP). As of December 31, 2011, total capital expenditures since inception of these programs were $702 million and $59 million for CIP I and CIP II, respectively. In July, the BPU approved CIP II which provides for approximately $273 million in accelerated capital investments in our electric and gas infrastructure through 2012. We continued various construction activities at Power, including a steam path retrofit and extended power uprate at Peach Bottom and construction of new gas fired peaking units at Kearny and in Connecticut (see Note 13. Commitments and Contingent Liabilities for additional information). This additional capacity at Kearny was bid into and has cleared the RPM capacity auction, and the additional capacity in Connecticut is subject to a contract with a Connecticut utility. We are continuing our efforts to obtain an Early Site Permit for a new nuclear generating station to be located at the current site of Salem and Hope Creek stations. The NRC acceptance review is complete and agency evaluation is underway. There were no petitions filed for permission to intervene. The current NRC schedule would likely result in issuance of the Early Site Permit in 2014. In January 2012, we acquired an additional 25 MW solar project at Energy Holdings, currently under construction in Arizona. Completion of this project is expected by the third quarter of 2012. All of the energy, capacity and environmental attributes generated by the project in the first 20 years are expected to be sold under a long term power purchase agreement. The total investment for the project will be approximately $75 million. As part of our ongoing efforts to focus on energy investments, in December 2011, we sold our investment in an office building in Denver, Colorado for approximately $215 million. Net proceeds from the sale were approximately $175 million. The sale resulted in an after tax gain of $34 million. There is no guarantee that the projects described above or any future initiatives will be achieved since many issues need to be favorably resolved, such as regulatory approvals. As a result of Dynegys corporate reorganization in September 2011, Energy Holdings evaluated its likely recovery under the lease arrangements for the Roseton and Danskammer facilities leased to subsidiaries of Dynegy Holdings LLC (DH). Considering the overall value of the underlying assets subject to lease, Energy Holdings fully reserved its $264 million gross investment. This gross charge was reflected as a reduction to third quarter Operating Revenues and resulted in an after tax charge of approximately $170 million. On November 7, 2011, DH including the lessee entities in our Danskammer and Roseton leveraged lease transactions (Dynegy leases), filed for relief under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code. DH filed a Restructuring Support Agreement (RSA) expected to become effective in August 2012 assuming confirmation of its plan of reorganization by the Bankruptcy Court. On December 13, 2011, Energy Holdings and Dynegy reached a settlement agreement resolving disputes that had arisen between them with regard to DHs rejection of the Dynegy leases. The settlement agreement assigns to Dynegy our rights to certain future payments or distributions related to the Dynegy leases; it also resolves our claims under our Tax Indemnity Agreement with DH. The terms of the agreement include a cash payment of $7.5 million, which was received on January 4, 2012, and the allowance of a $110 million claim against DH payable through a mix of cash and notes upon final approval of the DH reorganization. The Court approved the settlement agreement and DHs rejection of the Dynegy leases with an effective date of December 30, 2011, triggering a write off of the entire $264 million fully reserved gross lease receivable and the reclassification of $30 million of the deferred tax liability to current status. 58 Table of Contents The ultimate amount recognized from our $110 million claim could change based upon the final outcome of Dynegys RSA and the respective fair values of the securities received. See Note 8. Financing Receivables for further information. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Years Ended December 31, Earnings (Losses) 2011 2010 2009 Millions Power $ 1,002 $ 1,136 $ 1,191 PSE&G (A) 521 359 325 Energy Holdings (B) (134 ) 49 72 Other (C) 18 13 6 PSEG Income from Continuing Operations 1,407 1,557 1,594 Income (Loss) from Discontinued Operations, Including Gain on Disposal (D) 96 7 (2 ) PSEG Net Income $ 1,503 $ 1,564 $ 1,592 Years Ended December 31, Earnings Per Share (Diluted) 2011 2010 2009 PSEG Income from Continuing Operations $ 2.77 $ 3.07 $ 3.14 Income from Discontinued Operations, Including Gain on Disposal (D) 0.19 0.01 0.00 PSEG Net Income $ 2.96 $ 3.08 $ 3.14 (A) PSE&Gs results in 2010 include an after tax charge of $72 million related to an agreement to refund previous Market Transition Charge (MTC) collections in the succeeding two years. (B) Energy Holdings results include an after tax charge of $170 million taken in 2011 related to the reserve for assets underlying a leveraged lease receivable. See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Note 8. Financing Receivables. (C) Other includes parent company interest and financing costs, donations, certain administrative and general expenses and certain consolidating entries related to a debt exchange in 2009 between Power and Energy Holdings. (D) See Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Note 4. Discontinued Operations and Dispositions. Our results include the realized gains, losses and earnings on Powers Nuclear Decommissioning Trust (NDT) Fund and other related NDT activity. This includes the net realized gains, interest and dividend income and other costs related to the NDT Fund which are recorded in Other Income and Deductions. This also includes credit related impairments on certain NDT securities which are included in Other Than Temporary Impairments and the interest accretion expense on Powers nuclear asset retirement obligation (ARO), which is recorded in Operation and Maintenance Expense and the depreciation related to the ARO. The combined after tax impact on earnings of this activity for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 is shown in the chart below along with the after tax impacts of mark to market (MTM) activity: Millions, after tax Years Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 NDT Fund Income $ 50 $ 46 $ 9 Non Trading Mark to Market Gains (Losses) $ 107 $ (1 ) $ (11 ) 59 Table of Contents PSEG Our results of operations are primarily comprised of the results of operations of our operating subsidiaries, Power, PSE&G and Energy Holdings, excluding changes related to intercompany transactions, which are eliminated in consolidation. We also include certain financing costs, charitable contributions and general and administrative costs at the parent company. For additional information on intercompany transactions, see Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Note 23. Related Party Transactions. For the Years EndedDecember 31, Increase /(Decrease) 2011 vs 2010 Increase /(Decrease) 2010 vs 2009 2011 2010 2009 Millions Millions % Millions % Operating Revenues $ 11,079 $ 11,793 $ 12,035 $ (714 ) (6 ) $ (242 ) (2 ) Energy Costs 4,747 5,261 5,433 (514 ) (10 ) (172 ) (3 ) Operation and Maintenance 2,481 2,504 2,534 (23 ) (1 ) (30 ) (1 ) Depreciation and Amortization 976 955 819 21 2 136 17 Income from Equity Method Investments 4 4 17 0 0 (13 ) (76 ) Other Income and (Deductions) 135 158 85 (23 ) (15 ) 73 86 Other Than Temporary Impairments 22 11 61 11 100 (50 ) (82 ) Interest Expense 475 472 521 3 1 (49 ) (9 ) Income Tax Expense 977 1,059 1,042 (82 ) (8 ) 17 2 Income from Discontinued Operations, including Gain on Disposal, net of tax 96 7 (2 ) 89 N/A 9 N/A The 2011 year over year decrease in our Income from Continuing Operations was driven by the following: $170 million after tax charge taken in 2011 on leveraged leases related to Dynegy (see 
 
