FILE:AFL/AFL-8K-20031210171045.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
 
 
 
 
AFLAC Incorporated announced in a press release dated December 10, 2003, that it is evaluating its investment in Parmalat Finanziaria SpA following the dairy company's credit rating downgrade to below-investment-grade status.
ITEM 5.  OTHER EVENTS      
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
EXHIBITS FILED WITH CURRENT FORM 8-K:
          99.1 - Press release of AFLAC Incorporated dated December 10, 2003.

EXHIBIT 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
COLUMBUS, Georgia - December 10, 2003 -- AFLAC Incorporated announced today that it is evaluating its investment in Parmalat Finanziaria SpA following the dairy company's credit rating downgrade to below-investment-grade status. Standard & Poor's reduced the credit rating of Parmalat from "BBB-" to "B+" on December 9, 2003. The rating agency lowered the rating again today to "CC." AFLAC's investment in Parmalat was $428 million at September 30, 2003. Senior Vice President and Chief Investment Officer Joseph W. Smith, Jr. said: "Our credit analysts are closely monitoring financial developments at Parmalat. As is always the case with an investment we own that has been downgraded to below investment grade, we are in the process of applying our stated impairment policy to determine what, if any, impairment charge might be warranted in the fourth quarter of this year." AFLAC Incorporated (NYSE - AFL) is an international holding company. A company, AFLAC insures more than 40 million people worldwide. It is a leading writer of insurance products marketed at the worksite in the United States, offering policies to employees at more than 278,900 payroll accounts. The company insures one out of four Japanese households and is the largest life insurer in Japan in terms of individual policies in force. In January 2003, AFLAC was the number one insurance company in magazine's list of "The 100 Best Companies to Work for" and was included in the overall listing for the fifth consecutive year. In March 2003, also included AFLAC in its annual listing of "America's Most Admired Companies." And in July 2003, named AFLAC to its list of "America's 50 Best Companies for Minorities." AFLAC's Internet address is aflac.com. The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a "safe harbor" to encourage companies to provide prospective information, so long as those informational statements are identified as forward-looking and are accompanied by meaningful cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed. We desire to take advantage of these provisions. This document contains cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected herein, and in any other statements made by company officials in oral discussions with the financial community and contained in documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Forward-looking statements are not based on historical information and relate to future operations, strategies, financial results or other developments. Furthermore, forward-looking information is subject to numerous assumptions, risks, and uncertainties. In particular, statements containing words such as "expect," "anticipate," "believe," "goal," "objective," "may," "should," "estimate," "intends," "projects," or similar words as well as specific projections of future results, generally qualify as forward-looking. AFLAC undertakes no obligation to update such forward-looking statements. We caution readers that the following factors, in addition to other factors mentioned from time to time in our reports filed with the SEC, could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements: legislative and regulatory developments; assessments for insurance companyinsolvencies; competitive conditions in the United States and Japan; new product development; ability to attract and retain qualified sales associates; ability to repatriate profits from Japan; changes in U.S. and/or Japanese tax laws or accounting requirements; credit and other risks associated with AFLAC's investment activities; significant changes in interest rates; fluctuations in foreign currency rates; deviations in actual experience from pricing and reserving assumptions; level and outcome of litigation; downgrades in the company's credit rating; changes in rating agency policies or practices; subsidiary's ability to pay dividends to parent company, and general economic condition s in the United States and Japan. Analyst and investor contact - Kenneth S. Janke Jr., (800) 235-2667 - option 3, FAX: (706) 324-6330, or kjanke@aflac.com Media contact - Laura Kane, (706) 596-3493, FAX: (706) 320-2288, or lkane@aflac.com
Fortune 500
Fortune
Fortune
Fortune


