FILE:AFL/AFL-8K-20040202170413.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM 9.  REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE
     AFLAC Incorporated is providing its press release dated February 2, 2004 in which it reported its fourth quarter results and its Fourth Quarter Report to Shareholders herein as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 for reporting under Items 9 and 12.      Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). We evaluate our net earnings, as determined by GAAP, by separating it into four components. The components are 1) operating earnings 2) realized investment gains and losses, which include impairment charges, 3) the change in the fair value of the interest rate component of cross-currency swaps, and 4) nonrecurring items. Management views each of these components separately. The first component is used by management to evaluate the financial performance of AFLAC's insurance operations. The other three components tend to be driven more by general economic conditions and events and obscure the underlying fundamentals and trends in our insurance operations. We believe the reader of our financial statements will find this component breakdown useful for two reasons. First, it enables the reader to view and evaluate the company as management views and evaluates the company. Second, it lays the foundation for a forward-looking discussion by separately identifying items and events, which may or may not be controllable by management.      Operating earnings, a non-GAAP financial measure, is the primary component of our net earnings. As a result, our discussion of earnings and earnings comparisons is directed toward operating earnings. We define operating earnings as the profits we derive from our operations before realized investment gains and losses, the change in the fair value of the interest rate component of cross-currency swaps, and nonrecurring items. We believe that an analysis of operating earnings is vitally important to an understanding of the underlying profitability drivers and trends of our insurance business.      Furthermore, because a significant portion of our business is in Japan, we believe it is equally important to understand the impact on operating earnings from translating Japanese yen into U.S. dollars. We translate AFLAC Japan's yen-denominated income statement from yen into dollars using an average exchange rate for the reporting period, and we translate the balance sheet using an end-of-period exchange rate. However, except for a limited number of transactions, we do not actually convert yen into dollars. As a result, we view foreign currency translation as a financial reporting event for AFLAC and not an economic event for our company or shareholders. Because the effect of translating yen into dollars distorts the rate of growth of our insurance operations, we encourage readers of our financial statements to evaluate our financial performance excluding the impact of foreign currency translation.      The second component of net earnings is realized investment gains and losses. Our investment strategy is to invest in fixed-income securities in order to provide a reliable stream of investment income, which is one of the drivers of the company's profitability. We do not purchase securities with the intent of generating capital gains or losses. However, investment gains and losses may be realized as a result of changes in the financial markets and the creditworthiness of specific issuers of debt securities. The realization of investment gains and losses is independent of the underwriting and administration of our insurance products, which are the principal drivers of our profitability. Therefore, we believe it is appropriate to evaluate our operations excluding realized investment gains and losses.
ITEM 12.  RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
 
     The third component of net earnings is the change in fair value of the interest rate component of our cross-currency swaps. We entered into swap agreements in order to effectively convert our dollar-denominated senior debt obligation, which matures in 2009, into a yen-denominated obligation. In looking at the economic impact on AFLAC, the effect of issuing fixed-rate, dollar-denominated debt and swapping it into fixed-rate, yen-denominated debt is identical to issuing fixed-rate yen-denominated debt in a like amount. However, the accounting treatment is different. SFAS No. 133 requires that the change in the fair value of the interest rate component of the cross-currency swap be reflected in the income statement. The change in fair value is determined based on relative dollar and yen interest rates and has no cash impact on our results of operations. Additionally, we have the ability to retain the cross-currency swaps until their maturity. At maturity, the swaps' fair value and the original contract value will be equal and the cumulative impact of gains and losses from the changes in fair value of the interest components will be zero. Therefore, we believe it is appropriate to evaluate our operations excluding the change in fair value of the interest rate component of our cross-currency swaps.      Nonrecurring items, which is the fourth component of net earnings, includes those items that have not occurred in the last two years and are not likely to occur in the next two years. Therefore, we believe it is appropriate to evaluate our operations excluding nonrecurring items.      We believe the display and discussion of these components is essential to the reader's ability to understand and analyze the historical financial performance of our business in order to formulate a view of what the future will hold for the company's overall financial performance as well as each of these components.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
EXHIBITS FILED WITH CURRENT FORM 8-K:
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
COLUMBUS, Georgia - February 2, 2004 -- AFLAC Incorporated today reported its fourth quarter results. Total revenues rose 6.8% to $2.8 billion in the fourth quarter, reflecting the stronger yen/dollar exchange rate, compared with a year ago. Net earnings were $73 million, or $.14 per diluted share, compared with $186 million, or $.35 per share in the fourth quarter of 2002. Net earnings were significantly influenced by realized investment losses in the quarter of $175 million, or $.34 per diluted share. Realized investment losses were $4 million, or $.01 per share, in the fourth quarter a year ago. The large realized investment losses in the fourth quarter of 2003 related primarily to the sale of our investment in Parmalat. Following disturbing financial developments at Parmalat and several credit ratings downgrades of its debt, we conducted an extensive analysis of our investment. Based on that analysis, we sold all of our holdings in Parmalat and realized a pretax loss of $257 million. Earlier in the quarter, we sold our investment in Levi Strauss at a pretax loss of $38 million. In both cases, we concluded these companies no longer met the profile of investments we want to retain in our portfolio. The investment losses on Parmalat, Levi Strauss and other investment transactions in the normal course of business decreased consolidated pretax earnings by $284 million ($.34 per diluted share after taxes). At the end of the year, only 2.8% of total company debt investments were rated below investment grade, while 68.0% were rated "A" or better. Net earnings in the fourth quarter also included a loss of $14 million, or $.02 per diluted share, from the change in fair value of the interest rate component of the cross-currency swaps related to the company's senior notes as required by SFAS 133. That compares with a loss of $5 million, or $.01 per diluted share, from SFAS 133 in the prior year's quarter. Net earnings in the fourth quarter of 2002 also reflected a charge of $26 million, or $.05 per diluted share, for our estimated portion of a life insurance industry assessment for Japan's policyholder protection fund. For the year, total revenues were $11.4 billion. Net earnings were $795 million, or $1.52 per diluted share, compared with $821 million, or $1.55 per share, in 2002. Operating earnings, a non-GAAP financial measure, is the primary component of our net earnings. As a result, our discussion of earnings and earnings comparisons is directed toward operating earnings. We define operating earnings as the profits we derive from our operations before realized investment gains and losses, the change in the fair value of the interest rate component of cross-currency swaps, and nonrecurring items. We believe that an analysis of operating earnings is vitally important to an understanding of the underlying profitability drivers and trends of our insurance business. Operating earnings in the fourth quarter were a record $262 million, compared with $221 million a year ago. On a per-share basis, operating earnings rose 19.0% to $.50 per diluted share, compared with $.42 per share in the fourth quarter of 2002. The stronger yen/dollar exchange rate increased operating earnings per diluted share by $.02 in the fourth quarter. For the year, operating earnings were $989 million, compared with $825 million a year ago. Operating earnings per diluted share rose 21.2% from $1.56 to $1.89 in 2003. Excluding the $.06 per share benefit from the stronger yen for the full year, operating earnings per diluted share rose 17.3%. That increase was in line with our upwardly revised 2003 target of a 17% increase in operating earnings per diluted share before the effect of currency translation. The board of directors increased the quarterly cash dividend for the 22nd consecutive year. Effective with the first quarter of 2004, we raised the quarterly cash dividend 18.8%, from $.08 to $.095 per share. The first quarter dividend is payable on March 1, 2004, to shareholders of record at the close of business on February 13, 2004. The board of directors also authorized the purchase of up to 30 million shares of AFLAC's common stock. This authorization is in addition to the 7.0 million shares that remained under a previous authorization as of December 31, 2003, and brings the total number of shares available for purchase to approximately 37 million. The company anticipates that the repurchase of shares will be conducted from time to time in open market or negotiated transactions, depending on market conditions. Commenting on the company's results for the fourth quarter and the year, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Daniel P. Amos stated: "We are very pleased with the way we concluded 2003. AFLAC Japan produced sales growth that was in line with our expectations for the last three months of the year. AFLAC Japan's total new annualized premium sales rose 8.7% to 31.7 billion yen, or $291 million, in the fourth quarter. For the year, new sales were up 11.9% to 121.2 billion yen, or $1.0 billion. Our annual sales results compared favorably to our initial expectation of 5% to 10% sales growth in 2003. Our objective for 2004 is to increase AFLAC Japan's total new annualized premium sales 5% to 10% in yen terms. "For the year, new sales were up 5.4% to $1.1 billion. Our objective for U.S. sales growth in 2004 is an increase of 10% to 12%. "Overall, we are very pleased with our financial performance in 2003. Clearly, we experienced disappointment during the year, notably AFLAC U.S. sales growth and the investment loss from Parmalat. Yet as we start 2004, we believe we are positioned to see better U.S. sales growth, and the overall quality of our investment portfolio remains high. At the same time, we had our share of highlights in 2003. We were especially proud of AFLAC Japan's strong sales and financial results. The strength of AFLAC Japan's financial performance was the primary reason for increasing our 2003 earnings target, and then achieving that objective. And we were also pleased with the board of directors' decision to increase the cash dividend twice in 2003. "In looking ahead, we remain enthusiastic about the opportunities for continued growth. Our objective for 2004 is a 17% increase in operating earnings per diluted share before currency translation. And our objective for 2005 is to increase operating earnings per diluted share by 15% excluding the impact of foreign currency translation. We view our earnings targets as realistic and achievable. Furthermore, they reflect our conviction that the U.S. and Japanese markets are perfectly suited to AFLAC's products. And we believe our competitive strengths put us in a strong position to capitalize on those opportunities."AFLAC Incorporated (NYSE - AFL) is an international holding company. A company, AFLAC insures more than 40 million people worldwide. It is a leading writer of insurance products marketed at the worksite in the United States, offering policies to employees at more than 288,100 payroll accounts. The company insures one out of four Japanese households and is the largest life insurer in Japan in terms of individual policies in force. In March 2003, magazine included AFLAC in its annual listing of "America's Most Admired Companies." In July 2003, named AFLAC to its list of "America's 50 Best Companies for Minorities." In January 2004, AFLAC was included in magazine's list of "The 100 Best Companies to Work for" for the sixth consecutive year. Also in January 2004, AFLAC was named to magazine's "Platinum 400 List of Best Big Companies in America" for the fifth consecutive year. AFLAC's Internet address is aflac .com. A copy of AFLAC's Fourth Quarter Report to Shareholders can be found on the investor relations page of aflac.com. AFLAC Incorporated will webcast its fourth-quarter analyst presentation on the investor relations page of aflac.com at 7:10 p.m. (EST), Wednesday, February 4.
We were encouraged to see improvement in AFLAC U.S. sales in the final quarter of the year. Total new sales increased 7.7% in the quarter to $345 million, which exceeded our expectations. In fact, fourth-quarter sales were the best in the company's history.
Fortune 500
Fortune
Fortune
Fortune
Forbes
The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a "safe harbor" to encourage companies to provide prospective information, so long as those informational statements are identified as forward-looking and are accompanied by meaningful cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed. We desire to take advantage of these provisions. This document contains cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected herein, and in any other statements made by company officials in oral discussions with the financial community and contained in documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Forward-looking statements are not based on historical information and relate to future operations, strategies, financial results or other developments. Furthermore, forward-looking information is subject to numerous assumptions, risks, and uncer tainties. In particular, statements containing words such as "expect," "anticipate," "believe," "goal," "objective," "may," "should," "estimate," "intends," "projects," or similar words as well as specific projections of future results, generally qualify as forward-looking. AFLAC undertakes no obligation to update such forward-looking statements.
We caution readers that the following factors, in addition to other factors mentioned from time to time in our reports filed with the SEC, could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements: legislative and regulatory developments; assessments for insurance company insolvencies; competitive conditions in the United States and Japan; new product development; ability to attract and retain qualified sales associates; ability to repatriate profits from Japan; changes in U.S. and/or Japanese tax laws or accounting requirements; credit and other risks associated with AFLAC's investment activities; significant changes in interest rates; fluctuations in foreign currency rates; deviations in actual experience from pricing and reserving assumptions; level and outcome of litigation; downgrades in the company's credit rating; changes in rating agency policies or practices; subsidiary's ability to pay dividends to parent company, and general economic conditions in the United States and Japan.
Analyst and investor contact - Kenneth S. Janke Jr., (800) 235-2667 - option 3, FAX: (706) 324-6330, or kjanke@aflac.com Media contact - Laura Kane, (706) 596-3493, FAX: (706) 320-2288, or lkane@aflac.com
 

EXHIBIT 99.2
 
HIGHLIGHTS
Operating earnings per diluted share increased 14.3% for the fourth quarter excluding the effect of foreign currency translation (including the effect of the yen, operating earnings per share were up 19.0%).
AFLAC U.S. total new sales exceeded expectations in the quarter and rose 7.7% to a record $345 million.
AFLAC Japan total new sales increased 8.7% in yen terms, in line with our quarterly target.
We purchased 3.5 million of AFLAC's shares in the fourth quarter.
TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS:
     We are very pleased with the way we concluded 2003. AFLAC Japan produced sales growth that was in line with our expectations for the last three months of the year. At the same time, its financial performance remained strong. We were also encouraged by an acceleration of AFLAC U.S. sales in the fourth quarter. In fact, AFLAC U.S. finished the year with record quarterly sales, while also producing solid financial results. As a result, our consolidated financial results remained strong and in line with our targets for growth.      Operating earnings, a non-GAAP financial measure, is the primary component of our net earnings. As a result, our discussion of earnings and earnings comparisons is directed toward operating earnings. We define operating earnings as the profits we derive from our operations before realized investment gains and losses, the change in the fair value of the interest rate component of cross-currency swaps, and nonrecurring items. We believe that an analysis of operating earnings is vitally important to an understanding of the underlying profitability drivers and trends of our insurance business.
FOURTH QUARTER RESULTS
     The yen was significantly stronger in relation to the dollar during the fourth quarter of 2003, compared with the fourth quarter of 2002. The average yen/dollar exchange rate for the full year was also stronger than a year ago. As a result, our reported financial results for the fourth quarter and for the full year benefited from the translation of yen into dollars. The chart on page four compares selected income statement items with and without foreign currency changes.      Total revenues rose 6.8% to $2.8 billion in the fourth quarter, reflecting the stronger yen/dollar exchange rate, compared with a year ago. Net earnings were $73 million, or $.14 per diluted share, compared with $186 million, or $.35 per share in the fourth quarter of 2002. Net earnings were significantly influenced by realized investment losses in the quarter of $175 million, or $.34 per diluted share. Realized investment losses were $4 million, or $.01 per share, in the fourth quarter a year ago.      The large realized investment losses in the fourth quarter of 2003 related primarily to the sale of our investment in Parmalat. Following disturbing financial developments at Parmalat and several credit ratings downgrades of its debt, we conducted an extensive analysis of our investment. Based on that analysis, we sold all of our holdings in Parmalat and realized a pretax loss of $257 million. Earlier in the quarter, we sold our investment in Levi Strauss at a pretax loss of $38 million. In both cases, we concluded these companies no longer met the profile of investments we want to retain in our portfolio. The investment losses on Parmalat, Levi Strauss and other investment transactions in the normal course of business decreased consolidated pretax earnings by $284 million ($.34 per diluted share after taxes). At the end of the year, only 2.8% of total company debt investments were rated below investment grade, while 68.0% were rated "A" or better.
 
     Net earnings in the fourth quarter also included a loss of $14 million, or $.02 per diluted share, from the change in fair value of the interest rate component of the cross-currency swaps related to the company's senior notes as required by SFAS 133. That compares with a loss of $5 million, or $.01 per diluted share, from SFAS 133 in the prior year's quarter. Net earnings in the fourth quarter of 2002 also reflected a charge of $26 million, or $.05 per diluted share, for our estimated portion of a life insurance industry assessment for Japan's policyholder protection fund.      Fourth quarter operating earnings were a record $262 million, compared with $221 million in the fourth quarter of 2002. Operating earnings per diluted share increased 19.0% to $.50, compared with $.42 per share a year ago. The stronger yen/dollar exchange rate increased operating earnings by $.02 per share during the fourth quarter.      During the fourth quarter, we acquired 3.5 million shares of AFLAC stock. For the year, we purchased 10.2 million shares. The board of directors authorized the purchase of up to 30 million shares of our common stock. This authorization is in addition to the 7.0 million shares that remained under a previous authorization at year-end 2003, and brings the total number of shares available for purchase to approximately 37 million.
FULL YEAR RESULTS
     Total revenues for the full year also benefited from the stronger yen and rose 11.6% to $11.4 billion. Net earnings were $795 million, or $1.52 per diluted share, compared with $821 million, or $1.55 per share, in 2002. Net earnings for the year included realized investment losses of $191 million, or $.37 per diluted share, compared with losses of $15 million, or $.03 per share, a year ago. Net earnings in 2003 also included a loss of $3 million from the impact of SFAS 133. Net earnings in 2002 were impacted from a gain of $37 million, or $.07 per share, from the effect of SFAS 133, and the previously mentioned charge for the policyholder protection fund.      Operating earnings for the year were $989 million, or $1.89 per diluted share, compared with $825 million, or $1.56 per share in 2002. Excluding the $.06 per-share benefit from the stronger yen, operating earnings per diluted share rose 17.3%. That increase was in line with our upwardly revised 2003 target of a 17% increase in operating earnings per diluted share before the effect of currency translation.
AFLAC JAPAN
     Throughout the year, AFLAC Japan produced strong sales and financial results. In the fourth quarter, premium income in yen rose 6.5%. Net investment income increased 1.3%. Investment income growth was suppressed in yen terms by the stronger yen/dollar exchange rate because AFLAC Japan derives approximately 29% of its investment income from dollar-denominated investments. Total revenues were up 5.7%. Due to continued improvement in the benefit ratio, the pretax operating profit margin expanded from 12.1% to 12.6%. As a result, pretax operating earnings rose 9.6%. For the year, premium income increased 6.4% in yen, and net investment income rose 3.1%. Total revenues increased 6.1% and pretax operating earnings advanced 12.6%.
 
     The average yen/dollar exchange rate of 109.06 in the fourth quarter was 12.4% stronger than the average rate of 122.58 in the fourth quarter of 2002. For the year, the average exchange rate was 115.95, or 7.9% stronger than the rate of 125.15 a year ago. The stronger average yen/dollar exchange rates enhanced AFLAC Japan's growth rates as reported in dollars.      Premium income in dollars increased 19.9% in the fourth quarter to $2.0 billion. Net investment income was up 14.0% to $377 million. Total revenues rose 19.0% to $2.4 billion. Pretax operating earnings surged 23.2% to $297 million. For the year, premium income rose 15.0% to $7.3 billion. Net investment income was $1.4 billion, an increase of 11.3%. Total revenues rose 14.6% to $8.8 billion. Pretax operating earnings were $1.1 billion, up 21.6% over 2002.      Investment yields in Japan improved slightly in the last three months of the year. For example, the yield of a composite index of 20-year Japanese government bonds averaged 1.87% in the fourth quarter, compared with 1.69% in the third quarter. We purchased yen-denominated investments at an average yield of 2.33% during the fourth quarter. Including dollar-denominated securities, our new money yield for the quarter was 2.59%.      AFLAC Japan produced another quarter of solid sales growth. Total new annualized premium sales rose 8.7% to 31.7 billion yen, or $291 million, in the fourth quarter. For the year, new sales were up 11.9% to 121.2 billion yen, or $1.0 billion. Our annual sales results compared favorably to our initial expectation of 5% to 10% sales growth in 2003. Fourth-quarter new sales continued to benefit from EVER, our popular medical policy. In fact, sales of stand-alone medical plans were up 41.9%, compared with the fourth quarter of 2002, and represented 30% of total new sales in the quarter. We believe consumer demand for our stand-alone medical coverage, our flagship cancer life policy, and our other products will continue this year as well. Our objective is to increase total new annualized premium sales 5% to 10% in yen terms during 2004.
AFLAC U.S.
     AFLAC U.S. generated solid financial results and improved sales growth in the fourth quarter. Premium income increased 14.9% to $673 million. Net investment income rose 10.7% to $95 million. Total revenues were up 14.3% to $771 million, and pretax operating earnings increased 10.2% to $123 million. For the year, premium income advanced 16.8% to $2.6 billion, while net investment income rose 9.3% to $362 million. Total revenues increased 15.8% to $3.0 billion. Pretax operating earnings were up 12.0% to $451 million.      After three quarters of disappointing sales results, we were encouraged to see improvement in total new annualized premium sales in the final quarter of the year. Total new sales increased 7.7% in the quarter to $345 million, which exceeded our expectations. In fact, fourth-quarter sales were the best in the company's history. For the year, new sales were up 5.4% to $1.1 billion. The Northeast Territory led AFLAC U.S. throughout the year and produced a tremendous sales increase of more than 21% for the year. Our challenge is to replicate the Northeast Territory's success throughout other AFLAC territories in the United States. As we discussed in prior quarters, we took significant steps to expand and improve our sales management infrastructure in 2003. We believe these steps were necessary to produce longer term, sustainable sales growth.      As we look ahead, our thoughts on AFLAC's business model and the U.S. market have not changed. We believe the United States is an underpenetrated market that is well suited to our products. And we further believe that the ongoing expansion of our sales coordinator base will lead to better recruiting, training and sales results in the future. Our objective for U.S. sales growth in 2004 is an increase of 10% to 12%.
 
DIVIDEND
     The board of directors increased the quarterly cash dividend for the 22nd consecutive year. Effective with the first quarter of 2004, we raised the quarterly cash dividend 18.8%, from $.08 to $.095 per share. The first quarter dividend is payable on March 1, 2004, to shareholders of record at the close of business on February 13, 2004.
OUTLOOK
     Overall, we are very pleased with our financial performance in 2003. Clearly, we experienced disappointment during the year, notably AFLAC U.S. sales growth and the investment loss from Parmalat. Yet as we start 2004, we believe we are positioned to see better U.S. sales growth, and the overall quality of our investment portfolio remains high. At the same time, we had our share of highlights in 2003. We were especially proud of AFLAC Japan's strong sales and financial results. The strength of AFLAC Japan's financial performance was the primary reason for increasing our 2003 earnings target and then achieving that objective. And we were also pleased with the board of directors' decision to increase the cash dividend twice in 2003.      In looking ahead, we remain enthusiastic about the opportunities for continued growth. Our objective for 2004 is a 17% increase in operating earnings per diluted share before currency translation. And our objective for 2005 is to increase operating earnings per diluted share by 15% excluding the impact of foreign currency translation. We view our earnings targets as realistic and achievable. Furthermore, they reflect our conviction that the U.S. and Japanese markets are perfectly suited to AFLAC's products. And we believe our competitive strengths put us in a strong position to capitalize on those opportunities. Daniel P. Amos Chairman and Chief Executive Officer February 2, 2004
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION
The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a "safe harbor" to encourage companies to provide prospective information, so long as those informational statements are identified as forward-looking and are accompanied by meaningful cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed. We desire to take advantage of these provisions. This document contains cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected herein, and in any other statements made by company officials in oral discussions with the financial community and contained in documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Forward-looking statements are not based on historical information and relate to future operations, strategies, financial results or other developments. Furthermore, forward-looking information is subject to numerous assumptions, risks, a nd uncertainties. In particular, statements containing words such as "expect," "anticipate," "believe," "goal," "objective," "may," "should," "estimate," "intends," "projects," or similar words as well as specific projections of future results, generally qualify as forward-looking. AFLAC undertakes no obligation to update such forward-looking statements. We caution readers that the following factors, in addition to other factors mentioned from time to time in our reports filed with the SEC, could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements: legislative and regulatory developments; assessments for insurance company insolvencies; competitive conditions in the United States and Japan; new product development; ability to attract and retain qualified sales associates; ability to repatriate profits from Japan; changes in U.S. and/or Japanese tax laws or accounting requirements; credit and other risks associated with AFLAC's investment activities; significant changes in interest rates; fluctuations in foreign currency rates; deviations in actual experience from pricing and reserving assumptions; level and outcome of litigation; downgrades in the company's credit rating; changes in rating agency policies or practices; subsidiary's ability to pay dividends to parent company, and general economic conditions in t he United States and Japan.
 
AFLAC Incorporated
     Worldwide Headquarters      1932 Wynnton Road      Columbus, Georgia 31999      Tel: (706) 323-3431      aflac.com
Customer Service
Policyholders and claimants needing assistance may call (800) 99-AFLAC or (800) 992-3522. Sales associates should call (800) 462-3522.
     
Shareholder and Investor Inquiries
If you have questions about AFLAC, call our toll-free telephone number, (800) 235-2667, and use the following menu items.       to receive financial information by mail.       to speak to a Shareholder Services representative regarding your AFLAC stock account.       to speak to an Investor Relations representative regarding AFLAC's financial performance or other investor related issues.
     
Press 1
Press 2
Press 3
Contact
:
     Kenneth S. Janke Jr.      Senior Vice President, Investor Relations      (800) 235-2667 or (706) 596-3264      Fax: (706) 324-6330      kjanke@aflac.com




