FILE:AFL/AFL-8K-20050901145350.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
     Aflac announced that the company will allow a 90-day grace period for premium payments due from its policyholders in counties and parishes proclaimed disaster areas by the Federal Emergency Management Agency due to Hurricane Katrina.
     The Company does not anticipate changing its 2005 U.S. sales targets as a result of Hurricane Katrina.
FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION
     The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a "safe harbor" to encourage companies to provide prospective information, so long as those informational statements are identified as forward-looking and are accompanied by meaningful cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those included in the forward-looking statements. We desire to take advantage of these provisions. This report contains cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected herein, and in any other statements made by company officials in oral discussions with the financial community and contained in documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Forward-looking statements are not based on historical information and relate to future operations, strategies, financial results or other developments. Furthermore, forward-looking inform ation is subject to numerous assumptions, risks, and uncertainties. In particular, statements containing words such as "expect," "anticipate," "believe," "goal," "objective," "may," "should," "estimate," "intends," "projects," "will," "assumes," "potential," "target," or similar words as well as specific projections of future results, generally qualify as forward-looking. Aflac undertakes no obligation to update such forward-looking statements.
     We caution readers that the following factors, in addition to other factors mentioned from time to time in our reports filed with the SEC, could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements:
legislative and regulatory developments
assessments for insurance company insolvencies
competitive conditions in the United States and Japan
new product development and customer response to new products and new marketing initiatives
ability to attract and retain qualified sales associates
ability to repatriate profits from Japan
changes in U.S. and/or Japanese tax laws or accounting requirements
credit and other risks associated with Aflac's investment activities
significant changes in investment yield rates
fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates
deviations in actual experience from pricing and reserving assumptions including, but not limited to, morbidity, mortality, persistency, expenses, and investment yields
level and outcome of litigation
downgrades in the company's credit rating
changes in rating agency policies or practices
subsidiary's ability to pay dividends to parent company
ineffectiveness of hedging strategies used to minimize the exposure of our shareholders' equity to foreign currency translation fluctuations
events resulting in catastrophic loss of life or injury
general economic conditions in the United States and Japan
 
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX:
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
COLUMBUS, Ga. - August 31, 2005 - Aflac announced today that the company will allow a 90-day grace period for premium payments due from its policyholders in counties and parishes proclaimed disaster areas by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) due to Hurricane Katrina.
The Columbus, Ga.,-based insurer extended the grace period to assist the many families who have been displaced by the recent natural disaster. Counties in Alabama, Florida, Mississippi and parishes in Louisiana were proclaimed disaster areas by FEMA.
"Our hearts go out to those affected by Hurricane Katrina," said Dan Amos, Aflac Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "By allowing this grace period for premium payments, we hope to help ease the financial impact of this natural disaster on our policyholders. Everyone is in our thoughts and prayers."
Aflac is the number one provider of guaranteed-renewable insurance in the United States and Japan. Aflac's insurance products provide protection to more than 40 million people worldwide and pay cash benefits to policyholders unless they chose otherwise. Aflac's products are primarily sold at worksites in the United States. In Japan, Aflac is the largest life insurer in terms of individual insurance policies in force. In January 2005, Aflac was included in Fortune magazine's list of "The 100 Best Companies to Work For in America" for the seventh consecutive year. In August 2005, Aflac was included in Fortune Magazine's list of "Top 50 Employers for Minorities."
Aflac has also been included in Forbes magazine's Platinum 400 List of "America's Best Big Companies" for five consecutive years and in Fortune magazine's listing of "America's Most Admired Companies" for five consecutive years. Aflac Incorporated is a Fortune 500 company lis ted on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol AFL. To find out more about Aflac, visit aflac.com.
meclark@aflac.com
Media Contacts: Mechell Clark Aflac Incorporated (706) 243-8004
lkane@aflac.com
Laura Kane Aflac Incorporated (706) 596-3493
 


