FILE:AFL/AFL-8K-20050128171044.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
ITEM 1.01  ENTRY INTO A MATERIAL DEFINITIVE AGREEMENT
     AFLAC Incorporated utilizes the forms of stock option agreements and notices, attached hereto as Exhibits 10.1 through 10.4, to evidence grants under its 2004 Long-Term Incentive Plan. AFLAC Incorporated utilizes the forms of stock option agreements and notices, attached hereto as Exhibits 10.5 through 10.7, to evidence grants under its 1997 Stock Option Plan.
ITEM 9.01  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
 
 
 
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

EXHIBIT 10.1
Pursuant to Section 12 of the 2004 AFLAC Incorporated Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "Plan"), adopted by the Company's Board of Directors on February 10, 2004, and approved by the shareholders of the Company on May 3, 2004, (the "Grantee") is hereby granted by action of the Board of Directors an option (the "Option") to purchase shares (the "Option Shares") of common stock of the Company, par value $0.10 per share ("Company Stock"), at the price of per share, subject to the terms and conditions of this Stock Option Agreement (this "Agreement") and subject to the terms of the Plan.
<FirstName> <MiddleName> <LastName>
<SharesGranted>
<OptionPrice>
1.   . The Option is granted as of ,(the "Date of Grant"). The number of Option Shares and the exercise price per share of the Option are subject to adjustment from time to time as provided in Section 3 of the Plan.
Grant of the Option
<LongOptionDate>
2.   . The Option is not intended to qualify as an "Incentive Stock Option" within the meaning of Section 422 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code").
Status of the Option
3.   . The Option shall expire and may no longer be exercised on or after the date ten (10) years after the Date of Grant (the "Expiration Date").
Expiration of the Option
4.   . Except under the laws of descent and distribution, the Grantee shall not be permitted to sell, transfer, pledge or assign the Option or this Agreement[; provided that, subject to such terms and conditions as the Board of Directors may establish, the Grantee shall be permitted to transfer the Option in accordance with Section 20(b) of the Plan]. [Unless transferred pursuant to the foregoing sentence,] the Option shall be exercisable, during the Grantee's lifetime, only by the Grantee. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, except as otherwise provided herein, the Option may not be assigned, transferred, pledged or hypothecated in any way, shall not be assignable by operation of law, and shall not be subject to execution, attachment or similar process. Any attempted assignment, transfer, pledge, hypothecation or other disposition of the Option contrary to the provisions hereof, and the levy of any execution, attachment or similar p rocess upon the Option shall be null and void and without effect.
Non-assignability
5.   .
Exercisability and Duration of the Option
          (a)   . Unless otherwise determined by the Committee and set forth upon the attached Notice of Grant of Stock Options and Stock Option Agreement, this option shall be exercisable immediately on the Date of Option Grant; provided however, that upon the Grantee's cessation of service by reason of retirement (i.e., following the completion of a minimum of five (5) years of service on the Board of Directors), the Option shall be one hundred percent (100%) vested and immediately exercisable.
Right to Exercise
          (b)   . Upon the cessation of the Grantee's membership on the Board of Directors for any reason except retirement as described in Section 5(a), the Option, to the extent not then exercisable, shall expire, and to the extent then exercisable, shall remain exercisable until the Expiration Date. Upon the cessation of the Grantee's membership on the Board of Directors by reason of retirement as described in Section 5(a), the Option shall become fully exercisable and remain exercisable until the Expiration Date.
Duration of the Option
          (c)   . To exercise the Option as to all or any part of the Option Shares with respect to which the Option is vested and exercisable, the Grantee (or after the Grantee's death, the person authorized to exercise the Option as provided in Section 20 of the Plan) shall deliver written notice of such exercise to the Company official designated by the Committee (or, in absence of such designation, the Secretary of the Company). The notice shall be in such form as the Committee may require from time to time and identify the number of Option Shares with respect to which the Option is being exercised, provided that the Option may not be exercised for a fraction of an Option Share. The date of receipt of such notice shall be deemed the date of exercise. If someone other than the Grantee exercises the Option, then such person must submit documentation reasonably acceptable to the Company verifying that such person has the legal right to exercise the Option.
Method of Exercise
          (d)   . Payment in full of the purchase price for the Option Shares purchased pursuant to the exercise of the Option shall be made upon exercise of the Option in accordance with Section 7(c)(iii) of the Plan in cash or by tender of previously held Company Stock with a Fair Market Value as of the date of exercise equal to the exercise price, in each case under procedures established by the Committee pursuant to Section 7(c)(iii) of the Plan.
Payment
          (e)   . The Secretary of the Company shall have full authority to direct the proper officers of the Company to issue or transfer shares of Company Stock pursuant to the exercise of the Option. As soon as practicable after its receipt of such notice and payment, the Company shall cause the shares so purchased to be issued to the Grantee or to the person authorized to exercise the Option after the Grantee's death, as the case may be, and shall promptly thereafter cause one or more certificates for such shares to be delivered to the Grantee or other person.
Delivery of Option Shares
6.   . The Option shall not be exercisable to any extent, and the Company shall not be obligated to transfer any Option Shares to the Grantee upon exercise of the Option, if such exercise, in the opinion of counsel for the Company, would violate the Securities Act of 1933 (the "Securities Act") or any other federal or state statutes having similar requirements as may be in effect at that time. The Company shall be under no obligation to register the Option Shares pursuant to the Securities Act or any other federal or state securities laws. Unless the Company has filed an effective registration statement pursuant to the Securities Act covering the exercise of the Option, the Grantee, upon purchasing the Option Shares shall be required to represent to the Company that the Grantee is acquiring such shares for investment purposes and not with a view to their sale or distribution, and each certificate for such shares shall have printed or st amped thereon appropriate language, as determined by the Secretary of the Company. The Secretary of the Company may, in his or her discretion, require the Grantee, as a condition to the Company's obligation to deliver Option Shares hereunder, take such action as is necessary or advisable to ensure that issuance of the Option Shares will be in compliance with applicable law.
Certain Securities Law and Other Requirements
7.   . Neither this Agreement nor any of the transactions contemplated hereby shall affect any right of the Grantee to continue as a director of the Company or otherwise to provide services to the Company or any of its Affiliates.
No Additional Rights
8.   . Except as otherwise provided in Section 5(c) hereof, all notices or other communications here under shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given (a) when delivered personally, (b) upon confirmation of receipt when such notice or other communication is sent by facsimile or telex, (c) one day after timely delivery to an overnight delivery courier, or (d) on the fifth day following the date of deposit in the United States mail if sent first class, postage prepaid, by registered or certified mail. The addresses for such notices shall be as follows:
Notices
 
Either party hereto may change such party's address for notices by notice duly given pursuant hereto.
9.   . The failure of the Company to enforce at any time any provision of this Agreement shall in no way be construed to be a waiver of such provision or of any other provision hereof.
Failure to Enforce Not a Waiver
10.   . The Plan is hereby incorporated by reference into this Agreement and made a part hereof, and the Option and this Agreement shall be subject to all terms and conditions of the Plan.
Incorporation of Plan
11.   . The Board of Directors may amend the terms of this Agreement prospectively or retroactively at any time, but no such amendment shall impair the rights of the Grantee hereunder without the Grantee's consent.
Amendments
12.   . No purported sale, assignment, mortgage, hypothecation, transfer, pledge, encumbrance, gift, transfer in trust (voting or other) or other disposition of, or creation of a security interest in or lien on, any of the Option Shares by any holder thereof in violation of the provisions of this Agreement or the Certificate of Incorporation or the Bylaws of the Company will be valid, and the Company will not transfer any of said Option Shares on its books nor will any of said Option Shares be entitled to vote, nor will any dividends be paid thereon, unless and until there has been full compliance with said provisions to the satisfaction of the Company. The foregoing restrictions are in addition to and not in lieu of any other remedies, legal or equitable, available to enforce said provisions.
Protections Against Violations of Agreement
13.   . This Agreement shall apply to and bind the Grantee and the Company and their respective permitted assignees and transferees, heirs, legatees, executors, administrators and legal successors.
Survival of Terms
14.   . Neither the Grantee nor any of the Grantee's successors in interest shall have any rights as a stockholder of the Company with respect to any shares of Company Stock subject to the Option until the date of issuance of a stock certificate for such shares of Company Stock.
Rights as a Stockholder
15.   . The Board of Directors shall have full authority to interpret and construe the terms of the Plan and this Agreement. The determination of the Board of Directors as to any such matter of interpretation or construction shall be final, binding and conclusive.
Authority of the Board
16.   . The Grantee hereby acknowledges that the Grantee has reviewed with the Grantee's own tax advisors the federal, state, local and foreign tax consequences of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement. The Grantee is relying solely on such advisors and not on any statements or representations of the Company or any of its agents. The Grantee understands that the Grantee (and not the Company) shall be responsible for any tax liability that may arise as a result of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
Representations
17.   . The Grantee hereby agrees to accept as binding, conclusive and final all decisions or interpretations of the Board of Directors upon any questions arising under this Agreement.
Acceptance
18.   . The Grantee hereby authorizes and directs the Secretary of the Company, or such other person designated by the Company, to take such steps as may be necessary to carry out any of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
Authorization
19.   . Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meaning ascribed to them in the Plan.
Certain Defined Terms
20.   . Headings to provisions of this Agreement are intended for convenience of reference only and shall have no effect on the interpretation of this Agreement.
Interpretation
21.   . If any provision of this Agreement is held to be invalid or unenforceable, the other provisions of this Agreement shall not be affected but shall be applied as if the invalid or unenforceable provision had not been included in this Agreement.
Severability
22.   . This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of Georgia, except to the extent that federal law is controlling.
Applicable Law
 
Acknowledgment:
The Grantee acknowledges by his or her signature on the attached that the Grantee has received a copy of the 2004 AFLAC Incorporated Long-Term Incentive Plan Prospectus, has read the same, and is familiar with its provisions and understands and agrees that they, as well as the terms stated herein and upon the attached notice, are part of this Stock Option Agreement.
Notice of Grant of Stock Options and Option Agreement

EXHIBIT 10.2
Effective <LongOptionDate>, you have been granted a Non-qualifying stock option (NQ) to buy <SharesGranted> shares of AFLAC INCORPORATED (the Company) stock at <OptionPrice> per share. The total option price of the shares granted is <totaloptionprice>.
Shares in each period will become fully vested on the date shown below if you continue your active membership on the AFLAC Incorporated Board of Directors.
Summary of Option Terms:
- Ten years from the effective date of the option (Option Term), or until one of the following conditions exist.
Duration of Option
Upon the cessation of your membership on the Board of Directors for any reason other than retirement, this Option to the extent not then exercisable (unvested), shall expire, and to the extent then exercisable (vested), shall remain exercisable until the expiration of the Option Term as provided above.
Upon the cessation of your membership on the Board of Directors due to your attainment of the normal retirement age for a member of the Board of Directors, (and after the completion of five (5) years of service on the Board of Directors) this Option shall become one hundred percent (100%) vested and shall remain exercisable until the expiration of the Option Term as provided above.
By your signature and the Company's signature below, you and the Company agree that these options are granted under and governed by the terms and conditions of the Company's 2004 Long-Term Incentive Plan and the Stock Option Agreement relating to these options, which are attached to and made a part of this document.
 

EXHIBIT 10.3
     This restricted stock award agreement (the "Agreement") is made this _____ day of __________________, ___________, by and between AFLAC Incorporated, a Georgia corporation, (the "Company"), and ______________________________________, a resident of __________________________, ____________________ ("Participant").
A.   . The Company hereby grants to Participant a restricted stock award of ______________ shares (each a "Share") of AFLAC Incorporated Common Stock, par value $.10 per share, subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein and in the 2004 AFLAC Incorporated Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "Plan").
Award
B.   . Until the restriction on transfer of the Shares lapses as provided in Paragraph D, below, or as otherwise provided in the Plan, no transfer of the Shares or any of the Participant's rights with respect to such Shares, whether voluntary or involuntary, by operation of law or otherwise, shall be permitted. Unless the Board of Directors determines otherwise, upon any attempt to transfer a Share or any rights in respect of a Share before the lapse of such restrictions, such Share, and all of the rights related thereto, shall be immediately forfeited by the Participant and transferred to, and reacquired by, the Company without consideration of any kind.
Restrictions on Transfer
C.   . Upon the cessation of the Participant's membership on the Board of Directors for any reason, any and all Shares as to which the restrictions on transferability shall not have lapsed pursuant to Paragraph D, below, or as otherwise provided in the Plan shall be immediately forfeited by the Participant and transferred to, and reacquired by, the Company without consideration of any kind.
Forfeiture
D.  . Unless otherwise determined by the Committee and set forth upon the attached Notice of Grant of Stock Options and Stock Option Agreement, this option shall be exercisable immediately on the Date of Option Grant; provided however, that upon the Grantee's cessation of service by reason of retirement (i.e., following the completion of a minimum of five (5) years of service on the Board of Directors), the Option shall be one hundred percent (100%) vested and immediately exercisable.
Right to Exercise
E.   .
Miscellaneous
          1.   . Participant agrees that each book entry statement evidencing a Share shall bear the following legend:
Legends; Book Entry
The transferability of this certificate and the shares of stock represented hereby are subject to the restrictions, terms and conditions (including forfeiture provisions and restrictions against transfer) contained in the AFLAC Incorporated 2004 Long-Term Incentive Plan and an Agreement entered into between the registered owner of such shares and the Company. A copy of the Plan and Agreement is on file in the office of the Secretary of the Company, 1932 Wynnton Road, Columbus, GA 31999.
The book entry transfer evidencing the Shares shall be held in the custody of the Company until the restrictions thereon shall have lapsed, and, as a condition to the grant of the Shares, the Participant shall deliver to the Company a stock power, endorsed in blank, relating to the Shares in such form as the Secretary of the Company may require. Reasonably promptly after the restrictions on transferability of the Shares shall lapse, the Company shall cause to be delivered to the Participant a certificate evidencing such share, free of the legend set forth above.
          2.   . Neither this Agreement nor any of the transactions contemplated hereby shall affect any right of the Participant to continue as a director of the Company or otherwise to provide services to the Company or any of its Affiliates or any of the terms or conditions of any such service.
No Additional Rights
          3.   . All notices or other communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given (a) when delivered personally, (b) upon confirmation of receipt when such notice or other communication is sent by facsimile or telex, (c) one day after timely delivery to an overnight delivery courier, or (d) on the fifth day following the date of deposit in the United States mail if sent first class, postage prepaid, by registered or certified mail. The addresses for such notices shall be as follows:
Notices
 
Either party hereto may change such party's address for notices by notice duly given pursuant hereto.
          4.  . The Company shall not be obligated to transfer any Shares to the Participant free of the restrictive legend described in Paragraph E.1, above, if such transfer, in the opinion of counsel for the Company, would violate the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (or any other federal or state statutes having similar requirements as may be in effect at the time transfer otherwise would be made).
Securities Laws Requirements
          5.  . The Participant acknowledges that it is the Participant's sole responsibility and not the Company's responsibility to file timely any election under Section 83(b) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, even if the Participant requests the Company or its agents to make this filing on the Participant's behalf. The Participant shall notify the Secretary of the Company of any such election within ten (10) days of filing notice of the election with the Internal Revenue Service.
Section 83(b) Election
          6.  . The failure of the Company to enforce at any time any provision of this Agreement shall in no way be construed to be a waiver of such provision or of any other provision hereof.
Failure to Enforce Not a Waiver
          7.  . The Plan is hereby incorporated by reference into this Agreement and made a part hereof, and the Shares and this Agreement shall be subject to all terms and conditions of the Plan.
Incorporation of Plan
          8.  . The Board of Directors may amend the terms of this Agreement prospectively or retroactively at any time, but no such amendment shall impair the rights of the Participant hereunder without the Participant's consent.
Amendments
          9.  . This Agreement shall apply to and bind the Participant and the Company and their respective permitted assignees and transferees, heirs, legatees, executors, administrators and legal successors.
Survival of Terms
          10.  . Subject to the restrictions set forth in the Plan and this Agreement, the Participant shall possess all incidents of ownership with respect to the Shares, including the right to receive or reinvest dividends with respect to such Shares and to vote such Shares.
Rights as a Stockholder
          11.  . The Board of Directors shall have full authority to interpret and construe the terms of the Plan and this Agreement. The determination of the Board of Directors as to any such matter of interpretation or construction shall be final, binding and conclusive.
Authority of the Board
          12.  . The Participant hereby acknowledges that the Participant has reviewed with the Participant's own tax advisors the Federal, state, local and foreign tax consequences of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement. The Participant is relying solely on such advisors and not on any statements or representations of the Company or any of its agents. The Participant understands that the Participant (and not the Company) shall be responsible for any tax liability that may arise as a result of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
Representations
          13.  . The Participant hereby acknowledges receipt of a copy of the Plan and this Agreement and that the Participant has read and understand the terms and provisions thereof, and accepts the Shares subject to all the terms and conditions of the Plan and this Agreement. The Participant hereby agrees to accept as binding, conclusive and final all decisions or interpretations of the Board of Directors upon any questions arising under this Agreement.
Acceptance
          14.  . The Participant hereby authorizes and directs the Secretary of the Company, or such other person designated by the Company, to take such steps as may be necessary to carry out any of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, including without limitation the transfer of the Shares to the Company upon their forfeiture by the Participant.
Authorization
          15.  . Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meaning ascribed to them in the Plan.
Certain Defined Terms
          16.  . Headings to provisions of this Agreement are intended for convenience of reference only and shall have no effect on the interpretation of this Agreement.
Interpretation
          17.  . If any provision of this Agreement is held to be invalid or unenforceable, the other provisions of this Agreement shall not be affected but shall be applied as if the invalid or unenforceable provision had not been included in this Agreement.
Severability
          18.  . This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of Georgia, except to the extent that federal law is controlling.
Applicable Law
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company and Participant have executed this Agreement on the date set forth in the first paragraph.

EXHIBIT 10.4
Effective <LongOptionDate>, you have been granted an award of <AwardsGranted> shares of AFLAC INCORPORATED (the Company) common stock.
The current total value of the Award at the date of issue was $______________.
These award shares are restricted until the vest date shown below:
 
Summary of Award Terms:
These shares of restricted stock will be held in book entry form in the custody of the Company until the restrictions thereon have lapsed.
Subject to the restrictions set forth in the Plan and the Award Agreement relating to this award, you shall possess all incidents of ownership with respect to the Shares, including the right to receive or reinvest dividends with respect to such Shares and to vote such Shares.
By your signature and the Company's signature below, you and the Company agree that this award is granted under and governed by the terms and conditions of the Company's 2004 Long-Term Incentive Plan and the Award Agreement relating to this award, which are attached to and made a part of this document.
 

EXHIBIT 10.5
The Company's Board of Directors hereby grants to <> (hereinafter called the "Grantee") the option to purchase <> shares of common stock of the Company at the price of <> per share, under the terms and conditions of this Stock Option Agreement and subject to the terms of the AFLAC Incorporated 1997 Stock Option Plan (the "Plan") adopted by the Company's Board of Directors on February 11, 1997, adopted by the shareholders on May 5, 1997. Terms not defined herein shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the Plan.
Name
nqgranted
nqprice
 
 
 
Acknowledgment:
The Grantee acknowledges by his or her signature on the attached that the Grantee has reviewed the 1997 Stock Option Plan (a copy of the 1997 Plan Prospectus is provided on the Company's intranet under the benefits section of the Human Resources Department) and agrees that the terms and conditions of the plan, as well as the terms stated herein and upon the attached notice, are part of this Stock Option Agreement.
Notice of Grant of Stock Options and Stock Option Agreement

EXHIBIT 10.6
The Company's Board of Directors hereby grants to <Name> (hereinafter called the "Grantee") the option to purchase <> shares of common stock of the Company at the price of <> per share, under the terms and conditions of this Stock Option Agreement and subject to the terms of the AFLAC Incorporated 1997 Stock Option Plan (the "Plan") adopted by the Company's Board of Directors on February 11, 1997, adopted by the shareholders on May 5, 1997. Terms not defined herein shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the Plan.
isogranted
isoprice
 
Acknowledgment:
The Grantee acknowledges by his or her signature on the attached that the Grantee has reviewed the 1997 Stock Option Plan (a copy of the 1997 Plan Prospectus is provided on the Company's intranet under the benefits section of the Human Resources Department) and agrees that the terms and conditions of the plan, as well as the terms stated herein and upon the attached notice, are part of this Stock Option Agreement.
Notice of Grant of Stock Options and Stock Option Agreement

EXHIBIT 10.7
Effective <optiondate>, you have been granted <longtype> <shorttype> to buy <sharesgranted> shares of AFLAC INCORPORATED (the Company) stock at <optionprice> per share. The total option price of the shares granted is <totaloptionprice>.
Shares in each period will become fully vested on the date shown.
Summary of Option Terms:
- Ten years of the effective date of the option, or until one of the following conditions exist.
Duration of Option
Involuntary termination (for cause) - Vested and Non-vested options will terminate immediately.
Voluntary termination (except for certain reasons listed below) - Non-vested options will terminate on the date of termination and
vested options will terminate at the end of the three-month period following termination unless the Grantee has accumulated fifteen years of credited service with the Company, whereby vested options will continue until the end of their original ten-year term.
Under certain of the following conditions, if applicable, an Incentive Stock Options (ISO) will retain its ISO status until the end of the three-month period following termination, at which time the ISO will lose its tax advantage status, but will continue through the remaining duration as a non-qualifying stock option (NQ) which will require the payment of income and employment taxes at the time of the purchase of the option.
Involuntary termination due to death or becoming disabled as defined by the Internal Revenue Code, unvested options will vest immediately on the date of termination. In the case of a termination caused by disability, after retainment of the ISO status for a period of twelve months, the option will continue as a NQ option until the expiration of its original ten-year term. In the case of a termination caused by death, the option will remain exercisable as an ISO until the expiration of its original ten-year term.
Voluntary termination where the Grantee attains his or her normal retirement age with at least 5 years credited service, qualifies for full retirement benefits under the Company's Rule of Eighty (Rule of 80), or where the Grantee becomes a sales associate of the Company (thereby becoming a sub-contractor of the Company), an unvested option will immediately vest and after retaining its ISO status until the end of the three-month period after termination, if applicable, will continue along with other vested options to the end of their original ten-year term as NQ options.
By your signature and the Company's signature below, you and the Company agree that these options are granted under and governed by the terms and conditions of the Company's 1997 Stock Option Plan and the attached Stock Option Agreement.


