FILE:AFL/AFL-8K-20060928170452.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
     Aflac Incorporated announced on September 28, 2006, that it has issued Euroyen bonds totaling 45 billion yen, or approximately $384 million at the current exchange rate. The bonds are registered for trading in the secondary market in Japan under a Uridashi shelf registration filed with Japanese regulatory authorities in August 2006.
     The first tranche totaling 15 billion yen pays interest semiannually at 1.52% and matures September 28, 2011. The second tranche totaling 10 billion yen pays interest semiannually at 2.26% and matures September 28, 2016. The third tranche totaling 20 billion yen pays interest semiannually based on a variable interest rate of six-month yen LIBOR plus a spread and matures September 28, 2011. Each tranche of Uridashi notes may only be redeemed prior to maturity upon the occurrence of a tax event as specified in the respective bond agreement and is not available to U.S. residents or entities.
     Aflac anticipates that it will use the net proceeds of these yen-denominated bonds for general corporate purposes, which shall include, but shall not be limited to, refinancing debt.
     The securities to be issued through the above-referenced Uridashi shelf registration will not be registered in the United States and will not be offered or sold to U.S. investors absent compliance with the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933 or an available exemption from the registration requirements thereof.
 
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX:
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
COLUMBUS, Georgia - September 28, 2006 -- Aflac Incorporated announced today that it has issued Euroyen bonds totaling 45 billion yen, or approximately $384 million at the current exchange rate. The bonds are registered for trading in the secondary market in Japan under a Uridashi shelf registration filed with Japanese regulatory authorities in August 2006.
Aflac anticipates that it will use the net proceeds of the yen-denominated bonds for general corporate purposes, which shall include, but shall not be limited to, refinancing of debt.
For more than 50 years, Aflac products have given policyholders the opportunity to direct cash where it is needed most when a life-interrupting medical event causes financial challenges. Aflac is the number one provider of guaranteed-renewable insurance in the United States and the number one insurance company in terms of individual insurance policies in force in Japan. Aflac's insurance products provide protection to more than 40 million people worldwide. Aflac has been included in magazine's listing of America's Most Admired Companies for six consecutive years and magazine's Platinum 400 List of America's Best Big Companies for five consecutive years. In January 2006, Aflac was included in magazine's list of the 100 Best Companies to Work For in America for the eighth consecutive year. Aflac was also included in magazine's list of the Top 50 Employers for Minorities in August 2005, and in September 2005, Aflac Japan was named the Life Insur ance Company of the Year at the Asia Insurance Industry Awards, sponsored by the Asia Insurance Review. Aflac Incorporated is a Fortune 500 company listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol AFL. To find out more about Aflac, visit .
Fortune
Forbes
Fortune
Fortune
aflac.com
The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a "safe harbor" to encourage companies to provide prospective information, so long as those informational statements are identified as forward-looking and are accompanied by meaningful cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those included in the forward-looking statements. We desire to take advantage of these provisions. This document contains cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected herein, and in any other statements made by company officials in oral discussions with the financial community and contained in documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Forward-looking statements are not based on historical information and relate to future operations, strategies, financial results or other developments. Furthermore, forward-looking information is subject to n umerous assumptions, risks, and uncertainties. In particular, statements containing words such as "expect," "anticipate," "believe," "goal," "objective," "may," "should," "estimate," "intends," "projects," "will," "assumes," "potential," "target," or similar words as well as specific projections of future results, generally qualify as forward-looking. Aflac undertakes no obligation to update such forward-looking statements.
We caution readers that the following factors, in addition to other factors mentioned from time to time in our reports filed with the SEC, could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements: legislative and regulatory developments; assessments for insurance company insolvencies; competitive conditions in the United States and Japan; new product development and customer response to new products and new marketing initiatives; ability to attract and retain qualified sales associates; ability to repatriate profits from Japan; changes in U.S. and/or Japanese tax laws or accounting requirements; credit and other risks associated with Aflac's investment activities; significant changes in investment yield rates; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; deviations in actual experience from pricing and reserving assumptions including, but not limited to, morbidity, mortality, persistency, expenses, and investment yields; level and outcome of litigation; downgrades in the company's credit rating; changes in rating agency policies or practices; subsidiary's ability to pay dividends to parent company; ineffectiveness of hedging strategies used to minimize the exposure of our shareholders' equity to foreign currency translation fluctuations; events resulting in catastrophic loss of life or injury; and general economic conditions in the United States and Japan.
Analyst and investor contact - Kenneth S. Janke Jr., 800.235.2667 - option 3, FAX: 706.324.6330, or kjanke@aflac.com
Media contact - Laura Kane, 706.596.3493, FAX: 706.320.2288, or lkane@aflac.com
 
This notice does not constitute an offer of any securities for sale. The securities to be issued through the above-referenced shelf registration will not be registered in the United States and will not be offered or sold to U.S. investors absent compliance with the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933 or an available exemption from the registration requirements thereof.
 


