FILE:AFL/AFL-8K-20070627163122.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
ITEM 8.01 Other Events.
     Aflac Incorporated announced on June 26, 2007, that it has issued yen-denominated (Samurai) bonds totaling 30 billion yen, or approximately $243 million at the current exchange rate. These bonds pay interest semiannually at 1.87% and mature June 26, 2012. This issuance is only redeemable prior to maturity upon the occurrence of a tax event as specified in the bond agreement. The bonds were issued in Japan under a previously announced 100 billion yen shelf registration filed with Japanese regulatory authorities in February 2006. This issuance is the first issuance from the February 2006 shelf registration.
     Aflac anticipates that it will use the net proceeds of the yen-denominated bonds for general corporate purposes, which shall include, but shall not be limited to, repayment of debt.
     The securities to be issued through the above-referenced shelf registration will not be registered in the United States and will not be offered or sold to U.S. investors absent compliance with the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933 or an available exemption from the registration requirements thereof.
ITEM 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
      - Press release of Aflac Incorporated dated June 26, 2007
99.1
 
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
EXHIBIT INDEX:
      - Press release of Aflac Incorporated dated June 26, 2007
99.1
 

 
Aflac Incorporated 8-K
EXHIBIT 99.1
COLUMBUS, Georgia  June 26, 2007  Aflac Incorporated announced today that it has issued yen-denominated (Samurai) bonds totaling 30 billion yen, or approximately $243 million at the current exchange rate. The bonds were issued in Japan under a previously announced shelf registration filed with Japanese regulatory authorities. This issuance is the first issuance from the February 2006 shelf registration.
Aflac anticipates that it will use the net proceeds of the yen-denominated bonds for general corporate purposes, which shall include, but shall not be limited to, repayment of debt.
For more than 50 years, Aflac products have given policyholders the opportunity to direct cash where it is needed most when a life-interrupting medical event causes financial challenges. Aflac is the number one provider of guaranteed-renewable insurance in the United States and the number one insurance company in terms of individual insurance policies in force in Japan. Our insurance products provide protection to more than 40 million people worldwide. Aflac has been included in Fortune magazine's listing of America's Most Admired Companies for seven consecutive years and in Fortune magazine's list of the 100 Best Companies to Work For in America for nine consecutive years. Aflac has also been recognized three times by both Fortune magazine's listing of the Top 50 Employers for Minorities and Working Mother magazine's listing of the 100 Best Companies for Working Mothers. Aflac Incorporated is a Fortune 500 company listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol AFL. To find out more about Aflac, visit aflac.com.
The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a "safe harbor" to encourage companies to provide prospective information, so long as those informational statements are identified as forward-looking and are accompanied by meaningful cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those included in the forward-looking statements. We desire to take advantage of these provisions. This document contains cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected herein, and in any other statements made by company officials in communications with the financial community and contained in documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Forward-looking statements are not based on historical information and relate to future operations, strategies, financial results or other developments. Furthermore, forward- looking information is subject to numerous assumptions, risks, and uncertainties. In particular, statements containing words such as "expect," "anticipate," "believe," "goal," "objective," "may," "should," "estimate," "intends," "projects," "will," "assumes," "potential," "target," or similar words as well as specific projections of future results, generally qualify as forward-looking. Aflac undertakes no obligation to update such forward-looking statements.
We caution readers that the following factors, in addition to other factors mentioned from time to time could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements: legislative and regulatory developments; assessments for insurance company insolvencies; competitive conditions in the United States and Japan; new product development and customer response to new products and new marketing initiatives; ability to attract and retain qualified sales associates and employees; ability to repatriate profits from Japan; changes in U.S. and/or Japanese tax laws or accounting requirements; credit and other risks associated with Aflac's investment activities; significant changes in investment yield rates; fluctuations in foreign currency
 
exchange rates; deviations in actual experience from pricing and reserving assumptions including, but not limited to, morbidity, mortality, persistency, expenses, and investment yields; level and outcome of litigation; downgrades in the company's credit rating; changes in rating agency policies or practices; subsidiary's ability to pay dividends to parent company; ineffectiveness of hedging strategies; catastrophic events; and general economic conditions in the United States and Japan.
Analyst and investor contact  Kenneth S. Janke Jr., 800.235.2667  option 3, FAX: 706.324.6330, or kjanke@aflac.com Media contact  Laura Kane, 706.596.3493, FAX: 706.320.2288, or lkane@aflac.com
This notice does not constitute an offer of any securities for sale. The securities to be issued through the above-referenced shelf registration will not be registered in the United States and will not be offered or sold to U.S. investors absent compliance with the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933 or an available exemption from the registration requirements thereof.


