FILE:AFL/AFL-8K-20100506161759.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
On May 3, 2010, the board of directors of Aflac Incorporated (the "Company") voted to amend Article II, Section 5 of the Company's Bylaws to provide that a majority of the votes cast is the general voting standard for questions properly brought before a meeting of the shareholders, unless a different voting standard is required by express provision of law, the Company's Articles of Incorporation, or the Company's Bylaws. For purposes of this voting standard, a majority of the votes cast means that the number of "for" votes cast exceeds the number of "against" votes cast. The amendment has no affect on director elections. The amendment became effective May 3, 2010.
A copy of the amendment is attached hereto as Exhibit 3.1.
 
The Annual Meeting of the Shareholders was held on May 3, 2010. Matters submitted to the shareholders and voted upon at the meeting, which are more fully described in the Company's proxy statement, are as follows: (1) Election of 16 members to the board of directors; (2) Approval of an advisory (non-binding) proposal regarding executive compensation; and (3) Ratification of the appointment of KPMG LLP as independent registered public accounting firm for 2010. The proposals were approved by the shareholders.
The following is a summary of the votes cast for and against, as well as the number of abstention and broker non-votes, as to each proposal, including a separate tabulation with respect to each nominee for director.
 
(d) Exhibits.
- Amendment to Article II, Section 5 of the Company's Bylaws
3.1
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX:
- Amendment to Article II, Section 5 of the Company's Bylaws
3.1

Aflac Incorporated Form 8-K
EXHIBIT 3.1
When a quorum is present at any meeting, any question brought before such meeting shall be determined by a majority of the votes cast at the meeting of the holders of shares entitled to vote thereon, unless the question is one upon which by express provision of law, the Articles of Incorporation or these Bylaws, a different vote is required, in which case such express provision shall govern and control the decision of the question. For purposes of this Section, a majority of the votes cast means that the number of "for" votes cast exceeds the number of "against" votes cast. Each shareholder shall at every meeting of the shareholders be entitled to vote, as defined, in person or by proxy for each share of the capital stock having voting power registered in his name on the books of the Corporation, but no proxy shall be voted or acted upon after 11 months from its date, unless otherwise provided in the proxy.
Section 5. .
Voting
Adopted 05/03/2010


