FILE:AFL/AFL-8K-20110630120937.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[    ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[    ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[    ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[    ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
On June 29, 2011, Aflac Incorporated (the "Company") priced yen-denominated (Samurai) bonds totaling 50 billion yen, or approximately $625 million at the current exchange rate. The issuance consists of 28.7 billion yen, approximately $359 million at the current exchange rate (the "Sixth Series") and 15.8 billion yen, approximately $197 million at the current exchange rate (the "Seventh Series") in yen-denominated (Samurai) fixed-rate bonds and 5.5 billion yen, approximately $69 million at the current exchange rate (the "First Series") in yen-denominated (Samurai) floating-rate bonds. The Sixth Series, Seventh Series and First Series bonds are herein referred to as the "Bonds". The Bonds will be issued in Japan on July 8, 2011 in a public offering pursuant to the Company's shelf registration statement and supplement to its shelf registration filed with Japanese regulatory authorities in November 2009 and June 2011, respectively. This will be the first issuance from the aforementioned shelf registration. The sale of the Bonds will be made pursuant to the terms of Subscription Agreements, dated June 29, 2011, among the Company and Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co., Ltd., SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. and Mizuho Securities Co., Ltd. The Company anticipates using the net proceeds from the sale of these Bonds primarily for debt repayment and general corporate purposes.
The Sixth Series bear interest at a rate of 1.47% per annum and mature on July 8, 2014 and the Seventh Series bear interest at a rate of 1.84% per annum and mature on July 8, 2016. The Sixth and Seventh Series shall bear interest from and including July 9, 2011, payable semi-annually in arrears on January 8 and July 8 of each year. The First Series bears interest at a rate of 1.15% per annum, plus the offered rate for 3-month deposits in Japanese yen in the London interbank market (floating rate interest) and matures on July 8, 2014. The First Series shall bear interest from and including July 8, 2011, payable quarterly in arrears on January 8, April 8, July 8 and October 8 of each year. The Bonds may be redeemed, as a whole but not in part, at the option of the Company upon such prior notice of redemption (which notice shall be irrevocable) to the bondholders, at a price equal to their principal amount, together with any interest accrued to the date fixed for redemption. The Bonds are general unsecured obligations and rank equally in right of payment with any of the Company's existing and future unsecured yen-denominated bonds.
The Bonds are being issued pursuant to Conditions of Bonds', dated as of June 29, 2011, between the Company, as issuer, and Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation as fiscal agent. The Conditions of Bonds' provide for customary events of default, including, among other things, nonpayment, failure to comply with the other agreements in the Conditions of Bonds' for a period of 90 days, and certain events of bankruptcy, insolvency and reorganization.
The description of the Conditions of Bonds' set forth above is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the agreements, which are incorporated as part of the Subscription Agreements, copies of which are attached hereto as Exhibits 1.1, 1.2 and 1.3, and incorporated herein by reference.
The securities to be issued through the above-referenced shelf registration will not be registered in the United States and will not be offered or sold to U.S. investors absent compliance with the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933 or an available exemption from the registration requirements thereof.
 
See the description regarding the Company's issuance and sale of the Bonds contained in Item 1.01 above, which is incorporated herein by reference.
 
(d) Exhibits.
- Subscription Agreement - Aflac Incorporated Japanese Yen Bonds - Sixth Series (2011), dated June 29, 2011, among Aflac Incorporated and Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co., Ltd., SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. and Mizuho Securities Co., Ltd.
1.1
- Subscription Agreement - Aflac Incorporated Japanese Yen Bonds - Seventh Series (2011), dated June  29, 2011, among Aflac Incorporated and Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co., Ltd., SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. and Mizuho Securities Co., Ltd.
1.2
- Subscription Agreement - Aflac Incorporated Japanese Yen Floating Rate Bonds - First Series (2011), dated June  29, 2011, among Aflac Incorporated and Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co., Ltd., SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. and Mizuho Securities Co., Ltd.
1.3
- Press release of Aflac Incorporated dated June 29, 2011
99.1
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX:
- Subscription Agreement - Aflac Incorporated Japanese Yen Bonds - Sixth Series (2011), dated June  29, 2011, among Aflac Incorporated and Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co., Ltd., SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. and Mizuho Securities Co., Ltd.
1.1
- Subscription Agreement - Aflac Incorporated Japanese Yen Bonds - Seventh Series (2011), dated June  29, 2011, among Aflac Incorporated and Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co., Ltd., SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. and Mizuho Securities Co., Ltd.
1.2
- Subscription Agreement - Aflac Incorporated Japanese Yen Floating Rate Bonds - First Series (2011), dated June  29, 2011, among Aflac Incorporated and Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co., Ltd., SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. and Mizuho Securities Co., Ltd.
1.3
- Press release of Aflac Incorporated dated June 29, 2011
99.1
 

Aflac Incorporated Form 8-K
Exhibit 1.1
This Agreement is entered into in Tokyo, Japan on the 29th day of June, 2011, among Aflac Incorporated (the ""), a corporation incorporated and existing under the laws of the State of Georgia, United States of America, and the financial instruments firms named below (the "") with respect to the issuance of  28,700,000,000 aggregate principal amount of Aflac Incorporated Japanese Yen Bonds  Sixth Series (2011) (the "").
Issuer
Managers
Bonds
Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co., Ltd.
SMBC Nikko Securities Inc.
Mizuho Securities Co., Ltd.
Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co., Ltd. and SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. shall act as joint lead managers (collectively, the "") for the public offering of the Bonds, and SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. (the "") shall perform the functions of the Handling Manager as provided in this Agreement.
Joint-Lead Managers
Handling Manager
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"The Bonds have not been and will not be registered under the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "") and may not be offered or sold within the United States or to, or for the account or benefit of, U.S. persons (i) as part of their distribution at any time or (ii) otherwise until 40 days after the later of the commencement of the offering of the Bonds to the public and the Closing Date, except in either case in accordance with Regulation S under the Securities Act. Terms used above have the meanings given to them by Regulation S."
Securities Act
Each Manager hereby represents and agrees that it has not entered and will not enter into any contractual agreement with any distributor (as defined for purposes of Regulation S and the D Rules (as defined below)) with respect to the distribution of the Bonds, except with its affiliates or with the prior written consent of the Issuer.
Terms used in this paragraph (a) have the meanings given to corresponding English terms by Regulation S.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Terms used in this paragraph (b) have the meanings given to corresponding English terms by the U.S. Internal Revenue Code and regulations thereunder, including the D Rules.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Issuer hereby represents, warrants to and agrees with the Managers as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Each of the Managers warrants that:
 
 
 
 
The Managers' obligations under this Agreement shall be subject to all of the following conditions precedent; provided that the Joint-Lead Managers on behalf of the Managers, in their discretion, may waive compliance, wholly or in part, with any one or more of such conditions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of Japan.
 
Any legal action by or against the Issuer relating to this Agreement may be instituted in the Tokyo District Court, to the jurisdiction of which the Issuer hereby expressly, unconditionally and irrevocably agrees to submit. Any such action against the Issuer may also be instituted in any other court of competent jurisdiction.
The Issuer hereby appoints the Counsel of American Family Life Assurance Company of Columbus, Japan Branch as the authorized agent of the Issuer upon whom process and any judicial or other court documents may be served in any legal or other court procedural action arising from or relating to this Agreement that may be instituted in Tokyo, Japan; the Issuer hereby designates the address from time to time of American Family Life Assurance Company of Columbus, Japan Branch in Tokyo, Japan, as the address to receive such process and any judicial or other court documents; and the Issuer hereby agrees to take, from time to time and so long as any of the Bonds shall remain outstanding, any and all action (including the execution and filing of any and all documents and instruments) that may be necessary to effect and to continue such appointment and designation in full force and effect. If at any time such agent shall not, for any reason, serve as such authorized agent, the Issuer shall immediately appoint, and it hereby undertakes to take any and all action that may be necessary to effect the appointment of, a successor authorized agent in Tokyo, Japan, and the Issuer shall notify the Joint-Lead Managers of the appointment of such successor agent.
 
Nothing in this Article 12 shall affect the right of the Managers to institute legal action against the Issuer in any court of competent jurisdiction under applicable laws or to serve process in any manner otherwise permitted by law.
 
 
Aflac Incorporated
1932 Wynnton Road,
Columbus, Georgia 31999
United States of America
Attention: Treasury Department
Facsimile: 1-706-596-5092
 
Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co., Ltd.
Marunouchi Building
4-1, Marunouchi 2-chome, Chiyoda-ku
Tokyo 100-6317, Japan
Attention: Debt Capital Markets Division
Facsimile: 81-3-6213-6842
and
SMBC Nikko Securities Inc.
Tokyo Dia Building No.5
28-23, Shinkawa 1-chome
Chuo-ku, Tokyo 104-8271, Japan
Attention: Debt Capital Markets
Facsimile: 81-3-5566-3393
 
 
This Agreement is executed in four (4) counterparts in the Japanese language to each of which a non-binding English translation is attached, except for Annex 2, the original language of which is the English language to which a non-binding Japanese translation is attached. In the event of difference in meaning, the Japanese version except for Annex 2 shall prevail.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, at the place and as of the date hereinabove first written, this Agreement has been executed by the Issuer and the Managers.
 
 
 
Annex 1
These Conditions of Bonds shall apply to the issue of AFLAC INCORPORATED JAPANESE YEN BONDS - SIXTH SERIES (2011) (the "") pursuant to lawful authorization by Aflac Incorporated (the "").
Bonds
Issuer
 
The aggregate principal amount of the Bonds is 28,700,000,000.
The date of issuance of the Bonds is July 8, 2011(the "").
Issue Date
The Bonds are issued in a denomination of 100,000,000 each. No Bond may be split into Bonds of a smaller denomination or consolidated with any other Bond.
The Law Concerning Book-Entry Transfer of Corporate Bonds, Stocks, Etc. of Japan (Law No. 75, 2001, as amended) (the "") shall apply to the Bonds, and the transfer of the Bonds, the Exchange (as defined in Condition 9) of the Bonds for Certificated Bonds (as defined in Condition 9) and other matters relating to the Bonds shall be dealt with in accordance with the Book-Entry Transfer Law and the business regulations and other rules (including the Business Guidelines for Handling U.S. Book-Entry Transfer Foreign Bonds, collectively, the "") from time to time adopted by the Book-Entry Transfer Institution (as defined in Condition 4) pursuant to the Book-Entry Transfer Law in relation to its services relating to book-entry transfer of corporate bonds, etc.
Book-Entry Transfer Law
Business Rules
The certificates for the Bonds (the "") shall not be issued except in such exceptional events as provided under the Book-Entry Transfer Law where the holders of the Bonds (the "") may make a request for the issue of Bond Certificates. In the event that any Bond Certificates are issued, all expenses incurred in connection with the issue of the Bond Certificates shall be borne by the Issuer, the Bond Certificates to be issued shall be only in bearer form with unmatured interest coupons and the holders of Bond Certificates may not request that the Bond Certificates be exchanged for one or more Bond Certificates in registered form or divided or consolidated. If any Bond Certificates are issued, the manners of the calculation and payment of principal of and interest on the Bonds represented by the Bond Certificates, the exercise of the rights under the Bonds represented by the Bonds Certificates by the holders of the Bond Certificates and the transfer of the Bonds represented by the Bonds Certificates, and all other matters in respect of the Bonds represented by the Bonds Certificates, shall be subject to the then applicable Japanese laws and regulations and prevailing market practice. In the event of any inconsistency between the provisions of these Conditions of Bonds and the then applicable Japanese laws and regulations and prevailing market practice as aforesaid, such Japanese laws and regulations and market practice as aforesaid shall prevail.
Bond Certificates
Bondholders
The provisions of the preceding paragraph shall not affect any Bondholder's right to request the Exchange of a Bond for a Certificated Bonds, as provided in Condition 9.
If any Bond Certificates are issued pursuant to this Condition 1 or Condition 9, the following legends shall be printed in English at the bottom of the face side of the Bond Certificates and any coupons relating thereto:
 
"Any United States person who holds this obligation will be subject to limitations under the United States income tax laws, including the limitations provided in sections 165(j) and 1287(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended and Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder.
This bond/coupon has not been registered under the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), and may not be offered or sold within the United States or to or for the benefit of any U.S. person (each as defined in Regulation S under the Securities Act)."
Securities Act
 
 
 
This obligation shall not apply to Liens upon any shares of Voting Shares of any Person existing at the time such Person becomes a Principal Subsidiary and any extensions, renewals or replacements thereof.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Issuer may merge or consolidate any of its other Subsidiaries into or with another Person and it may sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of its business in accordance with Condition 12. Furthermore, the foregoing restriction will not prohibit any issuance or disposition of securities by any other Subsidiary.
 
"" means any mortgage, pledge, lien, security interest or other encumbrance.
Lien
"" means a legal person, including any individual, company, limited liability company, corporation, estate, partnership, limited liability partnership, joint venture, association, joint shares company, trust, unincorporated organization or government or any agency or political subdivision thereof or any other entity of whatever nature.
Person
"" means: (i) American Family Life Assurance Company of Columbus, an insurance company domiciled in Nebraska, so long as it is a Subsidiary of the Issuer; (ii) any other present or future Subsidiary the Consolidated Total Assets of which constitute twenty (20) percent or more of the Consolidated Total Assets of the Issuer; and (iii) any Subsidiary that may succeed, by merger, consolidation or otherwise, to all or substantially all of the business or properties of any Subsidiary specified in (i) and (ii) above.
Principal Subsidiary
"" means any corporation, partnership or other entity of which at the time of determination the Issuer owns or controls directly or indirectly more than 50% of the shares of Voting Shares.
Subsidiary
"" means, in respect of the Issuer as of any date of determination, the amount of total assets shown on the consolidated balance sheet of the Issuer and its consolidated subsidiaries contained in the most recent annual or quarterly report filed with the Director-General of Kanto Local Finance Bureau pursuant to the Financial Instruments and Exchange Law of Japan (Law No. 25 of 1948, as amended) (the ""), or if the Issuer is not then subject to the continuous disclosure obligation under the Financial Instruments and Exchange Law, the most recent annual or quarterly report filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (in the absence of such report, the most recent annual report to shareholders) and, in respect of any Subsidiary as of any date of determination, the amount of total assets of such Subsidiary and its consolidated subsidiaries from which such consolidated balance sheet of the Issuer and its consolidated Subsidiaries was derived.
Consolidated Total Assets
Financial Instruments and Exchange Law
"" means shares of any class or classes having general voting power under ordinary circumstances to elect a majority of the board of directors, managers or trustees of the corporation in question, provided that, for the purposes hereof, shares which carries only the right to vote conditionally on the happening of an event shall not be considered voting shares whether or not such event shall have happened.
Voting Shares
 
 
 
 
 
As at the effective date of the appointment, the replacement Fiscal Agent shall succeed to and be substituted for the Fiscal Agent, and shall perform its duties and functions provided for in these Conditions of Bonds, the Fiscal Agency Agreement and the Business Rules, with the same effect as if the replacement Fiscal Agent had been named as the Fiscal Agent therein and herein.
 
 
In relation to the Bonds, Japan Securities Depository Center, Incorporated (the "") acts as book-entry transfer institution () under the Book-Entry Transfer Law.
Book-Entry Transfer Institution
furikae kikan
In these Conditions of Bonds, all references to the Book-Entry Transfer Institution shall be deemed to include any successor book-entry transfer institution as designated by a competent minister pursuant to the Book-Entry Transfer Law.
 
The Bonds shall bear interest at the rate of 1.47% per annum of their principal amount.
The Bonds shall bear interest from and including July 9, 2011, payable semi-annually in arrears on January 8 and July 8 of each year in respect of the six (6)-month period to and including each such date (each an ""); provided, however, that interest in respect of the period ending on the final Delivery Date (as defined in Condition 9) shall not be payable on any Bonds for which an Exchange has been made on the final Exchange Date (as Defined in Condition 9) in accordance with Condition 9, and in lieu of such payment, an amount equivalent to the relevant interest for the final Interest Period shall be paid on the final Delivery Date as the interest on the Certificated Bonds issued upon such Exchange.
Interest Period
 
Interest for any period of other than six (6) months shall be payable for the actual number of days included in such period computed on the basis of a 365-day year. Each date set for payment of interest in this Condition 5 is hereinafter referred to as an "".
Interest Payment Date
The Bonds shall cease to bear interest from but excluding the date on which they become due for redemption; provided, however, that should the Issuer fail to redeem any of the Bonds when due, then interest shall be paid at the interest rate specified above for the actual number of days of the period from but excluding the due date for redemption of a Bond to and including the date of the actual redemption of such Bond, computed on the basis of a 365-day year. Such period, however, shall not exceed the fourteenth (14th) day counting from the date on which a public notice has been given by the Issuer or the Fiscal Agent in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Condition 7.
 
 
 
Prior to the giving of any notice of redemption to the Bondholders pursuant to the preceding paragraph, the Issuer shall deliver to the Fiscal Agent a certificate stating that the Issuer is entitled to effect such redemption and setting forth a statement of facts showing that the conditions precedent to the right of the Issuer so to redeem have occurred and an opinion of an independent legal counsel of recognized standing to the Issuer to such effect based on such statements of facts.
If the Issuer becomes obligated to pay any Additional Amount pursuant to Condition 8 and the Issuer is, in the opinion of an independent legal counsel of recognized standing with respect to tax matters, prohibited by United States law from paying all or any part of such Additional Amount, the Issuer shall, as soon as practicable but not later than the fortieth (40th) day after (i) the occurrence of the events giving rise to the obligations of the Issuer to pay the Additional Amount or (ii) the date on which such United States law becomes effective, whichever is later, redeem the Bonds as a whole, but not in part, at a price equal to their principal amount, together with interest accrued to the date fixed for redemption (but subject to applicable United States law), upon giving notice to the Fiscal Agent in writing stating that the Issuer would be obligated to pay such Additional Amount and that it is prohibited by United States law from paying the same and stating in reasonable detail the facts and
 
circumstances giving rise to such prohibition and setting forth the proposed redemption date. Such notice shall be accompanied by an opinion of an independent legal counsel of recognized standing, stating to the effect that the Issuer would be obligated to pay such Additional Amount and that the Issuer is prohibited by United States law from paying the same. Upon making such payment of the principal amount and accrued interest (but exclusive of such Additional Amounts) as provided in this Condition 6(2)(I), the Issuer shall be discharged in full from any further obligation as to principal of or interest on the Bonds.
The certificate and the opinion given under this Condition 6(2)(I) shall be kept at the Head Office of the Fiscal Agent promptly after the Fiscal Agent receives them and up to the expiry of one month after the redemption date, and shall be made available for perusal or photocopying by any Bondholder during normal business hours. All expenses incurred for such photocopying shall be borne by the applicant therefor.
The Issuer shall give any notice to the Fiscal Agent pursuant to this Condition 6(2)(I) at least thirty (30) days prior to the proposed redemption date and shall give public notice of such matters to the Bondholders at least fourteen (14) days prior to such redemption date.
 
 
All expenses necessary for the procedures under this Condition 6(2) shall be borne by the Issuer.
 
 
 
Payment of principal of and interest in respect of a Bond shall be made by the Fiscal Agent (in its capacity as paying agent) through the relevant account management institution () or directly to the Bondholders in accordance with the Book-Entry Transfer Law and the Business Rules. Notwithstanding the foregoing, at the time when the Fiscal Agent (in its capacity as paying agent) allocated the necessary funds for the payment of principal of or interest on the Bonds received by it from the Issuer to the relevant participants () which have opened their accounts to make book-entry transfer of the Bonds at the Book-Entry Transfer Institution, the Issuer shall be released from any obligation of such payment under these Conditions of Bonds.
kouza kanri kikan
kiko kanyusha
All payments of principal of and interest on the Bonds, whether or not on any Interest Payment Date, shall be made in Japanese yen.
If any due date for the payment of principal of or interest on the Bonds falls on a day which is not a day on which banks are open for business in Tokyo, Japan (a ""), the Bondholders shall not be entitled to payment of the amount due until the next following Business Day, nor shall they be entitled to the payment of any further or additional interest or other payment in respect of such delay.
Business Day
If the full amount of principal of or interest on the Bonds payable on any due date is received by the Fiscal Agent after such due date, the Issuer shall, or shall cause the Fiscal Agent to, give public notice to that effect and of the method of payment to the Bondholders as soon as practicable but not later than fourteen (14) days after receipt of such amount by the Fiscal Agent. If the date of payment or the method of payment (or both) cannot be determined at the time of such receipt, the Issuer or the Fiscal Agent shall give public notice to the Bondholders of the receipt of such amount and of the date and/or the method of payment to the extent having been determined, and, subsequently, give public notice to the Bondholders of the date and/or the method of payment as soon as practicable after such undetermined items are determined. All expenses incurred in connection with the said public notice shall be borne by the Issuer.
No paying agent may be appointed by the Issuer in the United States or its possessions or make any payment of principal of or interest on the Bonds within the United States or its possessions.
No payment of principal of or interest on any Bond will be made at any office or branch of the Fiscal Agent in its capacity as paying agent, any replacement Fiscal Agent or any other paying agency appointed by the Issuer outside Japan, nor will any payment be made by transfer to an account maintained with a bank located in, or by check mailed to an address in, the United States or its possessions.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
nor will Additional Amounts be paid with respect to any payment of principal of or interest on a Bond to any Bondholder that is a non-U.S. person that is a fiduciary or partnership or other than the sole beneficial owner of any such payment to the extent that a beneficiary or settlor with respect to such fiduciary, a member of such partnership or the beneficial owner would not have been entitled to the Additional Amounts had such beneficiary, settlor, member or beneficial owner been such Bondholder.
"" means any person who, for United States federal income tax purposes, is not (i) a citizen or resident of the United States, (ii) a corporation or partnership created or organized in or under the laws of the United States or of any political subdivision thereof, (iii) an estate the income of which is subject to United States federal income taxation regardless of its source, (iv) a trust if a United States court is able to exercise primary supervision over the administration of such trust and one or more United States persons have the authority to control all substantial decisions of such trust or (v) otherwise subject to United States federal income tax on a net basis in respect of a Bond.
Non-U.S. person
 
 
 
 
 
 
"" means the Fiscal Agent acting in the capacity of exchange agent.
Exchange Agent
"" means (i) January 8, 2012, being the first Exchange Date, (ii) subsequent to the first Exchange Date, (a) each of the Interest Payment Dates set forth in Condition 5 other than the Maturity Date and (b) the date two Business Days prior to the Maturity Date set forth in Condition 6(1).
Exchange Date
"" means (i) with respect to the first Exchange Date, the period from and including July 9, 2011 to and including the date which is 50 days prior to the Delivery Date in respect of the first Exchange Date and (ii) with respect to each subsequent Exchange Date, the period from and including the date which is 49 days prior to the Delivery Date immediately preceding the Delivery Date in respect of such Exchange Date to and including the date which is 50 days prior to the Delivery Date in respect of such Exchange Date; provided, however, that no submission of a Request for Exchange shall be allowed on any date that is not a Business Day even if such date falls during the Exchange Request Period.
Exchange Request Period
"" means (i) in the case of any Interest Period other than the final Interest Period, the relevant Exchange Date and (ii) in the case of the final Interest Period, the Maturity Date.
Delivery Date
 
 
 
 
 
 
If any of the following events ("") shall have occurred and be continuing:
Events of Default
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
then, (i) in the case of the occurrence of an Event of Default specified in (A), (B), (C) or (D) above, any Bond shall, at the option of and upon written notice to the Fiscal Agent at its Head Office on behalf of the Issuer by the then holder thereof (at the time of giving such notice, such Bondholder shall present, at the Head Office of the Fiscal Agent, the Certificate), become due and payable upon the date that such written notice is received by the Fiscal Agent on behalf of the Issuer, unless such Bond shall have already become due and payable prior to such date; or (ii) in the case of the occurrence of an Event of Default specified in (E) or (F) above, the Bonds then outstanding shall automatically and immediately become due and payable upon the occurrence of such Event of Default without any declaration or other act on the part of the holder thereof, unless such Bond shall have already become due and payable prior to the occurrence of such Event of Default, in any such case under (i) or (ii) above, at its principal amount, together with interest accrued to and including the date on which such Bond so became due and payable, unless prior to such date all Events of Default in respect of all the Bonds shall have been cured. The written notice given by any Bondholder under this paragraph may be withdrawn by such Bondholder by giving written notice to that effect to the Fiscal Agent at its Head Office on behalf of the Issuer at any time before payment in respect of the relevant Bond is made by the Issuer.
If (i) any of the events specified in items (C) through (F) above has occurred or (ii) any circumstance exists which would with the lapse of time or the giving of notice or both constitute any of such events, the Issuer shall, immediately or in case of (ii) above immediately when such circumstance comes to knowledge of the Issuer, notify the Fiscal Agent of such event and give public notice of such event to the Bondholders. If the event specified in item (A) or (B) above or any circumstance exists which would with the lapse of time constitute such event shall have occurred and be continuing, the Issuer shall also immediately notify the Fiscal Agent of such event and give public notice of such event to the Bondholders.
For the purpose of this Condition 10, the Certificated Bonds shall be deemed to constitute the same kind and class as the Bonds and be aggregated when calculating the aggregate amount of Bonds then outstanding, and the Bonds, if any, then held by the Issuer or any Subsidiary shall be disregarded and deemed not to be outstanding.
For the purpose of these Conditions of Bonds:
"" of any Person means the principal of and premium, if any, and interest due on indebtedness of such Person, whether outstanding on the date of the Issue Date or thereafter created, incurred or assumed, which is (a) indebtedness for money borrowed, and (b) any amendments, renewals, extensions, modifications and refundings of any such indebtedness. For the purpose of this definition, "indebtedness for money borrowed" means (i) any obligation of , or any obligation guaranteed by, such Person for the repayment of borrowed money, whether or not evidenced by, bonds, debentures, notes or other written instruments and (ii) any obligation of, or any such obligation guaranteed by, any Person evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes or similar written instruments, including obligations assumed or incurred in connection with the acquisition of property, assets or business (provided, however, that the deferred purchase price of any other business or property or assets shall not be considered Indebtedness if the purchase price thereof is payable in full within six (6) months from the date on which such indebtedness was created).
Indebtedness
 
 
 
 
When a Bondholders' meeting is to be convened, the Issuer shall give public notice of the Bondholders' meeting at least twenty-one (21) days prior to the date of such meeting; and ensure that the Fiscal Agent, on behalf of the Issuer, shall take the steps necessary for the convocation of the Bondholders' meeting and to expedite the proceedings thereof.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For the avoidance of doubt, the alteration of any provisions concerning the majority required to pass an Extraordinary Resolution or the items with respect to which an Extraordinary Resolution is required cannot be amended by the resolutions of the Bondholders' meeting.
"" means a resolution passed at a Bondholders' meeting by one-fifth (1/5) or more of the aggregate amount of the voting rights held by the Voting Rights Holders representing the aggregate principal amount of the Bonds then outstanding and two-thirds (2/3) or more of the aggregate amount of the voting rights held by the Voting Rights Holders present at such meeting.
Extraordinary Resolution
For the purposes of calculating the number of votes exercised at a Bondholders' meeting, the Bondholders who have exercised their votes by proxy or in writing or (in the event the Issuer permits the exercise of the voting rights by electronic method) by an electronic method shall be deemed to have attended and voted at such meeting.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The registration book for the Bonds shall be prepared and maintained and kept by the Fiscal Agent at its Head Office on behalf of the Issuer.
The registration book for the Bonds shall include the following U.S. tax information (in English):
"Any United States person who holds this obligation will be subject to limitations under the United States income tax laws, including the limitations provided in Sections 165 (j) and 1287 (a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and Treasury regulations promulgated thereunder."
 
The period of extinctive prescription shall be ten (10) years for the principal of the Bonds and five (5) years for interest on the Bonds.
 
All public notices relating to the Bonds shall be published once in the Japanese Official Gazette (if possible) and once in a daily Japanese newspaper published in both Tokyo and Osaka reporting on general affairs. Direct notification to individual Bondholders need not be made. Such public notices to be given by the Issuer shall, upon the request and at the expense of the Issuer, be given by the Fiscal Agent on behalf of the Issuer. The Fiscal Agency Agreement provides that the Issuer shall request the Fiscal Agent in writing to give such public notices on behalf of the Issuer whenever necessary under these Conditions of Bonds.
 
In the event of a judgment or order being rendered or issued by any court for the payment of the principal of or interest on the Bonds or any other amount payable in respect of the Bonds, and such judgment or order being expressed in a currency other than Japanese yen, any amount received or recovered in such currency by any Bondholder in respect of such judgment or order shall only constitute a discharge to the Issuer to the extent of the amount received or recovered in Japanese yen and the Issuer undertakes to pay to such Bondholder the amount necessary to make up any deficiency arising or resulting from any variation in rates of exchange between (i) the date as of which any amount expressed in a currency other than Japanese yen is (or is to be treated as) converted for the purposes of any such judgment or order (or part thereof), and (ii) the date or dates of discharge of such judgment or order (or part thereof). To the extent permitted by any applicable law, the above undertaking shall constitute a separate and independent obligation of the Issuer from its other obligations, shall give rise to a separate and independent cause of action against the Issuer, shall apply irrespective of any indulgence granted by any Bondholder from time to time and shall continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any judgment or order.
 
Except as to the authorization relating to the issue of the Bonds by the Issuer, the Bonds and all the rights and obligations of all the parties concerned, including the Bondholders, arising thereunder shall in all respects be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of Japan.
Except as otherwise provided in these Conditions of Bonds, the place of performance of obligations pertaining to the Bonds is Tokyo, Japan.
Any legal action or other court procedural action against the Issuer arising from or relating to the Bonds or these Conditions of Bonds may be instituted, on a non-exclusive basis, in the Tokyo District Court, to the jurisdiction of which the Issuer hereby expressly, unconditionally and irrevocably agrees to submit.
The Issuer hereby appoints the Counsel of American Family Life Assurance Company of Columbus, Japan Branch as the authorized agent of the Issuer upon whom process and any judicial or other court documents may be served in any legal or other court procedural action arising from or relating to the Bonds or these Conditions of Bonds that may be instituted in Tokyo, Japan; the Issuer hereby designates the address from time to time of American Family Life Assurance Company of Columbus, Japan Branch in Tokyo, Japan, as the address to receive such process and any judicial or other court documents; and the Issuer hereby agrees to take, from time to time and so long as any of the Bonds shall remain outstanding, any and all action (including the execution and filing of any and all
 
documents and instruments) that may be necessary to effect and to continue such appointment and designation in full force and effect. If at any time such agent shall not, for any reason, serve as such authorized agent, the Issuer shall immediately appoint, and it hereby undertakes to take any and all action that may be necessary to effect the appointment of, a successor authorized agent in Tokyo, Japan, and the Issuer shall promptly notify the Fiscal Agent of the appointment of such successor agent and make a public notice thereof.
Nothing in this Condition 17 shall affect the right of the Bondholders to institute legal action against the Issuer in any court of competent jurisdiction under applicable laws or to serve process in any manner otherwise permitted by law.
 
Exhibit A
These Conditions of Bonds shall apply to any of the AFLAC INCORPORATED JAPANESE YEN CERTIFICATED BONDS - SIXTH SERIES (2011) (the "") to be issued pursuant to lawful authorization by Aflac Incorporated (the "") upon an Exchange (as defined in Condition 9 of the conditions of the Book-Entry Bonds (as defined below)) of any of the AFLAC INCORPORATED JAPANESE YEN BONDS  SIXTH SERIES (2011) (the "").
Bonds
Issuer
Book-Entry Bonds
 
The aggregate principal amount of the Bonds is the aggregate amount of Book-Entry Bonds as to which an Exchange for Bonds has been effectuated on the same Exchange Date (as defined in Condition 9 of the conditions of the Book-Entry Bonds). All such Bonds shall be deemed to constitute the same kind and class with each other and with the Book-Entry Bonds and any Other Certificated Bonds (as defined in Condition 9).
The Bonds are issued in a denomination of 100,000,000 each. No Bond may be split into Bonds of a smaller denomination or consolidated with any other Bond.
The certificates for the Bonds (the " are issued exclusively in bearer form with interest coupons (the "") attached thereto, and shall not be exchangeable for Bond Certificates in registered form.
Bond
Certificates")
Coupons
 
 
 
This obligation shall not apply to Liens upon any shares of Voting Shares of any Person existing at the time such Person becomes a Principal Subsidiary and any extensions, renewals or replacements thereof.
 
 
 
 
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Issuer may merge or consolidate any of its other Subsidiaries into or with another Person and it may sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of its business in accordance with Condition 11. Furthermore, the foregoing restriction will not prohibit any issuance or disposition of securities by any other Subsidiary.
 
"" means any mortgage, pledge, lien, security interest or other encumbrance.
Lien
"" means a legal person, including any individual, company, limited liability company, corporation, estate, partnership, limited liability partnership, joint venture, association, joint shares company, trust, unincorporated organization or government or any agency or political subdivision thereof or any other entity of whatever nature.
Person
"" means: (i) American Family Life Assurance Company of Columbus, an insurance company domiciled in Nebraska, so long as it is a Subsidiary of the Issuer; (ii) any other present or future Subsidiary the Consolidated Total Assets of which constitute twenty (20) percent or more of the Consolidated Total Assets of the Issuer; and (iii) any Subsidiary that may succeed, by merger, consolidation or otherwise, to all or substantially all of the business or properties of any Subsidiary specified in (i) and (ii) above.
Principal Subsidiary
"" means any corporation, partnership or other entity of which at the time of determination the Issuer owns or controls directly or indirectly more than 50% of the shares of Voting Shares.
Subsidiary
"" means, in respect of the Issuer as of any date of determination, the amount of total assets shown on the consolidated balance sheet of the Issuer and its consolidated subsidiaries contained in the most recent annual or quarterly report filed with the Director-General of Kanto Local Finance Bureau pursuant to the Financial Instruments and Exchange Law of Japan (Law No. 25 of 1948, as amended) (the ""), or if the Issuer is not then subject to the continuous disclosure obligation under the Financial Instruments and Exchange Law, the most recent annual or quarterly report filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (in the absence of such report, the most recent annual report to shareholders) and, in respect of any Subsidiary as of any date of determination, the amount of total assets of such Subsidiary and its consolidated subsidiaries from which such consolidated balance sheet of the Issuer and its consolidated Subsidiaries was derived.
Consolidated Total Assets
Financial Instruments and Exchange Law
 
" means shares of any class or classes having general voting power under ordinary circumstances to elect a majority of the board of directors, managers or trustees of the corporation in question, provided that, for the purposes hereof, shares which carries only the right to vote conditionally on the happening of an event shall not be considered voting shares whether or not such event shall have happened.
Voting
Shares"
 
 
 
 
As at the effective date of the appointment, the replacement Fiscal Agent in respect of the Bonds shall succeed to and be substituted for the Fiscal Agent, and shall perform its duties and functions provided for in these Conditions of Bonds and the Fiscal Agency Agreement, with the same effect as if the replacement Fiscal Agent in respect of the Bonds had been named as the Fiscal Agent therein and herein.
 
The Bonds shall bear interest at the same rate as the Book-Entry Bonds, which also appears on the face of the Bond Certificates.
The Bonds shall bear interest from and including the date immediately following the date of issue of the Bonds as stated on the face of the Bond Certificates (the ""), payable semi-annually in arrears on January 8 and July 8 of each year in respect of the six (6)-month period to and including each such date (each an ""); provided, however, that where the Issue Date is the date two Business Days (as defined in Condition 6) prior to the Maturity Date (as defined in Condition 5), the amount payable in respect of interest on the Bonds on the Maturity Date shall be the amount which would have been payable as interest on the Book-Entry Bonds on the Maturity Date, but for the Exchange in respect thereof.
Issue Date
Interest Payment Date
Interest for any period of other than six (6) months shall be payable for the actual number of days included in such period computed on the basis of a 365-day year.
The Bonds shall cease to bear interest from but excluding the date on which they become due for redemption; provided, however, that should the Issuer fail to redeem any of the Bonds when due, then
 
interest shall be paid at the interest rate specified above for the actual number of days of the period from but excluding the due date for redemption of a Bond to and including the date of the actual redemption of such Bond, computed on the basis of a 365-day year. Such period, however, shall not exceed the fourteenth (14th) day counting from the date on which a public notice has been given by the Issuer or the Fiscal Agent in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Condition 6.
 
 
 
Prior to the giving of any notice of redemption to the Bondholders and the holders of Coupons pursuant to the preceding paragraph, the Issuer shall deliver to the Fiscal Agent a certificate stating that the Issuer is entitled to effect such redemption and setting forth a statement of facts showing that the conditions precedent to the right of the Issuer so to redeem have occurred and an opinion of an independent legal counsel of recognized standing to the Issuer to such effect based on such statements of facts.
If the Issuer becomes obligated to pay any Additional Amount pursuant to Condition 7 and the Issuer is, in the opinion of an independent legal counsel of recognized standing with respect to tax matters, prohibited by United States law from paying all or any part of such Additional Amount, the Issuer shall, as soon as practicable but not later than the fortieth (40th) day after (i) the occurrence of the events giving rise to the obligations of the Issuer to pay the Additional Amount or (ii) the date on which such United States law becomes effective, whichever is later, redeem the Bonds as a whole, but not in part, at a price equal to their principal amount, together with interest accrued to the date fixed for redemption (but subject to applicable United States law), upon giving notice to the Fiscal Agent in writing stating that the Issuer would be obligated to pay such Additional Amount and that it is prohibited by United States law from paying the same and stating in reasonable detail the facts and circumstances giving rise to such prohibition and setting forth the proposed redemption date. Such notice shall be accompanied by an opinion of an independent legal counsel of recognized standing, stating to the effect that the Issuer would be obligated to pay such Additional Amount and that the Issuer is prohibited by United States law from paying the same. Upon making such payment of the principal amount and accrued interest (but exclusive of such Additional Amounts) as provided in this Condition 5(2)(I), the Issuer shall be discharged in full from any further obligation as to principal of or interest on the Bonds.
 
The certificate and the opinion given under this Condition 5(2)(I) shall be kept at the Head Office of the Fiscal Agent promptly after the Fiscal Agent receives them and up to the expiry of one month after the redemption date, and shall be made available for perusal or photocopying by any Bondholder during normal business hours. All expenses incurred for such photocopying shall be borne by the applicant therefor.
The Issuer shall give any notice to the Fiscal Agent pursuant to this Condition 5(2)(I) at least thirty (30) days prior to the proposed redemption date and shall give public notice of such matters to the Bondholders and the holders of Coupons at least fourteen (14) days prior to such redemption date.
 
All expenses necessary for the procedures under this Condition 5(2) shall be borne by the Issuer.
 
 
 
The Fiscal Agent will act as the paying agent in respect of the Bonds (the ""). Payment of principal in respect of a Bond shall be made upon surrender of the Bond Certificate and payment of interest on the Bonds shall be made upon surrender of the relevant Coupon, at the office of the Paying Agent set forth in this Condition 6, except as provided in Condition 8.
Paying Agent
Any Bond Certificate surrendered for redemption shall be presented together with all unmatured Coupons appertaining thereto, failing which the face value of any missing unmatured Coupons shall be deducted from the principal; provided, however, that the holder of any such missing Coupon may, upon surrender of such Coupon within the prescription period of five years from the relevant Interest Payment Date, receive the amount so deducted.
All payments of principal of and interest on the Bonds, whether or not on any Interest Payment Date, shall be made in Japanese yen.
If any due date for the payment of principal of or interest on the Bonds falls on a day which is not a day on which banks are open for business in Tokyo, Japan (a ""), the Bondholders or holders of Coupons shall not be entitled to payment of the amount due until the next following Business Day, nor shall they be entitled to the payment of any further or additional interest or other payment in respect of such delay.
Business Day
If the full amount of principal of or interest on the Bonds payable on any due date is received by the Fiscal Agent after such due date, the Issuer shall, or shall cause the Fiscal Agent to, give public notice to that effect and of the method of payment to the Bondholders or the holders of Coupons as soon as practicable but not later than fourteen (14) days after receipt of such amount by the Fiscal Agent. If the date of payment or the method of payment (or both) cannot be determined at the time of such receipt, the Issuer or the Fiscal Agent shall give public notice to the Bondholders or the holders of Coupons of the receipt of such amount and of the date and/or the method of payment to the extent having been determined, and, subsequently, give public notice to the Bondholders or the holders of Coupons of the date and/or the method of payment as soon as practicable after such undetermined items are determined. All expenses incurred in connection with the said public notice shall be borne by the Issuer.
The name of the Paying Agent and its specified offices at which the payment of principal of and interest on the Bonds will be made are set out below:
Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation - Head Office
The Issuer reserves the right at any time to replace or appoint additional or other paying agents. Notice of any change in or addition to the paying agents or their specified offices will be published in advance in accordance with Condition 14 below.
No paying agent may be appointed by the Issuer in the United States or its possessions or make any payment of principal of or interest on the Bonds within the United States or its possessions.
No payment of principal of or interest on any Bond will be made at any office or branch of the Fiscal Agent in its capacity as paying agent, any replacement Fiscal Agent or any other paying agency appointed by the Issuer outside Japan, nor will any payment be made by transfer to an account
 
maintained with a bank located in, or by check mailed to an address in, the United States or its possessions.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
nor will Additional Amounts be paid with respect to any payment of principal of or interest on a Bond or Coupon to any Bondholder or holder of Coupons that is a non-U.S. person that is a fiduciary or partnership or other than the sole beneficial owner of any such payment to the extent that a beneficiary or settlor with respect to such fiduciary, a member of such partnership or the beneficial owner would not have been entitled to the Additional Amounts had such beneficiary, settlor, member or beneficial owner been such Bondholder or holder of Coupon.
"" means any person who, for United States federal income tax purposes, is not (i) a citizen or resident of the United States, (ii) a corporation or partnership created or organized in or under the laws of the United States or of any political subdivision thereof, (iii) an estate the income of which is subject to United States federal income taxation regardless of its source, (iv) a trust if a United States court is able to exercise primary supervision over the administration of such trust and one or more United States persons have the authority to control all substantial decisions of such trust or (v) otherwise subject to United States federal income tax on a net basis in respect of a Bond.
Non-U.S. person
 
 
 
 
The Fiscal Agent on behalf of the Issuer shall prepare and deliver substitute Bond Certificates or Coupons to the holders of lost, stolen, destroyed or mutilated Bond Certificates or Coupons, upon application by any such holder which must be accompanied by a certified transcript of a decision of nullification of such Bond Certificates or Coupons; provided, however, that as to those Bonds or Coupons which have then matured, the principal or interest shall be paid by the Paying Agent without surrender of the Bond Certificates or the Coupons upon presentation of a certified transcript of a decision of nullification of such Bond Certificates or Coupons. Any Japanese court having jurisdiction over the place of principal and interest payment shall have jurisdiction concerning the procedures for the nullification decision regarding the Bond Certificates or the Coupons. If a holder of a Bond Certificate or a Coupon which has been lost, stolen, destroyed or mutilated makes a request, for the purpose of obtaining a decision of nullification, for a certificate to the effect that such Bond Certificate or Coupon has been issued by the Issuer, the Fiscal Agent shall prepare and deliver such certificate. If it is possible for the Fiscal Agent to identify mutilated Bond Certificates or Coupons, it shall, upon surrender to it of such Bond Certificates or Coupons, prepare and deliver substitute Bond Certificates or Coupons therefor without requiring a nullification decision and destroy the surrendered Bond Certificates or Coupons. The actual expenses incurred in respect of the preparation and delivery of substitute Bond Certificates or Coupons or said certificate shall be borne by the applicant therefor.
 
If any of the following events ("") shall have occurred and be continuing:
Events of Default
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
then, (i) in the case of the occurrence of an Event of Default specified in (A), (B), (C) or (D) above, any Bond shall, at the option of and upon written notice to the Fiscal Agent at its Head Office on behalf of the Issuer by the then holder thereof (at the time of giving such notice, such Bondholder shall present, at the Head Office of the Fiscal Agent, the Bond Certificate), become due and payable upon the date that such written notice is received by the Fiscal Agent on behalf of the Issuer, unless such Bond shall have already become due and payable prior to such date; or (ii) in the case of the occurrence of an Event of Default specified in (E) or (F) above, the Bonds then outstanding shall automatically and immediately become due and payable upon the occurrence of such Event of Default without any declaration or other act on the part of the holder thereof, unless such Bond shall have already become due and payable prior to the occurrence of such Event of Default, in any such case under (i) or (ii) above, at its principal amount, together with interest accrued to and including the date on which such Bond so became due and payable, unless prior to such date all Events of Default in respect of all the Bonds shall have been cured. The written notice given by any Bondholder under this paragraph may be withdrawn by such Bondholder
 
by giving written notice to that effect to the Fiscal Agent at its Head Office on behalf of the Issuer at any time before payment in respect of the relevant Bond is made by the Issuer.
If (i) any of the events specified in items (C) through (F) above has occurred or (ii) any circumstance exists which would with the lapse of time or the giving of notice or both constitute any of such events, the Issuer shall, immediately or in case of (ii) above immediately when such circumstance comes to knowledge of the Issuer, notify the Fiscal Agent of such event and give public notice of such event to the Bondholders. If the event specified in item (A) or (B) above or any circumstance exists which would with the lapse of time constitute such event shall have occurred and be continuing, the Issuer shall also immediately notify the Fiscal Agent of such event and give public notice of such event to the Bondholders.
For the purpose of this Condition 9, the Book-Entry Bonds and any other bonds (other than the Bonds) issued upon an Exchange in accordance with Condition 9 of the conditions of the Book-Entry Bonds (the "") shall be deemed to constitute the same kind and class as the Bonds and be aggregated when calculating the aggregate amount of Bonds then outstanding, and the Bonds, if any, then held by the Issuer or any Subsidiary shall be disregarded and deemed not to be outstanding.
Other Certificated Bonds
For the purpose of these Conditions of Bonds:
"" of any Person means the principal of and premium, if any, and interest due on indebtedness of such Person, whether outstanding on the date of issue of the Book-Entry Bonds or thereafter created, incurred or assumed, which is (a) indebtedness for money borrowed, and (b) any amendments, renewals, extensions, modifications and refundings of any such indebtedness. For the purpose of this definition, "indebtedness for money borrowed" means (i) any obligation of , or any obligation guaranteed by, such Person for the repayment of borrowed money, whether or not evidenced by, bonds, debentures, notes or other written instruments and (ii) any obligation of, or any such obligation guaranteed by, any Person evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes or similar written instruments, including obligations assumed or incurred in connection with the acquisition of property, assets or business (provided, however, that the deferred purchase price of any other business or property or assets shall not be considered Indebtedness if the purchase price thereof is payable in full within six (6) months from the date on which such indebtedness was created).
Indebtedness
 
 
 
 
When a Bondholders' meeting is to be convened, the Issuer shall give public notice of the Bondholders' meeting at least twenty-one (21) days prior to the date of such meeting; and ensure that the Fiscal Agent, on behalf of the Issuer, shall take the steps necessary for the convocation of the Bondholders' meeting and to expedite the proceedings thereof.
 
 
 
 
 
 
For the avoidance of doubt, the alteration of any provisions concerning the majority required to pass an Extraordinary Resolution or the items with respect to which an Extraordinary Resolution is required cannot be amended by the resolutions of the Bondholders' meeting.
"" means a resolution passed at a Bondholders' meeting by one-fifth (1/5) or more of the aggregate amount of the voting rights held by the Voting Rights Holders representing the aggregate principal amount of the Bonds then outstanding and two-thirds (2/3) or more of the aggregate amount of the voting rights held by the Voting Rights Holders present at such meeting.
Extraordinary Resolution
For the purposes of calculating the number of votes exercised at a Bondholders' meeting, the Bondholders who have exercised their votes by proxy or in writing or (in the event the Issuer
 
permits the exercise of the voting rights by electronic method) by an electronic method shall be deemed to have attended and voted at such meeting.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The registration book for the Bonds shall be prepared and maintained and kept by the Fiscal Agent at its Head Office on behalf of the Issuer.
The registration book for the Bonds shall include the following U.S. tax information (in English):
"Any United States person who holds this obligation will be subject to limitations under the United States income tax laws, including the limitations provided in Sections 165 (j) and 1287 (a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and Treasury regulations promulgated thereunder."
 
The period of extinctive prescription shall be ten (10) years for the principal of the Bonds and five (5) years for interest on the Bonds.
 
All public notices relating to the Bonds shall be published once in the Japanese Official Gazette (if possible) and once in a daily Japanese newspaper published in both Tokyo and Osaka reporting on general affairs. Direct notification to individual Bondholders need not be made. Such public notices to be given by the Issuer shall, upon the request and at the expense of the Issuer, be given by the Fiscal Agent on behalf of the Issuer. The Fiscal Agency Agreement provides that the Issuer shall request the Fiscal Agent in writing to give such public notices on behalf of the Issuer whenever necessary under these Conditions of Bonds.
 
In the event of a judgment or order being rendered or issued by any court for the payment of the principal of or interest on the Bonds or any other amount payable in respect of the Bonds, and such judgment or order being expressed in a currency other than Japanese yen, any amount received or recovered in such currency by any Bondholder or holder of a Coupon in respect of such judgment or order shall only constitute a discharge to the Issuer to the extent of the amount received or recovered in Japanese yen and the Issuer undertakes to pay to such Bondholder or holder of a Coupon the amount necessary to make up any deficiency arising or resulting from any variation in rates of exchange between (i) the date as of which any amount expressed in a currency other than Japanese yen is (or is to be treated as) converted for the purposes of any such judgment or order (or part thereof), and (ii) the date or dates of discharge of such judgment or order (or part thereof). To the extent permitted by any applicable law, the above undertaking shall constitute a separate and independent obligation of the Issuer from its other obligations, shall give rise to a separate and independent cause of action against the Issuer, shall apply irrespective of any indulgence granted by any Bondholder or holder of a Coupon from time to time and shall continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any judgment or order.
 
Except as to the authorization relating to the issue of the Bonds by the Issuer, the Bonds and all the rights and obligations of all the parties concerned, including the Bondholders and the holders of Coupons, arising thereunder shall in all respects be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of Japan.
Except as otherwise provided in these Conditions of Bonds, the place of performance of obligations pertaining to the Bonds is Tokyo, Japan.
Any legal action or other court procedural action against the Issuer arising from or relating to the Bonds or these Conditions of Bonds may be instituted, on a non-exclusive basis, in the Tokyo District Court, to the jurisdiction of which the Issuer hereby expressly, unconditionally and irrevocably agrees to submit. The Issuer hereby appoints the Counsel of American Family Life Assurance Company of Columbus, Japan Branch as the authorized agent of the Issuer upon whom process and any judicial or other court documents may be served in any legal or other court procedural action arising from or relating to the Bonds or these Conditions of Bonds that may be instituted in Tokyo, Japan; the Issuer hereby designates the address from time to time of American Family Life Assurance Company of Columbus, Japan Branch in Tokyo, Japan, as the address to receive such process and any judicial or other court documents; and the Issuer hereby agrees to take, from time to time and so long as any of the Bonds shall remain outstanding, any and all action (including the execution and filing of any and all documents and instruments) that may be necessary to effect and to continue such appointment and designation in full force and effect. If at any time such agent shall not, for any reason, serve as such authorized agent, the Issuer shall immediately appoint, and it hereby undertakes to take any and all action that may be necessary to effect the appointment of, a successor authorized agent in Tokyo, Japan, and the Issuer shall promptly notify the Fiscal Agent of the appointment of such successor agent and make a public notice thereof.
Nothing in this Condition 16 shall affect the right of the Bondholders or the holders of Coupons to institute legal action against the Issuer in any court of competent jurisdiction under applicable laws or to serve process in any manner otherwise permitted by law.
 
Exhibit B
 [100,000,000]
No. [serial number]
This Bond is one of the AFLAC INCORPORATED JAPANESE YEN CERTIFICATED BONDS - SIXTH SERIES (issued on MM DD, YYYY) (Note) by Aflac Incorporated upon and in accordance with the Conditions of Bonds appearing on the reverse hereof, and maturing on July 8, 2014, pursuant to the lawful authorization of the Issuer and upon exchange of AFLAC INCORPORATED JAPANESE YEN BONDS - SIXTH SERIES (2011) issued on July 8, 2011.
 
[The following legend will be printed in English at the bottom of the face side of the Bond certificates.] Any United States person who holds this obligation will be subject to limitations under the United States income tax laws, including the limitations provided in sections 165(j) and 1287(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder.
This bond has not been registered under the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), and may not be offered or sold within the United States or to or for the benefit of any U.S. person (each as defined in Regulation S under the Securities Act.
Securities Act
 
 
Exhibit C
 
 
 
 
[The following legend will be printed in English at the bottom of the face side of the Coupon.]
Any United States person who holds this obligation will be subject to limitations under the United States income tax laws, including the limitations provided in sections 165(j) and 1287(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder.
This coupon has not been registered under the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), and may not be offered or sold within the United States or to or for the benefit of any U.S. person (each as defined in Regulation S under the Securities Act.
Securities Act
 
 
Annex 2
 
In connection with the Subscription Agreement (the "") relating to the above-mentioned Bonds (the "") dated June 29, 2011, this is to certify that as at the time when the entire amount of the Issue Price (as defined therein) of the Bonds has been paid in full by the Handling Manager (as defined therein) and the Bonds in the principal amount of is stated or recorded in the proprietary column ( in our account with Japan Securities Depository Center, Incorporated or in our account with an account management institution ( on the date hereof (such time being called the ""), such Bonds in the principal amount of  are held by us for our own accounts or for accounts of customers and (i) are owned by person(s) that are not citizens or residents of the United States, domestic partnerships, domestic corporations, any other entity created or organized in or under the laws of the United States, or any estate or trust the income of which is subject to United States federal income taxation regardless of its source (""), each of the above as defined for U.S. federal income tax purposes, (ii) are owned by United States person(s) that (a) are foreign branches of United States financial institutions (as defined in U.S. Treasury Regulations Section 1.165-12(c)(1)(iv)) ("") purchasing for their own account or for resale, or (b) acquired the Bonds through foreign branches of United States financial institutions and who hold the Bonds through such United States financial institutions as at the Certification Time (and in either case (a) or (b), each such United States financial institution certifies to us or you within a reasonable time on its own behalf or through its agents that it will comply with the requirements of Section 165(j)(3)(A), (B) or (C) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and the regulations thereunder), or (iii) are owned by United States or foreign financial institution(s) for purposes of resale during the Restricted Period (as defined in U.S. Treasury Regulations Section 1.163-5(c)(2)(i)(D)(7)), and in addition if the owner of the Bonds is a United States or foreign financial institution described in (iii) above (whether or not also described in (i) or (ii) above), this is to further certify that such financial institution has not acquired the Bonds for purposes of resale directly or indirectly to a United States person or to a person within the United States.
Agreement
Bonds
                            
hoyu
ran)
kouza
kanri kikan)
Certification Time
                            
United
States person(s)
financial institutions
As used herein, "" means the United States of America (including the States and the District of Columbia), and its possessions, territories and other areas subject to its jurisdiction.
United
States
 
We understand that this certificate is required in connection with certain tax laws and regulations of the United States. In connection therewith, if administrative or legal proceedings are commenced or threatened in connection with which this certificate is or would be relevant, we irrevocably authorize you to produce this certificate to any interested party in such proceedings.
 
 
 
 

Aflac Incorporated Form 8-K
Exhibit 1.2
This Agreement is entered into in Tokyo, Japan on the 29th day of June, 2011, among Aflac Incorporated (the ""), a corporation incorporated and existing under the laws of the State of Georgia, United States of America, and the financial instruments firms named below (the "") with respect to the issuance of  15,800,000,000 aggregate principal amount of Aflac Incorporated Japanese Yen Bonds  Seventh Series (2011) (the "").
Issuer
Managers
Bonds
Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co., Ltd.
SMBC Nikko Securities Inc.
Mizuho Securities Co., Ltd.
Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co., Ltd. and SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. shall act as joint lead managers (collectively, the "") for the public offering of the Bonds, and SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. (the "") shall perform the functions of the Handling Manager as provided in this Agreement.
Joint-Lead Managers
Handling Manager
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"The Bonds have not been and will not be registered under the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "") and may not be offered or sold within the United States or to, or for the account or benefit of, U.S. persons (i) as part of their distribution at any time or (ii) otherwise until 40 days after the later of the commencement of the offering of the Bonds to the public and the Closing Date, except in either case in accordance with Regulation S under the Securities Act. Terms used above have the meanings given to them by Regulation S."
Securities Act
Each Manager hereby represents and agrees that it has not entered and will not enter into any contractual agreement with any distributor (as defined for purposes of Regulation S and the D Rules (as defined below)) with respect to the distribution of the Bonds, except with its affiliates or with the prior written consent of the Issuer.
Terms used in this paragraph (a) have the meanings given to corresponding English terms by Regulation S.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Terms used in this paragraph (b) have the meanings given to corresponding English terms by the U.S. Internal Revenue Code and regulations thereunder, including the D Rules.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Issuer hereby represents, warrants to and agrees with the Managers as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Each of the Managers warrants that:
 
 
 
 
The Managers' obligations under this Agreement shall be subject to all of the following conditions precedent; provided that the Joint-Lead Managers on behalf of the Managers, in their discretion, may waive compliance, wholly or in part, with any one or more of such conditions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of Japan.
 
Any legal action by or against the Issuer relating to this Agreement may be instituted in the Tokyo District Court, to the jurisdiction of which the Issuer hereby expressly, unconditionally and irrevocably agrees to submit. Any such action against the Issuer may also be instituted in any other court of competent jurisdiction.
The Issuer hereby appoints the Counsel of American Family Life Assurance Company of Columbus, Japan Branch as the authorized agent of the Issuer upon whom process and any judicial or other court documents may be served in any legal or other court procedural action arising from or relating to this Agreement that may be instituted in Tokyo, Japan; the Issuer hereby designates the address from time to time of American Family Life Assurance Company of Columbus, Japan Branch in Tokyo, Japan, as the address to receive such process and any judicial or other court documents; and the Issuer hereby agrees to take, from time to time and so long as any of the Bonds shall remain outstanding, any and all action (including the execution and filing of any and all documents and instruments) that may be necessary to effect and to continue such appointment and designation in full force and effect. If at any time such agent shall not, for any reason, serve as such authorized agent, the Issuer shall immediately appoint, and it hereby undertakes to take any and all action that may be necessary to effect the appointment of, a successor authorized agent in Tokyo, Japan, and the Issuer shall notify the Joint-Lead Managers of the appointment of such successor agent.
 
Nothing in this Article 12 shall affect the right of the Managers to institute legal action against the Issuer in any court of competent jurisdiction under applicable laws or to serve process in any manner otherwise permitted by law.
 
 
Aflac Incorporated
1932 Wynnton Road,
Columbus, Georgia 31999
United States of America
Attention: Treasury Department
Facsimile: 1-706-596-5092
 
Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co., Ltd.
Marunouchi Building
4-1, Marunouchi 2-chome, Chiyoda-ku
Tokyo 100-6317, Japan
Attention: Debt Capital Markets Division
Facsimile: 81-3-6213-6842
and
SMBC Nikko Securities Inc.
Tokyo Dia Building No.5
28-23, Shinkawa 1-chome
Chuo-ku, Tokyo 104-8271, Japan
Attention: Debt Capital Markets
Facsimile: 81-3-5566-3393
 
 
This Agreement is executed in four (4) counterparts in the Japanese language to each of which a non-binding English translation is attached, except for Annex 2, the original language of which is the English language to which a non-binding Japanese translation is attached. In the event of difference in meaning, the Japanese version except for Annex 2 shall prevail.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, at the place and as of the date hereinabove first written, this Agreement has been executed by the Issuer and the Managers.
 
 
 
 
Annex 1
These Conditions of Bonds shall apply to the issue of AFLAC INCORPORATED JAPANESE YEN BONDS - SEVENTH SERIES (2011) (the "") pursuant to lawful authorization by Aflac Incorporated (the "").
Bonds
Issuer
 
The aggregate principal amount of the Bonds is 15,800,000,000.
The date of issuance of the Bonds is July 8, 2011(the "").
Issue Date
The Bonds are issued in a denomination of 100,000,000 each. No Bond may be split into Bonds of a smaller denomination or consolidated with any other Bond.
The Law Concerning Book-Entry Transfer of Corporate Bonds, Stocks, Etc. of Japan (Law No. 75, 2001, as amended) (the "") shall apply to the Bonds, and the transfer of the Bonds, the Exchange (as defined in Condition 9) of the Bonds for Certificated Bonds (as defined in Condition 9) and other matters relating to the Bonds shall be dealt with in accordance with the Book-Entry Transfer Law and the business regulations and other rules (including the Business Guidelines for Handling U.S. Book-Entry Transfer Foreign Bonds, collectively, the "") from time to time adopted by the Book-Entry Transfer Institution (as defined in Condition 4) pursuant to the Book-Entry Transfer Law in relation to its services relating to book-entry transfer of corporate bonds, etc.
Book-Entry Transfer Law
Business Rules
The certificates for the Bonds (the "") shall not be issued except in such exceptional events as provided under the Book-Entry Transfer Law where the holders of the Bonds (the "") may make a request for the issue of Bond Certificates. In the event that any Bond Certificates are issued, all expenses incurred in connection with the issue of the Bond Certificates shall be borne by the Issuer, the Bond Certificates to be issued shall be only in bearer form with unmatured interest coupons and the holders of Bond Certificates may not request that the Bond Certificates be exchanged for one or more Bond Certificates in registered form or divided or consolidated. If any Bond Certificates are issued, the manners of the calculation and payment of principal of and interest on the Bonds represented by the Bond Certificates, the exercise of the rights under the Bonds represented by the Bonds Certificates by the holders of the Bond Certificates and the transfer of the Bonds represented by the Bonds Certificates, and all other matters in respect of the Bonds represented by the Bonds Certificates, shall be subject to the then applicable Japanese laws and regulations and prevailing market practice. In the event of any inconsistency between the provisions of these Conditions of Bonds and the then applicable Japanese laws and regulations and prevailing market practice as aforesaid, such Japanese laws and regulations and market practice as aforesaid shall prevail.
Bond Certificates
Bondholders
The provisions of the preceding paragraph shall not affect any Bondholder's right to request the Exchange of a Bond for a Certificated Bonds, as provided in Condition 9.
If any Bond Certificates are issued pursuant to this Condition 1 or Condition 9, the following legends shall be printed in English at the bottom of the face side of the Bond Certificates and any coupons relating thereto:
 
"Any United States person who holds this obligation will be subject to limitations under the United States income tax laws, including the limitations provided in sections 165(j) and 1287(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended and Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder.
This bond/coupon has not been registered under the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "") and may not be offered or sold within the United States or to or for the benefit of any U.S. person (each as defined in Regulation S under the Securities Act)."
Securities
Act
,
 
 
 
This obligation shall not apply to Liens upon any shares of Voting Shares of any Person existing at the time such Person becomes a Principal Subsidiary and any extensions, renewals or replacements thereof.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Issuer may merge or consolidate any of its other Subsidiaries into or with another Person and it may sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of its business in accordance with Condition 12. Furthermore, the foregoing restriction will not prohibit any issuance or disposition of securities by any other Subsidiary.
 
"" means any mortgage, pledge, lien, security interest or other encumbrance.
Lien
"" means a legal person, including any individual, company, limited liability company, corporation, estate, partnership, limited liability partnership, joint venture, association, joint shares company, trust, unincorporated organization or government or any agency or political subdivision thereof or any other entity of whatever nature.
Person
"" means: (i) American Family Life Assurance Company of Columbus, an insurance company domiciled in Nebraska, so long as it is a Subsidiary of the Issuer; (ii) any other present or future Subsidiary the Consolidated Total Assets of which constitute twenty (20) percent or more of the Consolidated Total Assets of the Issuer; and (iii) any Subsidiary that may succeed, by merger, consolidation or otherwise, to all or substantially all of the business or properties of any Subsidiary specified in (i) and (ii) above.
Principal
Subsidiary
"" means any corporation, partnership or other entity of which at the time of determination the Issuer owns or controls directly or indirectly more than 50% of the shares of Voting Shares.
Subsidiary
"" means, in respect of the Issuer as of any date of determination, the amount of total assets shown on the consolidated balance sheet of the Issuer and its consolidated subsidiaries contained in the most recent annual or quarterly report filed with the Director-General of Kanto Local Finance Bureau pursuant to the Financial Instruments and Exchange Law of Japan (Law No. 25 of 1948, as amended) (the ""), or if the Issuer is not then subject to the continuous disclosure obligation under the Financial Instruments and Exchange Law, the most recent annual or quarterly report filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (in the absence of such report, the most recent annual report to shareholders) and, in respect of any Subsidiary as of any date of determination, the amount of total assets of such Subsidiary and its consolidated subsidiaries from which such consolidated balance sheet of the Issuer and its consolidated Subsidiaries was derived.
Consolidated Total Assets
Financial Instruments and Exchange Law
"" means shares of any class or classes having general voting power under ordinary circumstances to elect a majority of the board of directors, managers or trustees of the corporation in question, provided that, for the purposes hereof, shares which carries only the right to vote conditionally on the happening of an event shall not be considered voting shares whether or not such event shall have happened.
Voting
Shares
 
 
 
 
 
As at the effective date of the appointment, the replacement Fiscal Agent shall succeed to and be substituted for the Fiscal Agent, and shall perform its duties and functions provided for in these Conditions of Bonds, the Fiscal Agency Agreement and the Business Rules, with the same effect as if the replacement Fiscal Agent had been named as the Fiscal Agent therein and herein.
 
 
In relation to the Bonds, Japan Securities Depository Center, Incorporated (the "") acts as book-entry transfer institution () under the Book-Entry Transfer Law.
Book-Entry Transfer Institution
furikae kikan
In these Conditions of Bonds, all references to the Book-Entry Transfer Institution shall be deemed to include any successor book-entry transfer institution as designated by a competent minister pursuant to the Book-Entry Transfer Law.
 
The Bonds shall bear interest at the rate of 1.84% per annum of their principal amount.
The Bonds shall bear interest from and including July 9, 2011, payable semi-annually in arrears on January 8 and July 8 of each year in respect of the six (6)-month period to and including each such date (each an ""); provided, however, that interest in respect of the period ending on the final Delivery Date (as defined in Condition 9) shall not be payable on any Bonds for which an Exchange has been made on the final Exchange Date (as Defined in Condition 9) in accordance with Condition 9, and in lieu of such payment, an amount equivalent to the relevant interest for the final Interest Period shall be paid on the final Delivery Date as the interest on the Certificated Bonds issued upon such Exchange.
Interest Period
 
Interest for any period of other than six (6) months shall be payable for the actual number of days included in such period computed on the basis of a 365-day year. Each date set for payment of interest in this Condition 5 is hereinafter referred to as an "".
Interest
Payment Date
The Bonds shall cease to bear interest from but excluding the date on which they become due for redemption; provided, however, that should the Issuer fail to redeem any of the Bonds when due, then interest shall be paid at the interest rate specified above for the actual number of days of the period from but excluding the due date for redemption of a Bond to and including the date of the actual redemption of such Bond, computed on the basis of a 365-day year. Such period, however, shall not exceed the fourteenth (14th) day counting from the date on which a public notice has been given by the Issuer or the Fiscal Agent in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Condition 7.
 
 
 
Prior to the giving of any notice of redemption to the Bondholders pursuant to the preceding paragraph, the Issuer shall deliver to the Fiscal Agent a certificate stating that the Issuer is entitled to effect such redemption and setting forth a statement of facts showing that the conditions precedent to the right of the Issuer so to redeem have occurred and an opinion of an independent legal counsel of recognized standing to the Issuer to such effect based on such statements of facts.
If the Issuer becomes obligated to pay any Additional Amount pursuant to Condition 8 and the Issuer is, in the opinion of an independent legal counsel of recognized standing with respect to tax matters, prohibited by United States law from paying all or any part of such Additional Amount, the Issuer shall, as soon as practicable but not later than the fortieth (40th) day after (i) the occurrence of the events giving rise to the obligations of the Issuer to pay the Additional Amount or (ii) the date on which such United States law becomes effective, whichever is later, redeem the Bonds as a whole, but not in part, at a price equal to their principal amount, together with interest accrued to the date fixed for redemption (but subject to applicable United States law), upon giving notice to the Fiscal Agent in writing stating that the Issuer would be obligated to pay such Additional Amount and that it is prohibited by United States law from paying the same and stating in reasonable detail the facts and
 
circumstances giving rise to such prohibition and setting forth the proposed redemption date. Such notice shall be accompanied by an opinion of an independent legal counsel of recognized standing, stating to the effect that the Issuer would be obligated to pay such Additional Amount and that the Issuer is prohibited by United States law from paying the same. Upon making such payment of the principal amount and accrued interest (but exclusive of such Additional Amounts) as provided in this Condition 6(2)(I), the Issuer shall be discharged in full from any further obligation as to principal of or interest on the Bonds.
The certificate and the opinion given under this Condition 6(2)(I) shall be kept at the Head Office of the Fiscal Agent promptly after the Fiscal Agent receives them and up to the expiry of one month after the redemption date, and shall be made available for perusal or photocopying by any Bondholder during normal business hours. All expenses incurred for such photocopying shall be borne by the applicant therefor.
The Issuer shall give any notice to the Fiscal Agent pursuant to this Condition 6(2)(I) at least thirty (30) days prior to the proposed redemption date and shall give public notice of such matters to the Bondholders at least fourteen (14) days prior to such redemption date.
 
 
All expenses necessary for the procedures under this Condition 6(2) shall be borne by the Issuer.
 
 
 
Payment of principal of and interest in respect of a Bond shall be made by the Fiscal Agent (in its capacity as paying agent) through the relevant account management institution () or directly to the Bondholders in accordance with the Book-Entry Transfer Law and the Business Rules. Notwithstanding the foregoing, at the time when the Fiscal Agent (in its capacity as paying agent) allocated the necessary funds for the payment of principal of or interest on the Bonds received by it from the Issuer to the relevant participants () which have opened their accounts to make book-entry transfer of the Bonds at the Book-Entry Transfer Institution, the Issuer shall be released from any obligation of such payment under these Conditions of Bonds.
kouza kanri kikan
kiko kanyusha
All payments of principal of and interest on the Bonds, whether or not on any Interest Payment Date, shall be made in Japanese yen.
If any due date for the payment of principal of or interest on the Bonds falls on a day which is not a day on which banks are open for business in Tokyo, Japan (a ""), the Bondholders shall not be entitled to payment of the amount due until the next following Business Day, nor shall they be entitled to the payment of any further or additional interest or other payment in respect of such delay.
Business Day
If the full amount of principal of or interest on the Bonds payable on any due date is received by the Fiscal Agent after such due date, the Issuer shall, or shall cause the Fiscal Agent to, give public notice to that effect and of the method of payment to the Bondholders as soon as practicable but not later than fourteen (14) days after receipt of such amount by the Fiscal Agent. If the date of payment or the method of payment (or both) cannot be determined at the time of such receipt, the Issuer or the Fiscal Agent shall give public notice to the Bondholders of the receipt of such amount and of the date and/or the method of payment to the extent having been determined, and, subsequently, give public notice to the Bondholders of the date and/or the method of payment as soon as practicable after such undetermined items are determined. All expenses incurred in connection with the said public notice shall be borne by the Issuer.
No paying agent may be appointed by the Issuer in the United States or its possessions or make any payment of principal of or interest on the Bonds within the United States or its possessions.
No payment of principal of or interest on any Bond will be made at any office or branch of the Fiscal Agent in its capacity as paying agent, any replacement Fiscal Agent or any other paying agency appointed by the Issuer outside Japan, nor will any payment be made by transfer to an account maintained with a bank located in, or by check mailed to an address in, the United States or its possessions.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
nor will Additional Amounts be paid with respect to any payment of principal of or interest on a Bond to any Bondholder that is a non-U.S. person that is a fiduciary or partnership or other than the sole beneficial owner of any such payment to the extent that a beneficiary or settlor with respect to such fiduciary, a member of such partnership or the beneficial owner would not have been entitled to the Additional Amounts had such beneficiary, settlor, member or beneficial owner been such Bondholder.
"" means any person who, for United States federal income tax purposes, is not (i) a citizen or resident of the United States, (ii) a corporation or partnership created or organized in or under the laws of the United States or of any political subdivision thereof, (iii) an estate the income of which is subject to United States federal income taxation regardless of its source, (iv) a trust if a United States court is able to exercise primary supervision over the administration of such trust and one or more United States persons have the authority to control all substantial decisions of such trust or (v) otherwise subject to United States federal income tax on a net basis in respect of a Bond.
Non-U.S. person
 
 
 
 
 
 
"" means the Fiscal Agent acting in the capacity of exchange agent.
Exchange Agent
"" means (i) January 8, 2012, being the first Exchange Date, (ii) subsequent to the first Exchange Date, (a) each of the Interest Payment Dates set forth in Condition 5 other than the Maturity Date and (b) the date two Business Days prior to the Maturity Date set forth in Condition 6(1).
Exchange Date
"" means (i) with respect to the first Exchange Date, the period from and including July 9, 2011 to and including the date which is 50 days prior to the Delivery Date in respect of the first Exchange Date and (ii) with respect to each subsequent Exchange Date, the period from and including the date which is 49 days prior to the Delivery Date immediately preceding the Delivery Date in respect of such Exchange Date to and including the date which is 50 days prior to the Delivery Date in respect of such Exchange Date; provided, however, that no submission of a Request for Exchange shall be allowed on any date that is not a Business Day even if such date falls during the Exchange Request Period.
Exchange Request Period
"" means (i) in the case of any Interest Period other than the final Interest Period, the relevant Exchange Date and (ii) in the case of the final Interest Period, the Maturity Date.
Delivery Date
 
 
 
 
 
 
If any of the following events ("") shall have occurred and be continuing:
Events
of Default
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
then, (i) in the case of the occurrence of an Event of Default specified in (A), (B), (C) or (D) above, any Bond shall, at the option of and upon written notice to the Fiscal Agent at its Head Office on behalf of the Issuer by the then holder thereof (at the time of giving such notice, such Bondholder shall present, at the Head Office of the Fiscal Agent, the Certificate), become due and payable upon the date that such written notice is received by the Fiscal Agent on behalf of the Issuer, unless such Bond shall have already become due and payable prior to such date; or (ii) in the case of the occurrence of an Event of Default specified in (E) or (F) above, the Bonds then outstanding shall automatically and immediately become due and payable upon the occurrence of such Event of Default without any declaration or other act on the part of the holder thereof, unless such Bond shall have already become due and payable prior to the occurrence of such Event of Default, in any such case under (i) or (ii) above, at its principal amount, together with interest accrued to and including the date on which such Bond so became due and payable, unless prior to such date all Events of Default in respect of all the Bonds shall have been cured. The written notice given by any Bondholder under this paragraph may be withdrawn by such Bondholder by giving written notice to that effect to the Fiscal Agent at its Head Office on behalf of the Issuer at any time before payment in respect of the relevant Bond is made by the Issuer.
If (i) any of the events specified in items (C) through (F) above has occurred or (ii) any circumstance exists which would with the lapse of time or the giving of notice or both constitute any of such events, the Issuer shall, immediately or in case of (ii) above immediately when such circumstance comes to knowledge of the Issuer, notify the Fiscal Agent of such event and give public notice of such event to the Bondholders. If the event specified in item (A) or (B) above or any circumstance exists which would with the lapse of time constitute such event shall have occurred and be continuing, the Issuer shall also immediately notify the Fiscal Agent of such event and give public notice of such event to the Bondholders.
For the purpose of this Condition 10, the Certificated Bonds shall be deemed to constitute the same kind and class as the Bonds and be aggregated when calculating the aggregate amount of Bonds then outstanding, and the Bonds, if any, then held by the Issuer or any Subsidiary shall be disregarded and deemed not to be outstanding.
For the purpose of these Conditions of Bonds:
"" of any Person means the principal of and premium, if any, and interest due on indebtedness of such Person, whether outstanding on the date of the Issue Date or thereafter created, incurred or assumed, which is (a) indebtedness for money borrowed, and (b) any amendments, renewals, extensions, modifications and refundings of any such indebtedness. For the purpose of this definition, "indebtedness for money borrowed" means (i) any obligation of , or any obligation guaranteed by, such Person for the repayment of borrowed money, whether or not evidenced by, bonds, debentures, notes or other written instruments and (ii) any obligation of, or any such obligation guaranteed by, any Person evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes or similar written instruments, including obligations assumed or incurred in connection with the acquisition of property, assets or business (provided, however, that the deferred purchase price of any other business or property or assets shall not be considered Indebtedness if the purchase price thereof is payable in full within six (6) months from the date on which such indebtedness was created).
Indebtedness
 
 
 
 
When a Bondholders' meeting is to be convened, the Issuer shall give public notice of the Bondholders' meeting at least twenty-one (21) days prior to the date of such meeting; and ensure that the Fiscal Agent, on behalf of the Issuer, shall take the steps necessary for the convocation of the Bondholders' meeting and to expedite the proceedings thereof.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For the avoidance of doubt, the alteration of any provisions concerning the majority required to pass an Extraordinary Resolution or the items with respect to which an Extraordinary Resolution is required cannot be amended by the resolutions of the Bondholders' meeting.
"" means a resolution passed at a Bondholders' meeting by one-fifth (1/5) or more of the aggregate amount of the voting rights held by the Voting Rights Holders representing the aggregate principal amount of the Bonds then outstanding and two-thirds (2/3) or more of the aggregate amount of the voting rights held by the Voting Rights Holders present at such meeting.
Extraordinary Resolution
For the purposes of calculating the number of votes exercised at a Bondholders' meeting, the Bondholders who have exercised their votes by proxy or in writing or (in the event the Issuer permits the exercise of the voting rights by electronic method) by an electronic method shall be deemed to have attended and voted at such meeting.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The registration book for the Bonds shall be prepared and maintained and kept by the Fiscal Agent at its Head Office on behalf of the Issuer.
The registration book for the Bonds shall include the following U.S. tax information (in English):
"Any United States person who holds this obligation will be subject to limitations under the United States income tax laws, including the limitations provided in Sections 165 (j) and 1287 (a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and Treasury regulations promulgated thereunder."
 
The period of extinctive prescription shall be ten (10) years for the principal of the Bonds and five (5) years for interest on the Bonds.
 
All public notices relating to the Bonds shall be published once in the Japanese Official Gazette (if possible) and once in a daily Japanese newspaper published in both Tokyo and Osaka reporting on general affairs. Direct notification to individual Bondholders need not be made. Such public notices to be given by the Issuer shall, upon the request and at the expense of the Issuer, be given by the Fiscal Agent on behalf of the Issuer. The Fiscal Agency Agreement provides that the Issuer shall request the Fiscal Agent in writing to give such public notices on behalf of the Issuer whenever necessary under these Conditions of Bonds.
 
In the event of a judgment or order being rendered or issued by any court for the payment of the principal of or interest on the Bonds or any other amount payable in respect of the Bonds, and such judgment or order being expressed in a currency other than Japanese yen, any amount received or recovered in such currency by any Bondholder in respect of such judgment or order shall only constitute a discharge to the Issuer to the extent of the amount received or recovered in Japanese yen and the Issuer undertakes to pay to such Bondholder the amount necessary to make up any deficiency arising or resulting from any variation in rates of exchange between (i) the date as of which any amount expressed in a currency other than Japanese yen is (or is to be treated as) converted for the purposes of any such judgment or order (or part thereof), and (ii) the date or dates of discharge of such judgment or order (or part thereof). To the extent permitted by any applicable law, the above undertaking shall constitute a separate and independent obligation of the Issuer from its other obligations, shall give rise to a separate and independent cause of action against the Issuer, shall apply irrespective of any indulgence granted by any Bondholder from time to time and shall continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any judgment or order.
 
Except as to the authorization relating to the issue of the Bonds by the Issuer, the Bonds and all the rights and obligations of all the parties concerned, including the Bondholders, arising thereunder shall in all respects be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of Japan.
Except as otherwise provided in these Conditions of Bonds, the place of performance of obligations pertaining to the Bonds is Tokyo, Japan.
Any legal action or other court procedural action against the Issuer arising from or relating to the Bonds or these Conditions of Bonds may be instituted, on a non-exclusive basis, in the Tokyo District Court, to the jurisdiction of which the Issuer hereby expressly, unconditionally and irrevocably agrees to submit.
The Issuer hereby appoints the Counsel of American Family Life Assurance Company of Columbus, Japan Branch as the authorized agent of the Issuer upon whom process and any judicial or other court documents may be served in any legal or other court procedural action arising from or relating to the Bonds or these Conditions of Bonds that may be instituted in Tokyo, Japan; the Issuer hereby designates the address from time to time of American Family Life Assurance Company of Columbus, Japan Branch in Tokyo, Japan, as the address to receive such process and any judicial or other court documents; and the Issuer hereby agrees to take, from time to time and so long as any of the Bonds shall remain outstanding, any and all action (including the execution and filing of any and all
 
documents and instruments) that may be necessary to effect and to continue such appointment and designation in full force and effect. If at any time such agent shall not, for any reason, serve as such authorized agent, the Issuer shall immediately appoint, and it hereby undertakes to take any and all action that may be necessary to effect the appointment of, a successor authorized agent in Tokyo, Japan, and the Issuer shall promptly notify the Fiscal Agent of the appointment of such successor agent and make a public notice thereof.
Nothing in this Condition 17 shall affect the right of the Bondholders to institute legal action against the Issuer in any court of competent jurisdiction under applicable laws or to serve process in any manner otherwise permitted by law.
 
Exhibit A
These Conditions of Bonds shall apply to any of the AFLAC INCORPORATED JAPANESE YEN CERTIFICATED BONDS - SEVENTH SERIES (2011) (the "") to be issued pursuant to lawful authorization by Aflac Incorporated (the "") upon an Exchange (as defined in Condition 9 of the conditions of the Book-Entry Bonds (as defined below)) of any of the AFLAC INCORPORATED JAPANESE YEN BONDS  SEVENTH SERIES (2011) (the "").
Bonds
Issuer
Book-Entry Bonds
 
The aggregate principal amount of the Bonds is the aggregate amount of Book-Entry Bonds as to which an Exchange for Bonds has been effectuated on the same Exchange Date (as defined in Condition 9 of the conditions of the Book-Entry Bonds). All such Bonds shall be deemed to constitute the same kind and class with each other and with the Book-Entry Bonds and any Other Certificated Bonds (as defined in Condition 9).
The Bonds are issued in a denomination of 100,000,000 each. No Bond may be split into Bonds of a smaller denomination or consolidated with any other Bond.
The certificates for the Bonds (the "") are issued exclusively in bearer form with interest coupons (the "") attached thereto, and shall not be exchangeable for Bond Certificates in registered form.
Bond Certificates
Coupons
 
 
 
This obligation shall not apply to Liens upon any shares of Voting Shares of any Person existing at the time such Person becomes a Principal Subsidiary and any extensions, renewals or replacements thereof.
 
 
 
 
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Issuer may merge or consolidate any of its other Subsidiaries into or with another Person and it may sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of its business in accordance with Condition 11. Furthermore, the foregoing restriction will not prohibit any issuance or disposition of securities by any other Subsidiary.
 
"" means any mortgage, pledge, lien, security interest or other encumbrance.
Lien
"" means a legal person, including any individual, company, limited liability company, corporation, estate, partnership, limited liability partnership, joint venture, association, joint shares company, trust, unincorporated organization or government or any agency or political subdivision thereof or any other entity of whatever nature.
Person
"" means: (i) American Family Life Assurance Company of Columbus, an insurance company domiciled in Nebraska, so long as it is a Subsidiary of the Issuer; (ii) any other present or future Subsidiary the Consolidated Total Assets of which constitute twenty (20) percent or more of the Consolidated Total Assets of the Issuer; and (iii) any Subsidiary that may succeed, by merger, consolidation or otherwise, to all or substantially all of the business or properties of any Subsidiary specified in (i) and (ii) above.
Principal Subsidiary
"" means any corporation, partnership or other entity of which at the time of determination the Issuer owns or controls directly or indirectly more than 50% of the shares of Voting Shares.
Subsidiary
"" means, in respect of the Issuer as of any date of determination, the amount of total assets shown on the consolidated balance sheet of the Issuer and its consolidated subsidiaries contained in the most recent annual or quarterly report filed with the Director-General of Kanto Local Finance Bureau pursuant to the Financial Instruments and Exchange Law of Japan (Law No. 25 of 1948, as amended) (the ""), or if the Issuer is not then subject to the continuous disclosure obligation under the Financial Instruments and Exchange Law, the most recent annual or quarterly report filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (in the absence of such report, the most recent annual report to shareholders) and, in respect of any Subsidiary as of any date of determination, the amount of total assets of such Subsidiary and its consolidated subsidiaries from which such consolidated balance sheet of the Issuer and its consolidated Subsidiaries was derived.
Consolidated Total Assets
Financial Instruments and Exchange Law
 
"" means shares of any class or classes having general voting power under ordinary circumstances to elect a majority of the board of directors, managers or trustees of the corporation in question, provided that, for the purposes hereof, shares which carries only the right to vote conditionally on the happening of an event shall not be considered voting shares whether or not such event shall have happened.
Voting Shares
 
 
 
 
As at the effective date of the appointment, the replacement Fiscal Agent in respect of the Bonds shall succeed to and be substituted for the Fiscal Agent, and shall perform its duties and functions provided for in these Conditions of Bonds and the Fiscal Agency Agreement, with the same effect as if the replacement Fiscal Agent in respect of the Bonds had been named as the Fiscal Agent therein and herein.
 
The Bonds shall bear interest at the same rate as the Book-Entry Bonds, which also appears on the face of the Bond Certificates.
The Bonds shall bear interest from and including the date immediately following the date of issue of the Bonds as stated on the face of the Bond Certificates (the ""), payable semi-annually in arrears on January 8 and July 8 of each year in respect of the six (6)-month period to and including each such date (each an ""); provided, however, that where the Issue Date is the date two Business Days (as defined in Condition 6) prior to the Maturity Date (as defined in Condition 5), the amount payable in respect of interest on the Bonds on the Maturity Date shall be the amount which would have been payable as interest on the Book-Entry Bonds on the Maturity Date, but for the Exchange in respect thereof.
Issue Date
Interest Payment Date
Interest for any period of other than six (6) months shall be payable for the actual number of days included in such period computed on the basis of a 365-day year.
The Bonds shall cease to bear interest from but excluding the date on which they become due for redemption; provided, however, that should the Issuer fail to redeem any of the Bonds when due, then
 
interest shall be paid at the interest rate specified above for the actual number of days of the period from but excluding the due date for redemption of a Bond to and including the date of the actual redemption of such Bond, computed on the basis of a 365-day year. Such period, however, shall not exceed the fourteenth (14th) day counting from the date on which a public notice has been given by the Issuer or the Fiscal Agent in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Condition 6.
 
 
 
Prior to the giving of any notice of redemption to the Bondholders and the holders of Coupons pursuant to the preceding paragraph, the Issuer shall deliver to the Fiscal Agent a certificate stating that the Issuer is entitled to effect such redemption and setting forth a statement of facts showing that the conditions precedent to the right of the Issuer so to redeem have occurred and an opinion of an independent legal counsel of recognized standing to the Issuer to such effect based on such statements of facts.
If the Issuer becomes obligated to pay any Additional Amount pursuant to Condition 7 and the Issuer is, in the opinion of an independent legal counsel of recognized standing with respect to tax matters, prohibited by United States law from paying all or any part of such Additional Amount, the Issuer shall, as soon as practicable but not later than the fortieth (40th) day after (i) the occurrence of the events giving rise to the obligations of the Issuer to pay the Additional Amount or (ii) the date on which such United States law becomes effective, whichever is later, redeem the Bonds as a whole, but not in part, at a price equal to their principal amount, together with interest accrued to the date fixed for redemption (but subject to applicable United States law), upon giving notice to the Fiscal Agent in writing stating that the Issuer would be obligated to pay such Additional Amount and that it is prohibited by United States law from paying the same and stating in reasonable detail the facts and circumstances giving rise to such prohibition and setting forth the proposed redemption date. Such notice shall be accompanied by an opinion of an independent legal counsel of recognized standing, stating to the effect that the Issuer would be obligated to pay such Additional Amount and that the Issuer is prohibited by United States law from paying the same. Upon making such payment of the principal amount and accrued interest (but exclusive of such Additional Amounts) as provided in this Condition 5(2)(I), the Issuer shall be discharged in full from any further obligation as to principal of or interest on the Bonds.
 
The certificate and the opinion given under this Condition 5(2)(I) shall be kept at the Head Office of the Fiscal Agent promptly after the Fiscal Agent receives them and up to the expiry of one month after the redemption date, and shall be made available for perusal or photocopying by any Bondholder during normal business hours. All expenses incurred for such photocopying shall be borne by the applicant therefor.
The Issuer shall give any notice to the Fiscal Agent pursuant to this Condition 5(2)(I) at least thirty (30) days prior to the proposed redemption date and shall give public notice of such matters to the Bondholders and the holders of Coupons at least fourteen (14) days prior to such redemption date.
 
All expenses necessary for the procedures under this Condition 5(2) shall be borne by the Issuer.
 
 
 
The Fiscal Agent will act as the paying agent in respect of the Bonds (the ""). Payment of principal in respect of a Bond shall be made upon surrender of the Bond Certificate and payment of interest on the Bonds shall be made upon surrender of the relevant Coupon, at the office of the Paying Agent set forth in this Condition 6, except as provided in Condition 8.
Paying Agent
Any Bond Certificate surrendered for redemption shall be presented together with all unmatured Coupons appertaining thereto, failing which the face value of any missing unmatured Coupons shall be deducted from the principal; provided, however, that the holder of any such missing Coupon may, upon surrender of such Coupon within the prescription period of five years from the relevant Interest Payment Date, receive the amount so deducted.
All payments of principal of and interest on the Bonds, whether or not on any Interest Payment Date, shall be made in Japanese yen.
If any due date for the payment of principal of or interest on the Bonds falls on a day which is not a day on which banks are open for business in Tokyo, Japan (a ""), the Bondholders or holders of Coupons shall not be entitled to payment of the amount due until the next following Business Day, nor shall they be entitled to the payment of any further or additional interest or other payment in respect of such delay.
Business Day
If the full amount of principal of or interest on the Bonds payable on any due date is received by the Fiscal Agent after such due date, the Issuer shall, or shall cause the Fiscal Agent to, give public notice to that effect and of the method of payment to the Bondholders or the holders of Coupons as soon as practicable but not later than fourteen (14) days after receipt of such amount by the Fiscal Agent. If the date of payment or the method of payment (or both) cannot be determined at the time of such receipt, the Issuer or the Fiscal Agent shall give public notice to the Bondholders or the holders of Coupons of the receipt of such amount and of the date and/or the method of payment to the extent having been determined, and, subsequently, give public notice to the Bondholders or the holders of Coupons of the date and/or the method of payment as soon as practicable after such undetermined items are determined. All expenses incurred in connection with the said public notice shall be borne by the Issuer.
The name of the Paying Agent and its specified offices at which the payment of principal of and interest on the Bonds will be made are set out below:
Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation - Head Office
The Issuer reserves the right at any time to replace or appoint additional or other paying agents. Notice of any change in or addition to the paying agents or their specified offices will be published in advance in accordance with Condition 14 below.
No paying agent may be appointed by the Issuer in the United States or its possessions or make any payment of principal of or interest on the Bonds within the United States or its possessions.
No payment of principal of or interest on any Bond will be made at any office or branch of the Fiscal Agent in its capacity as paying agent, any replacement Fiscal Agent or any other paying agency appointed by the Issuer outside Japan, nor will any payment be made by transfer to an account
 
maintained with a bank located in, or by check mailed to an address in, the United States or its possessions.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
nor will Additional Amounts be paid with respect to any payment of principal of or interest on a Bond or Coupon to any Bondholder or holder of Coupons that is a non-U.S. person that is a fiduciary or partnership or other than the sole beneficial owner of any such payment to the extent that a beneficiary or settlor with respect to such fiduciary, a member of such partnership or the beneficial owner would not have been entitled to the Additional Amounts had such beneficiary, settlor, member or beneficial owner been such Bondholder or holder of Coupon.
"" means any person who, for United States federal income tax purposes, is not (i) a citizen or resident of the United States, (ii) a corporation or partnership created or organized in or under the laws of the United States or of any political subdivision thereof, (iii) an estate the income of which is subject to United States federal income taxation regardless of its source, (iv) a trust if a United States court is able to exercise primary supervision over the administration of such trust and one or more United States persons have the authority to control all substantial decisions of such trust or (v) otherwise subject to United States federal income tax on a net basis in respect of a Bond.
Non-U.S. person
 
 
 
 
The Fiscal Agent on behalf of the Issuer shall prepare and deliver substitute Bond Certificates or Coupons to the holders of lost, stolen, destroyed or mutilated Bond Certificates or Coupons, upon application by any such holder which must be accompanied by a certified transcript of a decision of nullification of such Bond Certificates or Coupons; provided, however, that as to those Bonds or Coupons which have then matured, the principal or interest shall be paid by the Paying Agent without surrender of the Bond Certificates or the Coupons upon presentation of a certified transcript of a decision of nullification of such Bond Certificates or Coupons. Any Japanese court having jurisdiction over the place of principal and interest payment shall have jurisdiction concerning the procedures for the nullification decision regarding the Bond Certificates or the Coupons. If a holder of a Bond Certificate or a Coupon which has been lost, stolen, destroyed or mutilated makes a request, for the purpose of obtaining a decision of nullification, for a certificate to the effect that such Bond Certificate or Coupon has been issued by the Issuer, the Fiscal Agent shall prepare and deliver such certificate. If it is possible for the Fiscal Agent to identify mutilated Bond Certificates or Coupons, it shall, upon surrender to it of such Bond Certificates or Coupons, prepare and deliver substitute Bond Certificates or Coupons therefor without requiring a nullification decision and destroy the surrendered Bond Certificates or Coupons. The actual expenses incurred in respect of the preparation and delivery of substitute Bond Certificates or Coupons or said certificate shall be borne by the applicant therefor.
 
If any of the following events ("") shall have occurred and be continuing:
Events of Default
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
then, (i) in the case of the occurrence of an Event of Default specified in (A), (B), (C) or (D) above, any Bond shall, at the option of and upon written notice to the Fiscal Agent at its Head Office on behalf of the Issuer by the then holder thereof (at the time of giving such notice, such Bondholder shall present, at the Head Office of the Fiscal Agent, the Bond Certificate), become due and payable upon the date that such written notice is received by the Fiscal Agent on behalf of the Issuer, unless such Bond shall have already become due and payable prior to such date; or (ii) in the case of the occurrence of an Event of Default specified in (E) or (F) above, the Bonds then outstanding shall automatically and immediately become due and payable upon the occurrence of such Event of Default without any declaration or other act on the part of the holder thereof, unless such Bond shall have already become due and payable prior to the occurrence of such Event of Default, in any such case under (i) or (ii) above, at its principal amount, together with interest accrued to and including the date on which such Bond so became due and payable, unless prior to such date all Events of Default in respect of all the Bonds shall have been cured. The written notice given by any Bondholder under this paragraph may be withdrawn by such Bondholder
 
by giving written notice to that effect to the Fiscal Agent at its Head Office on behalf of the Issuer at any time before payment in respect of the relevant Bond is made by the Issuer.
If (i) any of the events specified in items (C) through (F) above has occurred or (ii) any circumstance exists which would with the lapse of time or the giving of notice or both constitute any of such events, the Issuer shall, immediately or in case of (ii) above immediately when such circumstance comes to knowledge of the Issuer, notify the Fiscal Agent of such event and give public notice of such event to the Bondholders. If the event specified in item (A) or (B) above or any circumstance exists which would with the lapse of time constitute such event shall have occurred and be continuing, the Issuer shall also immediately notify the Fiscal Agent of such event and give public notice of such event to the Bondholders.
For the purpose of this Condition 9, the Book-Entry Bonds and any other bonds (other than the Bonds) issued upon an Exchange in accordance with Condition 9 of the conditions of the Book-Entry Bonds (the "") shall be deemed to constitute the same kind and class as the Bonds and be aggregated when calculating the aggregate amount of Bonds then outstanding, and the Bonds, if any, then held by the Issuer or any Subsidiary shall be disregarded and deemed not to be outstanding.
Other Certificated Bonds
For the purpose of these Conditions of Bonds:
"" of any Person means the principal of and premium, if any, and interest due on indebtedness of such Person, whether outstanding on the date of issue of the Book-Entry Bonds or thereafter created, incurred or assumed, which is (a) indebtedness for money borrowed, and (b) any amendments, renewals, extensions, modifications and refundings of any such indebtedness. For the purpose of this definition, "indebtedness for money borrowed" means (i) any obligation of , or any obligation guaranteed by, such Person for the repayment of borrowed money, whether or not evidenced by, bonds, debentures, notes or other written instruments and (ii) any obligation of, or any such obligation guaranteed by, any Person evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes or similar written instruments, including obligations assumed or incurred in connection with the acquisition of property, assets or business (provided, however, that the deferred purchase price of any other business or property or assets shall not be considered Indebtedness if the purchase price thereof is payable in full within six (6) months from the date on which such indebtedness was created).
Indebtedness
 
 
 
 
When a Bondholders' meeting is to be convened, the Issuer shall give public notice of the Bondholders' meeting at least twenty-one (21) days prior to the date of such meeting; and ensure that the Fiscal Agent, on behalf of the Issuer, shall take the steps necessary for the convocation of the Bondholders' meeting and to expedite the proceedings thereof.
 
 
 
 
 
 
For the avoidance of doubt, the alteration of any provisions concerning the majority required to pass an Extraordinary Resolution or the items with respect to which an Extraordinary Resolution is required cannot be amended by the resolutions of the Bondholders' meeting.
"" means a resolution passed at a Bondholders' meeting by one-fifth (1/5) or more of the aggregate amount of the voting rights held by the Voting Rights Holders representing the aggregate principal amount of the Bonds then outstanding and two-thirds (2/3) or more of the aggregate amount of the voting rights held by the Voting Rights Holders present at such meeting.
Extraordinary Resolution
For the purposes of calculating the number of votes exercised at a Bondholders' meeting, the Bondholders who have exercised their votes by proxy or in writing or (in the event the Issuer
 
permits the exercise of the voting rights by electronic method) by an electronic method shall be deemed to have attended and voted at such meeting.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The registration book for the Bonds shall be prepared and maintained and kept by the Fiscal Agent at its Head Office on behalf of the Issuer.
The registration book for the Bonds shall include the following U.S. tax information (in English):
"Any United States person who holds this obligation will be subject to limitations under the United States income tax laws, including the limitations provided in Sections 165 (j) and 1287 (a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and Treasury regulations promulgated thereunder."
 
The period of extinctive prescription shall be ten (10) years for the principal of the Bonds and five (5) years for interest on the Bonds.
 
All public notices relating to the Bonds shall be published once in the Japanese Official Gazette (if possible) and once in a daily Japanese newspaper published in both Tokyo and Osaka reporting on general affairs. Direct notification to individual Bondholders need not be made. Such public notices to be given by the Issuer shall, upon the request and at the expense of the Issuer, be given by the Fiscal Agent on behalf of the Issuer. The Fiscal Agency Agreement provides that the Issuer shall request the Fiscal Agent in writing to give such public notices on behalf of the Issuer whenever necessary under these Conditions of Bonds.
 
In the event of a judgment or order being rendered or issued by any court for the payment of the principal of or interest on the Bonds or any other amount payable in respect of the Bonds, and such judgment or order being expressed in a currency other than Japanese yen, any amount received or recovered in such currency by any Bondholder or holder of a Coupon in respect of such judgment or order shall only constitute a discharge to the Issuer to the extent of the amount received or recovered in Japanese yen and the Issuer undertakes to pay to such Bondholder or holder of a Coupon the amount necessary to make up any deficiency arising or resulting from any variation in rates of exchange between (i) the date as of which any amount expressed in a currency other than Japanese yen is (or is to be treated as) converted for the purposes of any such judgment or order (or part thereof), and (ii) the date or dates of discharge of such judgment or order (or part thereof). To the extent permitted by any applicable law, the above undertaking shall constitute a separate and independent obligation of the Issuer from its other obligations, shall give rise to a separate and independent cause of action against the Issuer, shall apply irrespective of any indulgence granted by any Bondholder or holder of a Coupon from time to time and shall continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any judgment or order.
 
Except as to the authorization relating to the issue of the Bonds by the Issuer, the Bonds and all the rights and obligations of all the parties concerned, including the Bondholders and the holders of Coupons, arising thereunder shall in all respects be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of Japan.
Except as otherwise provided in these Conditions of Bonds, the place of performance of obligations pertaining to the Bonds is Tokyo, Japan.
Any legal action or other court procedural action against the Issuer arising from or relating to the Bonds or these Conditions of Bonds may be instituted, on a non-exclusive basis, in the Tokyo District Court, to the jurisdiction of which the Issuer hereby expressly, unconditionally and irrevocably agrees to submit.
The Issuer hereby appoints the Counsel of American Family Life Assurance Company of Columbus, Japan Branch as the authorized agent of the Issuer upon whom process and any judicial or other court documents may be served in any legal or other court procedural action arising from or relating to the Bonds or these Conditions of Bonds that may be instituted in Tokyo, Japan; the Issuer hereby designates the address from time to time of American Family Life Assurance Company of Columbus, Japan Branch in Tokyo, Japan, as the address to receive such process and any judicial or other court documents; and the Issuer hereby agrees to take, from time to time and so long as any of the Bonds shall remain outstanding, any and all action (including the execution and filing of any and all documents and instruments) that may be necessary to effect and to continue such appointment and designation in full force and effect. If at any time such agent shall not, for any reason, serve as such authorized agent, the Issuer shall immediately appoint, and it hereby undertakes to take any and all action that may be necessary to effect the appointment of, a successor authorized agent in Tokyo, Japan, and the Issuer shall promptly notify the Fiscal Agent of the appointment of such successor agent and make a public notice thereof.
Nothing in this Condition 16 shall affect the right of the Bondholders or the holders of Coupons to institute legal action against the Issuer in any court of competent jurisdiction under applicable laws or to serve process in any manner otherwise permitted by law.
 
Exhibit B
 [100,000,000]
No. [serial number]
This Bond is one of the AFLAC INCORPORATED JAPANESE YEN CERTIFICATED BONDS - SEVENTH SERIES (issued on MM DD, YYYY) (Note) by Aflac Incorporated upon and in accordance with the Conditions of Bonds appearing on the reverse hereof, and maturing on July 8, 2016, pursuant to the lawful authorization of the Issuer and upon exchange of AFLAC INCORPORATED JAPANESE YEN BONDS - SEVENTH SERIES (2011) issued on July 8, 2011.
 
[The following legend will be printed in English at the bottom of the face side of the Bond certificates.]
Any United States person who holds this obligation will be subject to limitations under the United States income tax laws, including the limitations provided in sections 165(j) and 1287(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder.
This bond has not been registered under the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), and may not be offered or sold within the United States or to or for the benefit of any U.S. person (each as defined in Regulation S under the Securities Act.
Securities Act
 
 
Exhibit C
 
 
[The following legend will be printed in English at the bottom of the face side of the Coupon.]
Any United States person who holds this obligation will be subject to limitations under the United States income tax laws, including the limitations provided in sections 165(j) and 1287(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder.
This coupon has not been registered under the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), and may not be offered or sold within the United States or to or for the benefit of any U.S. person (each as defined in Regulation S under the Securities Act.
Securities Act
 
 
Annex 2
 
 as the Handling Manager
In connection with the Subscription Agreement (the "") relating to the above-mentioned Bonds (the "") dated June 29, 2011, this is to certify that as at the time when the entire amount of the Issue Price (as defined therein) of the Bonds has been paid in full by the Handling Manager (as defined therein) and the Bonds in the principal amount of  is stated or recorded in the proprietary column () in our account with Japan Securities Depository Center, Incorporated or in our account with an account management institution () on the date hereof (such time being called the ""), such Bonds in the principal amount of  are held by us for our own accounts or for accounts of customers and (i) are owned by person(s) that are not citizens or residents of the United States, domestic partnerships, domestic corporations, any other entity created or organized in or under the laws of the United States, or any estate or trust the income of which is subject to United States federal income taxation regardless of its source (""), each of the above as defined for U.S. federal income tax purposes, (ii) are owned by United States person(s) that (a) are foreign branches of United States financial institutions (as defined in U.S. Treasury Regulations Section 1.165-12(c)(1)(iv)) ("") purchasing for their own account or for resale, or (b) acquired the Bonds through foreign branches of United States financial institutions and who hold the Bonds through such United States financial institutions as at the Certification Time (and in either case (a) or (b), each such United States financial institution certifies to us or you within a reasonable time on its own behalf or through its agents that it will comply with the requirements of Section 165(j)(3)(A), (B) or (C) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and the regulations thereunder), or (iii) are owned by United States or foreign financial institution(s) for purposes of resale during the Restricted Period (as defined in U.S. Treasury Regulations Section 1.163-5(c)(2)(i)(D)(7)), and in addition if the owner of the Bonds is a United States or foreign financial institution described in (iii) above (whether or not also described in (i) or (ii) above), this is to further certify that such financial institution has not acquired the Bonds for purposes of resale directly or indirectly to a United States person or to a person within the United States.
Agreement
Bonds
                    
hoyu ran
kouza kanri kikan
Certification Time
                    
United States person(s)
financial institutions
As used herein, "" means the United States of America (including the States and the District of Columbia), and its possessions, territories and other areas subject to its jurisdiction.
United States
 
We understand that this certificate is required in connection with certain tax laws and regulations of the United States. In connection therewith, if administrative or legal proceedings are commenced or threatened in connection with which this certificate is or would be relevant, we irrevocably authorize you to produce this certificate to any interested party in such proceedings.
 
 
 

Aflac Incorporated Form 8-K
Exhibit 1.3
This Agreement is entered into in Tokyo, Japan on the 29th day of June, 2011, among Aflac Incorporated (the ""), a corporation incorporated and existing under the laws of the State of Georgia, United States of America, and the financial instruments firms named below (the "") with respect to the issuance of  5,500,000,000 aggregate principal amount of Aflac Incorporated Japanese Yen Floating Rate Bonds  First Series (2011) (the "").
Issuer
Managers
Bonds
Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co., Ltd.
SMBC Nikko Securities Inc.
Mizuho Securities Co., Ltd.
Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co., Ltd. and SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. shall act as joint lead managers (collectively, the "") for the public offering of the Bonds, and SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. (the "") shall perform the functions of the Handling Manager as provided in this Agreement.
Joint-Lead Managers
Handling Manager
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"The Bonds have not been and will not be registered under the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "") and may not be offered or sold within the United States or to, or for the account or benefit of, U.S. persons (i) as part of their distribution at any time or (ii) otherwise until 40 days after the later of the commencement of the offering of the Bonds to the public and the Closing Date, except in either case in accordance with Regulation S under the Securities Act. Terms used above have the meanings given to them by Regulation S."
Securities Act
Each Manager hereby represents and agrees that it has not entered and will not enter into any contractual agreement with any distributor (as defined for purposes of Regulation S and the D Rules (as defined below)) with respect to the distribution of the Bonds, except with its affiliates or with the prior written consent of the Issuer.
Terms used in this paragraph (a) have the meanings given to corresponding English terms by Regulation S.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Terms used in this paragraph (b) have the meanings given to corresponding English terms by the U.S. Internal Revenue Code and regulations thereunder, including the D Rules.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Issuer hereby represents, warrants to and agrees with the Managers as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Each of the Managers warrants that:
 
 
 
 
The Managers' obligations under this Agreement shall be subject to all of the following conditions precedent; provided that the Joint-Lead Managers on behalf of the Managers, in their discretion, may waive compliance, wholly or in part, with any one or more of such conditions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of Japan.
 
Any legal action by or against the Issuer relating to this Agreement may be instituted in the Tokyo District Court, to the jurisdiction of which the Issuer hereby expressly, unconditionally and irrevocably agrees to submit. Any such action against the Issuer may also be instituted in any other court of competent jurisdiction.
The Issuer hereby appoints the Counsel of American Family Life Assurance Company of Columbus, Japan Branch as the authorized agent of the Issuer upon whom process and any judicial or other court documents may be served in any legal or other court procedural action arising from or relating to this Agreement that may be instituted in Tokyo, Japan; the Issuer hereby designates the address from time to time of American Family Life Assurance Company of Columbus, Japan Branch in Tokyo, Japan, as the address to receive such process and any judicial or other court documents; and the Issuer hereby agrees to take, from time to time and so long as any of the Bonds shall remain outstanding, any and all action (including the execution and filing of any and all documents and instruments) that may be necessary to effect and to continue such appointment and designation in full force and effect. If at any time such agent shall not, for any reason, serve as such authorized agent, the Issuer shall immediately appoint, and it hereby undertakes to take any and all action that may be necessary to effect the appointment of, a successor authorized agent in Tokyo, Japan, and the Issuer shall notify the Joint-Lead Managers of the appointment of such successor agent.
 
Nothing in this Article 12 shall affect the right of the Managers to institute legal action against the Issuer in any court of competent jurisdiction under applicable laws or to serve process in any manner otherwise permitted by law.
Article 13. Notices
 
Aflac Incorporated
1932 Wynnton Road,
Columbus, Georgia 31999
United States of America
Attention: Treasury Department
Facsimile: 1-706-596-5092
 
Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co., Ltd.
Marunouchi Building
4-1, Marunouchi 2-chome, Chiyoda-ku
Tokyo 100-6317, Japan
Attention: Debt Capital Markets Division
Facsimile: 81-3-6213-6842
and
SMBC Nikko Securities Inc.
Tokyo Dia Building No.5
28-23, Shinkawa 1-chome
Chuo-ku, Tokyo 104-8271, Japan
Attention: Debt Capital Markets
Facsimile: 81-3-5566-3393
 
Article 14. Language
This Agreement is executed in four (4) counterparts in the Japanese language to each of which a non-binding English translation is attached, except for Annex 2, the original language of which is the English language to which a non-binding Japanese translation is attached. In the event of difference in meaning, the Japanese version except for Annex 2 shall prevail.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, at the place and as of the date hereinabove first written, this Agreement has been executed by the Issuer and the Managers.
 
 
 
Annex 1
These Conditions of Bonds shall apply to the issue of AFLAC INCORPORATED JAPANESE YEN FLOATING RATE BONDS - FIRST SERIES (2011) (the "") pursuant to lawful authorization by Aflac Incorporated (the "").
Bonds
Issuer
 
The aggregate principal amount of the Bonds is 5,500,000,000.
The date of issuance of the Bonds is July 8, 2011(the "").
Issue Date
The Bonds are issued in a denomination of 100,000,000 each. No Bond may be split into Bonds of a smaller denomination or consolidated with any other Bond.
The Law Concerning Book-Entry Transfer of Corporate Bonds, Stocks, Etc. of Japan (Law No. 75, 2001, as amended) (the "") shall apply to the Bonds, and the transfer of the Bonds, the Exchange (as defined in Condition 9) of the Bonds for Certificated Bonds (as defined in Condition 9) and other matters relating to the Bonds shall be dealt with in accordance with the Book-Entry Transfer Law and the business regulations and other rules (including the Business Guidelines for Handling U.S. Book-Entry Transfer Foreign Bonds, collectively, the "") from time to time adopted by the Book-Entry Transfer Institution (as defined in Condition 4) pursuant to the Book-Entry Transfer Law in relation to its services relating to book-entry transfer of corporate bonds, etc.
Book-Entry Transfer Law
Business Rules
The certificates for the Bonds (the "") shall not be issued except in such exceptional events as provided under the Book-Entry Transfer Law where the holders of the Bonds (the "") may make a request for the issue of Bond Certificates. In the event that any Bond Certificates are issued, all expenses incurred in connection with the issue of the Bond Certificates shall be borne by the Issuer, the Bond Certificates to be issued shall be only in bearer form with unmatured interest coupons and the holders of Bond Certificates may not request that the Bond Certificates be exchanged for one or more Bond Certificates in registered form or divided or consolidated. If any Bond Certificates are issued, the manners of the calculation and payment of principal of and interest on the Bonds represented by the Bond Certificates, the exercise of the rights under the Bonds represented by the Bonds Certificates by the holders of the Bond Certificates and the transfer of the Bonds represented by the Bonds Certificates, and all other matters in respect of the Bonds represented by the Bonds Certificates, shall be subject to the then applicable Japanese laws and regulations and prevailing market practice. In the event of any inconsistency between the provisions of these Conditions of Bonds and the then applicable Japanese laws and regulations and prevailing market practice as aforesaid, such Japanese laws and regulations and market practice as aforesaid shall prevail.
Bond Certificates
Bondholders
The provisions of the preceding paragraph shall not affect any Bondholder's right to request the Exchange of a Bond for a Certificated Bonds, as provided in Condition 9.
If any Bond Certificates are issued pursuant to this Condition 1 or Condition 9, the following legends shall be printed in English at the bottom of the face side of the Bond Certificates and any coupons relating thereto:
 
"Any United States person who holds this obligation will be subject to limitations under the United States income tax laws, including the limitations provided in sections 165(j) and 1287(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended and Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder.
This bond/coupon has not been registered under the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), and may not be offered or sold within the United States or to or for the benefit of any U.S. person (each as defined in Regulation S under the Securities Act)."
Securities Act
 
 
 
This obligation shall not apply to Liens upon any shares of Voting Shares of any Person existing at the time such Person becomes a Principal Subsidiary and any extensions, renewals or replacements thereof.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Issuer may merge or consolidate any of its other Subsidiaries into or with another Person and it may sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of its business in accordance with Condition 12. Furthermore, the foregoing restriction will not prohibit any issuance or disposition of securities by any other Subsidiary.
 
"" means any mortgage, pledge, lien, security interest or other encumbrance.
Lien
"" means a legal person, including any individual, company, limited liability company, corporation, estate, partnership, limited liability partnership, joint venture, association, joint shares company, trust, unincorporated organization or government or any agency or political subdivision thereof or any other entity of whatever nature.
Person
"" means: (i) American Family Life Assurance Company of Columbus, an insurance company domiciled in Nebraska, so long as it is a Subsidiary of the Issuer; (ii) any other present or future Subsidiary the Consolidated Total Assets of which constitute twenty (20) percent or more of the Consolidated Total Assets of the Issuer; and (iii) any Subsidiary that may succeed, by merger, consolidation or otherwise, to all or substantially all of the business or properties of any Subsidiary specified in (i) and (ii) above.
Principal Subsidiary
"" means any corporation, partnership or other entity of which at the time of determination the Issuer owns or controls directly or indirectly more than 50% of the shares of Voting Shares.
Subsidiary
"" means, in respect of the Issuer as of any date of determination, the amount of total assets shown on the consolidated balance sheet of the Issuer and its consolidated subsidiaries contained in the most recent annual or quarterly report filed with the Director-General of Kanto Local Finance Bureau pursuant to the Financial Instruments and Exchange Law of Japan (Law No. 25 of 1948, as amended) (the ""), or if the Issuer is not then subject to the continuous disclosure obligation under the Financial Instruments and Exchange Law, the most recent annual or quarterly report filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (in the absence of such report, the most recent annual report to shareholders) and, in respect of any Subsidiary as of any date of determination, the amount of total assets of such Subsidiary and its consolidated subsidiaries from which such consolidated balance sheet of the Issuer and its consolidated Subsidiaries was derived.
Consolidated Total Assets
Financial Instruments and Exchange Law
"" means shares of any class or classes having general voting power under ordinary circumstances to elect a majority of the board of directors, managers or trustees of the corporation in question, provided that, for the purposes hereof, shares which carries only the right to vote conditionally on the happening of an event shall not be considered voting shares whether or not such event shall have happened.
Voting Shares
 
 
 
 
 
As at the effective date of the appointment, the replacement Fiscal Agent shall succeed to and be substituted for the Fiscal Agent, and shall perform its duties and functions provided for in these Conditions of Bonds, the Fiscal Agency Agreement and the Business Rules, with the same effect as if the replacement Fiscal Agent had been named as the Fiscal Agent therein and herein.
 
 
In relation to the Bonds, Japan Securities Depository Center, Incorporated (the "") acts as book-entry transfer institution () under the Book-Entry Transfer Law.
Book-Entry Transfer Institution
furikae kikan
In these Conditions of Bonds, all references to the Book-Entry Transfer Institution shall be deemed to include any successor book-entry transfer institution as designated by a competent minister pursuant to the Book-Entry Transfer Law.
 
 
 
Each date set for payment of interest in this Condition 5(1) is hereinafter referred to as an "".
Interest Payment Date
In these Conditions of Bonds:
 
 
 
 
In these Conditions of Bonds:
 
 
 
 
If on such Interest Rate Determination Date six or more Reference Banks (as defined below) provide the Issuer with such offered quotations, the Rate of Interest for such Interest Period shall be the rate equal to 1.15% per annum plus the arithmetic mean (rounded, if necessary, to the nearest 5th decimal place with five or more in the 6th decimal place to be rounded upwards) of such offered quotations (disregarding two of the lowest and two of the highest of such quotations), as ascertained by the Issuer.
If on such Interest Rate Determination Date not less than two but not more than five Reference Banks provide the Issuer with such offered quotations, the Rate of Interest for the relevant Interest Period shall be the rate equal to 1.15% per annum plus the arithmetic mean (rounded, if necessary, to the nearest 5th decimal place with five or more in the 6th decimal place to be rounded upwards) of the quotations of those Reference Banks providing such quotations.
If on such Interest Rate Determination Date only one or none of the Reference Banks provides the Issuer with such offered quotations, the Issuer shall ascertain the offered rate (rounded, if necessary, to the nearest 5th decimal place with five or more in the 6th decimal place to be rounded upwards) for three-month yen deposits in the London interbank market which appears on Reuters Page LIBOR01 as of 11:00 a.m. (London time) on the London Business Day most closely preceding the relevant Interest Rate Quotation Date (or, if such rate does not appear on Reuters Page LIBOR01, or if Reuters Page LIBOR01 is unavailable on such date, on the most closely preceding London Business Day on which such rate appears). The Rate of Interest for the relevant Interest Period shall be the rate equal to 1.15% per annum plus such rate so ascertained by the Issuer, provided that, if such London Business Day falls on or before the preceding Interest Rate Quotation Date, if any, the Rate of Interest shall be the Rate of Interest in effect for the last preceding Interest Period.
In these Conditions of Bonds, "" means a bank which provided its offered quotation used to calculate the offered rate for three-month yen deposits in the London interbank market which appeared on Reuters Page LIBOR01 as of 11:00 a.m. (London time) on the London Business Day most closely preceding the Interest Rate Quotation Date (or, if such rate does not appear on Reuters Page LIBOR01, or if Reuters Page LIBOR01 is unavailable on such date, on the most closely preceding London Business Day on which such rate appears) in respect of the relevant Interest Rate Determination Date.
Reference Bank
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Prior to the giving of any notice of redemption to the Bondholders pursuant to the preceding paragraph, the Issuer shall deliver to the Fiscal Agent a certificate stating that the Issuer is entitled to effect such redemption and setting forth a statement of facts showing that the conditions precedent to the right of the Issuer so to redeem have occurred and an opinion of an independent legal counsel of recognized standing to the Issuer to such effect based on such statements of facts.
If the Issuer becomes obligated to pay any Additional Amount pursuant to Condition 8 and the Issuer is, in the opinion of an independent legal counsel of recognized standing with respect to tax matters, prohibited by United States law from paying all or any part of such Additional Amount, the Issuer shall, as soon as practicable but not later than the fortieth (40th) day after (i) the occurrence of the events giving rise to the obligations of the Issuer to pay the Additional Amount or (ii) the date on which such United States law becomes effective, whichever is later, redeem the Bonds as a whole, but not in part, at a price equal to their principal amount, together with interest accrued to but excluding the date fixed for redemption (but subject to applicable United States law), upon giving notice to the Fiscal Agent in writing stating that the Issuer would be obligated to pay such Additional Amount and that it is prohibited by United States law from paying the same and stating in reasonable detail the facts and circumstances giving rise to such prohibition and setting forth the proposed redemption date. Such notice shall be accompanied by an opinion of an independent legal counsel of recognized standing, stating to the effect that the Issuer would be obligated to pay such Additional Amount and that the Issuer is prohibited by United States law from paying the same. Upon making such payment of the principal amount and accrued interest (but exclusive of such Additional Amounts) as provided in this Condition 6(2)(I), the
 
Issuer shall be discharged in full from any further obligation as to principal of or interest on the Bonds.
The certificate and the opinion given under this Condition 6(2)(I) shall be kept at the Head Office of the Fiscal Agent promptly after the Fiscal Agent receives them and up to the expiry of one month after the redemption date, and shall be made available for perusal or photocopying by any Bondholder during normal business hours. All expenses incurred for such photocopying shall be borne by the applicant therefor.
The Issuer shall give any notice to the Fiscal Agent pursuant to this Condition 6(2)(I) at least thirty (30) days prior to the proposed redemption date and shall give public notice of such matters to the Bondholders at least fourteen (14) days prior to such redemption date.
 
 
All expenses necessary for the procedures under this Condition 6(2) shall be borne by the Issuer.
 
 
 
Payment of principal of and interest in respect of a Bond shall be made by the Fiscal Agent (in its capacity as paying agent) through the relevant account management institution () or directly to the Bondholders in accordance with the Book-Entry Transfer Law and the Business Rules. Notwithstanding the foregoing, at the time when the Fiscal Agent (in its capacity as paying agent) allocated the necessary funds for the payment of principal of or interest on the Bonds received by it from the Issuer to the relevant participants () which have opened their accounts to make book-entry transfer of the Bonds at the Book-Entry Transfer Institution, the Issuer shall be released from any obligation of such payment under these Conditions of Bonds.
kouza kanri kikan
kiko kanyusha
All payments of principal of and interest on the Bonds, whether or not on any Interest Payment Date, shall be made in Japanese yen.
If the full amount of principal of or interest on the Bonds payable on any due date is received by the Fiscal Agent after such due date, the Issuer shall, or shall cause the Fiscal Agent to, give public notice to that effect and of the method of payment to the Bondholders as soon as practicable but not later than fourteen (14) days after receipt of such amount by the Fiscal Agent. If the date of payment or the method of payment (or both) cannot be determined at the time of such receipt, the Issuer or the Fiscal Agent shall give public notice to the Bondholders of the receipt of such amount and of the date and/or the method of payment to the extent having been determined, and, subsequently, give public notice to the Bondholders of the date and/or the method of payment as soon as practicable after such undetermined items are determined. All expenses incurred in connection with the said public notice shall be borne by the Issuer.
No paying agent may be appointed by the Issuer in the United States or its possessions or make any payment of principal of or interest on the Bonds within the United States or its possessions.
No payment of principal of or interest on any Bond will be made at any office or branch of the Fiscal Agent in its capacity as paying agent, any replacement Fiscal Agent or any other paying agency appointed by the Issuer outside Japan, nor will any payment be made by transfer to an account maintained with a bank located in, or by check mailed to an address in, the United States or its possessions.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
nor will Additional Amounts be paid with respect to any payment of principal of or interest on a Bond to any Bondholder that is a non-U.S. person that is a fiduciary or partnership or other than the sole beneficial owner of any such payment to the extent that a beneficiary or settlor with respect to such fiduciary, a member of such partnership or the beneficial owner would not have been entitled to the Additional Amounts had such beneficiary, settlor, member or beneficial owner been such Bondholder.
"" means any person who, for United States federal income tax purposes, is not (i) a citizen or resident of the United States, (ii) a corporation or partnership created or organized in or under the laws of the United States or of any political subdivision thereof, (iii) an estate the income of which is subject to United States federal income taxation regardless of its source, (iv) a trust if a United States court is able to exercise primary supervision over the administration of such trust and one or more United States persons have the authority to control all substantial decisions of such trust or (v) otherwise subject to United States federal income tax on a net basis in respect of a Bond.
Non-U.S. person
 
 
 
 
 
"" means the Fiscal Agent acting in the capacity of exchange agent.
Exchange Agent
"" means (i) October 8, 2011, being the first Exchange Date, (ii) subsequent to the first Exchange Date, (a) each of the Interest Payment Dates set forth in Condition 5 other than the Maturity Date and (b) the date two Tokyo Business Days prior to the Maturity Date set forth in Condition 6(1).
Exchange Date
"" means (i) with respect to the first Exchange Date, the period from and including July 9, 2011 to and including the date which is 50 days prior to the Delivery Date in respect of the first Exchange Date and (ii) with respect to each subsequent Exchange Date, the period from and including the date which is 49 days prior to the Delivery Date immediately preceding the Delivery Date in respect of such Exchange Date to and including the date which is 50 days prior to the Delivery Date in respect of such Exchange Date; provided, however, that no submission of a Request for Exchange shall be allowed on any date that is not a Tokyo Business Day even if such date falls during the Exchange Request Period.
Exchange Request Period
"" means (i) in the case of any Interest Period other than the final Interest Period, the relevant Exchange Date and (ii) in the case of the final Interest Period, the Maturity Date.
Delivery Date
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If any of the following events ("") shall have occurred and be continuing:
Events of Default
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
then, (i) in the case of the occurrence of an Event of Default specified in (A), (B), (C) or (D) above, any Bond shall, at the option of and upon written notice to the Fiscal Agent at its Head Office on behalf of the Issuer by the then holder thereof (at the time of giving such notice, such Bondholder shall present, at the Head Office of the Fiscal Agent, the Certificate), become due and payable upon the date that such written notice is received by the Fiscal Agent on behalf of the Issuer, unless such Bond shall have already become due and payable prior to such date; or (ii) in the case of the occurrence of an Event of Default specified in (E) or (F) above, the Bonds then outstanding shall automatically and immediately become due and payable upon the occurrence of such Event of
 
Default without any declaration or other act on the part of the holder thereof, unless such Bond shall have already become due and payable prior to the occurrence of such Event of Default, in any such case under (i) or (ii) above, at its principal amount, together with interest accrued to but excluding the date on which such Bond so became due and payable, unless prior to such date all Events of Default in respect of all the Bonds shall have been cured. The written notice given by any Bondholder under this paragraph may be withdrawn by such Bondholder by giving written notice to that effect to the Fiscal Agent at its Head Office on behalf of the Issuer at any time before payment in respect of the relevant Bond is made by the Issuer.
If (i) any of the events specified in items (C) through (F) above has occurred or (ii) any circumstance exists which would with the lapse of time or the giving of notice or both constitute any of such events, the Issuer shall, immediately or in case of (ii) above immediately when such circumstance comes to knowledge of the Issuer, notify the Fiscal Agent of such event and give public notice of such event to the Bondholders. If the event specified in item (A) or (B) above or any circumstance exists which would with the lapse of time constitute such event shall have occurred and be continuing, the Issuer shall also immediately notify the Fiscal Agent of such event and give public notice of such event to the Bondholders.
For the purpose of this Condition 10, the Certificated Bonds shall be deemed to constitute the same kind and class as the Bonds and be aggregated when calculating the aggregate amount of Bonds then outstanding, and the Bonds, if any, then held by the Issuer or any Subsidiary shall be disregarded and deemed not to be outstanding.
For the purpose of these Conditions of Bonds:
"" of any Person means the principal of and premium, if any, and interest due on indebtedness of such Person, whether outstanding on the date of the Issue Date or thereafter created, incurred or assumed, which is (a) indebtedness for money borrowed, and (b) any amendments, renewals, extensions, modifications and refundings of any such indebtedness. For the purpose of this definition, "indebtedness for money borrowed" means (i) any obligation of , or any obligation guaranteed by, such Person for the repayment of borrowed money, whether or not evidenced by, bonds, debentures, notes or other written instruments and (ii) any obligation of, or any such obligation guaranteed by, any Person evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes or similar written instruments, including obligations assumed or incurred in connection with the acquisition of property, assets or business (provided, however, that the deferred purchase price of any other business or property or assets shall not be considered Indebtedness if the purchase price thereof is payable in full within six (6) months from the date on which such indebtedness was created).
Indebtedness
 
 
 
 
When a Bondholders' meeting is to be convened, the Issuer shall give public notice of the Bondholders' meeting at least twenty-one (21) days prior to the date of such meeting; and ensure that the Fiscal Agent, on behalf of the Issuer, shall take the steps necessary for the convocation of the Bondholders' meeting and to expedite the proceedings thereof.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For the avoidance of doubt, the alteration of any provisions concerning the majority required to pass an Extraordinary Resolution or the items with respect to which an Extraordinary Resolution is required cannot be amended by the resolutions of the Bondholders' meeting.
"" means a resolution passed at a Bondholders' meeting by one-fifth (1/5) or more of the aggregate amount of the voting rights held by the Voting Rights Holders representing the aggregate principal amount of the Bonds then outstanding and two-thirds (2/3) or more of the aggregate amount of the voting rights held by the Voting Rights Holders present at such meeting.
Extraordinary Resolution
For the purposes of calculating the number of votes exercised at a Bondholders' meeting, the Bondholders who have exercised their votes by proxy or in writing or (in the event the Issuer permits the exercise of the voting rights by electronic method) by an electronic method shall be deemed to have attended and voted at such meeting.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The registration book for the Bonds shall be prepared and maintained and kept by the Fiscal Agent at its Head Office on behalf of the Issuer.
The registration book for the Bonds shall include the following U.S. tax information (in English):
"Any United States person who holds this obligation will be subject to limitations under the United States income tax laws, including the limitations provided in Sections 165 (j) and 1287 (a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and Treasury regulations promulgated thereunder."
 
The period of extinctive prescription shall be ten (10) years for the principal of the Bonds and five (5) years for interest on the Bonds.
 
All public notices relating to the Bonds shall be published once in the Japanese Official Gazette (if possible) and once in a daily Japanese newspaper published in both Tokyo and Osaka reporting on general affairs. Direct notification to individual Bondholders need not be made. Such public notices
 
to be given by the Issuer shall, upon the request and at the expense of the Issuer, be given by the Fiscal Agent on behalf of the Issuer. The Fiscal Agency Agreement provides that the Issuer shall request the Fiscal Agent in writing to give such public notices on behalf of the Issuer whenever necessary under these Conditions of Bonds.
 
In the event of a judgment or order being rendered or issued by any court for the payment of the principal of or interest on the Bonds or any other amount payable in respect of the Bonds, and such judgment or order being expressed in a currency other than Japanese yen, any amount received or recovered in such currency by any Bondholder in respect of such judgment or order shall only constitute a discharge to the Issuer to the extent of the amount received or recovered in Japanese yen and the Issuer undertakes to pay to such Bondholder the amount necessary to make up any deficiency arising or resulting from any variation in rates of exchange between (i) the date as of which any amount expressed in a currency other than Japanese yen is (or is to be treated as) converted for the purposes of any such judgment or order (or part thereof), and (ii) the date or dates of discharge of such judgment or order (or part thereof). To the extent permitted by any applicable law, the above undertaking shall constitute a separate and independent obligation of the Issuer from its other obligations, shall give rise to a separate and independent cause of action against the Issuer, shall apply irrespective of any indulgence granted by any Bondholder from time to time and shall continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any judgment or order.
 
Except as to the authorization relating to the issue of the Bonds by the Issuer, the Bonds and all the rights and obligations of all the parties concerned, including the Bondholders, arising thereunder shall in all respects be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of Japan.
Except as otherwise provided in these Conditions of Bonds, the place of performance of obligations pertaining to the Bonds is Tokyo, Japan.
Any legal action or other court procedural action against the Issuer arising from or relating to the Bonds or these Conditions of Bonds may be instituted, on a non-exclusive basis, in the Tokyo District Court, to the jurisdiction of which the Issuer hereby expressly, unconditionally and irrevocably agrees to submit.
The Issuer hereby appoints the Counsel of American Family Life Assurance Company of Columbus, Japan Branch as the authorized agent of the Issuer upon whom process and any judicial or other court documents may be served in any legal or other court procedural action arising from or relating to the Bonds or these Conditions of Bonds that may be instituted in Tokyo, Japan; the Issuer hereby designates the address from time to time of American Family Life Assurance Company of Columbus, Japan Branch in Tokyo, Japan, as the address to receive such process and any judicial or other court documents; and the Issuer hereby agrees to take, from time to time and so long as any of the Bonds shall remain outstanding, any and all action (including the execution and filing of any and all documents and instruments) that may be necessary to effect and to continue such appointment and designation in full force and effect. If at any time such agent shall not, for any reason, serve as such authorized agent, the Issuer shall immediately appoint, and it hereby undertakes to take any and all action that may be necessary to effect the appointment of, a successor authorized agent in Tokyo, Japan, and the Issuer shall promptly notify the Fiscal Agent of the appointment of such successor agent and make a public notice thereof.
 
Nothing in this Condition 17 shall affect the right of the Bondholders to institute legal action against the Issuer in any court of competent jurisdiction under applicable laws or to serve process in any manner otherwise permitted by law.
 
Exhibit A
These Conditions of Bonds shall apply to any of the AFLAC INCORPORATED JAPANESE YEN FLOATING RATE CERTIFICATED BONDS - FIRST SERIES (2011) (the "") to be issued pursuant to lawful authorization by Aflac Incorporated (the "") upon an Exchange (as defined in Condition 9 of the conditions of the Book-Entry Bonds (as defined below)) of any of the AFLAC INCORPORATED JAPANESE YEN FLOATING RATE BONDS  FIRST SERIES (2011) (the "").
Bonds
Issuer
Book-Entry Bonds
 
The aggregate principal amount of the Bonds is the aggregate amount of Book-Entry Bonds as to which an Exchange for Bonds has been effectuated on the same Exchange Date (as defined in Condition 9 of the conditions of the Book-Entry Bonds). All such Bonds shall be deemed to constitute the same kind and class with each other and with the Book-Entry Bonds and any Other Certificated Bonds (as defined in Condition 9).
The Bonds are issued in a denomination of 100,000,000 each. No Bond may be split into Bonds of a smaller denomination or consolidated with any other Bond.
The certificates for the Bonds (the "") are issued exclusively in bearer form with interest coupons (the "") attached thereto, and shall not be exchangeable for Bond Certificates in registered form.
Bond Certificates
Coupons
 
 
 
This obligation shall not apply to Liens upon any shares of Voting Shares of any Person existing at the time such Person becomes a Principal Subsidiary and any extensions, renewals or replacements thereof.
 
 
 
 
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Issuer may merge or consolidate any of its other Subsidiaries into or with another Person and it may sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of its business in accordance with Condition 11. Furthermore, the foregoing restriction will not prohibit any issuance or disposition of securities by any other Subsidiary.
 
"" means any mortgage, pledge, lien, security interest or other encumbrance.
Lien
"" means a legal person, including any individual, company, limited liability company, corporation, estate, partnership, limited liability partnership, joint venture, association, joint shares company, trust, unincorporated organization or government or any agency or political subdivision thereof or any other entity of whatever nature.
Person
"" means: (i) American Family Life Assurance Company of Columbus, an insurance company domiciled in Nebraska, so long as it is a Subsidiary of the Issuer; (ii) any other present or future Subsidiary the Consolidated Total Assets of which constitute twenty (20) percent or more of the Consolidated Total Assets of the Issuer; and (iii) any Subsidiary that may succeed, by merger, consolidation or otherwise, to all or substantially all of the business or properties of any Subsidiary specified in (i) and (ii) above.
Principal Subsidiary
"" means any corporation, partnership or other entity of which at the time of determination the Issuer owns or controls directly or indirectly more than 50% of the shares of Voting Shares.
Subsidiary
"" means, in respect of the Issuer as of any date of determination, the amount of total assets shown on the consolidated balance sheet of the Issuer and its consolidated subsidiaries contained in the most recent annual or quarterly report filed with the Director-General of Kanto Local Finance Bureau pursuant to the Financial Instruments and Exchange Law of Japan (Law No. 25 of 1948, as amended) (the " or if the Issuer is not then subject to the continuous disclosure obligation under the Financial Instruments and Exchange Law, the most recent annual or quarterly report filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (in the absence of such report, the most recent annual report to shareholders) and, in respect of any Subsidiary as of any date of determination, the amount of total assets of such Subsidiary and its consolidated subsidiaries from which such consolidated balance sheet of the Issuer and its consolidated Subsidiaries was derived.
Consolidated Total Assets
Financial
Instruments and Exchange Law"),
 
"" means shares of any class or classes having general voting power under ordinary circumstances to elect a majority of the board of directors, managers or trustees of the corporation in question, provided that, for the purposes hereof, shares which carries only the right to vote conditionally on the happening of an event shall not be considered voting shares whether or not such event shall have happened.
Voting Shares
 
 
 
 
As at the effective date of the appointment, the replacement Fiscal Agent in respect of the Bonds shall succeed to and be substituted for the Fiscal Agent, and shall perform its duties and functions provided for in these Conditions of Bonds and the Fiscal Agency Agreement, with the same effect as if the replacement Fiscal Agent in respect of the Bonds had been named as the Fiscal Agent therein and herein.
 
(1) The Bonds shall bear interest from and including the date of issue of the Bonds as stated on the face of the Bond Certificates (the ""), payable quarterly in arrears on January 8, April 8, July 8 and October 8 of each year in respect of the Interest Period (as defined below) ending on but excluding such date; provided that, if any such date would otherwise fall on a day which is not a Tokyo Business Day (as defined below), the relevant due date for payment of interest shall be postponed to the next succeeding Tokyo Business Day unless it would thereby fall into the next calendar month, in which event such due date shall be brought forward to the immediately preceding Tokyo Business Day; provided, however, that where the Issue Date is the date two Tokyo Business Days prior to the Maturity Date (as defined in Condition 5), the amount payable in respect of interest on the Bonds on the Maturity Date shall be the amount which would have been payable as interest on the Book-Entry Bonds on the Maturity Date, but for the Exchange in respect thereof. Each date set for payment of interest in this Condition 4(1) is hereinafter referred to as an "".
Issue Date
Interest Payment Date
 
In these Conditions of Bonds:
 
 
 
 
In these Conditions of Bonds:
 
 
 
If on such Interest Rate Determination Date six or more Reference Banks (as defined below) provide the Issuer with such offered quotations, the Rate of Interest for such Interest Period shall be the same yield spread as the Book-Entry Bonds, which also appears on the face of the Bond Certificate, plus the arithmetic mean (rounded, if necessary, to the nearest 5th decimal place with five or more in the 6th decimal place to be
 
rounded upwards) of such offered quotations (disregarding two of the lowest and two of the highest of such quotations), as ascertained by the Issuer.
If on such Interest Rate Determination Date not less than two but not more than five Reference Banks provide the Issuer with such offered quotations, the Rate of Interest for the relevant Interest Period shall be the same yield spread as the Book-Entry Bonds, which also appears on the face of the Bond Certificate, plus the arithmetic mean (rounded, if necessary, to the nearest 5th decimal place with five or more in the 6th decimal place to be rounded upwards) of the quotations of those Reference Banks providing such quotations.
If on such Interest Rate Determination Date only one or none of the Reference Banks provides the Issuer with such offered quotations, the Issuer shall ascertain the offered rate (rounded, if necessary, to the nearest 5th decimal place with five or more in the 6th decimal place to be rounded upwards) for three-month yen deposits in the London interbank market which appears on Reuters Page LIBOR01as of 11:00 a.m. (London time) on the London Business Day most closely preceding the relevant Interest Rate Quotation Date (or, if such rate does not appear on Reuters Page LIBOR01, or if Reuters Page LIBOR01 is unavailable on such date, on the most closely preceding London Business Day on which such rate appears). The Rate of Interest for the relevant Interest Period shall be the same yield spread as the Book-Entry Bonds, which also appears on the face of the Bond Certificate, plus such rate so ascertained by the Issuer, provided that, if such London Business Day falls on or before the preceding Interest Rate Quotation Date, if any, the Rate of Interest shall be the Rate of Interest in effect for the last preceding Interest Period.
In these Conditions of Bonds, "" means a bank which provided its offered quotation used to calculate the offered rate for three-month yen deposits in the London interbank market which appeared on Reuters Page LIBOR01 as of 11:00 a.m. (London time) on the London Business Day most closely preceding the Interest Rate Quotation Date (or, if such rate does not appear on Reuters Page LIBOR01, or if Reuters Page LIBOR01 is unavailable on such date, on the most closely preceding London Business Day on which such rate appears) in respect of the relevant Interest Rate Determination Date.
Reference Bank
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Prior to the giving of any notice of redemption to the Bondholders and the holders of Coupons pursuant to the preceding paragraph, the Issuer shall deliver to the Fiscal Agent a certificate stating that the Issuer is entitled to effect such redemption and setting forth a statement of facts showing that the conditions precedent to the right of the Issuer so to redeem have occurred and an opinion of an independent legal counsel of recognized standing to the Issuer to such effect based on such statements of facts.
If the Issuer becomes obligated to pay any Additional Amount pursuant to Condition 7 and the Issuer is, in the opinion of an independent legal counsel of recognized standing with respect to tax matters, prohibited by United States law from paying all or any part of such Additional Amount, the Issuer shall, as soon as practicable but not later than the fortieth (40th) day after (i) the occurrence of the events giving rise to the obligations of the Issuer to pay the Additional Amount or (ii) the date on which such United States law becomes effective, whichever is later, redeem the Bonds as a whole, but not in part, at a price equal to their principal amount, together with interest accrued to but excluding the date fixed for redemption (but subject to applicable United States law), upon giving notice to the Fiscal Agent in writing stating that the Issuer would be obligated to pay such Additional Amount and that it is prohibited by United States law from paying the same and stating in reasonable detail the facts and circumstances giving rise to such prohibition and setting forth the proposed redemption date. Such notice shall be accompanied by an opinion of an independent legal counsel of recognized standing, stating to the effect that the Issuer would be obligated to pay such Additional Amount and that the Issuer is prohibited by United States law from paying the same. Upon making such payment of the principal amount and accrued interest (but exclusive of such Additional Amounts) as provided in this Condition 5(2)(I), the Issuer shall be discharged in full from any further obligation as to principal of or interest on the Bonds.
The certificate and the opinion given under this Condition 5(2)(I) shall be kept at the Head Office of the Fiscal Agent promptly after the Fiscal Agent receives them and up to the expiry of one month after the redemption date, and shall be made available for perusal or photocopying by any Bondholder during normal business hours. All expenses incurred for such photocopying shall be borne by the applicant therefor.
The Issuer shall give any notice to the Fiscal Agent pursuant to this Condition 5(2)(I) at least thirty (30) days prior to the proposed redemption date and shall give public notice of such matters to the Bondholders and the holders of Coupons at least fourteen (14) days prior to such redemption date.
 
 
All expenses necessary for the procedures under this Condition 5(2) shall be borne by the Issuer.
 
 
 
The Fiscal Agent will act as the paying agent in respect of the Bonds (the ". Payment of principal in respect of a Bond shall be made upon surrender of the Bond Certificate and payment of interest on the Bonds shall be made upon surrender of the relevant Coupon, at the office of the Paying Agent set forth in this Condition 6, except as provided in Condition 8.
Paying
Agent")
If any Bond shall have become due and payable prior to its stated maturity, all unmatured Coupons appertaining thereto shall become void on the date set for such redemption and no payment shall be made in respect of all such unmatured Coupons.
All payments of principal of and interest on the Bonds, whether or not on any Interest Payment Date, shall be made in Japanese yen.
If the full amount of principal of or interest on the Bonds payable on any due date is received by the Fiscal Agent after such due date, the Issuer shall, or shall cause the Fiscal Agent to, give public notice to
 
that effect and of the method of payment to the Bondholders or the holders of Coupons as soon as practicable but not later than fourteen (14) days after receipt of such amount by the Fiscal Agent. If the date of payment or the method of payment (or both) cannot be determined at the time of such receipt, the Issuer or the Fiscal Agent shall give public notice to the Bondholders or the holders of Coupons of the receipt of such amount and of the date and/or the method of payment to the extent having been determined, and, subsequently, give public notice to the Bondholders or the holders of Coupons of the date and/or the method of payment as soon as practicable after such undetermined items are determined. All expenses incurred in connection with the said public notice shall be borne by the Issuer.
The name of the Paying Agent and its specified offices at which the payment of principal of and interest on the Bonds will be made are set out below:
Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation - Head Office
The Issuer reserves the right at any time to replace or appoint additional or other paying agents. Notice of any change in or addition to the paying agents or their specified offices will be published in advance in accordance with Condition 14 below.
No paying agent may be appointed by the Issuer in the United States or its possessions or make any payment of principal of or interest on the Bonds within the United States or its possessions.
No payment of principal of or interest on any Bond will be made at any office or branch of the Fiscal Agent in its capacity as paying agent, any replacement Fiscal Agent or any other paying agency appointed by the Issuer outside Japan, nor will any payment be made by transfer to an account maintained with a bank located in, or by check mailed to an address in, the United States or its possessions.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
nor will Additional Amounts be paid with respect to any payment of principal of or interest on a Bond or Coupon to any Bondholder or holder of Coupons that is a non-U.S. person that is a fiduciary or partnership or other than the sole beneficial owner of any such payment to the extent that a beneficiary or settlor with respect to such fiduciary, a member of such partnership or the beneficial owner would not have been entitled to the Additional Amounts had such beneficiary, settlor, member or beneficial owner been such Bondholder or holder of Coupon.
"" means any person who, for United States federal income tax purposes, is not (i) a citizen or resident of the United States, (ii) a corporation or partnership created or organized in or under the laws of the United States or of any political subdivision thereof, (iii) an estate the income of which is subject to United States federal income taxation regardless of its source, (iv) a trust if a United States court is able to exercise primary supervision over the administration of such trust and one or more
Non-U.
S. person
 
United States persons have the authority to control all substantial decisions of such trust or (v) otherwise subject to United States federal income tax on a net basis in respect of a Bond.
 
 
 
The Fiscal Agent on behalf of the Issuer shall prepare and deliver substitute Bond Certificates or Coupons to the holders of lost, stolen, destroyed or mutilated Bond Certificates or Coupons, upon application by any such holder which must be accompanied by a certified transcript of a decision of nullification of such Bond Certificates or Coupons; provided, however, that as to those Bonds or Coupons which have then matured, the principal or interest shall be paid by the Paying Agent without surrender of the Bond Certificates or the Coupons upon presentation of a certified transcript of a decision of nullification of such Bond Certificates or Coupons. Any Japanese court having jurisdiction over the place of principal and interest payment shall have jurisdiction concerning the procedures for the nullification decision regarding the Bond Certificates or the Coupons. If a holder of a Bond Certificate or a Coupon which has been lost, stolen, destroyed or mutilated makes a request, for the purpose of obtaining a decision of nullification, for a certificate to the effect that such Bond Certificate or Coupon has been issued by the Issuer, the Fiscal Agent shall prepare and deliver such certificate. If it is possible for the Fiscal Agent to identify mutilated Bond Certificates or Coupons, it shall, upon surrender to it of such Bond Certificates or Coupons, prepare and deliver substitute Bond Certificates or Coupons therefor without requiring a nullification decision and destroy the surrendered Bond Certificates or Coupons. The actual expenses incurred in respect of the preparation and delivery of substitute Bond Certificates or Coupons or said certificate shall be borne by the applicant therefor.
 
 
If any of the following events ("") shall have occurred and be continuing:
Events
of Default
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
then, (i) in the case of the occurrence of an Event of Default specified in (A), (B), (C) or (D) above, any Bond shall, at the option of and upon written notice to the Fiscal Agent at its Head Office on behalf of the Issuer by the then holder thereof (at the time of giving such notice, such Bondholder shall present, at the Head Office of the Fiscal Agent, the Bond Certificate), become due and payable upon the date that such written notice is received by the Fiscal Agent on behalf of the Issuer, unless such Bond shall have already become due and payable prior to such date; or (ii) in the case of the occurrence of an Event of Default specified in (E) or (F) above, the Bonds then outstanding shall automatically and immediately become due and payable upon the occurrence of such Event of Default without any declaration or other act on the part of the holder thereof, unless such Bond shall have already become due and payable prior to the occurrence of such Event of Default, in any such case under (i) or (ii) above, at its principal amount, together with interest accrued to but excluding the date on which such Bond so became due and payable, unless prior to such date all Events of Default in respect of all the Bonds shall have been cured. The written notice given by any Bondholder under this paragraph may be withdrawn by such Bondholder by giving written notice to that effect to the Fiscal Agent at its Head Office on behalf of the Issuer at any time before payment in respect of the relevant Bond is made by the Issuer.
If (i) any of the events specified in items (C) through (F) above has occurred or (ii) any circumstance exists which would with the lapse of time or the giving of notice or both constitute any of such events, the Issuer shall, immediately or in case of (ii) above immediately when such circumstance comes to knowledge of the Issuer, notify the Fiscal Agent of such event and give public notice of such event to the Bondholders. If the event specified in item (A) or (B) above or any circumstance exists which would with the lapse of time constitute such event shall have occurred and be continuing, the Issuer shall also immediately notify the Fiscal Agent of such event and give public notice of such event to the Bondholders.
For the purpose of this Condition 9, the Book-Entry Bonds and any other bonds (other than the Bonds) issued upon an Exchange in accordance with Condition 9 of the conditions of the Book-Entry Bonds (the "")shall be deemed to constitute the same kind and class as the Bonds and be aggregated when calculating the aggregate amount of Bonds then outstanding, and the Bonds, if any, then held by the Issuer or any Subsidiary shall be disregarded and deemed not to be outstanding.
Other
Certificated Bonds
For the purpose of these Conditions of Bonds:
"" of any Person means the principal of and premium, if any, and interest due on indebtedness of such Person, whether outstanding on the date of issue of the Book-Entry Bonds or thereafter created, incurred or assumed, which is (a) indebtedness for money borrowed, and (b) any amendments, renewals, extensions, modifications and refundings of any such indebtedness. For the purpose of this definition, "indebtedness for money borrowed" means (i) any obligation of , or any obligation guaranteed by, such Person for the repayment of borrowed money, whether or not evidenced by, bonds, debentures, notes or other written instruments and (ii) any obligation of, or any such obligation guaranteed by, any Person evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes or similar written instruments, including obligations assumed or incurred in connection with the acquisition of property, assets or business (provided, however, that the deferred purchase price of any other business or
Indebtedness
 
property or assets shall not be considered Indebtedness if the purchase price thereof is payable in full within six (6) months from the date on which such indebtedness was created).
 
 
 
When a Bondholders' meeting is to be convened, the Issuer shall give public notice of the Bondholders' meeting at least twenty-one (21) days prior to the date of such meeting; and ensure that the Fiscal Agent, on behalf of the Issuer, shall take the steps necessary for the convocation of the Bondholders' meeting and to expedite the proceedings thereof.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For the avoidance of doubt, the alteration of any provisions concerning the majority required to pass an Extraordinary Resolution or the items with respect to which an Extraordinary Resolution is required cannot be amended by the resolutions of the Bondholders' meeting.
"" means a resolution passed at a Bondholders' meeting by one-fifth (1/5) or more of the aggregate amount of the voting rights held by the Voting Rights Holders representing the aggregate principal amount of the Bonds then outstanding and two-thirds (2/3) or more of the aggregate amount of the voting rights held by the Voting Rights Holders present at such meeting.
Extraordinary
Resolution
For the purposes of calculating the number of votes exercised at a Bondholders' meeting, the Bondholders who have exercised their votes by proxy or in writing or (in the event the Issuer permits the exercise of the voting rights by electronic method) by an electronic method shall be deemed to have attended and voted at such meeting.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The registration book for the Bonds shall be prepared and maintained and kept by the Fiscal Agent at its Head Office on behalf of the Issuer.
The registration book for the Bonds shall include the following U.S. tax information (in English):
"Any United States person who holds this obligation will be subject to limitations under the United States income tax laws, including the limitations provided in Sections 165 (j) and 1287 (a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and Treasury regulations promulgated thereunder."
 
The period of extinctive prescription shall be ten (10) years for the principal of the Bonds and five (5) years for interest on the Bonds.
 
All public notices relating to the Bonds shall be published once in the Japanese Official Gazette (if possible) and once in a daily Japanese newspaper published in both Tokyo and Osaka reporting on general affairs. Direct notification to individual Bondholders need not be made. Such public notices to be
 
given by the Issuer shall, upon the request and at the expense of the Issuer, be given by the Fiscal Agent on behalf of the Issuer. The Fiscal Agency Agreement provides that the Issuer shall request the Fiscal Agent in writing to give such public notices on behalf of the Issuer whenever necessary under these Conditions of Bonds.
 
In the event of a judgment or order being rendered or issued by any court for the payment of the principal of or interest on the Bonds or any other amount payable in respect of the Bonds, and such judgment or order being expressed in a currency other than Japanese yen, any amount received or recovered in such currency by any Bondholder or holder of a Coupon in respect of such judgment or order shall only constitute a discharge to the Issuer to the extent of the amount received or recovered in Japanese yen and the Issuer undertakes to pay to such Bondholder or holder of a Coupon the amount necessary to make up any deficiency arising or resulting from any variation in rates of exchange between (i) the date as of which any amount expressed in a currency other than Japanese yen is (or is to be treated as) converted for the purposes of any such judgment or order (or part thereof), and (ii) the date or dates of discharge of such judgment or order (or part thereof). To the extent permitted by any applicable law, the above undertaking shall constitute a separate and independent obligation of the Issuer from its other obligations, shall give rise to a separate and independent cause of action against the Issuer, shall apply irrespective of any indulgence granted by any Bondholder or holder of a Coupon from time to time and shall continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any judgment or order.
 
Except as to the authorization relating to the issue of the Bonds by the Issuer, the Bonds and all the rights and obligations of all the parties concerned, including the Bondholders and the holders of Coupons, arising thereunder shall in all respects be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of Japan.
Except as otherwise provided in these Conditions of Bonds, the place of performance of obligations pertaining to the Bonds is Tokyo, Japan.
Any legal action or other court procedural action against the Issuer arising from or relating to the Bonds or these Conditions of Bonds may be instituted, on a non-exclusive basis, in the Tokyo District Court, to the jurisdiction of which the Issuer hereby expressly, unconditionally and irrevocably agrees to submit.
The Issuer hereby appoints the Counsel of American Family Life Assurance Company of Columbus, Japan Branch as the authorized agent of the Issuer upon whom process and any judicial or other court documents may be served in any legal or other court procedural action arising from or relating to the Bonds or these Conditions of Bonds that may be instituted in Tokyo, Japan; the Issuer hereby designates the address from time to time of American Family Life Assurance Company of Columbus, Japan Branch in Tokyo, Japan, as the address to receive such process and any judicial or other court documents; and the Issuer hereby agrees to take, from time to time and so long as any of the Bonds shall remain outstanding, any and all action (including the execution and filing of any and all documents and instruments) that may be necessary to effect and to continue such appointment and designation in full force and effect. If at any time such agent shall not, for any reason, serve as such authorized agent, the Issuer shall immediately appoint, and it hereby undertakes to take any and all action that may be necessary to effect the appointment of, a successor authorized agent in Tokyo, Japan, and the Issuer shall promptly notify the Fiscal Agent of the appointment of such successor agent and make a public notice thereof.
Nothing in this Condition 16 shall affect the right of the Bondholders or the holders of Coupons to institute legal action against the Issuer in any court of competent jurisdiction under applicable laws or to serve process in any manner otherwise permitted by law.
 
Exhibit B
 [100,000,000]
No. [serial number]
This Bond is one of the AFLAC INCORPORATED JAPANESE YEN FLOATING RATE CERTIFICATED BONDS - FIRST SERIES (issued on MM DD, YYYY) (Note) by Aflac Incorporated upon and in accordance with the Conditions of Bonds appearing on the reverse hereof, and maturing on July 8, 2014 (subject to change pursuant to Condition 5(1) of the Conditions of Bonds), pursuant to the lawful authorization of the Issuer and upon exchange of AFLAC INCORPORATED JAPANESE YEN BONDS - FIRST SERIES (2011) issued on July 8, 2011.
 
[The following legend will be printed in English at the bottom of the face side of the Bond certificates.]
Any United States person who holds this obligation will be subject to limitations under the United States income tax laws, including the limitations provided in sections 165(j) and 1287(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder.
This bond has not been registered under the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), and may not be offered or sold within the United States or to or for the benefit of any U.S. person (each as defined in Regulation S under the Securities Act.
Securities
Act
 
 
Exhibit C
For the amount of interest due on January 8 / April 8 / July 8 / October 8, 20, provided that such date is subject to change pursuant to Condition 4(1) of the Conditions of Bonds.
    
If the Bond to which this Coupon appertains shall have become due and payable prior to the maturity date of this Coupon, this Coupon shall become void on the date set for such redemption and no payment shall be made in respect of this Coupon.
 
 
[The following legend will be printed in English at the bottom of the face side of the Coupon.]
Any United States person who holds this obligation will be subject to limitations under the United States income tax laws, including the limitations provided in sections 165(j) and 1287(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder.
This coupon has not been registered under the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), and may not be offered or sold within the United States or to or for the benefit of any U.S. person (each as defined in Regulation S under the Securities Act.
Securities
Act
 
 
Annex 2
 
as the Handling Manager
In connection with the Subscription Agreement (the "") relating to the above-mentioned Bonds (the "") dated June 29, 2011, this is to certify that as at the time when the entire amount of the Issue Price (as defined therein) of the Bonds has been paid in full by the Handling Manager (as defined therein) and the Bonds in the principal amount of  is stated or recorded in the proprietary column ( in our account with Japan Securities Depository Center, Incorporated or in our account with an account management institution ( on the date hereof (such time being called the ""),such Bonds in the principal amount of  are held by us for our own accounts or for accounts of customers and (i) are owned by person(s) that are not citizens or residents of the United States, domestic partnerships, domestic corporations, any other entity created or organized in or under the laws of the United States, or any estate or trust the income of which is subject to United States federal income taxation regardless of its source (""), each of the above as defined for U.S. federal income tax purposes, (ii) are owned by United States person(s) that (a) are foreign branches of United States financial institutions (as defined in U.S. Treasury Regulations Section 1.165-12(c)(1)(iv)) ("") purchasing for their own account or for resale, or (b) acquired the Bonds through foreign branches of United States financial institutions and who hold the Bonds through such United States financial institutions as at the Certification Time (and in either case (a) or (b), each such United States financial institution certifies to us or you within a reasonable time on its own behalf or through its agents that it will comply with the requirements of Section 165(j)(3)(A), (B) or (C) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and the regulations thereunder), or (iii) are owned by United States or foreign financial institution(s) for purposes of resale during the Restricted Period (as defined in U.S. Treasury Regulations Section 1.163-5(c)(2)(i)(D)(7)), and in addition if the owner of the Bonds is a United States or foreign financial institution described in (iii) above (whether or not also described in (i) or (ii) above), this is to further certify that such financial institution has not acquired the Bonds for purposes of resale directly or indirectly to a United States person or to a person within the United States.
Agreement
Bonds
                    
hoyu ran)
kouza
kanri kikan)
Certification
Time
                    
United
States person(s)
financial
institutions
As used herein, "" means the United States of America (including the States and the District of Columbia), and its possessions, territories and other areas subject to its jurisdiction.
United
States
 
We understand that this certificate is required in connection with certain tax laws and regulations of the United States. In connection therewith, if administrative or legal proceedings are commenced or threatened in connection with which this certificate is or would be relevant, we irrevocably authorize you to produce this certificate to any interested party in such proceedings.
 
 
 

Aflac Incorporated Form 8-K
EXHIBIT 99.1
COLUMBUS, Georgia  June 29, 2011  Aflac Incorporated announced today that it has priced yen-denominated (Samurai) bonds totaling 50 billion yen (par value), or approximately $625 million at the current yen/dollar exchange rate. The issuance consists of 28.7 billion yen ($359 million) of three-year fixed-rate notes with a coupon of 1.47%; 15.8 billion yen ($197 million) of five-year fixed-rate notes with a coupon of 1.84%; and 5.5 billion yen ($69 million) of three-year floating-rate notes with a coupon of three-month Japanese yen Libor plus 1.15%. The company anticipates using the proceeds from this issuance primarily for debt repayment and general corporate purposes. The bonds will be issued in Japan under a previously announced shelf registration filed with Japanese regulatory authorities. This issuance is the first issuance from the November 2009 shelf registration.
Commenting on the pricing of the debt issue, Aflac Incorporated President and Chief Financial Officer Kriss Cloninger III commented: "This debt issuance will facilitate our repayment of approximately 35 billion yen of Uridashi notes that mature in September 2011, and further strengthens our liquidity position."
ABOUT AFLAC
When a policyholder gets sick or hurt, Aflac pays cash benefits fast. For more than 55 years, Aflac insurance policies have given policyholders the opportunity to focus on recovery, not financial stress. In the United States, Aflac is the number one provider of guaranteed-renewable insurance. In Japan, Aflac is the number one life insurance company in terms of individual policies in force. Aflac insurance products provide protection to more than 50 million people worldwide. For five consecutive years, Aflac has been recognized by magazine as one of the World's Most Ethical Companies and by magazine as one of America's Best-Managed Companies in the Insurance category. In 2011, magazine recognized Aflac as one of the 100 Best Companies to Work For in America for the thirteenth consecutive year. Also, magazine included Aflac on its list of Most Admired Companies for the tenth time in 2011. Aflac Incorporated is a Fortune 500 company listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol AFL. To find out more about Aflac, visit aflac.com or aflacenespanol.com.
Ethisphere
Forbes
Fortune
Fortune
FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION
The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a "safe harbor" to encourage companies to provide prospective information, so long as those informational statements are identified as forward-looking and are accompanied by meaningful cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those included in the forward-looking statements. We desire to take advantage of these provisions. This document contains cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected herein, and in any other statements made by company officials in communications with the financial community and contained in documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
Forward-looking statements are not based on historical information and relate to future operations, strategies, financial results or other developments. Furthermore, forward-looking information is subject to numerous assumptions, risks and uncertainties. In particular, statements containing words such as "expect," "anticipate," "believe," "goal," "objective," "may," "should," "estimate," "intends," "projects," "will," "assumes," "potential," "target" or similar words as well as specific projections of future results, generally qualify as forward-looking. Aflac undertakes no obligation to update such forward-looking statements. We caution readers that the following factors, in addition to other factors mentioned from time to time, could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements: difficult conditions in global capital markets and the economy generally; governmental actions for the purpose of stabilizing the financial markets; defaults and downgrades in certain securities in our investment portfolio; impairment of financial institutions; credit and other risks associated with Aflac's investment in perpetual securities; differing judgments applied to investment valuations; subjective determinations of amount of impairments taken on our investments; realization of unrealized losses; limited availability of acceptable yen-denominated investments; concentration of our investments in any particular sector or issuer; concentration of business in Japan; ongoing changes in our industry; exposure to significant financial and capital markets risk; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; significant changes in investment yield rates; deviations in actual experience from pricing and reserving assumptions; subsidiaries' ability to pay dividends to the Parent Company; changes in law or regulation by governmental authorities; ability to attract and retain qualified sales
associates and employees; ability to continue to develop and implement improvements in information technology systems; changes in U.S. and/or Japanese accounting standards; decreases in our financial strength or debt ratings; level and outcome of litigation; ability to effectively manage key executive succession; catastrophic events including, but not necessarily limited to, tornadoes, hurricanes, earthquakes, tsunamis, and radiological disasters; and failure of internal controls or corporate governance policies and procedures.
This notice does not constitute an offer of any securities for sale. The securities to be issued through the above-referenced shelf registration will not be registered in the United States and will not be offered or sold to U.S. investors absent compliance with the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933 or an available exemption from the registration requirements thereof.
Analyst and investor contact  Robin Y. Wilkey, 706.596.3264 or 800.235.2667, FAX: 706.324.6330, or rwilkey@aflac.com
Media contact  Laura Kane, 706.596.3493, FAX: 706.320.2288, or lkane@aflac.com


