FILE:AFL/AFL-8K-20110623121649.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Aflac Incorporated announced today that it has filed an amendment to its shelf registration with the Japanese authorities to issue debt securities up to 100 billion yen. The original shelf registration was filed in November 2009.
As part of the filing, the company provided an update on its investment portfolio derisking. During the second quarter of 2011, Aflac will recognize a pretax loss of $165 million on the sale of investments associated with banks and other financial institutions of Greece and Ireland, $72 million of which was previously disclosed. The company estimates it will recognize $445 million of pretax impairment losses on investments in Portugal banks.
In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information included or incorporated in this report (Exhibit 99.1) shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act"), nor shall such information be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, except as shall be set forth by specific reference in such filing.
A copy of the press release issued by Aflac Incorporated is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
 
(d) Exhibits.
- Press release of Aflac Incorporated dated June 23, 2011
99.1
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX:
- Press release of Aflac Incorporated dated June 23, 2011
99.1
 

Aflac Incorporated Form 8-K
EXHIBIT 99.1
COLUMBUS, Georgia  June 23, 2011  Aflac Incorporated announced today that it has filed an amended shelf registration with the Japanese authorities to issue debt securities up to 100 billion yen. The original shelf registration was filed in November 2009.
As part of the filing, the company provided an update on its investment portfolio derisking. During the second quarter of 2011, Aflac will recognize a pretax loss of $165 million on the sale of investments associated with banks and other financial institutions of Greece and Ireland, $72 million of which was previously disclosed. The company estimates it will recognize $445 million of pretax impairment losses on investments in Portugal banks.
Aflac Chairman and CEO Daniel P. Amos commented: "As we communicated at our Financial Analysts Briefing in May, we are executing on our plan to proactively derisk our investment portfolio. We have made substantial progress with this derisking program this quarter and anticipate concluding this initiative by the end of 2011. The strength of our capital base allows us to pursue our derisking strategy to further strengthen our balance sheet and enhance shareholder value for the long term."
ABOUT AFLAC
When a policyholder gets sick or hurt, Aflac pays cash benefits fast. For more than 55 years, Aflac insurance policies have given policyholders the opportunity to focus on recovery, not financial stress. In the United States, Aflac is the number one provider of guaranteed-renewable insurance. In Japan, Aflac is the number one life insurance company in terms of individual policies in force. Aflac insurance products provide protection to more than 50 million people worldwide. For five consecutive years, Aflac has been recognized by magazine as one of the World's Most Ethical Companies and by magazine as one of America's Best-Managed Companies in the Insurance category. In 2011, magazine recognized Aflac as one of the 100 Best Companies to Work For in America for the thirteenth consecutive year. Also, magazine included Aflac on its list of Most Admired Companies for the tenth time in 2011. Aflac Incorporated is a Fortune 500 company listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol AFL. To find out more about Aflac, visit or .
Ethisphere
Forbes
Fortune
Fortune
aflac.com
aflacenespanol.com
FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION
The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a "safe harbor" to encourage companies to provide prospective information, so long as those informational statements are identified as forward-looking and are accompanied by meaningful cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those included in the forward-looking statements. We desire to take advantage of these provisions. This document contains cautionary statements identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected herein, and in any other statements made by company officials in communications with the financial community and contained in documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
Forward-looking statements are not based on historical information and relate to future operations, strategies, financial results or other developments. Furthermore, forward-looking information is subject to numerous assumptions, risks and uncertainties. In particular, statements containing words such as "expect," "anticipate," "believe," "goal," "objective," "may," "should," "estimate," "intends," "projects," "will," "assumes," "potential," "target" or similar words as well as specific projections of future results, generally qualify as forward-looking. Aflac undertakes no obligation to update such forward-looking statements. We caution readers that the following factors, in addition to other factors mentioned from time to time, could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-
looking statements: difficult conditions in global capital markets and the economy generally; governmental actions for the purpose of stabilizing the financial markets; defaults and downgrades in certain securities in our investment portfolio; impairment of financial institutions; credit and other risks associated with Aflac's investment in perpetual securities; differing judgments applied to investment valuations; subjective determinations of amount of impairments taken on our investments; realization of unrealized losses; limited availability of acceptable yen-denominated investments; concentration of our investments in any particular sector or issuer; concentration of business in Japan; ongoing changes in our industry; exposure to significant financial and capital markets risk; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; significant changes in investment yield rates; deviations in actual experience from pricing and reserving assumptions; subsidiaries' ability to pay dividends to the Parent Company; changes in law or regulation by governmental authorities; ability to attract and retain qualified sales associates and employees; ability to continue to develop and implement improvements in information technology systems; changes in U.S. and/or Japanese accounting standards; decreases in our financial strength or debt ratings; level and outcome of litigation; ability to effectively manage key executive succession; catastrophic events including, but not necessarily limited to, tornadoes, hurricanes, earthquakes, tsunamis, and radiological disasters; and failure of internal controls or corporate governance policies and procedures.
Analyst and investor contact  Robin Y. Wilkey, 706.596.3264 or 800.235.2667, FAX: 706.324.6330, or rwilkey@aflac.com
Media contact  Laura Kane, 706.596.3493, FAX: 706.320.2288, or lkane@aflac.com


