FILE:ARG/ARG-8K-20040729100951.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
Table of Contents
Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (610) 687-5253
Table of Contents
Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On July 28, 2004, Airgas, Inc. (the "Company") reported its earnings for its first quarter ended June 30, 2004, as described in the press release attached as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
The information contained in this Form 8-K report shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1933, as amended, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
Non-GAAP Measures:
The press release attached as Exhibit 99.1 contains certain financial measures that are not defined under generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Free Cash Flow is a non-GAAP measure that provides investors meaningful insight into the Company's ability to generate cash from continuing operations over time, which can be used at management's discretion for acquisitions, the repayment of debt or to support other investing and financing activities. The Company uses the non-GAAP measure Adjusted Debt to provide investors with a more accurate and meaningful measure of the change in the Company's obligation to repay debt by adjusting for the non-recourse debt of the National Welders joint venture, non-cash interest rate hedging and funds received or repaid under the trade receivables securitization program.
The Company's intent is to provide non-GAAP financial information to enhance investors' understanding of the Company's consolidated financial statements and should be considered by the reader in addition to, but not instead of, the financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Item 7. Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Information and Exhibits
(a) None
(b) None
(c) Exhibits.
          99.1 - Press Release dated July 28, 2004
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant and Co-Registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
DATED: July 29, 2004

 
Exhibit 99.1
For release: Immediately
Airgas, Inc., (NYSE: ARG), the largest U.S. distributor of industrial, medical and specialty gases, welding, safety and related products, today reported strong growth in sales, operating income and net earnings for its first quarter ended June 30, 2004. Net earnings for the quarter grew 19% to $22.1 million, or $0.29 per diluted share, compared to $18.5 million, or $0.25 per diluted share, in the same period a year ago.
RADNOR, PA  July 28, 2004 
First quarter sales increased 18% to $544 million reflecting, continued same-store sales growth, the consolidation of National Welders Supply Company (a joint venture affiliate), as well as acquisitions. Excluding National Welders, sales grew 9%. Total same-store sales were up 7% compared to the same quarter a year ago, reflecting continued improvement in manufacturing and other industrial segments. Same-store sales in the Distribution segment were up 7%, driven by gains of 12% in hardgoods and 2% in gas and rent.
"We delivered another strong quarter, growing EPS by 16%, as we benefited from improved market conditions as well as growth in strategic products like bulk gas and safety products," said Airgas Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Peter McCausland. "By continuing to leverage our leading market position and execute with discipline, we are steadily growing our sales and earnings."
"Demand continued to be quite strong for our products, with sales of hardgoods leading the way," added McCausland. "Gas and rent same-store sales continue to grow and June was our strongest month in about two years."
 
Airgas 1Q Earnings Release/Page 2 of 8
The Company repaid $2 million of adjusted debt in the quarter. Free Cash Flow for the quarter ended June 30, 2004 was negative $10 million compared to a negative $3 million in the quarter ended June 30, 2003. Negative free cash flow is typical in the first quarter due to fiscal year end related payments. The recently completed quarter also included increased capital spending and inventory investment as the Company positioned itself to serve increasing customer demand. The definition of free cash flow, a reconciliation to the attached Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, the definition of adjusted debt and a reconciliation to the balance sheet are attached.
McCausland continued, "We expect to announce the closing of our acquisition of BOC's U.S. packaged gas business on Friday July 30, as planned. The growth opportunities associated with this transaction, combined with a stronger industrial economy, gives us a sense of optimism as we move forward. We are on track to meet our full year EPS guidance of $1.21 to $1.27. We expect to earn $0.29 to $0.32 in our second quarter, excluding the impact of BOC integration expenses."
The Company will conduct an earnings teleconference on Thursday July 29, 2004, beginning at 11:00 a.m. Eastern Time. Access the teleconference by calling (800) 817-4887. This press release, slides to be presented during the Company's teleconference and information about how to access a live and on-demand webcast of the teleconference are available in the Investor Info' section on the Company's Internet site www.airgas.com. The telephone replay will be accessible for one week starting July 29 at 1 p.m. Eastern Time by calling (888) 203-1112 and entering passcode 347719.
th
About Airgas, Inc.
Airgas, Inc. is the largest U.S. distributor of industrial, medical and specialty gases, welding, safety and related products. Its integrated network of nearly 800 locations includes branches, retail stores, gas fill plants, specialty gas labs, production facilities and distribution centers. Airgas also distributes its products and services through eBusiness, catalog and telesales channels. Its national scale and strong local presence offer a competitive edge to its diversified customer base. For more information, please visit www.airgas.com.
 
Airgas 1Q Earnings Release/Page 3 of 8
This press release may contain statements that are forward looking, as that term is defined by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 or by the Securities and Exchange Commission in its rules, regulations and releases. These statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding: completing the acquisition of BOC's U.S. packaged gas business on July 30; the growth opportunities resulting from the BOC acquisition and a strengthening industrial economy; and earnings expectations for the second fiscal quarter and full year. The Company intends that such forward-looking statements be subject to the safe harbors created thereby. All forward-looking statements are based on current expectations regarding important risk factors and should not be regarded as a representation by the Company or any other person that the results expressed therein will be achieved. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement include: the success of the Company's ability to grow sales and market share; the closing of the Company's acquisition of the majority of BOC's U.S. packaged gas business; the successful integration of the BOC acquisition; the cost of integrating the BOC business into the Company's operations; an economic downturn; increased industry competition; adverse changes in customer buying patterns; significant fluctuations in interest rates; political and economic uncertainties associated with current world events; and other factors described in the Company's reports, including Form 10-K dated March 31, 2004 filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Consolidated statements of earnings, consolidated condensed balance sheets, consolidated statements of cash flows, and a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures follow.
 
Airgas 1Q Earnings Release/Page 4 of 8
See attached notes.
 
Airgas 1Q Earnings Release/Page 5 of 8
See attached notes.
 
Airgas 1Q Earnings Release/Page 6 of 8
See attached notes.
 
Airgas 1Q Earnings Release/Page 7 of 8
Notes:
 
Airgas 1Q Earnings Release/Page 8 of 8
Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures (Unaudited)


