FILE:ARG/ARG-8K-20041028183209.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (610) 687-5253
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( see General Instruction A.2 below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425).
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12).
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)).
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-14(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-14(c)).
o
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On October 27, 2004, Airgas, Inc. (the "Company") reported its earnings for its second quarter and six months ended September 30, 2004, as described in the press release attached as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
The information contained in this Form 8-K report shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1933, as amended, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
Non-GAAP Measures:
The press release attached as Exhibit 99.1 contains certain financial measures that are not defined under generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). After-Tax Cash Flow is a non-GAAP measure that provides investors meaningful insight into the Company's ability to generate cash from operations to support working capital requirements, capital expenditures and financial obligations. Free Cash Flow is a non-GAAP measure that provides investors meaningful insight into the Company's ability to generate cash from operations, which can be used at management's discretion for acquisitions, the prepayment of debt or to support other investing and financing activities. The Company uses the non-GAAP measure Adjusted Debt to provide investors with a more accurate and meaningful measure of the change in the Company's obligation to repay debt by adjusting for the non-recourse debt of the National Welders joint venture, non-cash interest rate hedging and funds received or repaid under the trade receivables securitization program.
The Company's intent is to provide non-GAAP financial information to enhance investors' understanding of the Company's consolidated financial statements and should be considered by the reader in addition to, but not instead of, the financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(a) None
(b) None
(c) Exhibits.
     99.1  Press Release dated October 27, 2004
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant and Co-Registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
DATED: October 27, 2004

 
Exhibit 99.1
    
For release:
Immediately
Airgas, Inc., (NYSE: ARG), the largest U.S. distributor of industrial, medical and specialty gases, welding, safety and related products, today reported strong growth in sales, operating income and net earnings for its second quarter ended September 30, 2004. Net earnings for the quarter grew 19% to $22.8 million, or $0.30 per diluted share, compared to $19.1 million, or $0.26 per diluted share, in the same period a year ago. The current quarter includes integration expenses of $0.02 per diluted share related to the acquisition of the U.S. packaged gas business from The BOC Group. Results for the quarter ended September 30, 2003 include insurance-related losses of $0.02 per diluted share.
RADNOR, PA  October 27, 2004 
Second quarter sales increased 30% to $600 million reflecting continued same-store sales growth, the consolidation of National Welders Supply Company (a joint venture affiliate), as well as acquisitions. Excluding National Welders, sales grew 21%. Total same-store sales were up 10% compared to the same quarter a year ago, with gas and rent up 6% and hardgoods up 16%. These results reflect continued improvement in manufacturing and other industrial market segments.
"Our momentum continued in the second quarter as EPS grew by 15%. We benefited from ongoing strength in the overall industrial markets as well as solid growth in strategic products like bulk, specialty and medical gases," said Airgas Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Peter McCausland. "In addition to robust hardgoods sales, we saw very good growth in gas and rent sales from the first quarter to the second. The outlook for organic growth in our business is very good and we continue to see acquisition opportunities."
 
Airgas 2Q Earnings Release/Page 2 of 10
Year to date, adjusted debt increased by $166 million as a result of the July 30 closing of the BOC acquisition. After-tax cash flow for the six months ended September 30, 2004 was $106 million compared to $90 million in the comparable prior year period. Free cash flow for the comparable periods was negative $8 million versus positive $33 million. The decline in free cash is attributed to increased inventories and accounts receivable in connection with overall sales growth and the BOC acquisition, as well as capital expenditures to support the growth in strategic products like medical gas and bulk. The definition of after-tax cash flow and free cash flow, a reconciliation of each to the attached Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, the definition of adjusted debt and a reconciliation to the balance sheet are attached.
McCausland continued, "The integration of the acquired BOC U.S. packaged gas business is progressing well and we are very optimistic about the growth opportunities associated with this transaction. We expect earnings of $0.29 to $0.33 per diluted share in our third quarter, including BOC integration costs of up to $0.02 per diluted share."
The Company will conduct an earnings teleconference on Thursday, October 28, 2004, beginning at 11:00 a.m. Eastern Time. Access the teleconference by calling (800) 811-8824. This press release, slides to be presented during the Company's teleconference and information about how to access a live and on-demand webcast of the teleconference are available in the Investor Info' section on the Company's Internet site www.airgas.com. The telephone replay will be accessible for one week starting October 28 at 1 p.m. Eastern Time by calling (888) 203-1112 and entering passcode 976784.
About Airgas, Inc.
Airgas, Inc. is the largest U.S. distributor of industrial, medical and specialty gases, welding, safety and related products. Its integrated network of nearly 900 locations includes branches, retail stores, gas fill plants, specialty gas labs, production facilities and distribution centers. Airgas also distributes its products and services through eBusiness, catalog and telesales channels. Its national scale and strong local presence offer a competitive edge to its diversified customer base. For more information, please visit www.airgas.com.
 
Airgas 2Q Earnings Release/Page 3 of 10
This press release may contain statements that are forward looking, as that term is defined by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 or by the Securities and Exchange Commission in its rules, regulations and releases. These statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding: the positive outlook for the business; acquisition opportunities; the growth opportunities resulting from the BOC acquisition and strengthening industrial markets; and earnings per share expectations for the third fiscal quarter. The Company intends that such forward-looking statements be subject to the safe harbors created thereby. All forward-looking statements are based on current expectations regarding important risk factors and should not be regarded as a representation by the Company or any other person that the results expressed therein will be achieved. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement include: the successful integration of the BOC acquisition; the cost of integrating the BOC business into the Company's operations; the Company's inability to close and successfully integrate acquisitions; an economic downturn; increased industry competition; adverse changes in customer buying patterns; significant fluctuations in interest rates; political and economic uncertainties associated with current world events; and other factors described in the Company's reports, including Form 10-K dated March 31, 2004 and Form 10-Q dated June 30, 2004 filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Consolidated statements of earnings, consolidated condensed balance sheets, consolidated statements of cash flows, and a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures follow.
 
Airgas 2Q Earnings Release/Page 4 of 10
See attached notes.
 
Airgas 2Q Earnings Release/Page 5 of 10
See attached notes.
 
Airgas 2Q Earnings Release/Page 6 of 10
See attached notes.
 
Airgas 2Q Earnings Release/Page 7 of 10
Notes:
 
Airgas 2Q Earnings Release/Page 8 of 10
 
Airgas 2Q Earnings Release/Page 9 of 10
Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures (Unaudited)
After-Tax Cash Flow:
Reconciliation of net cash provided by operating activities per the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows to After-Tax Cash Flow:
After-Tax Cash Flow is defined as net earnings plus depreciation, amortization and deferred tax expense. After-Tax Cash Flow provides investors meaningful insight into the Company's ability to generate cash from operations to support working capital requirements, capital expenditures and financial obligations.
National Welders Supply Co. ("NWS") is a corporate joint venture meeting the definition of a variable interest entity and for which the Company is the primary beneficiary as described under FIN 46R. NWS was consolidated effective December 31, 2003 when the Company adopted FIN 46R as permitted by the interpretation. Prior to January 1, 2004, the Company reported the results of NWS below operating income in "Equity in Earnings of Unconsolidated Affiliates." The liabilities of NWS are non-recourse to the Company. Likewise, the cash flows in excess of the management fee paid by NWS are not available to the Company. Accordingly, the cash flows of NWS have been excluded from the Company's non-GAAP liquidity measures.
(1)
Free Cash Flow:
Reconciliation of net cash provided by operating activities per the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows to Free Cash Flow:
Free Cash Flow provides investors meaningful insight into the Company's ability to generate cash from operations, which can be used at management's discretion for acquisitions, the prepayment of debt or to support other investing and financing activities.
 
Airgas 2Q Earnings Release/Page 10 of 10
Adjusted Debt:
Reconciliation of the change in debt per the Balance Sheet to the increase in debt adjusted for the non-recourse debt of NWS, off-balance sheet financing and non-cash interest rate hedging ("adjusted debt"):
 In calculating the Adjusted Debt measure, the debt of the NWS joint venture has been excluded because the debt is non-recourse to Airgas.
(2)
The Company uses Adjusted Debt to provide investors with a more accurate and meaningful measure of the change in the Company's obligation to repay debt by adjusting for the non-recourse debt of NWS, non-cash interest rate hedging and funds received (or repaid) under the trade receivables securitization program.


