FILE:ARG/ARG-8K-20051027103245.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:
(610) 687-5253
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425).
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12).
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)).
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c)).
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On October 26, 2005, Airgas, Inc. (the "Company") reported its earnings for its second quarter and six months ended September 30, 2005, as described in the press release attached as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
The information contained in this Form 8-K report shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1933, as amended, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
Non-GAAP Measures:
The press release attached as Exhibit 99.1 contains certain financial measures that are not defined under generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Free Cash Flow is a non-GAAP measure that provides investors meaningful insight into the Company's ability to generate cash from operations, which can be used at management's discretion for acquisitions, the prepayment of debt or to support other investing and financing activities. The Company uses the non-GAAP measure Adjusted Debt to provide investors with a more meaningful measure of the change in the Company's obligation to repay debt by adjusting for the non-recourse debt of the National Welders joint venture, non-cash interest rate swaps and funds received or repaid under the trade receivables securitization program. The Company also disclosed a non-GAAP operating margin to reflect more meaningful trend information exclusive of the impact of hurricanes Katrina and Rita in the September 2005 quarter and BOC integration costs in the September 2004 quarter.
The Company's intent is to provide non-GAAP financial information to enhance investors' understanding of the Company's consolidated financial statements and should be considered by the reader in addition to, but not instead of, the financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits
(a) None
(b) None
(c) Exhibits.
     99.1  Press Release dated October 26, 2005
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant and Co-Registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
DATED: October 27, 2005

 
 
For release:
Immediately
Airgas, Inc., (NYSE: ARG), the largest U.S. distributor of industrial, medical and specialty gases, welding, safety and related products, today reported strong growth in sales, operating income and earnings for its second quarter ended September 30, 2005. Net earnings for the quarter grew 30% to $29.6 million, or $0.38 per diluted share, compared to $22.8 million, or $0.30 per diluted share, in the same period a year ago. The current quarter includes pre-tax charges from asset losses related to hurricanes Katrina and Rita of $2.8 million, or $0.02 per share. The prior year includes integration expenses of $0.02 per diluted share related to the BOC acquisition.
RADNOR, PA  October 26, 2005 
Second quarter sales increased 19% to $714 million reflecting continued same-store sales growth and acquisitions. Total same-store sales were up 10% compared to the same quarter a year ago, with gas and rent up 8% and hardgoods up 11%, reflecting strength across customer segments and a supportive pricing environment.
"We delivered another strong performance, earning $0.40 per diluted share excluding the hurricane impact," said Airgas Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Peter McCausland. "We remained focused on our core strategy and managing product supply and pricing in a tight market impacted by extraordinary events. Excluding the charges noted above, operating margin expanded 40 basis points to 9.3%, reflecting solid execution across the board."
"Same-store sales of hardgoods were buoyed by general industrial demand and strong sales after the hurricanes in the Gulf Coast region," added McCausland. "Gas and rent sales maintained good momentum, driven by solid volumes and pricing. We continued to see great results in our strategic growth categories of medical, specialty and bulk gas as well as safety products."
 
Airgas 2Q Earnings Release/Page 2 of 10
Adjusted debt decreased $24 million in the quarter. Free cash flow for the six months ended September 30, 2005 was $26 million compared to $2 million for the period ended September 30, 2004. The definition of free cash flow, a reconciliation to the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, the definition of adjusted debt, a reconciliation to the Balance Sheet and a reconciliation of operating margin are included herein.
McCausland continued, "We are enjoying good momentum across our business. We expect to continue growing earnings nicely, with $0.37 to $0.39 per share in our third quarter, and we are affirming our full year EPS range of $1.50 to $1.56. The full year range includes the $0.02 per share impact from the hurricanes and both ranges contemplate the tight supply environment and recently announced price increases."
The Company will conduct an earnings teleconference on Thursday, October 27, 2005, beginning at 11:00 a.m. Eastern Time. Access the teleconference by calling (800) 811-8824. This press release, slides to be presented during the Company's teleconference and information about how to access a live and on-demand webcast of the teleconference are available in the Investor Info' section on the Company's Internet site . The telephone replay will be accessible for one week starting October 27 at 1 p.m. Eastern Time by calling (888) 203-1112 and entering passcode 8346177.
www.airgas.com
th
About Airgas, Inc.
Airgas, Inc. (NYSE: ARG), through its subsidiaries, is the largest U.S. distributor of industrial, medical, and specialty gases, and related hardgoods, such as welding equipment and supplies. Airgas is also the third-largest U.S. distributor of safety products, the largest U.S. producer of nitrous oxide and dry ice, the largest liquid carbon dioxide producer in the Southeast, and a leading distributor of process chemicals, refrigerants and ammonia products. Its 10,000 employees work in about 900 locations including branches, retail stores, gas fill plants, specialty gas labs, production facilities and distribution centers. Airgas also distributes its products and services through eBusiness, catalog and telesales channels. Its national scale and strong local presence offer a competitive edge to its diversified customer base. For more information, please visit
www.airgas.com.
 
Airgas 2Q Earnings Release/Page 3 of 10
This press release may contain statements that are forward looking, as that term is defined by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 or by the Securities and Exchange Commission in its rules, regulations and releases. These statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding: enjoying good momentum across our business; the expectation that earnings will continue to grow nicely; and earnings expectations for the third fiscal quarter and full fiscal year. The Company intends that such forward-looking statements be subject to the safe harbors created thereby. All forward-looking statements are based on current expectations regarding important risk factors and should not be regarded as a representation by the Company or any other person that the results expressed therein will be achieved. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement include: the success of the Company's ability to grow sales and market share; customer acceptance of price increases; the successful integration of acquisitions; an economic downturn; increased industry competition; adverse changes in customer buying patterns; future revisions to the estimated loss associated with hurricanes Katrina and Rita; significant fluctuations in interest rates; political and economic uncertainties associated with current world events; and other factors described in the Company's reports, including Form 10-K dated March 31, 2005 and Form 10-Q dated June 30, 2005 filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Consolidated statements of earnings, consolidated condensed balance sheets, consolidated statements of cash flows, and a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures follow.
 
Airgas 2Q Earnings Release/Page 4 of 10
See attached notes.
 
Airgas 2Q Earnings Release/Page 5 of 10
See attached notes.
 
Airgas 2Q Earnings Release/Page 6 of 10
See attached notes.
 
Airgas 2Q Earnings Release/Page 7 of 10
 
 
Airgas 2Q Earnings Release/Page 8 of 10
 
Airgas 2Q Earnings Release/Page 9 of 10
Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures (Unaudited)
Free Cash Flow:
Reconciliation of net cash provided by operating activities per the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows to Free Cash Flow:
Free Cash Flow provides investors meaningful insight into the Company's ability to generate cash from operations, which can be used at management's discretion for acquisitions, the prepayment of debt or to support other investing and financing activities.
 
Adjusted Debt:
Reconciliation of the change in debt per the Balance Sheet to the increase in debt adjusted for the non-recourse debt of NWS, off-balance sheet financing and non-cash interest rate hedging ("adjusted debt"):
 
The Company uses Adjusted Debt to provide investors with a more meaningful measure of the change in the Company's obligation to repay debt by adjusting for the non-recourse debt of NWS, non-cash interest rate hedging and funds received (or repaid) under the trade receivables securitization program.
 
Airgas 2Q Earnings Release/Page 10 of 10
Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures (Unaudited)
Operating Margin:
Reconciliation of operating margin to operating margin exclusive of the impact of hurricanes Katrina and Rita in the quarter ended September 2005 and BOC integration costs in the quarter ended September 2004:
Three months ended September 2005
Three months ended September 2004
Management believes the quarterly operating margins, exclusive of the impact of hurricanes Katrina and Rita and BOC integration costs, reflect more meaningful trend information.


