FILE:ARG/ARG-8K-20050505101558.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:
(610) 687-5253
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425).
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12).
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)).
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c)).
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On May 4, 2005, Airgas, Inc. (the "Company") reported its earnings for its fourth quarter and fiscal year ended March 31, 2005, as described in the press release attached as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
The information contained in this Form 8-K report shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1933, as amended, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
Non-GAAP Measures:
The press release attached as Exhibit 99.1 contains certain financial measures that are not defined under generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Free Cash Flow is a non-GAAP measure that provides investors meaningful insight into the Company's ability to generate cash from operations, which can be used at management's discretion for acquisitions, the prepayment of debt or to support other investing and financing activities. After-Tax Cash Flow is a non-GAAP measure that provides investors meaningful insight into the Company's ability to generate cash from operations to support working capital requirements, capital expenditures and financial obligations. The Company uses the non-GAAP measure Adjusted Debt to provide investors with a more accurate and meaningful measure of the change in the Company's obligation to repay debt by adjusting for the non-recourse debt of the National Welders joint venture, non-cash interest rate hedging and funds received or repaid under the trade receivables securitization program. Diluted earnings per share, excluding certain gains and charges, is a non-GAAP measure that the Company believes is more indicative of on-going operations and provides investors with meaningful trend information.
The Company's intent is to provide non-GAAP financial information to enhance investors' understanding of the Company's consolidated financial statements and should be considered by the reader in addition to, but not instead of, the financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits
(a) None
(b) None
(c) Exhibits.
          99.1  Press Release dated May 4, 2005
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant and Co-Registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
DATED: May 5, 2005

 
Exhibit 99.1
Exhibit 99.1
Airgas, Inc., (NYSE: ARG), the largest U.S. distributor of industrial, medical and specialty gases, welding, safety and related products, today reported strong growth in sales, operating income and net earnings for its fourth quarter ended March 31, 2005. Net earnings for the quarter grew 12% to $24.2 million, or $0.31 per diluted share, compared to $21.7 million, or $0.29 per diluted share, in the same period a year ago. The current quarter includes expenses of $0.02 per diluted share related to the integration of the U.S. packaged gas business acquired from The BOC Group and the separation package for the Company's former Chief Operating Officer.
RADNOR, PA  May 4, 2005 
Fourth quarter sales increased 26% to $656 million reflecting strong same-store sales and price gains, as well as acquisitions. Total same-store sales were up 11% compared to the same quarter a year ago, with gas and rent up 8% and hardgoods up 14%. These results reflect continued improvement in manufacturing and other industrial market segments.
"We are very encouraged by our sales momentum, especially the strength in gases, and by the continued trend into April," said Airgas Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Peter McCausland. "The price increases initiated in March are gaining traction and helping to offset cost pressures related to the purchase and delivery of our products."
Fiscal 2005 net sales increased 27% to $2.4 billion. Net earnings for the year ended March 31, 2005 were $1.20 per diluted share compared to prior year results of $1.07 per diluted share. The results for the year ended March 31, 2005 include expenses of $0.05 per diluted share related to the integration of the U.S. packaged gas business acquired from The BOC Group and the separation package for the Company's former Chief Operating Officer. The results for the year ended March 31, 2004 included a non-recurring after-tax gain of $1.7 million, or $0.02 per diluted share, at National Welders Supply Company, and an
 
4Q Earnings Release  Final/Page 2 of 10
after-tax $480 thousand special charge recovery related to a revised estimate on prior years' restructuring charges. Also included in the year ended March 31, 2004 are insurance-related losses of $2.8 million ($1.7 million after tax), or $0.02 per diluted share, for previously announced incidents at two of the Company's facilities.
"We grew fiscal 2005 earnings per share by 18%, excluding the non-recurring gains and charges noted herein, reflecting very good business trends," commented McCausland. "We are seeing strength across our business units and customer segments. Additionally, we surpassed our growth goals for our strategic platforms of bulk gas, safety products and strategic accounts, and also had good growth in medical and specialty gas. We expect continued strength in the year ahead."
Year to date, adjusted debt increased by $145 million as a result of acquisitions, primarily the BOC acquisition. Free cash flow for the year ended March 31, 2005 was $63 million, the majority of which was generated in the fourth quarter, compared to $115 million in the comparable prior year. The year over year decline is mainly attributed to increased inventories and accounts receivable in connection with overall sales growth and the BOC acquisition, as well as capital expenditures to support the growth in strategic products. After-tax cash flow for the comparable periods was $218 million versus $187 million. The definition of free cash flow, after-tax cash flow and adjusted debt, as well as a reconciliation of each to the Consolidated Financial Statements are attached. Additionally, a reconciliation between the growth in earnings per share and the non-GAAP growth in earnings per share excluding certain gains and charges is also included.
McCausland continued, "We expect earnings per diluted share of $1.43 to $1.50 in fiscal 2006, with $0.33 to $0.36 in the first quarter. We expect continued strong execution across the board, with improved operating margins and return on capital as we continue to drive our pricing initiative and complete the BOC integration."
The Company will conduct an earnings teleconference on Thursday, May 5, 2005, beginning at 11:00 a.m. Eastern Time. Access the teleconference by calling (888) 202-2422. This press release, slides to be presented during the Company's teleconference and information about how to access a live and on-demand webcast of the teleconference are available in the Investor Info' section on the Company's Internet site . The telephone replay will be accessible for one week starting May 5 at 1 p.m. Eastern Time by calling (888) 203-1112 and entering passcode 7884986.
www.airgas.com
 
4Q Earnings Release  Final/Page 3 of 10
About Airgas, Inc.
Airgas, Inc. is the largest U.S. distributor of industrial, medical and specialty gases, welding, safety and related products. Its integrated network of nearly 900 locations includes branches, retail stores, gas fill plants, specialty gas labs, production facilities and distribution centers. Airgas also distributes its products and services through eBusiness, catalog and telesales channels. Its national scale and strong local presence offer a competitive edge to its diversified customer base. For more information, please visit www.airgas.com.
This press release may contain statements that are forward looking, as that term is defined by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 or by the Securities and Exchange Commission in its rules, regulations and releases. These statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding: price increases gaining traction and helping to offset cost pressures related to the purchase and delivery of the Company's products; seeing strength across business units and customer segments; expecting continued strength in the year ahead; expecting earnings per diluted share of $1.43 to $1.50 in fiscal 2006 and $0.33 to $0.36 in the first quarter; expecting continued strong execution across the board, with improved operating margins and return on capital as the Company continues to drive its pricing initiatives and completes the BOC integration. The Company intends that such forward-looking statements be subject to the safe harbors created thereby. All forward-looking statements are based on current expectations regarding important risk factors and should not be regarded as a representation by the Company or any other person that the results expressed therein will be achieved. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement include: the Company's inability to implement price increases; supply cost pressures; the Company's successful integration of its acquisitions, including the BOC acquisition; increased industry competition; an economic downturn; adverse changes in customer buying patterns; significant fluctuations in interest rates; political and economic uncertainties associated with current world events; and other factors described in the Company's reports, including Form 10-K dated March 31, 2004 and Forms 10-Q dated June 30, 2004, September 30, 2004, and December 31, 2004, filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Consolidated statements of earnings, condensed consolidated balance sheets, consolidated statements of cash flows, and a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures follow.
 
4Q Earnings Release  Final/Page 4 of 10
See attached notes.
 
4Q Earnings Release  Final/Page 5 of 10
See attached notes.
 
4Q Earnings Release  Final/Page 6 of 10
See attached notes.
 
4Q Earnings Release  Final/Page 7 of 10
Notes:
The cash flows of NWS, in excess of a management fee, are not available for the general use of the Company. Rather, these cash flows are used by NWS for operations, capital expenditures, acquisitions and to satisfy financial obligations, which are non-recourse to the Company. The consolidated cash flows for the following periods reflect the following sources and uses of cash associated with NWS:
 
4Q Earnings Release  Final/Page 8 of 10
 
4Q Earnings Release  Final/Page 9 of 10
Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures (Unaudited)
Free Cash Flow:
     Reconciliation of net cash provided by operating activities per the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows to Free Cash Flow:
Free Cash Flow provides investors meaningful insight into the Company's ability to generate cash from operations, which can be used at management's discretion for acquisitions, the prepayment of debt or to support other investing and financing activities.
After-Tax Cash Flow:
     Reconciliation of net cash provided by operating activities per the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows to After-Tax Cash Flow:
After-Tax Cash Flow is defined as net earnings plus depreciation, amortization and deferred tax expense. After-Tax Cash Flow provides investors meaningful insight into the Company's ability to generate cash from operations to support working capital requirements, capital expenditures and financial obligations.
National Welders Supply Co. ("NWS") is a corporate joint venture meeting the definition of a variable interest entity and for which the Company is the primary beneficiary as described under FIN 46R. NWS was consolidated effective December 31, 2003. Prior to January 1, 2004, the Company reported the results of NWS in "Equity in Earnings of Unconsolidated Affiliate." The liabilities of NWS are nonrecourse to the Company. Likewise, the cash flows in excess of the management fee paid by NWS are not available to the Company. Accordingly, the cash flows of NWS have been excluded from the Company's non-GAAP liquidity measures.
(1)
 
4Q Earnings Release  Final/Page 10 of 10
Adjusted Debt:
Reconciliation of the change in debt per the Balance Sheet to the increase in debt adjusted for the non-recourse debt of NWS, off-balance sheet financing and non-cash interest rate hedging ("adjusted debt"):
In calculating the Adjusted Debt measure, the debt of the NWS joint venture has been excluded because the debt is non-recourse to Airgas.
(2)
The Company uses Adjusted Debt to provide investors with a more accurate and meaningful measure of the change in the Company's obligation to repay debt by adjusting for the non-recourse debt of NWS, non-cash interest rate hedging and funds received (or repaid) under the trade receivables securitization program.
Growth In Fiscal Year Earnings:
The Company believes that diluted earnings per share, excluding certain gains and charges noted above, are more indicative of the Company's on-going operations and provide investors meaningful trend information.


