FILE:ARG/ARG-8K-20050728103551.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:
(610) 687-5253
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On July 27, 2005, Airgas, Inc. (the "Company") reported its earnings for its first quarter ended June 30, 2005, as described in the press release attached as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
The information contained in this Form 8-K report shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1933, as amended, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
Non-GAAP Measures:
The press release attached as Exhibit 99.1 contains certain financial measures that are not defined under generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Free Cash Flow is a non-GAAP measure that provides investors meaningful insight into the Company's ability to generate cash from operations, which can be used at management's discretion for acquisitions, the prepayment of debt or to support other investing and financing activities. The Company uses the non-GAAP measure Adjusted Debt to provide investors with a more meaningful measure of the change in the Company's obligation to repay debt by adjusting for the non-recourse debt of the National Welders joint venture, non-cash interest rate hedging and funds received or repaid under the trade receivables securitization program.
The Company's intent is to provide non-GAAP financial information to enhance investors' understanding of the Company's consolidated financial statements and should be considered by the reader in addition to, but not instead of, the financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
     99.1  Press Release dated July 27, 2005
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant and Co-Registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
For release:                Immediately
Airgas, Inc., (NYSE: ARG), the largest U.S. distributor of industrial, medical and specialty gases, welding, safety and related products, today reported strong growth in sales, operating income and net earnings for its first quarter ended June 30, 2005. Net earnings for the quarter grew 34% to $29.6 million, or $0.38 per diluted share, compared to $22.1 million, or $0.29 per diluted share, in the same period a year ago.
RADNOR, PA  July 27, 2005 
First quarter sales increased 27% to $691 million reflecting continued same-store sales growth and acquisitions. Total same-store sales were up 12% compared to the same quarter a year ago, with gas and rent up 10% and hardgoods up 14%, reflecting pricing actions and strength across customer segments.
"We delivered another strong quarter, growing EPS by 31%, as we capitalized on good market conditions. We had exceptional results in our strategic growth categories of medical, specialty and bulk gas and safety products," said Airgas Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Peter McCausland. "Our leading market position and solid execution are contributing to steady growth of sales and earnings."
"Demand continued to be quite strong," added McCausland. "Same-store sales of hardgoods led the way again in the quarter, with gas and rent sales reaching double-digit growth, driven by strong volumes and pricing. The pricing actions also helped improve our operating margin by 30 basis points to 9.2%."
Adjusted debt increased $57 million in the quarter, as the Company completed four acquisitions with annual sales totaling nearly $100 million. Free cash flow for the quarter ended June 30, 2005 was $7 million compared to a negative $9 million in the quarter ended June 30, 2004. Low or negative free
 
Airgas 1Q Earnings Release/Page 2 of 8
cash flow is typical in the first quarter due to fiscal year-end related payments. The definition of free cash flow, a reconciliation to the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, the definition of adjusted debt and a reconciliation to the Balance Sheet are included herein.
McCausland continued, "We have the right strategic focus and are committed to disciplined growth. Our customer markets are strong, we are executing well, and our fiscal 2006 outlook remains robust. We expect to earn $0.37 to $0.39 per share in our second quarter, and we are increasing our full year EPS guidance to $1.50 to $1.56."
The Company will conduct an earnings teleconference on Thursday July 28, 2005, beginning at 11:00 a.m. Eastern Time. Access the teleconference by calling (800) 565-5442. This press release, slides to be presented during the Company's teleconference and information about how to access a live and on-demand webcast of the teleconference are available in the Investor Info' section on the Company's Internet site . The telephone replay will be accessible for one week starting July 28 at 1 p.m. Eastern Time by calling (888) 203-1112 and entering passcode 1512394.
www.airgas.com
th
About Airgas, Inc.
Airgas, Inc. (NYSE: ARG), through its subsidiaries, is the largest U.S. distributor of industrial, medical, and specialty gases, and related hardgoods, such as welding equipment and supplies. Airgas is also the third-largest U.S. distributor of safety products, the largest U.S. producer of nitrous oxide and dry ice, the largest liquid carbon dioxide producer in the Southeast, and a leading distributor of process chemicals, refrigerants and ammonia products. Its 10,000 employees work in about 900 locations including branches, retail stores, gas fill plants, specialty gas labs, production facilities and distribution centers. Airgas also distributes its products and services through eBusiness, catalog and telesales channels. Its national scale and strong local presence offer a competitive edge to its diversified customer base. For more information, please visit .
www.airgas.com
This press release may contain statements that are forward looking, as that term is defined by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 or by the Securities and Exchange Commission in its rules, regulations and releases. These statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding: the Company's leading market position and solid execution contributing to steady growth of sales and
 
Airgas 1Q Earnings Release/Page 3 of 8
earnings; having the right strategic focus and commitment to disciplined growth; a robust fiscal 2006 outlook; and earnings expectations for the second fiscal quarter and full year. The Company intends that such forward-looking statements be subject to the safe harbors created thereby. All forward-looking statements are based on current expectations regarding important risk factors and should not be regarded as a representation by the Company or any other person that the results expressed therein will be achieved. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement include: the success of the Company's ability to grow sales and market share; customer acceptance of price increases; the successful integration of acquisitions; an economic downturn; increased industry competition; adverse changes in customer buying patterns; significant fluctuations in interest rates; political and economic uncertainties associated with current world events; and other factors described in the Company's reports, including Form 10-K dated March 31, 2005 filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Consolidated statements of earnings, consolidated condensed balance sheets, consolidated statements of cash flows, and a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures follow.
 
Airgas 1Q Earnings Release/Page 4 of 8
See attached notes.
 
Airgas 1Q Earnings Release/Page 5 of 8
See attached notes.
 
Airgas 1Q Earnings Release/Page 6 of 8
See attached notes.
 
Airgas 1Q Earnings Release/Page 7 of 8
 
 
Airgas 1Q Earnings Release/Page 8 of 8
Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures (Unaudited)
Free Cash Flow:
Reconciliation of net cash provided by operating activities per the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows to Free Cash Flow:
Free Cash Flow provides investors meaningful insight into the Company's ability to generate cash from operations, which can be used at management's discretion for acquisitions, the prepayment of debt or to support other investing and financing activities.
 
Adjusted Debt:
Reconciliation of the change in debt per the Balance Sheet to the increase in debt adjusted for the non-recourse debt of NWS, off-balance sheet financing and non-cash interest rate hedging ("adjusted debt"):
 
The Company uses Adjusted Debt to provide investors with a more meaningful measure of the change in the Company's obligation to repay debt by adjusting for the non-recourse debt of NWS, non-cash interest rate hedging and funds received (or repaid) under the trade receivables securitization program.


