FILE:ARG/ARG-8K-20061120165525.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (610) 687-5253
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Page 2
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
     On November 15, 2006, Airgas, Inc. (the "Company") announced the appointment of Mr. Thomas M. Smyth as Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer of the Company effective immediately. Mr. Smyth, 53, had served as vice president, internal audit for the Company since 2004 and had led the internal audit function since joining Airgas in 2001. Mr. Smyth's appointment fills the vacancy created when Robert M. McLaughlin was promoted to senior vice president and chief financial officer in October 2006. Prior to joining Airgas, Mr. Smyth spent four years at Philadelphia Gas Works, where he served in internal audit, controller, and chief accounting roles. Prior to that, he had spent 12 years with Bell Atlantic, currently known as Verizon, in a variety of internal audit and general management roles and in similar positions during eight years at Amtrak.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(a) None.
(b) None.
(c) None.
(d) Exhibits.
The following document is filed as an exhibit to this report.
99.1 Press Release dated November 15, 2006
 
Page 3
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: November 20, 2006

 
Exhibit 99.1
Airgas, Inc. (NYSE: ARG) today announced the appointment of Thomas M. Smyth as vice president, controller and chief accounting officer. He had served as vice president, internal audit for Airgas since 2004 and had led the internal audit function since joining Airgas in 2001.
RADNOR, PA  November 15, 2006 
Smyth's appointment fills the vacancy created when Robert M. McLaughlin was promoted to senior vice president and chief financial officer last month.
"As controller, I have worked closely with Tom on Sarbanes Oxley compliance and other key projects, and we share an approach to use these financial initiatives to drive operational excellence as well as controllership," said McLaughlin. "Tom is a strong leader and has done a very effective job in enhancing the internal audit function for Airgas. I look forward to his contributions in the broader responsibilities as controller."
Smyth joined Airgas in February 2001 as director of internal audit and became vice president in August 2004. Prior to joining Airgas, Smyth served for four years at Philadelphia Gas Works, where he served in internal audit, controller, and chief accounting roles. Previously, he had spent 12 years with Bell Atlantic, now Verizon, in a variety of internal audit and general management roles and in similar positions during eight years at Amtrak.
 
Smyth received a bachelor of science degree from Delaware Valley College and an MBA from LaSalle University. He is a Certified Public Accountant. Smyth and his family live in Northeast Philadelphia, PA.
About Airgas, Inc.
Airgas, Inc. (NYSE: ARG), through its subsidiaries, is the largest U.S. distributor of industrial, medical, and specialty gases, and related hardgoods, such as welding equipment and supplies. Airgas is also the third-largest U.S. distributor of safety products, the largest U.S. producer of nitrous oxide and dry ice, the largest liquid carbon dioxide producer in the Southeast, and a leading distributor of process chemicals, refrigerants, and ammonia products. More than 10,000 employees work in about 900 locations including branches, retail stores, gas fill plants, specialty gas labs, production facilities, and distribution centers. Airgas also distributes its products and services through eBusiness, catalog, and telesales channels. Its national scale and strong local presence offer a competitive edge to its diversified customer base. For more information, please visit .
www.airgas.com


