FILE:ARG/ARG-8K-20060501105511.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (610) 687-5253
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425).
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12).
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)).
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c)).
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On May 1, 2006, Airgas, Inc. (the "Company") reported its earnings for its fourth quarter and fiscal year ended March 31, 2006, as described in the press release attached as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
The information contained in this Form 8-K report shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1933, as amended, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
Non-GAAP Measures:
The press release attached as Exhibit 99.1 contains a Free Cash Flow financial measure that is not defined under generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Free Cash Flow is a non-GAAP measure that provides investors meaningful insight into the Company's ability to generate cash from operations, which can be used at management's discretion for acquisitions, the prepayment of debt or to support other investing and financing activities.
The Company's intent is to provide non-GAAP financial information to enhance investors' understanding of the Company's consolidated financial statements and should be considered by the reader in addition to, but not instead of, the financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits
(a) None
(b) None
(c) Exhibits.
     99.1  Press Release dated May 1, 2006
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant and Co-Registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
  (Registrant)
AIRGAS, INC.
AIRGAS EAST, INC. AIRGAS GREAT LAKES, INC. AIRGAS MID AMERICA, INC. AIRGAS NORTH CENTRAL, INC. AIRGAS SOUTH, INC. AIRGAS GULF STATES, INC. AIRGAS MID SOUTH, INC. AIRGAS INTERMOUNTAIN, INC. AIRGAS NORPAC, INC. AIRGAS NORTHERN CALIFORNIA & NEVADA, INC. AIRGAS SOUTHWEST, INC. AIRGAS WEST, INC. AIRGAS SAFETY, INC. AIRGAS CARBONIC, INC. AIRGAS SPECIALTY GASES, INC. NITROUS OXIDE CORP. RED-D-ARC, INC. AIRGAS DATA, LLC
 
ATNL, INC.
DATED: May 1, 2006

 
For release:       Immediately
     
Airgas Reports Record 4th Quarter Income from Continuing Operations of $0.45 Per Share
Airgas, Inc., (NYSE: ARG), the largest U.S. distributor of industrial, medical and specialty gases, welding, safety and related products, today reported strong growth in sales and earnings, for its fourth quarter ended March 31, 2006.
RADNOR, PA  May 1, 2006 
Quarterly income from continuing operations grew 51% to $36 million, or $0.45 per diluted share, compared to $24 million or $0.31 per diluted share, a year ago. Quarterly results a year ago included expenses of $0.02 per diluted share related to acquisition integration and employee separation costs. Current quarter net income grew 39% to $33 million, or $0.42 per share, including a non-cash, after-tax charge of $3 million, or $.03 per share, to reflect the adoption of an accounting change.
Fourth quarter sales increased 16% to $747 million reflecting strong same-store sales growth, as well as acquisitions. Total same-store sales were up 12% compared to the same quarter a year ago, with gas and rent up 10% and hardgoods up 13%. Sales results reflect broad demand from industrial, energy, and non-residential construction market segments.
"Our business momentum continues to be very strong. Our emphasis on profitable growth is showing results, as evidenced by a 180 basis point improvement in operating margins, to 9.9% in the fourth quarter," said Airgas Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Peter McCausland. "This quarter, we saw particularly strong performance from our Gas Operations units and from our Distribution companies along the Gulf Coast and in the Western half of the U.S."
Sales in fiscal 2006 increased 20% to $2.8 billion. Earnings from continuing operations for the year ended March 31, 2006 were $1.62 per diluted share compared to prior year results of $1.19 per diluted share. Current year results from continuing operations include charges of $0.02 per diluted share from asset losses related to hurricanes Katrina and Rita. Prior year results from continuing operations included expenses of
 
$0.05 per diluted share related to acquisition integration and employee separation costs. Current year results from discontinued operations include a $0.02 per diluted share loss on the divestiture of Rutland Tool. The discontinued operations of Rutland Tool contributed earnings of $0.01 per diluted share in the prior year. For the full fiscal year 2006, net income was $124 million, or $1.57 per diluted share, including the $0.03 charge for the adoption of the accounting change.
Effective March 31, 2006, the Company adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 47, "Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations" (FIN 47). The $3 million after-tax charge was recorded as the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle related to asset retirement obligations. The ongoing expense resulting from the adoption of FIN 47 is anticipated to be immaterial.
"We delivered outstanding financial results in fiscal 2006, growing earnings per share from continuing operations by 36%. Net cash from operations was $362 million, facilitating healthy reinvestment in growth. We purchased over $100 million of cylinders, cryogenic tanks, and rental welding machines to support our strong momentum. In addition, we spent $128 million to acquire 13 companies with combined annual sales of $141 million," commented McCausland.
He also said, "Airgas associates continue to raise the standards for performance. The external environment during the year was mixed, with strong economic activity giving us wind at our back, yet with considerable inflationary cost pressures and hurricane-related disruptions in product supply. Our associates did a great job staying ahead of the cost curve and keeping our customers supplied while preserving our margins."
For the year, free cash flow was $116 million, compared to $63 million in the prior year. The definition of free cash flow and reconciliation to the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows is attached.
McCausland continued, "We expect earnings per diluted share of $1.76 to $1.84 in fiscal 2007, including the impact of about $0.11 of stock-based compensation expense. First quarter expectations are $0.42 to $0.44. We anticipate continued strong performance across the board, as we leverage our industry-leading infrastructure and entrepreneurial Airgas culture by focusing on customer-centric execution."
The Company will conduct an earnings teleconference at 11:00 a.m. Eastern Time on Monday, May 1. The teleconference will be available by calling (800) 822-4794. The presentation materials (this press release, slides to be presented during the Company's teleconference, and information about how to
 
access a live and on-demand webcast of the teleconference) are available in the "Investor Information" section under the "Company Information" heading on the Company's Internet site at . A webcast of the teleconference will be available live and on demand through June 2 at . A replay of the teleconference will be available through May 9. To listen, call (888) 203-1112 and enter passcode 7355459.
www.airgas.com
http://www.shareholder.com/arg/medialist.cfm
About Airgas, Inc.
Airgas, Inc. (NYSE: ARG), through its subsidiaries, is the largest U.S. distributor of industrial, medical, and specialty gases, and related hardgoods, such as welding equipment and supplies. Airgas is also the third-largest U.S. distributor of safety products, the largest U.S. producer of nitrous oxide and dry ice, the largest liquid carbon dioxide producer in the Southeast, and a leading distributor of process chemicals, refrigerants and ammonia products. Its 10,000 employees work in about 900 locations including branches, retail stores, gas fill plants, specialty gas labs, production facilities and distribution centers. Airgas also distributes its products and services through eBusiness, catalog and telesales channels. Its national scale and strong local presence offer a competitive edge to its diversified customer base. For more information, please visit www.airgas.com.
This press release may contain statements that are forward looking, as that term is defined by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 or by the Securities and Exchange Commission in its rules, regulations and releases. These statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding: our business momentum continuing to be very strong; our continued emphasis on profitable growth; our expectation of earnings per diluted share of $1.76 to $1.84 in fiscal 2007 and $0.42 to $0.44 in the first quarter; our expectation of $0.11 per diluted share of stock-based compensation expense; our ongoing expense from the adoption of FIN 47 being immaterial; and our expectation of continued strong performance across the board as we leverage our industry-leading infrastructure and entrepreneurial Airgas culture by focusing on customer-centric execution. The Company intends that such forward-looking statements be subject to the safe harbors created thereby. All forward-looking statements are based on current expectations regarding important risk factors and should not be regarded as a representation by the Company or any other person that the results expressed therein will be achieved. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement
 
include: the Company's inability to implement price increases; supply cost pressures; increased industry competition; an economic downturn; adverse changes in customer buying patterns; significant fluctuations in interest rates; the impact of unexpected stock-based compensation expense; increases in energy costs; the effect hurricanes and other catastrophic events; political and economic uncertainties associated with current world events; and other factors described in the Company's reports, including Form 10-K dated March 31, 2005 and Forms 10-Q dated June 30, 2005, September 30, 2005, and December 31, 2005, filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Consolidated statements of earnings, consolidated condensed balance sheets, consolidated statements of cash flows, and a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures follow.
 
See attached notes.
 
See attached notes.
 
See attached notes.
 
Notes:
 
 
 
 
 
Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measure (Unaudited)
     
Free Cash Flow:
     Reconciliation of net cash provided by operating activities per the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows to Free Cash Flow:
Free Cash Flow provides investors meaningful insight into the Company's ability to generate cash from operations, which can be used at management's discretion for acquisitions, the prepayment of debt or to support other investing and financing activities.
 


