FILE:ARG/ARG-8K-20060727105503.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 1.01
Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
On July 25, 2006, Airgas, Inc. (the "Company") announced that it amended and restated its senior credit facility with a syndicate of banks, including Bank of America, N.A., as US Agent, The Bank of Nova Scotia, as Canadian Agent, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Syndication Agent, The Bank of New York, The Bank of Tokyo- Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., PNC Bank, N.A., and certain other lenders. The $1.6 billion senior unsecured credit facility (the "Credit Agreement"), effective July 25, 2006, consists of a US$966 million and C$40 million (the US dollar equivalent of $34 million) revolving credit line and two deferred draw term loans totaling $600 million. The Company intends to use borrowings under the revolving credit line for working capital, acquisitions and general corporate purposes. The $100 million term loan may only be used to refinance the Company's 7.75% medium-term notes due on September 15, 2006, and the $500 million term loan may only be used to finance certain contemplated acquisitions. If the contemplated acquisitions are not completed, the outstanding commitment for the unused portion of the $500 million term loan will expire in May 2007. The revolving credit line matures on July 25, 2011. The term loans will be payable in periodic installments from the date of drawing on the term loans through July 25, 2011.
The Credit Agreement amends and restates the credit agreement dated January 15, 2005, (the "2005 Agreement"), which would have matured on January 14, 2010 and permitted the Company to borrow up to the equivalent of $428 million. The Company's initial borrowings under the Credit Agreement total $191 million. The current interest rate on borrowings under the Credit Agreement is LIBOR plus 75 basis points, which is down from LIBOR plus 95 basis points under the 2005 Agreement. The interest rate under the Credit Agreement may increase or decrease based on the Company's credit rating.
The covenants under the Credit Agreement are generally similar to those in the 2005 Agreement and include certain leverage ratios, which could potentially restrict additional borrowings. The Credit Agreement also contains customary events of default, including nonpayment and breach of covenants. In the event of default, repayment of borrowings under the Credit Agreement may be accelerated.
Under the Credit Agreement, the Company's domestic subsidiaries guarantee the U.S. borrowings and Canadian borrowings, and the Company's foreign subsidiaries also guarantee the Canadian borrowings. The guarantees are full and unconditional and are made on a joint and several basis. The Company has pledged 100% of the stock of its domestic subsidiaries and 65% of the stock of its foreign subsidiaries as surety for its obligations under the agreement. The Credit Agreement provides for the release of the guarantees and collateral if the Company attains an investment grade credit rating and a similar release on all other debt.
The Company's press release describing the Credit Agreement is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Table of Contents
Item 2.02
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On July 26, 2006, the Company reported its earnings for its fiscal first quarter ended June 30, 2006, as described in the press release attached as Exhibit 99.2 and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 2.03
Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
The information set forth under Item 1.01 above relating to the Credit Agreement is incorporated by reference into this Item 2.03.
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits
(a) None
(b) None
(c) None
(d) Exhibits.
     99.1  Press Release dated July 25, 2006
     99.2  Press Release dated July 26, 2006
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant and Co-Registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
DATED: July 27, 2006

 
Exhibit 99.1
For release:            Immediately
Airgas, Inc. (NYSE: ARG) today announced it has amended and restated its senior credit facility with a syndicate of banks. The five-year $1.6 billion senior unsecured credit facility (the "Credit Agreement"), consists of a US$966 million and C$40 million (the US dollar equivalent of $34 million) revolving credit line and a $600 million term loan. The drawing on the term loan is contingent on the maturity of $100 million of the 7.75% medium term notes on September 15, 2006, and the closing of certain acquisitions.
RADNOR, PA  July 25, 2006 
Airgas is currently contemplating several acquisitions, which, if completed, would be funded with the borrowings that are available under the Credit Agreement.
The Credit Agreement supersedes the credit agreement dated January 14, 2005, (the "2005 Agreement"), which would have matured in January 14, 2010 and permitted the company to borrow up to the equivalent of $428 million. The company's initial borrowings under the Credit Agreement total $191 million. The current borrowing rate is LIBOR plus 75 basis points, down from LIBOR plus 95 basis points under the 2005 Agreement. The covenants under the new Credit Agreement are generally similar to those in the 2005 Agreement. The Company expects to file the Credit Agreement as an Exhibit to the 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2006.
 
Airgas also announced that as a result of the acquisitions under consideration, it suspended the three-year share repurchase plan it initiated in November 2005. The Company will focus on using its cash flow to pay down debt, grow its dividend, and to continue investing in growth opportunities, including future acquisitions.
About Airgas, Inc.
Airgas, Inc. (NYSE: ARG), through its subsidiaries, is the largest U.S. distributor of industrial, medical, and specialty gases, and related hardgoods, such as welding equipment and supplies. Airgas is also the third-largest U.S. distributor of safety products, the largest U.S. producer of nitrous oxide and dry ice, the largest liquid carbon dioxide producer in the Southeast, and a leading distributor of process chemicals, refrigerants and ammonia products. Its 10,000 employees work in about 900 locations including branches, retail stores, gas fill plants, specialty gas labs, production facilities and distribution centers. Airgas also distributes its products and services through eBusiness, catalog and telesales channels. Its national scale and strong local presence offer a competitive edge to its diversified customer base. For more information, please visit
www.airgas.com.
This press release may contain statements that are forward looking, as that term is defined by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 or by the Securities and Exchange Commission in its rules, regulations, and releases. These statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding: the issuance of a $600 million term loan; the maturity of the medium term notes; the successful negotiation and closing of the acquisitions currently being negotiated; the Company's focus on using cash flow to pay down debt, increase its dividends and invest in growth opportunities, including acquisitions. The Company intends that such forward-looking statements be subject to the safe harbors created thereby. All forward-looking statements are based on current expectations regarding important risk factors and should not be regarded as a representation by the Company or any other person that the results expressed therein will be achieved. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement include: the Company's ability to identify growth opportunities, including acquisition candidates, and to implement such opportunities and consummate and successfully integrate future acquisitions; disruption to the Company's business from integration problems associated with acquisitions; higher than estimated interest expense resulting from increases in LIBOR ; a lack of available cash flow necessary to pay future dividends, or to increase dividends; the inability to manage interest rate exposure; and other factors described in the Company's reports, including Form 10-K dated March 31, 2006, filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

 
Exhibit 99.2
For release:            Immediately
Airgas, Inc., (NYSE: ARG), the largest U.S. distributor of industrial, medical and specialty gases, welding, safety, and related products, today reported strong growth in sales and earnings for its first quarter ended June 30, 2006.
RADNOR, PA  July 26, 2006 
Quarterly net earnings grew 30% to $39 million, or $0.48 per diluted share, compared to $30 million, or $0.38 per diluted share, in the same period a year ago. First quarter sales grew to $773 million, up 14% over the prior year. Total same-store sales were up 9%, with hardgoods up 10% and gas and rent up 9%. Industrial production, energy, and non-residential construction continued to exhibit strong demand.
"Our solid same-store sales results show the sustained momentum we are generating through our core business and strategic product initiatives," said Airgas Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Peter McCausland. "Acquisitions contributed nicely to our sales growth this quarter, and we expect to complete some significant acquisitions in the near future as well."
McCausland continued, "We improved operating margins by 90 basis points year over year to 10.2%. Our results reflect not only sales growth, but also improvements in operational efficiency. We are executing well with expense and price discipline to stay ahead of the cost curve and to deliver the products and services our customers need." He noted that the pricing actions in the first quarter took effect on June 26 in the final days of the quarter.
"Given the continued momentum in sales and earnings growth, we expect to earn $0.45 to $0.47 per diluted share in the second quarter, and we are increasing our full-year EPS guidance to $1.85 to $1.92. Our associates continue to create value in many different ways, and we are optimistic about the future."
 
The current quarter marks the Company's prospective adoption of SFAS 123R, The accounting change increased expense by $0.02 per share in the first quarter. Also included in the first quarter is a one-time $0.02 per share benefit related to a recent change in state tax law.
Share-Based Payment.
The Company will conduct an earnings teleconference at 11:00 a.m. Eastern Time on Thursday, July 27. The teleconference will be available by calling (877) 704-5385. The presentation materials (this press release, slides to be presented during the Company's teleconference, and information about how to access a live and on-demand webcast of the teleconference) are available in the "Investor Information" section under the "Company Information" heading on the Company's Internet site at . A webcast of the teleconference will be available live and on demand through August 25 at . A replay of the teleconference will be available through August 4. To listen, call (888) 203-1112 and enter passcode 4789001.
www.airgas.com
http://www.shareholder.com/arg/medialist.cfm
About Airgas, Inc.
Airgas, Inc. (NYSE: ARG), through its subsidiaries, is the largest U.S. distributor of industrial, medical, and specialty gases, and hardgoods, such as welding equipment and supplies. Airgas is also the third-largest U.S. distributor of safety products, the largest U.S. producer of nitrous oxide and dry ice, the largest liquid carbon dioxide producer in the Southeast, and a leading distributor of process chemicals, refrigerants and ammonia products. Its 10,000 employees work in about 900 locations including branches, retail stores, gas fill plants, specialty gas labs, production facilities and distribution centers. Airgas also distributes its products and services through eBusiness, catalog and telesales channels. Its national scale and strong local presence offer a competitive edge to its diversified customer base. For more information, please visit www.airgas.com.
This press release may contain statements that are forward looking, as that term is defined by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 or by the Securities and Exchange Commission in its rules, regulations and releases. These statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding: expectations for completing significant acquisitions in the near future; our expense and price discipline to
 
stay ahead of the cost curve and to deliver the products and services that customers need; our continued momentum in sales and earnings growth; our expectation of earnings per diluted share of $1.85 to $1.92 in fiscal 2007 and $0.45 to $0.47 in the second quarter; and our optimism about the future. We intend that such forward-looking statements be subject to the safe harbors created thereby. All forward-looking statements are based on current expectations regarding important risk factors and should not be regarded as a representation by us or any other person that the results expressed therein will be achieved. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement include: our ability to successfully consummate and integrate the significant pending acquisitions; a disruption to our business from integration problems associated with acquisitions; customer acceptance of the implemented and future price increases; supply cost pressures; increased industry competition; an economic downturn; adverse changes in customer buying patterns; significant fluctuations in interest rates; the impact of unexpected stock-based compensation expense; increases in energy costs and other operating expenses; the inability to obtain alternative supply sources to adequately meet customer demand; our ability to refinance certain of our debt obligations as they mature; the effect of hurricanes and other catastrophic events; political and economic uncertainties associated with current world events; and other factors described in the Company's reports, including Form 10-K dated March 31, 2006, filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Consolidated statements of earnings, consolidated condensed balance sheets and consolidated statements of cash flows follow.
 
See attached notes.
 
See attached notes.
 
See attached notes.
 
Notes:
 
 
 


