FILE:ARG/ARG-8K-20060126104953.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (610) 687-5253
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425).
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12).
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)).
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c)).
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On January 25, 2006, Airgas, Inc. (the "Company") reported its earnings for its third quarter and nine months ended December 31, 2005, as described in the press release attached as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
The information contained in this Form 8-K report shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1933, as amended, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
Non-GAAP Measures:
The press release attached as Exhibit 99.1 contains certain financial measures that are not defined under generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Free Cash Flow is a non-GAAP measure that provides investors meaningful insight into the Company's ability to generate cash from operations, which can be used at management's discretion for acquisitions, the prepayment of debt or to support other investing and financing activities.
The Company's intent is to provide non-GAAP financial information to enhance investors' understanding of the Company's consolidated financial statements and should be considered by the reader in addition to, but not instead of, the financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits
(a) None
(b) None
(c) None
(d) Exhibits.
     99.1 - - Press Release dated January 25, 2006
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant and Co-Registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 99.1
For release:                 Immediately
Airgas, Inc., (NYSE: ARG), the largest U.S. distributor of industrial, medical and specialty gases, welding, safety and related products, today reported strong growth in sales, operating income and earnings for its third quarter ended December 31, 2005.
RADNOR, PA  January 25, 2006 
Quarterly earnings from continuing operations grew 43% to $33 million, or $0.41 per diluted share, compared to $23 million, or $0.30 per diluted share, a year ago. Continuing operations excludes the results of Rutland Tool & Supply, which was divested on December 1, 2005, and is now reported as discontinued operations. Quarterly results from continuing operations a year ago included $0.01 per diluted share in integration expenses related to the acquisition of The BOC Group's U.S. packaged gas business.
Third quarter discontinued operations reported a loss of $1.9 million, or $0.02 per diluted share, primarily due to a loss on the divestiture. Income from discontinued operations in the prior year quarter was not significant. Net earnings for the quarter grew 34% to $31 million, or $0.39 per diluted share, compared to $23 million, or $0.30 per diluted share, in the prior year period.
Third quarter sales increased 17% to $702 million, reflecting strong same-store sales growth as well as acquisition growth. Total same store sales were up 12% compared to the same quarter a year ago.
"We produced another quarter of solid earnings growth," said Airgas Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Peter McCausland. "Our sales momentum continues to be very strong with most regions reporting double-digit same store sales growth. Volume has picked up after the hurricanes and supply pressures of last summer."
 
McCausland added, "Our people continue to execute well on our core business, medical and strategic products strategies. By effectively integrating acquisitions and leveraging our sales growth, we improved the operating margin by 130 basis points to 9.8% for the quarter."
For the nine months ended December 31, 2005, sales were $2.1 billion, up 21% from the prior year period. Year-to-date same store sales growth was 11%, with gas and rent up 10% and hardgoods up 13%. Earnings from continuing operations for the nine months were $92 million, or $1.16 per diluted share, compared with $68 million, or $0.88 per diluted share, for the prior year period. The current period includes losses related to hurricanes Katrina and Rita of $0.02 per diluted share. The prior year period includes integration expenses of $0.04 per diluted share related to the BOC acquisition.
Year-to-date free cash flow was $52 million, compared to negative $7 million for the same period last year. The definition of free cash flow and reconciliation to the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows are attached.
McCausland continued, "Given the continued momentum in sales and earnings growth, we expect earnings in our fourth quarter of $0.41 to $0.43 per diluted share."
The Company will conduct an earnings teleconference at 11:00 a.m. ET on Thursday, January 26, 2006. The teleconference will be available by calling (800) 819-9193. This press release, slides to be presented during the Company's teleconference and information about how to access a live and on-demand webcast of the teleconference are available in the Investor Info' section on the Company's Internet site The web cast of the teleconference will be available live and on demand through February 24 at A replay of the teleconference will be available through February 3. To listen, call (888) 203-1112 and enter passcode 3347520.
www.airgas.com.
http://www.shareholder.com/arg/medialist.cfm.
About Airgas, Inc.
Airgas, Inc. (NYSE: ARG), through its subsidiaries, is the largest U.S. distributor of industrial, medical, and specialty gases, and related hardgoods, such as welding equipment and supplies. Airgas is also the third-largest U.S. distributor of safety products, the largest U.S. producer of nitrous oxide and dry ice, the largest liquid carbon dioxide producer in the Southeast, and a leading distributor of process chemicals, refrigerants and ammonia products. Its 10,000 employees work in about 900 locations including branches, retail stores, gas fill plants, specialty gas labs, production facilities and distribution centers. Airgas also distributes its products and services through eBusiness, catalog and telesales
 
channels. Its national scale and strong local presence offer a competitive edge to its diversified customer base. For more information, please visit www.airgas.com.
This press release may contain statements that are forward looking, as that term is defined by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 or by the Securities and Exchange Commission in its rules, regulations and releases. These statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding strength of the Company's continuing sales and earnings growth momentum and its expected earnings of $0.41 to $0.43 per diluted share in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2006. The Company intends that such forward-looking statements be subject to the safe harbors created thereby. All forward-looking statements are based on current expectations regarding important risk factors and should not be regarded as a representation by the Company or any other person that the results expressed therein will be achieved. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement include: the Company's inability to implement price increases; supply cost pressures; increased industry competition; an economic downturn; adverse changes in customer buying patterns; significant fluctuations in interest rates; political and economic uncertainties associated with current world events; and other factors described in the Company's reports, including Form 10-K dated March 31, 2005 and Forms 10-Q dated June 30, 2005 and September 30, 2005, filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Consolidated statements of earnings, consolidated condensed balance sheets, consolidated statements of cash flows, and a reconciliation of free cash flow follow.
 
See attached notes.
 
See attached notes.
 
See attached notes.
 
Notes:
The net sales and earnings (loss) before income taxes of Rutland Tool (including the loss on sale) for the three and nine month periods ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, which were segregated and reported as discontinued operations, are outlined below:
 
 
 
 
Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measure (Unaudited)
Free Cash Flow:
Reconciliation of net cash provided by operating activities per the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows to Free Cash Flow:
Free Cash Flow provides investors meaningful insight into the Company's ability to generate cash from operations, which can be used at management's discretion for acquisitions, the prepayment of debt or to support other investing and financing activities.
 


