FILE:ARG/ARG-8K-20070703145700.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:
(610) 687-5253
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
Item 3.02
Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities
     On June 29, 2007, Airgas, Inc. ("Airgas") reached a definitive agreement with its National Welders Supply Company ("National Welders") joint venture partners to exchange all 3.2 million preferred shares of National Welders, with a redemption value of $57 million, for 2.47 million shares of Airgas common stock. The exchange will transition the joint venture into a wholly-owned subsidiary of Airgas. Since 1996, Airgas has owned 100% of the joint venture's common stock, with a 50% voting interest. The Turner family and other owners of National Welders preferred stock held the balance of the voting interest and received a 5% annual preferred stock dividend. The effect of the transaction will be to convert a minority interest liability of $57 million, representing the redemption value of the preferred stock, to Airgas common equity. In addition, Airgas will recognize a one-time after-tax charge of approximately $3 million in its quarter ended September 30, 2007 as a result of the transaction.
     On July 3, 2007, Airgas issued the 2.47 million shares of Airgas common stock for the benefit of the National Welders preferred stockholders in reliance upon an applicable exemption from registration under Section 4(2) of the Securities Act of 1933 in connection with a transaction that did not involve a public offering. Judith Carpenter of the Turner family has custody of the shares of Airgas common stock, as agent for and on behalf of the preferred stockholders. The shares of Airgas common stock were acquired for investment and not with a view to their distribution and were issued to holders thereof that had access to information respecting Airgas and its business. Airgas has agreed to use its commercially reasonable best efforts to register the Airgas common stock under the Securities Act of 1933 as soon as reasonably practicable.
     The press release dated July 2, 2007 announcing the definitive agreement reached by Airgas with its National Welders joint venture partners is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits
(a) None
(b) None
(c) None
(d) Exhibit.
     99.1 Press Release dated July 2, 2007
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant and Co-Registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
DATED: July 3, 2007

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
                    
For release:
Immediately
Airgas, Inc. (NYSE: ARG) today announced it has reached a definitive agreement with its National Welders joint venture partners to exchange all preferred shares of National Welders Supply Company for Airgas common stock, which will transition the joint venture into a wholly owned subsidiary of Airgas.
RADNOR, PA  July 2, 2007 
Since 1996, Airgas has owned 100% of the joint venture's common stock, with a 50% voting interest. The Turner family and other owners of National Welders preferred stock held the balance of the voting interest and received a 5% annual preferred stock dividend.
Under the definitive agreement reached, Airgas will exchange approximately 2.47 million shares of Airgas common stock for all preferred shares. Airgas will recognize a one-time after-tax charge of approximately $3 million in its quarter ended September 30, 2007 as a result of the transaction.
"I am very pleased to welcome National Welders associates to Airgas, even though I feel they have been a part of our family since 1996," said Airgas Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Peter McCausland. "I want to thank National Welders associates for all the contributions they have made in the past decade and I am sure they will continue to contribute to our success going forward."
 
Exh 99-1 NWS Exchange NR Final.doc/Page 2
"My father, James A. Turner, was a big supporter of both Peter McCausland and Airgas. He felt that he and Peter shared the philosophy of dedication to both customers and employees," said Judy Carpenter, chairman of the board and daughter of National Welders' founder. Mr. Turner also was a co-founder of Werco, Inc., which merged with U.S. Airgas in 1986, giving Airgas, Inc. the scale to go public.
"When he structured the joint venture, his goal was to allow National Welders to remain independent and yet retain the option to become part of Airgas. Since then, National Welders has doubled in sales and Airgas has become the industry leader. Under the leadership of Andy Cichocki, National Welders has retained the family atmosphere that my father was so passionate about. I know my father is looking down now with a great deal of satisfaction."
As a wholly owned subsidiary of Airgas, Andy Cichocki, president and chief executive officer of National Welders, will report directly to Mike Molinini, executive vice president and chief operating officer of Airgas, Inc. In other respects, National Welders will continue to operate with regional autonomy, very much like other Airgas regional companies do.
About Airgas, Inc.
Airgas, Inc. (NYSE: ARG), through its subsidiaries, is the largest U.S. distributor of industrial, medical, and specialty gases, and hardgoods, such as welding equipment and supplies. Airgas is also one of the largest U.S. distributors of safety products, the largest U.S. producer of nitrous oxide and dry ice, the largest liquid carbon dioxide producer in the Southeast, and a leading distributor of process chemicals, refrigerants, and ammonia products. More than 11,500 employees work in over 900 locations, including branches, retail stores, gas fill plants, specialty gas labs, production facilities and distribution centers. Airgas also distributes its products and services through eBusiness, catalog and telesales channels. Its national scale and strong local presence offer a competitive edge to its diversified customer base. For more information, please visit .
www.airgas.com
 
Exh 99-1 NWS Exchange NR Final.doc/Page 3
This press release may contain statements that are forward looking, as that term is defined by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 or by the Securities and Exchange Commission in its rules, regulations and releases. These statements include, but are not limited to statements regarding: the transaction having the effect of transitioning the National Welders joint venture to a wholly owned subsidiary; our exchanging approximately 2.47 million shares of Airgas common stock for the preferred stock of National Welders; our estimate that we will recognize a one-time after-tax charge of $3 million in the quarter ending September, 2007; the National Welders president reporting directly to the chief operating officer of Airgas, Inc.; and the intention that it operate with regional autonomy. We intend that such forward-looking statements be subject to the safe harbors created thereby. All forward-looking statements are based on current expectations regarding important risk factors and should not be regarded as a representation by us or any other person that the results expressed therein will be achieved. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement include: our ability to successfully integrate National Welders' operations, the ability to retain customers and employees of National Welders; an economic downturn; adverse changes in customer buying patterns; significant fluctuations in interest rates; increases in energy costs and other operating expenses; the effect of hurricanes and other catastrophic events; political and economic uncertainties associated with current world events; and other factors described in the Company's reports, including Form 10-K dated March 31, 2007, and other forms filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


