FILE:ARG/ARG-8K-20070503102545.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:
(610) 687-5253
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On May 2, 2007, Airgas, Inc. (the "Company") reported its earnings for its fourth quarter and fiscal year ended March 31, 2007, as described in the press release attached as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
The information contained in this Form 8-K report shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1933, as amended, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
Non-GAAP Measures:
The press release attached as Exhibit 99.1 contains certain financial measures that are not defined under generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Return on capital is a non-GAAP measure that helps investors access how effectively the Company uses the capital invested in its operations. The Company also provided Adjusted Income from Continuing Operations and Adjusted Operating Margin. Both of these non-GAAP measures provide meaningful insight into earnings growth by adjusting for significant unusual items and the prospective implementation of SFAS 123R, .
Share-Based Payment
The Company's intent is to provide non-GAAP financial information to enhance investors' understanding of the Company's consolidated financial statements and should be considered by the reader in addition to, but not instead of, the financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits
(a) None
(b) None
(c) None
(d) Exhibits.
          99.1  Press Release dated May 2, 2007
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant and Co-Registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 99.1
  
For release:
Immediately
Airgas, Inc., (NYSE: ARG), the largest U.S. distributor of industrial, medical, and specialty gases, welding, safety, and related products, today reported strong growth in sales, operating income, and earnings for its fourth quarter ended March 31, 2007.
RADNOR, PA  May 2, 2007 
Quarterly income from continuing operations was $43.7 million, or $0.54 per diluted share, compared to $36.0 million, or $0.45 per diluted share in the prior year. In April 2006, the Company adopted, on a modified prospective basis, SFAS 123R, . SFAS 123R requires the Company to recognize the estimated value of stock options issued to employees and shares purchased under its Employee Stock Purchase Plan as compensation expense. Had the Company applied SFAS 123 to the prior year quarter, the Company would have recognized income from continuing operations of $34.5 million, or $0.43 per diluted share. Quarterly income from continuing operations per diluted share increased 26% over the prior year quarter adjusted for the impact of stock-based compensation.*
Share-Based Payment
Fourth quarter sales grew 14% to $854 million from the prior year. Acquisitions accounted for 9% of the growth, and total same-store sales increased 5% over robust growth levels in the prior year, with hardgoods up 6% and gas and rent up 5%.
"We capped the most successful year for acquisitions in our 25-year history. The quarter included the acquisition of CFC Refimax in January and the March 9 acquisition of Linde's divested bulk gas business, bringing our year-end total to 13 acquisitions with more than $335 million in acquired revenue," said Airgas Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Peter McCausland.
"Our non-residential construction and energy markets remain healthy. Along with our strategic products, they are helping to provide good growth in today's economic climate," said McCausland. "Most importantly, our growth is profitable, as operating margin in the quarter expanded to 10.9%, an
 
4Q07 Earnings Final NR/Page 2 of 12
improvement of 130 basis points over last year's operating margin adjusted for stock-based compensation. Return on Capital was 13.3%, an increase of 150 basis points over the prior year." *
Sales in fiscal 2007 increased 13% to $3.2 billion, with same-store sales growth of 8%. Earnings from continuing operations for the year were $1.92 per diluted share compared to prior year results of $1.62 per diluted share. The current year includes a charge of $0.10 per share for the early extinguishment of debt and a $0.02 per share tax benefit related to a change in state tax law, while the prior year includes a $0.02 per share loss related to hurricanes. Excluding these items, and adjusting the prior year for the pro-forma impact of $0.10 per share of stock-based compensation expense, diluted earnings per share from continuing operations increased 30% to $2.00 in fiscal 2007.*
McCausland continued, "We expect earnings per diluted share of $2.33 to $2.41 in fiscal 2008, including the impact of the Linde bulk business that we just acquired. First-quarter expectations are $0.52 to $0.54 per diluted share. We hope to outperform the economy again this year, as we benefit from our growth strategies and operating infrastructure."
The Company will conduct an earnings teleconference at 11:00 a.m. Eastern Time on Thursday, May 3. The teleconference will be available by calling (800) 819-9193. The presentation materials (this press release, slides to be presented during the Company's teleconference, and information about how to access a live and on-demand webcast of the teleconference) are available in the "Investor Information" section under the "Company Information" heading on the Company's Internet site at . A webcast of the teleconference will be available live and on demand through June 1 at A replay of the teleconference will be available through May 11. To listen, call (888) 203-1112 and enter passcode 4634965.
www.airgas.com
http://www.shareholder.com/arg/medialist.cfm.
 
About Airgas, Inc.
Airgas, Inc. (NYSE: ARG), through its subsidiaries, is the largest U.S. distributor of industrial, medical, and specialty gases, and hardgoods, such as welding equipment and supplies. Airgas is also the third-largest U.S. distributor of safety products, the largest U.S. producer of nitrous oxide and dry ice, the largest liquid carbon dioxide producer in the Southeast, and a leading distributor of process chemicals, refrigerants, and ammonia products. More than 11,000 employees work in about 900 locations including branches, retail stores, gas fill plants, specialty gas labs, production facilities and distribution centers. Airgas also distributes its products and services through eBusiness, catalog and telesales
 
4Q07 Earnings Final NR/Page 3 of 12
channels. Its national scale and strong local presence offer a competitive edge to its diversified customer base. For more information, please visit
www.airgas.com.
This press release may contain statements that are forward looking, as that term is defined by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 or by the Securities and Exchange Commission in its rules, regulations and releases. These statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding: our non-residential and energy markets and strategic products providing for good growth; expectations for fiscal 2008 earnings per diluted share of $2.33 to $2.41 and first quarter earnings per diluted share of $0.52 to $0.54; and expectations to outperform the economy, as we benefit from our growth strategies and operating infrastructure. We intend that such forward-looking statements be subject to the safe harbors created thereby. All forward-looking statements are based on current expectations regarding important risk factors and should not be regarded as a representation by us or any other person that the results expressed therein will be achieved. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement include: customer acceptance of price increases; supply cost pressures; increased industry competition; our ability to successfully consummate and integrate acquisitions, including the Linde transaction; a disruption to our business from integration problems associated with acquisitions; an economic downturn; adverse changes in customer buying patterns; significant fluctuations in interest rates; increases in energy costs and other operating expenses; the effect of hurricanes and other catastrophic events; political and economic uncertainties associated with current world events; and other factors described in the Company's reports, including Form 10-K dated March 31, 2006, subsequent Forms 10-Q, and other forms filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Consolidated statements of earnings, consolidated condensed balance sheets, consolidated statements of cash flows, and reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures follow.
 
4Q07 Earnings Final NR/Page 4 of 12
See attached notes.
 
4Q07 Earnings Final NR/Page 5 of 12
See attached notes.
 
4Q07 Earnings Final NR/Page 6 of 12
See attached notes.
 
4Q07 Earnings Final NR/Page 7 of 12
Notes:
 
4Q07 Earnings Final NR/Page 8 of 12
 
4Q07 Earnings Final NR/Page 9 of 12
 
4Q07 Earnings Final NR/Page 10 of 12
 
4Q07 Earnings Final NR/Page 11 of 12
Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measure (Unaudited)
Adjusted Income from Continuing Operations:
Reconciliation and computation of adjusted income from continuing operations:
The Company believes this adjusted income from continuing operations computation provides meaningful insight into earnings growth by adjusting for significant unusual items and the prospective implementation of SFAS 123R.
Adjusted Operating Margin:
Reconciliation and computation of adjusted operating margin:
The Company believes this adjusted operating margin computation provides meaningful insight into earnings growth by adjusting for the prospective implementation of SFAS 123R.
 
4Q07 Earnings Final NR/Page 12 of 12
Return on Capital:
Reconciliation and computation of return on capital:
Quarterly averages used in the computation of return on capital above reflect the impact of material acquisitions as of their acquisition date.
The Company believes this return on capital computation helps investors assess how effectively the Company uses the capital invested in its operations.


