FILE:ARG/ARG-8K-20070131105738.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (610) 687-5253
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425).
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12).
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)).
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c)).
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On January 30, 2007, Airgas, Inc. (the "Company") reported its earnings for its third quarter and nine months ended December 31, 2006, as described in the press release attached as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
The information contained in this Form 8-K report shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1933, as amended, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
Non-GAAP Measures:
The press release attached as Exhibit 99.1 contains certain financial measures that are not defined under generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Return on capital is a non-GAAP measure that helps investors access how effectively the Company uses the capital invested in its operations. The Company also provided Adjusted Income from Continuing Operations and Adjusted Operating Income. Both of these non-GAAP measures provide meaningful insight into earnings growth by adjusting for material unusual items and the prospective implementation of SFAS 123R, .
Share-Based Payment
The Company's intent is to provide non-GAAP financial information to enhance investors' understanding of the Company's consolidated financial statements and should be considered by the reader in addition to, but not instead of, the financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits
     99.1  Press Release dated January 30, 2007
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant and Co-Registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
For release:
Immediately
Airgas, Inc., (NYSE: ARG), the largest U.S. distributor of industrial, medical, and specialty gases, welding, safety, and related products, today reported strong growth in sales, operating income, and earnings for its third quarter ended December 31, 2006.
RADNOR, PA  January 30, 2007 
Quarterly net earnings and income from continuing operations were $32.5 million, or $0.40 per diluted share, including a charge of $7.9 million after-tax, or $0.10 per diluted share, on the early extinguishment of debt and $2.5 million of after-tax expense, or $0.03 per diluted share, related to stock-based compensation.
The debt charge was a result of the Company's October 27, 2006 redemption of its 9.125% senior subordinated notes, which reduced interest expense by approximately $500 thousand per month. The stock-based compensation expense is related to the Company's adoption, on a prospective basis, in April, 2006 of SFAS 123R, . In the prior year, income from continuing operations was $32.7 million, or $0.41 per diluted share. Had the Company applied SFAS 123 to the prior year quarter, the Company would have recognized $2.7 million ($1.7 million after tax), or $0.02 per diluted share, related to stock-based compensation. In the current quarter, income from continuing operations, excluding the debt charge, was $40.3 million, or $0.50 per diluted share, an increase of 30% over prior year income adjusted for the impact of stock-based compensation.*
Share-Based Payment
Third quarter sales grew to $787 million, up 12% over the prior year. Acquisitions accounted for 5% of the growth, and total same-store sales increased 7% over robust growth levels in the prior year, driven equally by both hardgoods, and gas and rent.
"We had a great quarter," said Airgas Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Peter McCausland. "Trends in non-residential construction, industrial production, and energy markets continued to support core revenue growth, and our strategic product platforms were strong."
 
Page 2 of 11
"Bulk gas sales grew about 17% during the quarter, which aligns well with our pending acquisition of the Linde U.S. bulk gas business," said McCausland. "We expect to close the Linde transaction in the fourth quarter, which will make Fiscal 07 the largest acquisition year in our history, and our pipeline is still strong."
For the nine months ended December 31, 2006, sales were $2.4 billion, up 13% from the prior year period. Year-to-date same-store sales growth was 9%, driven equally by both hardgoods, and gas and rent. Operating income for the nine months was $248 million, an increase of 27% from the prior year period. The current period includes stock-based compensation expense of $9.9 million. The prior year period includes losses related to hurricanes Katrina and Rita of $2.5 million. Adjusting the prior year for the impact of stock-based compensation and hurricane losses, operating income for the nine months increased 32%.*
McCausland continued, "Operating margin in the quarter expanded by 100 basis points over last year, to 10.8%, and Return on Capital was 13%, an increase of 190 basis points.* We were pleased to deliver strong improvement in returns while we continue to invest in our future."
"Given our current momentum and prevailing business conditions, we are increasing our guidance for the fourth quarter, and now expect earnings from continuing operations of $0.51 to $0.53 per diluted share. We had previously communicated a range of $0.49 to $0.52 per diluted share for the fourth quarter."
The Company will conduct an earnings teleconference at 11:00 a.m. Eastern Time on Wednesday, January 31. The teleconference will be available by calling (800) 819-9193. The presentation materials (this press release, slides to be presented during the Company's teleconference, and information about how to access a live and on-demand webcast of the teleconference) are available in the "Investor Information" section under the "Company Information" heading on the Company's Internet site at . A webcast of the teleconference will be available live and on demand through February 28 at A replay of the teleconference will be available through February 8. To listen, call (888) 203-1112 and enter passcode 2824303.
www.airgas.com
http://www.shareholder.com/arg/medialist.cfm.
* See attached reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures associated with Adjusted Income from Continuing Operations, Adjusted Operating Income, and Return on Capital calculations.
About Airgas, Inc.
Airgas, Inc. (NYSE: ARG), through its subsidiaries, is the largest U.S. distributor of industrial, medical, and specialty gases, and hardgoods, such as welding equipment and supplies. Airgas is also the third-largest U.S. distributor of safety products, the largest U.S. producer of nitrous oxide and dry ice, the
 
Page 3 of 11
largest liquid carbon dioxide producer in the Southeast, and a leading distributor of process chemicals, refrigerants, and ammonia products. More than 11,000 employees work in about 900 locations including branches, retail stores, gas fill plants, specialty gas labs, production facilities and distribution centers. Airgas also distributes its products and services through eBusiness, catalog and telesales channels. Its national scale and strong local presence offer a competitive edge to its diversified customer base. For more information, please visit .
www.airgas.com
This press release may contain statements that are forward looking, as that term is defined by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 or by the Securities and Exchange Commission in its rules, regulations and releases. These statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding: closing the Linde transaction in the fourth quarter; Fiscal 2007 being the largest acquisition year in our history; our acquisition pipeline remaining strong; our continued investment in our future; and our earnings from continuing operations guidance for the fourth quarter of $0.51 to $0.53 per diluted share. We intend that such forward-looking statements be subject to the safe harbors created thereby. All forward-looking statements are based on current expectations regarding important risk factors and should not be regarded as a representation by us or any other person that the results expressed therein will be achieved. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement include: customer acceptance of price increases; supply cost pressures; increased industry competition; our ability to successfully consummate and integrate acquisitions, including the Linde transaction; a disruption to our business from integration problems associated with acquisitions; an economic downturn; adverse changes in customer buying patterns; significant fluctuations in interest rates; increases in energy costs and other operating expenses; the effect of hurricanes and other catastrophic events; political and economic uncertainties associated with current world events; and other factors described in the Company's reports, including Form 10-K dated March 31, 2006 and Forms 10-Q dated June 30, 2006, and September 30, 2006, filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Consolidated statements of earnings, consolidated condensed balance sheets, consolidated statements of cash flows, and reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures follow.
 
Page 4 of 11
 
Page 5 of 11
 
Page 6 of 11
 
Page 7 of 11
 
Page 8 of 11
 
 
Page 9 of 11
     (G) Business segment information for the Company's Distribution and All Other Operations segments is shown below:
 
Page 10 of 11
Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures (Unaudited)
     
Adjusted Income from Continuing Operations:
     Reconciliation and computation of adjusted income from continuing operations:
The Company believes this adjusted income from continuing operations computation provides meaningful insight into earnings growth by adjusting for material unusual items and the prospective implementation of SFAS 123R.
     
Adjusted Operating Income:
     Reconciliation and computation of adjusted operating income:
The Company believes this adjusted operating income computation provides meaningful insight into earnings growth by adjusting for material unusual items and the prospective implementation of SFAS 123R.
     
Return on Capital:
     Reconciliation and computation of return on capital:
The Company believes this return on capital computation helps investors assess how effectively the Company uses the capital invested in its operations.


