FILE:ARG/ARG-8K-20071025102006.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425).
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12).
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)).
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c)).
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On October 24, 2007, Airgas, Inc. (the "Company") reported its earnings for its second quarter and six months ended September 30, 2007, as described in the press release attached as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
The information contained in this Form 8-K report shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1933, as amended, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
Non-GAAP Measures:
The press release attached as Exhibit 99.1 contains a Return on Capital financial measure that is not defined under generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Return on Capital is a non-GAAP measure that helps investors assess how effectively the Company uses the capital invested in its operations. The Company believes that its non-GAAP earnings guidance provides financial statement users with meaningful insight into operating trends. Company management also uses Return on Capital as a metric for determining employee compensation.
The Company's intent is to provide non-GAAP financial information to enhance investors' understanding of the Company's consolidated financial statements and should be considered by the reader in addition to, but not instead of, the financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. In addition, it should be noted that the Company's non-GAAP information may be different from the non-GAAP information provided by other companies.
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits
(a) None
(b) None
(c) None
(d) Exhibits.
     99.1  Press Release dated October 24, 2007
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant and Co-Registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
DATED: October 24, 2007

 
Exhibit 99.1
For release:            Immediately
Airgas, Inc. (NYSE: ARG), the largest U.S. distributor of industrial, medical, and specialty gases, and welding, safety, and related products, today reported strong growth in sales, operating income, and earnings for its second quarter ended September 30, 2007.
RADNOR, PA  October 24, 2007 
Quarterly net earnings increased 28% to $51 million, or $0.60 per diluted share, compared to $40 million, or $0.49 per diluted share, in the prior year. The current year quarter includes a one-time non-cash charge of $0.03 per diluted share related to the previously announced conversion of National Welders Supply Company from a joint venture to a wholly owned subsidiary, and $0.04 per diluted share of integration expense primarily associated with the acquisition of Linde's U.S. packaged gas business. These charges reduced the year-over-year quarterly net earnings growth by $5 million, or 12%.
Second quarter sales grew 27% over the prior year to $1 billion. Acquisitions contributed 21% to the sales growth, with a full quarter of the Linde packaged gas acquisition accounting for approximately half of that increase. Total same-store sales increased 6%, with hardgoods up 7% and gas and rent up 5% from the prior year quarter.
"This was another excellent quarter for Airgas with solid internal growth, plus the Linde and other acquisitions contributing to our top line. Our integration of the Linde packaged gas business is progressing well and on schedule. Non-residential construction and energy markets have sustained their strong performance, as have our strategic products," said Airgas Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Peter McCausland. "These revenue gains and our continued focus on operating efficiencies have helped us expand operating margins by 80 basis points over last year, to 11.5%, and Return on Capital* was up 40 basis points, to 13.2%, even with the acquisition integration expense. Our strong cash flow is also encouraging."
 
2Q08 Earnings Final NR/Page 2 of 10
Airgas expects to earn $0.63 to $0.65 per diluted share in the third quarter, including $0.01 per share of integration expense from the Linde packaged gas acquisition. The Company increased its full-year guidance to $2.55 to $2.60 per diluted share, including integration expenses from the Linde packaged gas acquisition, and the $0.03 one-time non-cash charge from the National Welders transaction. The previously communicated guidance was $2.49 to $2.57 per diluted share for the full year.
The Company will conduct an earnings teleconference at 11:00 a.m. Eastern Time on Thursday, October 25. The teleconference will be available by calling (800) 565-5442. The presentation materials (this press release, slides to be presented during the Company's teleconference, and information about how to access a live and on-demand webcast of the teleconference) are available in the "Investor Information" section under the "Company Information" heading on the Company's Internet site at . A webcast of the teleconference will be available live and on demand through November 23 at . A replay of the teleconference will be available through November 1. To listen, call (888) 203-1112 and enter passcode 9116664.
www.airgas.com
http://www.shareholder.com/arg/medialist.cfm
 
* See attached reconciliation of Return on Capital non-GAAP financial measure.
About Airgas, Inc.
Airgas, Inc. (NYSE: ARG), through its subsidiaries, is the largest U.S. distributor of industrial, medical, and specialty gases, and hardgoods, such as welding equipment and supplies. Airgas is also one of the largest U.S. distributors of safety products, the largest U.S. producer of nitrous oxide and dry ice, the largest liquid carbon dioxide producer in the Southeast, and a leading distributor of process chemicals, refrigerants, and ammonia products. More than 14,000 employees work in over 1,100 locations, including branches, retail stores, gas fill plants, specialty gas labs, production facilities and distribution centers. Airgas also distributes its products and services through eBusiness, catalog and telesales channels. Its national scale and strong local presence offer a competitive edge to its diversified customer base. For more information, please visit .
www.airgas.com
This press release may contain statements that are forward looking, as that term is defined by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 or by the Securities and Exchange Commission in its rules, regulations and releases. These statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding: our integration of the Linde packaged gas business; expectations for third quarter earnings per diluted share of
 
2Q08 Earnings Final NR/Page 3 of 10
$0.63 to $0.65, including $0.01 per share of integration expense related to the Linde packaged gas acquisition; and expectations for fiscal 2008 earnings per diluted share of $2.55 to $2.60, including integration expenses associated with the Linde packaged gas acquisition and the $0.03 per share charge from the National Welders transaction. We intend that such forward-looking statements be subject to the safe harbors created thereby. All forward-looking statements are based on current expectations regarding important risk factors and should not be regarded as a representation by us or any other person that the results expressed therein will be achieved. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement include: our ability to continue to successfully integrate the former Linde U.S. packaged gas business, including retention of both customers and employees; supply availability and cost pressures; increased industry competition; customer acceptance of price increases; a disruption to our business from integration issues associated with acquisitions; an economic downturn; adverse changes in customer buying patterns; significant fluctuations in interest rates; increases in energy costs and other operating expenses; the effect of hurricanes and other catastrophic events; political and economic uncertainties associated with current world events; and other factors described in the Company's reports, including its Form 10-K dated March 31, 2007, Form 10-Q dated June 30, 2007, and other reports filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Consolidated statements of earnings, condensed consolidated balance sheets, consolidated statements of cash flows, and a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures follow.
 
2Q08 Earnings Final NR/Page 4 of 10
 
 
2Q08 Earnings Final NR/Page 5 of 10
 
 
2Q08 Earnings Final NR/Page 6 of 10
 
 
2Q08 Earnings Final NR/Page 7 of 10
Notes:
 
2Q08 Earnings Final NR/Page 8 of 10
 
 
2Q08 Earnings Final NR/Page 9 of 10
 
2Q08 Earnings Final NR/Page 10 of 10
Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measure (Unaudited)
Return on Capital:
Reconciliation and computation of return on capital:
The Company believes this return on capital computation helps investors assess how effectively the Company uses the capital invested in its operations. Our management uses return on capital as a metric for determining employee compensation. Non-GAAP numbers should be read in conjunction with the GAAP financial measures, as non-GAAP metrics are merely a supplement to, and not a replacement for, GAAP financial measures. It should be noted as well that our non-GAAP information may be different from the non-GAAP information provided by other companies.


