FILE:ARG/ARG-8K-20080129093213.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
Item 2.02
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On January 28, 2008, Airgas, Inc. (the "Company") reported its earnings for its third quarter and nine months ended December 31, 2007, as described in the press release attached as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
The information contained in this Form 8-K report shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1933, as amended, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
Non-GAAP Measures:
The press release attached as Exhibit 99.1 contains certain financial measures that are not defined under generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Free Cash Flow is a non-GAAP measure that helps investors access how effectively the Company uses cash provided in its operations, which is available for servicing debt obligations and for the execution of our business strategy, including acquisitions, the prepayment of debt, or to support other investing and financing activities. The Company also provided Adjusted Net Earnings Growth that excluded a charge related to the extinguishment of debt in the three months ended December 31, 2006. The Company believes that its non-GAAP adjusted net earnings growth measure provides investors with meaningful insight into earnings growth by adjusting for material unusual items.
The Company's intent is to provide non-GAAP financial information to enhance investors' understanding of the Company's consolidated financial statements and should be considered by the reader in addition to, but not instead of, the financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. In addition, it should be noted that the Company's non-GAAP information may be different from the non-GAAP information provided by other companies.
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits
     99.1  Press Release dated January 28, 2008
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant and Co-Registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
DATED: January 28, 2008

 
Exhibit 99.1
Airgas, Inc. (NYSE: ARG), the largest U.S. distributor of industrial, medical, and specialty gases, and welding, safety, and related products, today reported strong growth in sales, operating income, and earnings for its third quarter ended December 31, 2007.
RADNOR, PA  January 28, 2008 
Quarterly net earnings were $56.8 million, or $0.67 per diluted share, compared to $32.5 million, or $0.40 per diluted share, in the prior year. The current year quarter includes $0.01 per diluted share of integration expense primarily associated with the acquisition of Linde's U.S. packaged gas business, and a one-time $0.01 per diluted share tax benefit related to a change in state tax law. The prior year quarter included a charge of $7.9 million after-tax, or $0.10 per diluted share, on the early extinguishment of debt. After adjusting the prior year quarter for the impact of the debt charge, net earnings grew 41%*.
Third quarter sales grew 28% over the prior year to $1 billion. Acquisitions contributed 21% to the sales growth. Total same-store sales increased 7%, with hardgoods up 6% and gas and rent up 8% from the prior year quarter. The Company's strategic product categories, including bulk, medical and specialty gases, safety products, and carbon dioxide, posted 11% organic growth in the quarter. These product categories now account for 40% of total Company revenues.
"This was our second quarter with more than $1 billion in sales, demonstrating the effectiveness of our growth strategies. We are seeing good growth in energy and infrastructure construction, which has bolstered our core business. We continue to grow our strategic product categories at above-market rates," said Airgas Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Peter McCausland.
"We also continue to grow through acquisitions. Fiscal 2008 is our second consecutive record year of acquired revenue, with a total of 16 acquisitions and $450 million in acquired annual revenue to date. The
 
3Q08 Earnings - Exhibit 99.1(3)/Page 2 of 10
integration of the Linde packaged gas acquisition is progressing well and on schedule, positioning us well to deliver value to shareholders in the coming quarters," commented McCausland.
He also added, "Revenue growth and our commitment to achieving efficiencies across our national platform helped us expand third quarter operating margins by 100 basis points over last year, to 11.8%. We generated strong Free Cash Flow of $69 million in the current quarter and $162 million year-to-date."
Airgas expects to earn $0.71 to $0.73 per diluted share in the fourth quarter, including $0.01 per share of integration expense from the Linde packaged gas acquisition. The Company is increasing its full-year guidance to $2.61 to $2.63 per diluted share, including integration expenses from the Linde packaged gas acquisition, the $0.03 per diluted share one-time non-cash charge from the National Welders transaction, and the $0.01 per diluted share one-time tax benefit related to a change in state tax law. The previously communicated guidance was $2.55 to $2.60 per diluted share for the full year.
The Company will conduct an earnings teleconference at 11:00 a.m. Eastern Time on Tuesday, January 29. The teleconference will be available by calling 888-233-7976. The presentation materials (this press release, slides to be presented during the Company's teleconference, and information about how to access a live and on-demand webcast of the teleconference) are available in the "Investor Information" section under the "Company Information" heading on the Company's Internet site at . A webcast of the teleconference will be available live and on demand through February 29 at . A replay of the teleconference will be available through February 5. To listen, call 888-203-1112 and enter passcode 8228341.
www.airgas.com
http://www.shareholder.com/arg/medialist.cfm
 
About Airgas, Inc.
Airgas, Inc. (NYSE: ARG), through its subsidiaries, is the largest U.S. distributor of industrial, medical, and specialty gases, and hardgoods, such as welding equipment and supplies. Airgas is also one of the largest U.S. distributors of safety products, the largest U.S. producer of nitrous oxide and dry ice, the largest liquid carbon dioxide producer in the Southeast, and a leading distributor of process chemicals, refrigerants, and ammonia products. More than 14,000 employees work in over 1,100 locations, including branches, retail stores, gas fill plants, specialty gas labs, production facilities and distribution centers. Airgas also distributes its products and services through eBusiness, catalog and telesales channels. Its national scale and strong local presence offer a competitive edge to its diversified customer base. For more information, please visit .
www.airgas.com
 
3Q08 Earnings - Exhibit 99.1(3)/Page 3 of 10
This press release may contain statements that are forward looking, as that term is defined by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 or by the Securities and Exchange Commission in its rules, regulations and releases. These statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding: the integration of the Linde packaged gas acquisition; our acquisition strategy; delivering value to shareholders in the coming quarters; expectations for fourth quarter earnings per diluted share of $0.71 to $0.73, including $0.01 per share of integration expense from the Linde packaged gas transaction; and expectations for fiscal 2008 earnings per diluted share of $2.61 to $2.63, including integration expenses associated with the Linde packaged gas acquisition, the $0.03 per diluted share charge from the National Welders transaction, and the $0.01 per diluted share one-time tax benefit related to a change in state tax law. We intend that such forward-looking statements be subject to the safe harbors created thereby. All forward-looking statements are based on current expectations regarding important risk factors and should not be regarded as a representation by us or any other person that the results expressed therein will be achieved. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement include: our ability to continue to successfully integrate the former Linde U.S. packaged gas business, including retention of both customers and employees; supply availability and cost pressures; increased industry competition; customer acceptance of price increases; our ability to successfully identify, consummate and integrate acquisitions; a disruption to our business from integration issues associated with acquisitions; an economic downturn; adverse changes in customer buying patterns; significant fluctuations in interest rates; increases in energy costs and other operating expenses; the effect of catastrophic events; political and economic uncertainties associated with current world events; and other factors described in the Company's reports, including its Form 10-K dated March 31, 2007, subsequent Forms 10-Q, and other reports filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Consolidated statements of earnings, condensed consolidated balance sheets, consolidated statements of cash flows, and reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures follow.
 
3Q08 Earnings - Exhibit 99.1(3)/Page 4 of 10
See attached Notes.
 
3Q08 Earnings - Exhibit 99.1(3)/Page 5 of 10
See attached Notes.
 
3Q08 Earnings - Exhibit 99.1(3)/Page 6 of 10
See attached Notes.
 
3Q08 Earnings - Exhibit 99.1(3)/Page 7 of 10
 
Notes:
 
3Q08 Earnings - Exhibit 99.1(3)/Page 8 of 10
 
 
3Q08 Earnings - Exhibit 99.1(3)/Page 9 of 10
(f) Unaudited business segment information for the Company's Distribution and All Other Operations segments is shown below:
 
3Q08 Earnings - Exhibit 99.1(3)/Page 10 of 10
Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Financial Measures (Unaudited)
     
Free Cash Flow:
     Reconciliations and computation of free cash flow:
Management believes that Free Cash Flow provides investors meaningful insight into the Company's ability to generate cash from operations, which is available for servicing debt obligations and for the execution of our business strategy, including acquisitions, the prepayment of debt, or to support other investing and financing activities. Non-GAAP numbers should be read in conjunction with the generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") financial measures, as non-GAAP metrics are merely a supplement to, and not a replacement for, GAAP financial measures. It should be noted as well that our non-GAAP information may be different from the non-GAAP information provided by other companies.
     
Adjusted Net Earnings Growth:
     Reconciliation and computation of adjusted net earnings:
The Company believes this adjusted net earnings computation provides meaningful insight into earnings growth by adjusting for material unusual items. Non-GAAP numbers should be read in conjunction with the generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") financial measures, as non-GAAP metrics are merely a supplement to, and not a replacement for, GAAP financial measures. It should be noted as well that our non-GAAP information may be different from the non-GAAP information provided by other companies.


