FILE:ARG/ARG-8K-20080630120228.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principle Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principle Officers.
     Airgas, Inc. regretfully announces the sudden passing of Director and Audit Committee Chairman William O. Albertini on June 28, 2008. Mr. Albertini had been a member of the Airgas Board of Directors since 2003. The related press release is included as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Information and Exhibits
          99.1  Press Release dated June 30, 2008
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
DATED: June 30, 2008

Exhibit 99.1
News Release
Investor and Media Contact:
Jay Worley (610) 902-6206
jay.worley@airgas.com
For release: Immediately
Airgas, Inc. (NYSE:ARG) regretfully announces the sudden passing of Director and Audit Committee Chairman William O. Albertini on June 28, 2008. Mr. Albertini had been a member of the Airgas Board of Directors since 2003.
RADNOR, PA  June 30, 2008 
"Bill was an outstanding individual, and his contributions to our Board and Audit Committee will be genuinely missed," said Airgas Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Peter McCausland. "The Airgas family extends sincere condolences to Bill's wife, Kate, and the rest of their family and friends. We recognize his distinguished career with honor and warm memories."
About Airgas, Inc.
Airgas, Inc. (NYSE: ARG), through its subsidiaries, is the largest U.S. distributor of industrial, medical, and specialty gases, and hardgoods, such as welding equipment and supplies. Airgas is also one of the largest U.S. distributors of safety products, the largest U.S. producer of nitrous oxide and dry ice, the largest liquid carbon dioxide producer in the Southeast, and a leading distributor of process chemicals, refrigerants, and ammonia products. More than 14,000 employees work in over 1,100 locations, including branches, retail stores, gas fill plants, specialty gas labs, production facilities and distribution centers. Airgas also distributes its products and services through eBusiness, catalog and telesales channels. Its national scale and strong local presence offer a competitive edge to its diversified customer base. For more information, please visit www.airgas.com.


