FILE:ARG/ARG-8K-20081024093835.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425).
o
   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12).
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)).
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c)).
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On October 23, 2008, Airgas, Inc. (the "Company") reported its earnings for its second quarter and six months ended September 30, 2008, as described in the press release attached as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
The information contained in this Form 8-K report shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1933, as amended, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
Non-GAAP Measures:
The press release attached as Exhibit 99.1 contains certain financial measures that are not defined under generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). The Company presented its Free Cash Flow measure to provide meaningful insight into the Company's ability to generate cash from operations, which is available for servicing debt obligations and for the execution of our business strategy, including acquisitions, the prepayment of debt, or to support other investing and financing activities. The Company also provided Return on Capital as a non-GAAP measure, which helps investors assess how effectively the Company uses the capital invested in its operations. Company management also uses Return on Capital as a metric for determining employee compensation.
The Company's intent is to provide non-GAAP financial information to enhance investors' understanding of the Company's consolidated financial statements and should be considered by the reader in addition to, but not instead of, the financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. In addition, it should be noted that the Company's non-GAAP information may be different from the non-GAAP information provided by other companies.
Item 8.01
Other Events
On October 23, 2008, the Company announced that its Board of Directors increased the quarterly cash dividend on the Company's common stock 33% to $0.16 per share from $0.12. The dividend will be payable December 31, 2008 to shareholders of record as of December 15, 2008, as described in the press release attached as Exhibit 99.2 and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits
(a) None
(b) None
(c) None
(d) Exhibits.
     99.1  Press Release dated October 23, 2008
     99.2  Press Release dated October 23, 2008
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant and Co-Registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
DATED: October 23, 2008

Exhibit 99.1
 
Airgas, Inc. (NYSE: ARG), the largest U.S. distributor of industrial, medical and specialty gases, and welding, safety and related products, today reported record earnings and strong growth in sales and operating income for its second quarter ended September 30, 2008.
RADNOR, PA  October 23, 2008 
Quarterly net earnings grew 44% to $72.8 million, or $0.86 per diluted share, compared to $50.6 million, or $0.60 per diluted share, in the prior year. The prior year quarter included $0.04 per diluted share of integration expense primarily associated with the June 30, 2007 acquisition of Linde's U.S. packaged gas business, and a one-time non-cash charge of $0.03 per diluted share related to the conversion of National Welders Supply Company from a joint venture to a wholly owned subsidiary.
Second quarter sales increased 15% from the prior year to $1.2 billion. Acquisitions contributed 7% to the increase, and total same-store sales grew 8% in the quarter, with gas and rent up 12% and hardgoods up 4%.
"We are performing very well in a moderating economic environment," said Airgas Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Peter McCausland. "Our expanded offering that targets infrastructure construction has been successful in gaining new business, particularly in the energy and power segments. About 40% of our sales come from our strategic products, which posted 11% organic growth in the quarter and are focused on the medical, life sciences, research, environmental, and food and beverage markets.
"Acquisition activity has been strong in the first half of our fiscal year, with a total of six acquisitions and $142 million of acquired annual revenue to date," added McCausland. "We are expanding returns by effectively integrating acquisitions and leveraging our distribution infrastructure." Return on capital* increased 40 basis points over the prior year to 13.6%.
 
Year-to-date free cash flow* was $112 million, compared to $92 million in the prior year. "We continue to generate strong free cash flow, even while funding significant plant projects that will be operational in the coming quarters," McCausland said. "We were pleased to announce today that we increased our quarterly dividend 33% to $0.16 per share because of the confidence we have in our growth outlook and cash flow."
The Company expects earnings per diluted share of $0.82 to $0.84 in the third quarter and reiterated its full-year expectations of $3.30 to $3.40 per diluted share in fiscal 2009.
The Company will conduct an earnings teleconference at 11:00 a.m. Eastern Time on Friday, October 24. The teleconference will be available by calling (888) 819-8045. The presentation materials (this press release, slides to be presented during the Company's teleconference and information about how to access a live and on-demand webcast of the teleconference) are available in the "Investor Information" section on the Company's Internet site at . A webcast of the teleconference will be available live and on demand through November 25 at . A replay of the teleconference will be available through October 31. To listen, call (888) 203-1112 and enter passcode 4467282.
www.airgas.com
http://investor.shareholder.com/arg/events.cfm
 
About Airgas, Inc.
Airgas, Inc. (NYSE: ARG), through its subsidiaries, is the largest U.S. distributor of industrial, medical and specialty gases, and hardgoods, such as welding equipment and supplies. Airgas is also one of the largest U.S. distributors of safety products, the largest U.S. producer of nitrous oxide and dry ice, the largest liquid carbon dioxide producer in the Southeast, and a leading distributor of process chemicals, refrigerants and ammonia products. More than 14,000 employees work in over 1,100 locations, including branches, retail stores, gas fill plants, specialty gas labs, production facilities and distribution centers. Airgas also distributes its products and services through eBusiness, catalog and telesales channels. Its national scale and strong local presence offer a competitive edge to its diversified customer base. For more information, please visit .
www.airgas.com
 
This press release may contain statements that are forward looking, as that term is defined by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 or by the Securities and Exchange Commission in its rules, regulations and releases. These statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding: Our expectation of significant plant projects being operational in the coming quarters; confidence in our growth outlook and cash flow; and expectations for fiscal 2009 earnings per diluted share of $3.30 to $3.40 and third quarter earnings per diluted share of $0.82 to $0.84. We intend that such forward-looking statements be subject to the safe harbors created thereby. All forward-looking statements are based on current expectations regarding important risk factors and should not be regarded as a representation by us or any other person that the results expressed therein will be achieved. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement include: customer acceptance of price increases; supply cost pressures; increased industry competition; our ability to successfully identify, consummate and integrate acquisitions; adverse changes in customer buying patterns; our continued ability to access credit markets on satisfactory terms; significant fluctuations in interest rates; increases in energy costs and other operating expenses; the impact of tightened credit markets on our customers; the impact of changes in tax and fiscal policies and laws; the extent and duration of current recessionary trends in the U.S. economy; the effect of catastrophic events; political and economic uncertainties associated with current world events; and other factors described in the Company's reports, including its March 31, 2008 Form 10-K, subsequent Forms 10-Q and other forms filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Consolidated statements of earnings, condensed consolidated balance sheets, consolidated statements of cash flows, and reconciliations of non-GAAP return on capital and free cash flow financial measures follow.
 
See attached Notes.
 
See attached Notes.
 
See attached Notes.
 
 
Notes:
 
 
 
Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measure (Unaudited)
     
Free Cash Flow:
     Reconciliation and computation of free cash flow:
The Company believes that free cash flow provides investors meaningful insight into the Company's ability to generate cash from operations, which is available for servicing debt obligations and for the execution of our business strategy, including acquisitions, the prepayment of debt, or to support other investing and financing activities. Non-GAAP numbers should be read in conjunction with the GAAP financial measures, as non-GAAP metrics are merely a supplement to, and not a replacement for, GAAP financial measures. It should be noted as well that our free cash flow metric may be different from free cash flow metrics provided by other companies.
     
Return on Capital:
     Reconciliation and computation of return on capital:
The Company believes this return on capital computation helps investors assess how effectively the Company uses the capital invested in its operations. Our management uses return on capital as a metric for determining employee compensation. Non-GAAP numbers should be read in conjunction with the GAAP financial measures, as non-GAAP metrics are merely a supplement to, and not a replacement for, GAAP financial measures. It should be noted as well that our return on capital computation information may be different from the return on capital computations provided by other companies.

Exhibit 99.2
Airgas, Inc. (NYSE: ARG) today announced that the Board of Directors increased the quarterly cash dividend on the company's common stock to $0.16 per share from $0.12. The dividend will be payable December 31, 2008 to shareholders of record as of December 15, 2008.
RADNOR, PA  October 23, 2008 
"We continue to return value to shareholders in appropriate ways, one of which is dividend growth commensurate with earnings," commented Airgas Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Peter McCausland. "Given our confidence in our operating performance and cash flow, this dividend increase is a good way to support our shareholders in a difficult market environment."
.
About Airgas, Inc
Airgas, Inc. (NYSE: ARG), through its subsidiaries, is the largest U.S. distributor of industrial, medical and specialty gases, and hardgoods, such as welding equipment and supplies. Airgas is also one of the largest U.S. distributors of safety products, the largest U.S. producer of nitrous oxide and dry ice, the largest liquid carbon dioxide producer in the Southeast, and a leading distributor of process chemicals, refrigerants, and ammonia products. More than 14,000 employees work in over 1,100 locations, including branches, retail stores, gas fill plants, specialty gas labs, production facilities and distribution centers. Airgas also distributes its products and services through eBusiness, catalog and telesales channels. Its national scale and strong local presence offer a competitive edge to its diversified customer base. For more information, please visit .
www.airgas.com
 
This press release may contain statements that are forward looking, as that term is defined by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 or by the Securities and Exchange Commission in its rules, regulations and releases. These statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding our confidence in our operating performance and cash flow. We intend that such forward-looking statements be subject to the safe harbors created thereby. All forward-looking statements are based on current expectations regarding important risk factors and should not be regarded as a representation by us or any other person that the results expressed therein will be achieved. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement include: customer acceptance of price increases; supply cost pressures; increased industry competition; our ability to successfully identify, consummate and integrate acquisitions; adverse changes in customer buying patterns; our continued ability to access credit markets on satisfactory terms; significant fluctuations in interest rates; increases in energy costs and other operating expenses; the impact of tightened credit markets on our customers; the impact of changes in tax and fiscal policies and laws; the extent and duration of current recessionary trends in the U.S. economy; the effect of catastrophic events; political and economic uncertainties associated with current world events; and other factors described in the Company's reports, including its March 31, 2008 Form 10-K, subsequent Forms 10-Q and other forms filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


