FILE:ARG/ARG-8K-20080724112208.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425).
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12).
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)).
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c)).
o
 
 
 
Item 2.02
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On July 23, 2008, Airgas, Inc. (the "Company") reported its earnings for its first quarter ended June 30, 2008, as described in the press release attached as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
The information contained in this Form 8-K report shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1933, as amended, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
Non-GAAP Measure:
The press release attached as Exhibit 99.1 contains a Free Cash Flow financial measure that is not defined under generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). The Company presented its Free Cash Flow measure to provide investors with meaningful insight into the Company's ability to generate cash from operations, which is available for servicing debt obligations and for the execution of its business strategy, including acquisitions, the prepayment of debt, or to support other investing and financing activities.
The Company's intent is to provide non-GAAP financial information to enhance investors' understanding of the Company's consolidated financial statements and should be considered by the reader in addition to, but not instead of, the financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. In addition, it should be noted that the Company's non-GAAP information may be different from the non-GAAP information provided by other companies.
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits
(a) None
(b) None
(c) None
(d) Exhibits.
          99.1 - - Press Release dated July 23, 2008
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant and Co-Registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
DATED: July 23, 2008

Exhibit 99.1
Jay Worley (610) 902-6206 jay.worley@airgas.com
Investor and Media Contact:
For release:      Immediately
Airgas, Inc. (NYSE: ARG), the largest U.S. distributor of industrial, medical, and specialty gases, welding, safety, and related products, today reported strong growth in sales, operating income, and record earnings for its first quarter ended June 30, 2008.
RADNOR, PA  July 23, 2008 
Quarterly net earnings grew 33% to $68.9 million, or $0.81 per diluted share, compared to $51.7 million, or $0.63 per diluted share, in the prior year. First quarter sales increased 22% from the prior year to $1.1 billion. Acquisitions contributed 15% to the increase, and total same-store sales grew 7% in the quarter, with hardgoods up 6% and gas and rent up 7%.
"Our strategic product categories, which are focused on healthcare, life sciences, research, environmental, and food and beverage markets, comprising about 40% of our sales, posted 10% organic growth in the quarter," said Airgas Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Peter McCausland. "The strong outlook for energy and infrastructure construction continues, and export activity is still supporting U.S. manufacturers in the face of slowing domestic demand. Acquisition activity is also contributing to our growth, and we have announced more than $130 million of acquired annual revenue since our fiscal year began in April."
Free cash flow* in the quarter was $58 million, compared to $28 million in the prior year. McCausland said, "We continue to generate strong free cash flow, which fuels our strategic growth initiatives."
"Costs escalated in the quarter faster than we planned, but we remain committed to staying ahead of the cost curve and our recently announced pricing action should accomplish that," McCausland continued. "We expect earnings per diluted share of $0.82 to $0.84 in the second quarter, and are updating our full- year expectations to $3.30 to $3.40 per diluted share in fiscal 2009." The previously announced range was $3.24 to $3.40.
 
Page 2 of 9
The Company will conduct an earnings teleconference at 11:00 a.m. Eastern Time on Thursday, July 24. The teleconference will be available by calling (888) 277-7135. The presentation materials (this press release, slides to be presented during the Company's teleconference, and information about how to access a live and on-demand webcast of the teleconference) are available in the "Investor Information" section under the "Company Information" heading on the Company's Internet site at . A webcast of the teleconference will be available live and on demand through August 25 at . A replay of the teleconference will be available through July 31. To listen, call (888) 203-1112 and enter passcode 4559826.
www.airgas.com
http://investor.shareholder.com/arg/events.cfm
 
About Airgas, Inc.
Airgas, Inc. (NYSE: ARG), through its subsidiaries, is the largest U.S. distributor of industrial, medical, and specialty gases, and hardgoods, such as welding equipment and supplies. Airgas is also one of the largest U.S. distributors of safety products, the largest U.S. producer of nitrous oxide and dry ice, the largest liquid carbon dioxide producer in the Southeast, and a leading distributor of process chemicals, refrigerants, and ammonia products. More than 14,000 employees work in over 1,100 locations, including branches, retail stores, gas fill plants, specialty gas labs, production facilities and distribution centers. Airgas also distributes its products and services through eBusiness, catalog and telesales channels. Its national scale and strong local presence offer a competitive edge to its diversified customer base. For more information, please visit .
www.airgas.com
This press release may contain statements that are forward looking, as that term is defined by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 or by the Securities and Exchange Commission in its rules, regulations and releases. These statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding: the strong outlook for energy and infrastructure construction; export activity for U.S. manufacturers; our commitment to manage cost increases; and expectations for fiscal 2009 earnings per diluted share of $3.30 to $3.40 and second quarter earnings per diluted share of $0.82 to $0.84. We intend that such forward-looking statements be subject to the safe harbors created thereby. All forward-looking statements are based on current expectations regarding important risk factors and should not be regarded as a representation by us or any other person that the results expressed therein will be achieved. Important factors that could cause actual
 
Page 3 of 9
results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement include: an economic downturn; customer acceptance of price increases; supply cost pressures; increased industry competition; our ability to successfully identify, consummate and integrate acquisitions; adverse changes in customer buying patterns; significant fluctuations in interest rates; increases in energy costs and other operating expenses; the effect of catastrophic events; political and economic uncertainties associated with current world events; and other factors described in the Company's reports, including its Form 10-K dated March 31, 2008, and other forms filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Consolidated statements of earnings, condensed consolidated balance sheets, consolidated statements of cash flows, and a reconciliation of the non-GAAP free cash flow financial measure follow.
 
Page 4 of 9
See attached Notes.
 
Page 5 of 9
See attached Notes.
 
Page 6 of 9
See attached Notes.
 
Page 7 of 9
 
 
 
Page 8 of 9
 
 
Page 9 of 9
Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measure (Unaudited)
Free Cash Flow:
Reconciliation and computation of free cash flow:
 
Management believes that Free Cash Flow provides investors meaningful insight into the Company's ability to generate cash from operations, which is available for servicing debt obligations and for the execution of our business strategy, including acquisitions, the prepayment of debt, or to support other investing and financing activities. Non-GAAP numbers should be read in conjunction with the GAAP financial measures, as non-GAAP metrics are merely a supplement to, and not a replacement for, GAAP financial measures. It should be noted as well that our Free Cash Flow metric may be different from Free Cash Flow metrics provided by other companies.


