FILE:ARG/ARG-8K-20080702171408.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Notice of Delisting or Failure to Satisfy a Continued Listing Rule or Standard; Transfer of Listing	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Notice of Delisting or Failure to Satisfy a Continued Listing Rule or Standard; Transfer of Listing
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
Item 3.01. Notice of Delisting or Failure to Satisfy a Continued Listing Rule or Standard; Transfer of Listing.
     (a). As previously reported, Mr. William O. Albertini, a director of Airgas, Inc. (the "Company"), died on June 28, 2008. Mr. Albertini had been a member, and the chair, of the audit committee of the Board of Directors of the Company, with Paula A. Sneed and John C. van Roden, Jr. serving as the other members of the committee. As a result of Mr. Albertini's death, on June 30, 2008 the Company received a notice from the NYSE stating that the Company was not in compliance with Section 303A.07(a) of the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") Listed Company Manual which requires that audit committees be comprised of at least three independent directors. On July 2 2008, the Company's Board of Directors approved the selection of W. Thacher Brown, an existing eligible director, as a new member of the audit committee to replace Mr. Albertini and appointed Mr. van Roden, an audit committee financial expert, as chair of the committee. The Company is, therefore, now in compliance with the requirement of Section 303A.07(a) of the NYSE Listed Company Manual.
,
     99.1  Press Release dated July 2, 2008
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
DATED: July 2, 2008

Exhibit 99.1
Investor and Media Contact:
Jay Worley (610) 902-6206
jay.worley@airgas.com
For release: Immediately
Airgas, Inc. (NYSE:ARG) announced today that it has filled the Audit Committee vacancy created by the recently announced untimely passing of William O. Albertini. W. Thacher Brown has been appointed to serve as a member of the Audit Committee, and John C. van Roden, Jr. has been appointed to serve as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
RADNOR, PA  July 2, 2008 
Mr. Brown has served as a director of the Company since 1989, and has previously served on the Audit Committee. He is the former Chairman and President of 1838 Investment Advisors, LLC. Mr. van Roden has served as a director of the Company since October, 2006, and is a current member of the Audit Committee. He is the former Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of P.H. Glatfelter Company.
About Airgas, Inc.
Airgas, Inc. (NYSE: ARG), through its subsidiaries, is the largest U.S. distributor of industrial, medical, and specialty gases, and hardgoods, such as welding equipment and supplies. Airgas is also one of the largest U.S. distributors of safety products, the largest U.S. producer of nitrous oxide and dry ice, the largest liquid carbon dioxide producer in the Southeast, and a leading distributor of process chemicals, refrigerants, and ammonia products. More than 14,000 employees work in over 1,100 locations, including branches, retail stores, gas fill plants, specialty gas labs, production facilities and distribution centers. Airgas also distributes its products and services through eBusiness, catalog and telesales channels. Its national scale and strong local presence offer a competitive edge to its diversified customer base. For more information, please visit
www.airgas.com.


