FILE:ARG/ARG-8K-20100506090119.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On May 6, 2010, Airgas, Inc. (the "Company") reported its earnings for its fourth quarter ended March 31, 2010, as described in the press release attached as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
The information contained in this Form 8-K report shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1933, as amended, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
Non-GAAP Measures:
The press release attached as Exhibit 99.1 contains certain financial measures that are not defined under generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). The Company presented its Adjusted Earnings per Diluted Share measure which provides investors meaningful insight into the Company's earnings performance without the impact of special charges. The Company also presented its Adjusted Operating Margin computations to help investors assess the Company's operating performance without the impact of charges associated with the Company's withdrawal from multi-employer pension plans and costs related to Air Products' unsolicited takeover attempt. The Company also presented its Free Cash Flow and Adjusted Cash from Operations measures to provide additional insight into the Company's ability to generate cash from operations, which is available for servicing debt obligations and for the execution of its business strategy, including acquisitions, the prepayment of debt, or to support other investing and financing activities. Adjusted Debt was also provided as a non-GAAP measure to provide investors with a more meaningful measure of the Company's debt obligations by adjusting for funds received under the trade receivables securitization program.
The Company's intent is to provide non-GAAP financial information to enhance investors' understanding of the Company's consolidated financial statements and should be considered by the reader in addition to, but not instead of, the financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. In addition, it should be noted that the Company's non-GAAP information may be different from the non-GAAP information provided by other companies.
 
(a) None
(b) None
(c) None
(d) Exhibits.
99.1 - Press Release dated May 6, 2010
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
For release:                 Immediately
 
 
 
Airgas, Inc. (NYSE: ARG), the largest U.S. distributor of industrial, medical, and specialty gases, and related supplies, today reported net earnings of $40.1 million, or $0.47 per diluted share, for its fourth quarter ended March 31, 2010. Excluding legal and professional fees of $0.18 per diluted share** related to an unsolicited takeover attempt, debt extinguishment charges of $0.07 per diluted share, and a $0.03 per diluted share income tax benefit, adjusted earnings per diluted share* were $0.69, up 6% sequentially and up 1% from the prior year.
RADNOR, PA  May 6, 2010 
Fourth quarter sales were $980 million, a sequential increase of 2% in sales per day and 4% in total sales compared to the third quarter. Compared to the prior year, total same-store sales declined 3% in the quarter, with hardgoods down 2% and gas and rent down 3%. Acquisitions contributed 2% sales growth in the quarter.
"The economic recovery appears to be building momentum, as daily sales rates improved sequentially for the second consecutive quarter, and March was our first positive same-store sales month since November 2008," said Airgas Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Peter McCausland. "Conditions continued to improve in our manufacturing customer base, and our Great Lakes region posted the strongest gains while hardgoods sales began to rebound nationwide. The signs point to a strengthening industrial economy, and
 
we expect to achieve same-store sales growth in the mid to high single digits for fiscal 2011. We are more confident than ever in our ability to build on our track record of success in delivering strong returns and creating meaningful value for all Airgas stockholders."
Cost reductions and operating efficiencies helped support fourth quarter adjusted operating margin*, which declined modestly year-over-year to 10.7% from 11.5% and sequentially from 11.1%. The sequential decline is attributable to the seasonality of certain businesses in the All Other Operations segment. Adjusted operating margin* in the Distribution segment expanded sequentially for a third consecutive quarter to 11.3%.
For the full year, sales declined 11% from the prior year to $3.9 billion. Acquisitions contributed 3% sales growth for the year, while total same-store sales declined by 14%, with hardgoods down 20% and gas and rent down 10%. The Company acquired six businesses in fiscal 2010, with aggregate annual revenue of more than $47 million.
Net earnings for the year were $2.34 per diluted share. Excluding $0.34 of special items, adjusted earnings per diluted share* were $2.68, down 14% versus prior year, and the related full-year adjusted operating margin* was 11.1%. Free cash flow* for the year was a record $411 million compared to $328 million last year, driven by adjusted cash from operations* of $647 million, and a $99 million (28%) year-over-year reduction in capital expenditures. The Company reduced adjusted debt* by $268 million, and increased its dividend payout by 36% in fiscal 2010.
"Strong, stable cash flow is a fundamental element of our business model, and we were pleased to generate record free cash flow* this year in spite of the severe economic conditions," McCausland said. "Having achieved strong earnings deep into the recession and solid results through the downturn, we are excited to again have our sights on double-digit earnings growth. Airgas is poised to capitalize on the substantial infrastructure investment and industry consolidation we have achieved over the last decade as the economic recovery takes shape. There is significant value to be realized for our stockholders through the execution of our business strategies, continued focus on operating efficiency programs, and implementation of our SAP system, which we will begin to roll out in July."
The Company expects earnings per diluted share of $0.70 to $0.72 for the first quarter, an increase of 6% to 9% over the prior year, which includes $0.02 per diluted share of incremental expense associated with its SAP implementation. For the full year 2011, the Company expects earnings per diluted share of $2.95 to $3.05, an increase of 10% to 14% over fiscal 2010 adjusted earnings, which
 
includes $0.10 per diluted share of incremental expense associated with its SAP implementation. The first quarter and fiscal 2011 guidance does not incorporate the impact of debt extinguishment or multi-employer pension plan withdrawal charges, if any, or future costs related to the unsolicited takeover attempt.
"Our fiscal 2011 guidance represents a year-over-year increase of 14% to 18% in underlying earnings before SAP costs," added McCausland. "The increasing earnings momentum reinforces our confidence in the mid-term financial goals outlined at our December Analyst Meeting. We've targeted earnings of at least $4.20 per share in calendar 2012, three quarters of which fall in our 2013 fiscal year. The earnings goal includes the costs of the SAP implementation but none of the benefits. Implementing SAP will enable more efficient processes across all facets of our complex, high-volume distribution business, including driving future operating efficiencies and enhancing our customer service culture. We expect the financial benefits of SAP to more than justify the investment. As we progress through our business unit conversions, we will be better positioned to quantify the project's benefits and identify their timing."
The Company will conduct an earnings teleconference at 11:00 a.m. Eastern Time on Thursday, May 6. The teleconference will be available by calling (888) 283-6901. The presentation materials (this press release, slides to be presented during the Company's teleconference and information about how to access a live and on-demand webcast of the teleconference) are available in the "Investor Information" section of the Company's website at . A webcast of the teleconference will be available live and on demand through June 5 at http://investor.shareholder.com/arg/events.cfm. A replay of the teleconference will be available through May 15. To listen, call (888) 203-1112 and enter passcode 8514645.
www.airgas.com
 
 
About Airgas, Inc.
Airgas, Inc. (NYSE: ARG), through its subsidiaries, is the largest U.S. distributor of industrial, medical, and specialty gases, and hardgoods, such as welding equipment and supplies. Airgas is also one of the largest U.S. distributors of safety products, the largest U.S. producer of nitrous oxide and dry ice, the largest liquid carbon dioxide producer in the Southeast, and a leading distributor of process chemicals,
 
refrigerants, and ammonia products. More than 14,000 employees work in over 1,100 locations, including branches, retail stores, gas fill plants, specialty gas labs, production facilities, and distribution centers. Airgas also distributes its products and services through eBusiness, catalog, and telesales channels. Its national scale and strong local presence offer a competitive edge to its diversified customer base. For more information, please visit .
www.airgas.com
This press release may contain statements that are forward looking, as that term is defined by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 or by the Securities and Exchange Commission in its rules, regulations and releases. These statements include, but are not limited to: expectations for first quarter earnings per diluted share to be in the range of $0.70 to $0.72, which includes $0.02 per diluted share of incremental expense associated with the SAP implementation; expectations for earnings per diluted share for fiscal 2011 to be in the range of $2.95 to $3.05, which includes $0.10 per diluted share of incremental expense associated with the SAP implementation; first quarter and fiscal 2011 guidance not incorporating the impact of debt extinguishment or multi-employer pension plan withdrawal charges, if any, or future costs related to the unsolicited takeover attempt; signs pointing to a strengthening industrial economy; same-store sales growth in the mid to high single digits in fiscal 2011; our ability to build on our track record of success in delivering strong returns and creating meaningful value for all Airgas stockholders; future double-digit earnings growth; the advantages of our substantial infrastructure investment and industry consolidation as the economic recovery takes shape; significant value to be realized for our stockholders through the execution of our business strategies, our continued focus on operating efficiency programs, and the implementation of our SAP system, which we expect to begin to roll out in July 2010; our calendar 2012 mid-term financial goals, which include diluted earnings per share of at least $4.20, and the costs of the SAP implementation but none of the benefits; SAP enabling more efficient processes across all facets of our complex, high-volume distribution business, including driving future operating efficiencies and enhancing our customer service culture; and statements related to the financial benefits of implementing SAP. Forward-looking statements also include any statement that is not based on historical fact, including statements containing the words "believes," "may," "plans," "will," "could," "should," "estimates," "continues," "anticipates," "intends," "expects" and similar expressions. We intend that such forward-looking statements be subject to the safe harbors created thereby. All forward-looking statements are based on current expectations regarding important risk factors and should not be regarded as a representation by us or any other person that the results expressed therein will be achieved. We assume no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements for any reason, except as required by law. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement include: adverse changes in customer buying patterns resulting from deterioration in current economic conditions; weakening in the operating and financial performance of our customers, which can negatively impact our sales and our ability to collect our accounts receivable; postponement of projects due to economic developments; customer acceptance of price increases; the success of implementing and continuing our cost reduction programs; our ability to achieve anticipated acquisition synergies; supply cost pressures; increased industry competition; our ability to successfully identify, consummate, and integrate acquisitions; our continued ability to access credit markets on satisfactory terms; significant fluctuations in interest rates; increases in energy costs and other operating expenses eroding the planned cost savings; higher than expected implementation costs of the SAP system; conversion problems related to the SAP system that disrupt our business and negatively impact customer relationships; the impact of tightened credit markets on our customers; the impact of changes in tax and fiscal policies and laws; the potential for increased expenditures relating to compliance with environmental regulatory initiatives; the impact of new environmental, healthcare, tax, accounting, and other regulation; continued potential liability under the Multiemployer Pension Plan Amendments Act of 1980 with respect
 
to our participation in or withdrawal from multi-employer pension plans for our union employees; the timing of economic recovery in the U.S. economy; the effect of catastrophic events; political and economic uncertainties associated with current world events; business disruptions associated with Air Products' unsolicited takeover attempt; and other factors described in the Company's reports, including its March 31, 2009 Form 10-K, subsequent Forms 10-Q, and other forms filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Consolidated statements of earnings, condensed consolidated balance sheets, consolidated statements of cash flows, and reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures follow below.
Additional Information
This press release does not constitute an offer to buy or solicitation of an offer to sell any securities. In response to the tender offer commenced by Air Products Distribution, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Air Products and Chemicals, Inc., Airgas has filed a solicitation/recommendation statement on Schedule 14D-9 with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). INVESTORS AND SECURITY HOLDERS OF AIRGAS ARE URGED TO READ THESE AND OTHER DOCUMENTS FILED WITH THE SEC CAREFULLY IN THEIR ENTIRETY BECAUSE THEY CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION. Investors and security holders may obtain free copies of these documents and other documents filed with the SEC by Airgas through the web site maintained by the SEC at http://www.sec.gov. Also, materials related to Air Products' Unsolicited Proposals are available in the "Investor Information" section of the Company's website at www.airgas.com, or through the following web address: http://investor.shareholder.com/arg/airgascontent.cfm.
In addition, Airgas may file a proxy statement with the SEC. Any definitive proxy statement will be mailed to stockholders of Airgas. INVESTORS AND SECURITY HOLDERS OF AIRGAS ARE URGED TO READ THESE AND OTHER DOCUMENTS FILED WITH THE SEC CAREFULLY IN THEIR ENTIRETY WHEN THEY BECOME AVAILABLE BECAUSE THEY WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION. Investors and security holders will be able to obtain free copies of these documents (when available) and other documents filed with the SEC by Airgas through the web site maintained by the SEC at http://www.sec.gov.
Certain Information Regarding Participants
Airgas and certain of its directors and executive officers may be deemed to be participants under the rules of the SEC. Security holders may obtain information regarding the names, affiliations and interests of Airgas' directors and executive officers in Airgas' Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended March 31, 2009, which was filed with the SEC on June 1, 2009, and its proxy statement for the 2009 Annual Meeting, which was filed with the SEC on July 13, 2009. To the extent holdings of Airgas securities have changed since the amounts printed in the proxy statement for the 2009 Annual Meeting, such changes have been or will be reflected on Statements of Change in Ownership on Form 4 filed with the SEC. These documents can be obtained free of charge from the sources indicated above. Additional information regarding the interests of these participants in any proxy solicitation and a description of their direct and indirect interests, by security holdings or otherwise, will also be included in any proxy statement and other relevant materials to be filed with the SEC if and when they become available.
 
 
See attached Notes.
 
 
See attached Notes.
 
 
See attached Notes.
 
Notes:
 
 
 
Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Financial Measures (Unaudited)
Adjusted Earnings Per Diluted Share
Reconciliations and computations of adjusted earnings per diluted share:
 
The Company believes that adjusted earnings per diluted share provides investors meaningful insight into the Company's earnings performance without the impact of debt extinguishment, multi-employer pension plan withdrawal charges, costs related to Air Products' unsolicited takeover attempt, and tax benefit. Non-GAAP numbers should be read in conjunction with GAAP financial measures, as non-GAAP metrics are merely a supplement to, and not a replacement for, GAAP financial measures. It should be noted as well that our adjusted earnings per diluted share metric may be different from adjusted earnings per diluted share metrics provided by other companies.
Adjusted Operating Margin
Reconciliations and computations of adjusted operating margin:
Consolidated Airgas
 
Distribution Segment
 
The Company believes the above adjusted operating margin computations help investors assess the Company's operating performance without the impact of charges associated with the Company's withdrawal from multi-employer pension plans and costs related to Air Products' unsolicited takeover attempt. Non-GAAP numbers should be read in conjunction with GAAP financial measures, as non-GAAP metrics are merely a supplement to, and not a replacement for, GAAP financial measures. It should be noted as well that our adjusted operating margin computations may be different from the adjusted operating margin computations provided by other companies.
 
 
Free Cash Flow and Adjusted Cash from Operations
Reconciliations and computations of free cash flow and adjusted cash from operations:
 
The Company believes that free cash flow and adjusted cash from operations provide investors meaningful insight into the Company's ability to generate cash from operations, which is available for servicing debt obligations and for the execution of its business strategies, including acquisitions, the prepayment of debt, the payment of dividends, or to support other investing and financing activities. Non-GAAP numbers should be read in conjunction with GAAP financial measures, as non-GAAP metrics are merely a supplement to, and not a replacement for, GAAP financial measures. It should be noted as well that our free cash flow and adjusted cash from operations metrics may be different from free cash flow and adjusted cash from operations metrics provided by other companies.
Adjusted Debt
Reconciliations and computations of adjusted debt:
 
The company uses adjusted debt to provide investors with a more meaningful measure of the Company's debt obligations by adjusting for funds received under the trade receivables securitization program.


