FILE:ARG/ARG-8K-20100208170837.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, DC 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15 (d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (date of earliest event reported):
February 5, 2010
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:
(610) 687-5253
(see General Instruction A.2. below):
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 8.01  
Other Events
On February 5, 2010, Airgas, Inc. (Airgas) issued a press release confirming that it has received an unsolicited proposal from Air Products & Chemicals, Inc. (Air Products) to acquire Airgas for $60.00 per share in cash.  The press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
Other Information
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
This communication does not constitute an offer to buy or solicitation of an offer to sell any securities.  No tender offer for the shares of  Airgas has commenced at this time.  If a tender offer is commenced, Airgas may file a solicitation/recommendation statement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).  Any solicitation/recommendation statement filed by Airgas that is required to be mailed to stockholders will be mailed to stockholders of Airgas.  INVESTORS AND SECURITY HOLDERS OF AIRGAS ARE URGED TO READ THESE AND OTHER DOCUMENTS FILED WITH THE SEC CAREFULLY IN THEIR ENTIRETY IF AND WHEN THEY BECOME AVAILABLE BECAUSE THEY WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION.  Investors and security holders will be able to obtain free copies of these documents (if and when available) and other documents filed with the SEC by Airgas through the web site maintained by the SEC at http://www.sec.gov.  In addition, Airgas may file a proxy statement with the SEC.  Any definitive proxy statement will be mailed to stockholders of Airgas.  INVESTORS AND SECURITY HOLDERS OF AIRGAS ARE URGED TO READ THESE AND OTHER DOCUMENTS FILED WITH THE SEC CAREFULLY IN THEIR ENTIRETY WHEN THEY BECOME AVAILABLE BECAUSE THEY WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION.  Investors and security holders will be able to obtain free copies of these documents (if and when available) and other documents filed with the SEC by Airgas through the web site maintained by the SEC at http://www.sec.gov.
CERTAIN INFORMATION REGARDING PARTICIPANTS
Airgas and certain of its respective directors and executive officers may be deemed to be participants under the rules of the SEC. Security holders may obtain information regarding the names, affiliations and interests of Airgas directors and executive officers in Airgas Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended March 31, 2009, which was filed with the SEC on June 1, 2009, and its proxy statement for the 2009 Annual Meeting, which was filed with the SEC on July 13, 2009.  These documents can be obtained free of charge from the sources indicated above.  Additional information regarding the interests of these participants in any proxy solicitation and a description of their direct and indirect interests, by security holdings or otherwise, will also be included in any proxy statement and other relevant materials to be filed with the SEC if and when they become available.
          FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
This communication may contain statements that are forward looking, as that term is defined by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, as amended, or by the SEC in its rules, regulations and releases.  These statements include, but are not limited to: our having strong prospects for organic and acquisition growth in the coming years; the economy just beginning its recovery; the view that under the terms of Air Products proposal, our shareholders would sacrifice real value and opportunity; our belief that a combination of our two companies could destroy rather than create value; and our prospects for continued growth and shareholder value creation.  We intend that such forward-looking statements be subject to the safe harbors created thereby.  All forward-looking statements are based on current expectations regarding important risk factors and should not be regarded as a representation by us or any other person that the results expressed therein will be achieved.  Airgas assumes no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements for any reason, except as required by law.  Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement include: adverse changes in customer buying patterns resulting from further deterioration in current economic conditions; weakening in the operating and financial performance of our customers, which can negatively impact our sales and ability to collect our accounts receivable; postponement of projects due to the recession; customer acceptance of price increases; the success of implementing and continuing our cost reduction programs; supply cost pressures; increased industry competition; our ability to successfully identify, consummate, and integrate acquisitions; our ability to achieve acquisition synergies; our continued ability to access credit markets on satisfactory terms; significant fluctuations in interest rates; increases in energy costs and other operating expenses eroding planned cost savings; higher than expected implementation costs of the SAP system; conversion problems related to the SAP system that disrupt our business and negatively impact customer relationships; the impact of tightened credit markets on our customers; the impact of changes in tax and fiscal policies and laws; the potential for increased expenditures relating to compliance with environmental regulatory initiatives; the impact of new environmental, healthcare, tax, accounting, and other regulation; continued potential liability under the Multiemployer Pension Plan Amendments Act of 1980 with respect to our participation in or withdrawal from multi-employer pension plans for our union employees; the extent and duration of current recessionary trends in the U.S. economy; the effect of catastrophic events; political and economic uncertainties associated with current world events; and other factors described in Airgas reports, including its March 31, 2009 Form 10-K, subsequent Forms 10-Q, and other documents filed by Airgas with the SEC.
Item 9.01  
Financial Statements and Exhibits
(a)  None
(b)  None
(c)  None
(d)  Exhibits.
99.1  Airgas Press Release dated February 5, 2010
99.2  Letter to Airgas Employees Concerning Airgas Receipt of Unsolicited Proposal from Air Products
Signature
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
Airgas Confirms Receipt of Unsolicited Proposal from Air Products
Stockholders Advised to Take No Action Pending Review by Airgas Board of Directors
RADNOR, Pa.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--February 5, 2010--Airgas, Inc. (NYSE: ARG) today confirmed that it has received an unsolicited proposal from Air Products & Chemicals, Inc. (NYSE: APD) (Air Products) to acquire the company for $60.00 per share.
Airgas Board of Directors will review the proposal with its financial and legal advisors. Airgas shareholders are advised to take no action at this time.
The Company noted that in December 2009 Airgas received a cash and stock proposal from Air Products with an implied value of $62 per share, and that in October 2009 Airgas received an all-stock proposal from Air Products with an implied value of $60 per share. Airgas Board of Directors, after consultation with its financial and legal advisors, unanimously determined that Air Products proposals were not in the best interests of Airgas or its shareholders, as they grossly undervalued Airgas. In responding to the proposal received in December, the Board also noted that a significant portion of the consideration was in the form of Air Products stock, which has historically underperformed Airgas stock. The Airgas Board informed Air Products of its determination, sending the following letter on January 4, 2010 to John McGlade, Air Products Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer:
January 4, 2010
Dear John:
Our Board of Directors met and thoroughly considered the proposal set forth in your December 17 letter. It is their unanimous view that the Air Products proposal grossly undervalues Airgas. Therefore, the Board is not interested in pursuing your companys proposal and continues to believe that there is no reason to meet.
Airgas management has consistently created long-term shareholder value, as measured by stock price appreciation and total shareholder returns (stock price appreciation plus dividends).
- In every cumulative annual period since 2000, measured from the first of each calendar year to Dec 31, 2009, Airgas stock price has consistently outperformed Air Products with the exception of 2009.
- Airgas stock price appreciated 80% over the last five years and 415% over the last ten years, compared to just 40% and 145% for Air Products shares over the same periods.
- Airgas has achieved total cumulative shareholder returns of 22%, 89%, and 434% over the last three, five and ten years respectively, versus Air Products 23%, 56% and 197%. From the time of its initial public offering in December 1986, Airgas total shareholder return has exceeded 4,400% as compared to approximately 1,300% for Air Products over the same period.
Airgas entrepreneurial culture and customer-centric business model produced operating performance superior to that of Air Products through the last cycle, in expanding and contracting economic conditions. From CY2001 through CY2008, Airgas generated a 24% compound annual growth rate in operating income from continuing operations, compared to Air Products 8%.
Airgas associates, with the support of our Board of Directors and shareholders, have built the most valuable independent industrial gas company in the world. We have an outstanding performance record, and strong prospects for organic and acquisition growth in the coming years. Air Products unsolicited approach is simply an opportunistic attempt to buy Airgas at a bargain price, exploiting a brief anomaly in the historic comparative equity market performance of our two companies, just as the economy begins its recovery. Recent performance alone is not indicative of what our respective companies are capable of achieving. Under the terms of Air Products proposal, our shareholders would sacrifice real value and opportunity, and exchange a dynamic growth stock for one that has significantly underperformed Airgas stock over an extended period of time.
While we agree that the benefits of a letter writing campaign between our two companies have been exhausted, we strongly disagree with many of the assertions in your December 17th letter. In particular, we believe that a combination of our two companies could destroy rather than create value; that you underestimate the seriousness of your advisors conflicts; and that your characterization of my one conversation with you is inaccurate and misleading.
Air Products proposal grossly undervalues Airgas and its prospects for continued growth and shareholder value creation. Accordingly, our Board of Directors is not interested in pursuing your companys proposal.
Sincerely yours,
BofA Merrill Lynch and Goldman, Sachs & Co. are serving as financial advisors, and Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz is serving as legal counsel to Airgas.
About Airgas, Inc.
Airgas, Inc. (NYSE: ARG), through its subsidiaries, is the largest U.S. distributor of industrial, medical, and specialty gases, and hardgoods, such as welding equipment and supplies. Airgas is also one of the largest U.S. distributors of safety products, the largest U.S. producer of nitrous oxide and dry ice, the largest liquid carbon dioxide producer in the Southeast, and a leading distributor of process chemicals, refrigerants, and ammonia products. More than 14,000 employees work in over 1,100 locations, including branches, retail stores, gas fill plants, specialty gas labs, production facilities and distribution centers. Airgas also distributes its products and services through eBusiness, catalog and telesales channels. Its national scale and strong local presence offer a competitive edge to its diversified customer base. For more information, please visit .
www.airgas.com
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release may contain statements that are forward looking, as that term is defined by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 or by the Securities and Exchange Commission in its rules, regulations and releases. These statements include, but are not limited to: our having strong prospects for organic and acquisition growth in the coming years; the economy just beginning its recovery; the view that under the terms of Air Products proposal, our shareholders would sacrifice real value and opportunity; our belief that a combination of our two companies could destroy rather than create value; and our prospects for continued growth and shareholder value creation. We intend that such forward-looking statements be subject to the safe harbors created thereby. All forward-looking statements are based on current expectations regarding important risk factors and should not be regarded as a representation by us or any other person that the results expressed therein will be achieved. We assume no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements for any reason, except as required by law. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement include: adverse changes in customer buying patterns resulting from further deterioration in current economic conditions; weakening in the operating and financial performance of our customers, which can negatively impact our sales and ability to collect our accounts receivable; postponement of projects due to the recession; customer acceptance of price increases; the success of implementing and continuing our cost reduction programs; supply cost pressures; increased industry competition; our ability to successfully identify, consummate, and integrate acquisitions; our ability to achieve acquisition synergies; our continued ability to access credit markets on satisfactory terms; significant fluctuations in interest rates; increases in energy costs and other operating expenses eroding planned cost savings; higher than expected implementation costs of the SAP system; conversion problems related to the SAP system that disrupt our business and negatively impact customer relationships; the impact of tightened credit markets on our customers; the impact of changes in tax and fiscal policies and laws; the potential for increased expenditures relating to compliance with environmental regulatory initiatives; the impact of new environmental, healthcare, tax, accounting, and other regulation; continued potential liability under the Multiemployer Pension Plan Amendments Act of 1980 with respect to our participation in or withdrawal from multi-employer pension plans for our union employees; the extent and duration of current recessionary trends in the U.S. economy; the effect of catastrophic events; political and economic uncertainties associated with current world events; and other factors described in the Companys reports, including its March 31, 2009 Form 10-K, subsequent Forms 10-Q, and other forms filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
CONTACT: Airgas, Inc. Jay Worley, 610-902-6206 or Joele Frank, Wilkinson Brimmer Katcher Joele Frank / Dan Katcher / Andrew Siegel 212-355-4449 or Airgas, Inc. Barry Strzelec, 610-902-6256
Media:
jay.worley@airgas.com
Investors:
barry.strzelec@airgas.com

Exhibit 99.2
This morning Airgas issued a news release confirming that it has received an unsolicited proposal from Air Products & Chemicals, Inc. to acquire the company for $60.00 per share.
The proposal received today is similar to previous proposals that our Board of Directors has evaluated. In December 2009, Airgas received a cash and stock proposal from Air Products with an implied value of $62 per share, after having received an all-stock proposal in October 2009 with an implied value of $60 per share. The Airgas Board of Directors rejected both proposals as financially inadequate, and a copy of the January 4, 2010 letter sent by the Board to Air Products is included in the news release issued earlier today.
Notwithstanding its earlier review of the previous proposals, our Board of Directors will review todays Air Products proposal with the help of independent financial and legal advisors. Airgas has advised shareholders to take no action at this time.
As the Board conducts its review, it will be business as usual for all of us at Airgas. Over the years, we have built a nationwide distribution network with an industry-leading offering of products and services, the likes of which did not exist when we began. We will continue to create tremendous value for our customers, and the growth opportunities in front of us are outstanding. The best response to todays news is for all of us to maintain our focus on serving customers and growing our business. Rest assured that we have the right resources and expertise to properly respond to this proposal, and we will fight to preserve the shareholder value that we have worked so hard to build through the years.
I recognize that you may have questions. While there is little additional information to share at this time, I will keep you updated as the Board completes its review of this proposal. We are committed to doing what is in the best interests of our company and our shareholders.
We expect this announcement may lead to inquiries from external parties, and it is important for us to speak with one voice. Consistent with our existing policy, please forward all media calls to Jay Worley, Vice PresidentCommunications and Investor Relations, at 610-902-6206 or jay.worley@airgas.com and all investor inquiries should go to Barry Strzelec, Manager-Investor Relations, at 610-902-6256 or barry. strzelec@airgas.com
,
.
On behalf of the Board and management team, I thank you for your continued hard work, focus and commitment to Airgas.
Sincerely,
Peter McCausland Chairman and Chief Executive Officer


