FILE:ARG/ARG-8K-20101026091022.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 26, 2010, Airgas, Inc. (the "Company") reported its earnings for its second quarter, ended September 30, 2010, as described in the press release attached as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
Non-GAAP Measures:
The press release attached as Exhibit 99.1 contains certain financial measures that are not defined under generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). The Company presented its adjusted earnings per diluted share measure to provide investors meaningful insight into the Company's earnings performance without the impact of debt extinguishment, multi-employer pension plan withdrawal charges, and costs related to Air Products' unsolicited takeover attempt. The Company presented Adjusted Operating Margin computations to help investors assess the Company's operating performance without the impact of charges associated with the Company's withdrawal from multi-employer pension plans and costs related to Air Products' unsolicited takeover attempt. The Company presented Free Cash Flow and Adjusted Cash From Operations to provide investors meaningful insight into the Company's ability to generate cash from operations, which is available for servicing debt obligations and for the execution of its business strategies, including acquisitions, the prepayment of debt, the payment of dividends, or to support other investing and financing activities. The Company presented Adjusted Debt to provide investors with a more meaningful measure of the Company's debt obligations by adjusting for funds received under the trade receivables securitization program.
The Company's intent is to provide non-GAAP financial information to enhance investors' understanding of the Company's consolidated financial statements and should be considered by the reader in addition to, but not instead of, the financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. In addition, it should be noted that the Company's non-GAAP information may be different from the non-GAAP information provided by other companies.
 
(a) None
(b) None
(c) None
(d) Exhibits.
99.1 - Press Release dated October 26, 2010
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
(d) Exhibits.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
For release:                 Immediately
 
 
 
 
 
Airgas, Inc. (NYSE: ARG), the largest U.S. distributor of industrial, medical, and specialty gases, and related supplies, today reported net earnings of $66.6 million, or $0.78 per diluted share, for its second quarter ended September 30, 2010. Excluding legal and professional fees and other costs of $0.03 per diluted share** related to an unsolicited takeover attempt, debt extinguishment charges of $0.01 per diluted share, and multi-employer pension plan withdrawal charges of $0.01 per diluted share, adjusted earnings per diluted share* were $0.83, an increase of 22% from adjusted earnings per diluted share* of $0.68 in the prior year. Prior year GAAP earnings per share of $0.65 included debt extinguishment charges of $0.02 per diluted share and multi-employer pension plan withdrawal charges of $0.01 per diluted share.
RADNOR, PA  October 26, 2010
Second quarter sales were $1.06 billion, a sequential increase of 1% compared to the first quarter on the same number of selling days. Compared to the prior year, total same-store sales increased 9% in the quarter, with hardgoods up 12% and gas and rent up 7%. Acquisitions contributed 1% sales growth over the prior year.
 
"Our business continued to strengthen in our second quarter, reflecting broad-based improvement in most of our geographies and customer segments, and with the greatest strength in manufacturing," said Airgas Chief Executive Officer Peter McCausland. "Hardgoods same-store sales accelerated noticeably this quarter as compared to gas and rent same-store sales, which is a trend consistent with an economic recovery. While revenues have not yet recovered to pre-recession levels, we are experiencing favorable leverage on sales growth and are achieving near record results for earnings and margins."
Adjusted operating margin* for the quarter improved year-over-year to 12.0% from 11.6%, driven by operating leverage on sales growth and continued cost discipline. Sequentially, adjusted operating margin* was down slightly from 12.3% in the first quarter, reflecting 30 basis points of incremental impact from the commencement of SAP system conversions in July.
"With solid revenue growth and effective cost management, we drove second quarter adjusted EPS that exceeded our guided range, and that matched the second-best earnings quarter in Airgas history," McCausland added. "Our SAP implementation is proceeding as planned, and our robust business momentum positions us to continue delivering earnings growth and strong cash flow."
Year-to-date free cash flow* was $179 million at the end of the second fiscal quarter, driven by adjusted cash from operations* of $290 million and a 120 basis point year-over-year reduction in capital expenditures as a percent of sales, to 5.5%. Adjusted debt* at the end of the quarter was $1.7 billion, reflecting a reduction of more than $127 million year-to-date.
Guidance Update
The Company expects adjusted earnings per diluted share* for the third quarter to increase 17% to 23% from $0.65 in the prior year to $0.76 to $0.80, which includes $0.01 per diluted share of incremental expense associated with its SAP implementation. The sequential decline from the second quarter in adjusted earnings per diluted share reflects normal seasonal declines in the All Other Operations business segment as well as the impact of holidays and two fewer selling days in the third quarter, partially offset by continued business growth in the Distribution business segment.
For the full fiscal year 2011, the Company expects adjusted earnings per diluted share* to increase 20% to 24% from $2.68 in the prior year to $3.22 to $3.32, which includes $0.11 per diluted share of incremental expense associated with SAP implementation. The third quarter and fiscal 2011 guidance excludes debt extinguishment charges, multi-employer pension plan withdrawal charges, and costs and charges related to the unsolicited takeover attempt.
 
"Given our strong performance and expectations for steady growth, we raised our fiscal 2011 guidance, which now represents a year-over-year increase of 24% to 28% in underlying earnings before SAP costs," added McCausland. "We remain on track to beat our calendar 2012 earnings goal of at least $4.20 per share, and we strongly believe that there is tremendous value to be realized for our stockholders through the continued execution of our business strategies."
The Company will conduct an earnings teleconference at 11:00 a.m. Eastern Time on Tuesday, October 26. The teleconference will be available by calling (888) 359-3613. The presentation materials (this press release, slides to be presented during the Company's teleconference and information about how to access a live and on-demand webcast of the teleconference) are available in the "Investor Information" section of the Company's website at . A webcast of the teleconference will be available live and on demand through November 26 at http://investor.shareholder.com/arg/events.cfm. A replay of the teleconference will be available through November 3. To listen, call (888) 203-1112 and enter passcode 7505468.
www.airgas.com
* See attached reconciliations and calculations of the non-GAAP adjusted earnings per diluted share, adjusted operating margin, adjusted cash from operations, free cash flow, and adjusted debt.
** The legal and professional fees and other costs incurred are in response to Air Products' unsolicited takeover attempt.
About Airgas, Inc.
Airgas, Inc. (NYSE: ARG), through its subsidiaries, is the largest U.S. distributor of industrial, medical, and specialty gases, and hardgoods, such as welding equipment and supplies. Airgas is also one of the largest U.S. distributors of safety products, the largest U.S. producer of nitrous oxide and dry ice, the largest liquid carbon dioxide producer in the Southeast, and a leading distributor of process chemicals, refrigerants, and ammonia products. More than 14,000 employees work in approximately 1,100 locations, including branches, retail stores, gas fill plants, specialty gas labs, production facilities, and distribution centers. Airgas also distributes its products and services through eBusiness, catalog, and telesales channels. Its national scale and strong local presence offer a competitive edge to its diversified customer base. For more information, please visit www.airgas.com.
This press release may contain statements that are forward looking, as that term is defined by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 or by the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") in its rules, regulations and releases. These statements include, but are not limited to: expectations for third quarter adjusted earnings per diluted share to be in the range of $0.76 to $0.80, which includes $0.01 per diluted share of incremental expense associated with the SAP implementation; expectations for adjusted earnings per diluted share for fiscal 2011 to be in the range of $3.22 to $3.32, which includes $0.11 per diluted share of incremental expense associated with the SAP implementation; third quarter and fiscal 2011 guidance excluding the impact of debt extinguishment charges, multi-employer pension plan withdrawal charges, and costs and charges related to the unsolicited takeover attempt; our robust business momentum positioning us well for continued earnings growth and strong cash flow; our expectations for steady growth;
the value to be realized for our stockholders through the continued execution of our business strategies; and our ability to beat our calendar 2012 earnings goal of at least $4.20 per share. Forward-looking statements also include any statement that is not based on historical fact, including statements containing the words "believes," "may," "plans," "will," "could," "should," "estimates," "continues," "anticipates," "intends," "expects" and similar expressions. We intend that such forward-looking statements be subject to the safe harbors created thereby. The Company notes that forward-looking statements made in connection with a tender offer are not subject to the safe harbors created by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The Company is not waiving any other defenses that may be available under applicable law. All forward-looking statements are based on current expectations regarding important risk factors and should not be regarded as a representation by us or any other person that the results expressed therein will be achieved. We assume no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements for any reason, except as required by law. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement include: adverse changes in customer buying patterns resulting from deterioration in current economic conditions; weakening in the operating and financial performance of our customers, which can negatively impact our sales and our ability to collect our accounts receivable; postponement of projects due to economic developments; customer acceptance of price increases; the success of implementing and continuing our cost reduction programs; our ability to achieve anticipated acquisition synergies; supply cost pressures; increased industry competition; our ability to successfully identify, consummate, and integrate acquisitions; our continued ability to access credit markets on satisfactory terms; significant fluctuations in interest rates; increases in energy costs and other operating expenses eroding planned cost savings; higher than expected implementation costs of the SAP system; conversion problems related to the SAP system that disrupt our business and negatively impact customer relationships; the impact of tightened credit markets on our customers; the impact of changes in tax and fiscal policies and laws; the potential for increased expenditures relating to compliance with environmental regulatory initiatives; the impact of new environmental, healthcare, tax, accounting, and other regulation; continued potential liability under the Multiemployer Pension Plan Amendments Act of 1980 with respect to our participation in or withdrawal from multi-employer pension plans for our union employees; the timing of economic recovery in the U.S. economy; the effect of catastrophic events; political and economic uncertainties associated with current world events; business disruptions associated with Air Products' unsolicited takeover attempt; and other factors described in the Company's reports, including its March 31, 2010 Form 10-K, subsequent Form 10-Q, and other forms filed by the Company with the SEC.
Consolidated statements of earnings, condensed consolidated balance sheets, consolidated statements of cash flows, and reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures follow below.
Additional Information
This press release does not constitute an offer to buy or solicitation of an offer to sell any securities. In response to the tender offer commenced by Air Products Distribution, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Air Products and Chemicals, Inc., Airgas has filed a solicitation/recommendation statement on Schedule 14D-9 with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). INVESTORS AND SECURITY HOLDERS OF AIRGAS ARE URGED TO READ THESE AND OTHER DOCUMENTS FILED WITH THE SEC CAREFULLY IN THEIR ENTIRETY BECAUSE THEY CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION. Investors and security holders may obtain free copies of these documents and other documents filed with the SEC by Airgas through the web site maintained by the SEC at http://www.sec.gov. Also, materials related to Air Products' Unsolicited Proposals are available in the "Investor Information" section of the Company's website at www.airgas.com, or through the following web address: http://investor.shareholder.com/arg/airgascontent.cfm.
Airgas has filed a definitive proxy statement on Schedule 14A with the SEC on July 23, 2010 in connection with the solicitation of proxies for the 2010 annual meeting of Airgas stockholders. Airgas may file an additional proxy statement with the SEC. Any definitive proxy statement will be mailed to stockholders of Airgas.
INVESTORS AND SECURITY HOLDERS OF AIRGAS ARE URGED TO READ THESE AND OTHER DOCUMENTS FILED WITH THE SEC CAREFULLY IN THEIR ENTIRETY WHEN THEY BECOME AVAILABLE BECAUSE THEY WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION. Investors and security holders will be able to obtain free copies of these documents (when available) and other documents filed with the SEC by Airgas through the web site maintained by the SEC at http://www.sec.gov.
Certain Information Regarding Participants
Airgas and certain of its directors and executive officers may be deemed to be participants under the rules of the SEC. Security holders may obtain information regarding the names, affiliations and interests of Airgas' directors and executive officers in Airgas' Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended March 31, 2010, which was filed with the SEC on May 27, 2010, and its proxy statement for the 2010 Annual Meeting, which was filed with the SEC on July 23, 2010. To the extent holdings of Airgas securities have changed since the amounts printed in the proxy statement for the 2010 Annual Meeting, such changes have been or will be reflected on Statements of Change in Ownership on Form 4 filed with the SEC. These documents can be obtained free of charge from the sources indicated above. Additional information regarding the interests of these participants in any proxy solicitation and a description of their direct and indirect interests, by security holdings or otherwise, will also be included in any proxy statement and other relevant materials to be filed with the SEC if and when they become available.
 
 
See attached Notes.
 
 
See attached Notes.
 
 
See attached Notes.
 
Notes:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Financial Measures (Unaudited)
Adjusted Earnings Per Diluted Share and Earnings Guidance
Reconciliations and computations of adjusted earnings per diluted share and earnings guidance:
 
 
Guidance for adjusted earnings per diluted share excludes debt extinguishment charges, multi-employer pension plan withdrawal charges, and costs and charges related to the unsolicited takeover attempt. Adjustments to earnings per diluted share guidance for the year ending March 31, 2011, reflect charges and costs recognized through September 30, 2010.
The Company believes that adjusted earnings per diluted share provides investors meaningful insight into the Company's earnings performance without the impact of debt extinguishment charges, multi-employer pension plan withdrawal charges, and costs and charges related to Air Products' unsolicited takeover attempt. Non-GAAP numbers should be read in conjunction with GAAP financial measures, as non-GAAP metrics are merely a supplement to, and not a replacement for, GAAP financial measures. It should be noted as well that our adjusted earnings per diluted share metric may be different from adjusted earnings per diluted share metrics provided by other companies.
 
Adjusted Operating Margin
Reconciliations and computations of adjusted operating margin:
 
The Company believes the above adjusted operating margin computations help investors assess the Company's operating performance without the impact of charges associated with the Company's withdrawal from multi-employer pension plans, and costs and charges related to Air Products' unsolicited takeover attempt. Non-GAAP numbers should be read in conjunction with GAAP financial measures, as non-GAAP metrics are merely a supplement to, and not a replacement for, GAAP financial measures. It should be noted as well that our adjusted operating margin computations may be different from the adjusted operating margin computations provided by other companies.
 
Free Cash Flow and Adjusted Cash from Operations
Reconciliations and computations of free cash flow and adjusted cash from operations:
 
The Company believes that free cash flow and adjusted cash from operations provide investors meaningful insight into the Company's ability to generate cash from operations, which is available for servicing debt obligations and for the execution of its business strategies, including acquisitions, the prepayment of debt, the payment of dividends, or to support other investing and financing activities. Non-GAAP numbers should be read in conjunction with GAAP financial measures, as non-GAAP metrics are merely a supplement to, and not a replacement for, GAAP financial measures. It should be noted as well that our free cash flow and adjusted cash from operations metrics may be different from free cash flow and adjusted cash from operations metrics provided by other companies.
Adjusted Debt
Reconciliations and computations of adjusted debt:
 
The Company uses adjusted debt to provide investors with a more meaningful measure of the Company's debt obligations by adjusting for funds received under the trade receivables securitization program.


