FILE:ARG/ARG-8K-20111222115433.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On December 21, 2011, Airgas, Inc. (the "Company") entered into the Second Amendment (the "Amendment") to the Third Amended and Restated Receivables Purchase Agreement dated March 17, 2010 (the "Receivables Purchase Agreement") among the Company, as servicer, Radnor Funding Corp., a bankruptcy-remote special purpose entity and wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, as seller, the members of the various purchaser groups from time to time party thereto and The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., New York Branch, as administrator (in such capacity, the "Administrator"). The Amendment extends the expiration date of the Receivables Purchase Agreement from March 15, 2013 to December 21, 2013 and reduces the Company's marginal cost of funding under the Receivables Purchase Agreement.
The foregoing description of the Amendment to the Receivables Purchase Agreement is qualified by reference in its entirety to a copy of the Amendment, which is filed herewith as an exhibit and incorporated in this Item 1.01 by reference.
 
The information set forth in Item 1.01 is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Exhibit 10.1 - Second Amendment to the Third Amended and Restated Receivables Purchase Agreement, dated as of December 21, 2011, among Airgas Inc., as Servicer, Radnor Funding Corp., as Seller, the members of the various purchaser groups from time to time party thereto and the Administrator.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Exhibit Index
 

Exhibit 10.1
EXECUTION COPY
This SECOND AMENDMENT TO THE THIRD AMENDED AND RESTATED RECEIVABLES PURCHASE AGREEMENT, dated as of December 21, 2011 (this ""), is among:
Amendment
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The foregoing entities are herein collectively referred to as the "", and capitalized terms used but not otherwise defined herein (including such terms used above) have the respective meanings set forth in the Receivables Purchase Agreement (as defined below).
Parties
WHEREAS, the Parties have entered into that certain Third Amended and Restated Receivables Purchase Agreement, dated as of March 17, 2010 (as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified through the date hereof, the ""); and
Receivables Purchase Agreement
WHEREAS, the Parties desire to amend the Receivables Purchase Agreement as set forth herein; and
WHEREAS, in connection with this Amendment and concurrently herewith, Airgas USA, LLC ("") is entering into a Joinder Agreement, dated the date hereof (the ""), whereby Airgas USA will become a party to the Sale Agreement (as defined in the Receivables Purchase Agreement) and an Originator thereunder; and
Airgas USA
Joinder Agreement
WHEREAS, in connection with this Amendment and concurrently herewith, the Seller, the Servicer and the members of the Victory Purchaser Group are entering into a Fourth Amended and Restated Fee Letter, dated the date hereof (the ""); and
Victory Fee Letter
WHEREAS, in connection with this Amendment and concurrently herewith, the Seller, the Servicer and the members of the Working Capital Purchaser Group are entering into an Amended and Restated Fee Letter, dated the date hereof (the ""); and
Working Capital Fee Letter
WHEREAS, in connection with this Amendment and concurrently herewith, the Seller, the Servicer and the members of the Atlantic Purchaser Group are entering into an Amended and Restated Fee Letter, dated the date hereof (the "", together with the Victory Fee Letter and the Working Capital Fee Letter, collectively, the ""); and
Atlantic Fee Letter
Fee Letters
WHEREAS, in connection with this Amendment and concurrently herewith, the members of the Atlantic Purchaser Group and the members of the Victory Purchaser Group are entering into a Transfer Supplement, dated the date hereof (the "").
Transfer Supplement
NOW, THEREFORE, for good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the Parties agree as follows:
SECTION 1. . The Receivables Purchase Agreement is amended as follows:
Amendments to the Receivables Purchase Agreement
(a) The definition of "" set forth in to the Receivables Purchase Agreement is amended by deleting the date "March 15, 2013" where it appears in  thereof and substituting the date "December 21, 2013" therefor.
Facility Termination Date
Exhibit I
clause (a)
(b) to the Receivables Purchase Agreement is replaced in its entirety with attached hereto.
Schedule IV
Exhibit A
(c) to the Receivables Purchase Agreement is replaced in its entirety with attached hereto.
Schedule VI
Exhibit B
SECTION 2. . Each of the Seller, Airgas and the Servicer hereby represents, warrants and covenants to each of the other Parties that:
Certain Representations, Warranties and Covenants
(a) the representations and warranties of such Person contained in to the Receivables Purchase Agreement are true and correct as of the date hereof (unless
Exhibit III
 
stated to relate solely to an earlier date, in which case such representations and warranties were true and correct as of such earlier date);
(b) the execution and delivery by such Person of this Amendment, and the performance of its obligations under this Amendment and the Receivables Purchase Agreement (as amended hereby) are within its corporate powers and have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action on its part, and this Amendment and the Receivables Purchase Agreement (as amended hereby) are its valid and legally binding obligations, enforceable in accordance with its terms, subject to the effect of bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally; and
(c) no Termination Event or Unmatured Termination Event has occurred, is continuing, or would occur as a result of this Amendment.
SECTION 3. . This Amendment shall become effective as of the date hereof upon receipt by (i) the Victory Purchaser Agent of counterparts of the Victory Fee Letter, duly executed by each of the Parties party thereto, (ii) the Working Capital Purchaser Agent of counterparts of the Working Capital Fee Letter, duly executed by each of the Parties party thereto, (iii) the Atlantic Purchaser Agent of counterparts of the Atlantic Fee Letter, duly executed by each of the Parties party thereto, and (iv) the Administrator of the following, in each case, in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrator:
Effectiveness
(a) counterparts of this Amendment, duly executed by each of the Parties;
(b) counterparts of the Joinder Agreement, duly executed by each of the Persons party thereto;
(c) counterparts of the Transfer Supplement, duly executed by each of the Persons party thereto;
(d) favorable opinions of counsel for the Seller, Airgas and Airgas USA, covering certain general corporate and enforceability, UCC and bankruptcy matters;
(e) confirmation from each Purchaser Agent that the "Amendment Fee" (as defined in each applicable Fee Letter) payable to such Purchaser Agent has been paid in full in accordance with the terms of the related Fee Letter; and
(f) such other documents and instruments as the Administrator may reasonably request.
SECTION 4. .
Post-Closing Covenant
(a) On or prior to the effectiveness of any merger or consolidation between Airgas USA and any Originator (other than Airgas-Great Lakes, Inc., Airgas-Mid South, Inc., Airgas-West, Inc. or Airgas-South, Inc.), the Seller (or the Servicer on its behalf) shall cause to be delivered to the Administrator at the expense of the Seller, a favorable opinion of Delaware counsel for the Seller, Airgas and Airgas USA (currently Richards,
 
Layton & Finger, PA), dated as of the effective date of such merger or consolidation, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrator and covering certain corporate and UCC matters with respect to Airgas USA after giving effect to such merger or consolidation.
(b) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any Transaction Document, the failure of the Seller or the Servicer to timely perform the covenant under above shall constitute a breach of covenant under the Receivables Purchase Agreement.
Section 4(a)
SECTION 5. . Except as expressly amended and modified by this Amendment, all provisions of the Receivables Purchase Agreement remain in full force and effect. After this Amendment becomes effective, all references in the Receivables Purchase Agreement (or in any other Transaction Document) to "the Receivables Purchase Agreement," "this Agreement," "hereof," "herein" or words of similar effect, in each case referring to the Receivables Purchase Agreement, shall be deemed to be references to the Receivables Purchase Agreement as amended by this Amendment. This Amendment shall not be deemed to expressly or impliedly waive, amend or supplement any provision of the Receivables Purchase Agreement other than as set forth herein.
Effect of Amendment
SECTION 6. . After giving effect to this Amendment, the Joinder Agreement and each of the transactions contemplated by this Amendment and the Joinder Agreement, all of the provisions of the Parent Undertaking Agreement shall remain in full force and effect and Airgas, as parent under the Parent Undertaking Agreement, hereby ratifies and affirms the Parent Undertaking Agreement and acknowledges that the Parent Undertaking Agreement has continued and shall continue in full force and effect in accordance with its terms.
Ratification
SECTION 7. . This Amendment may be executed in any number of counterparts and by different Parties on separate counterparts, and each counterpart shall be deemed to be an original, and all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument. Delivery of an executed counterpart of this Amendment by facsimile or other electronic transmission shall be as effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart.
Counterparts
SECTION 8. . This Amendment shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the internal laws of the State of New York without regard to any otherwise applicable conflict of law principles which would require the application of the laws of any jurisdiction other than those of the state of New York.
Governing Law
SECTION 9. . The various headings of this Amendment are inserted for convenience only and shall not affect the meaning or interpretation of this Amendment or the Receivables Purchase Agreement or any provision hereof or thereof.
Section Headings
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have caused this Amendment to be executed by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized, as of the date first above written.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT A
 
 
EXHIBIT B
 
 


