FILE:ARG/ARG-8K-20110603102433.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On June 3, 2011, Airgas, Inc. (the "Company") issued $250 million aggregate principal amount of 2.950% Notes due June 15, 2016 (the "Notes") pursuant to a shelf registration statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-167140) (the "Registration Statement") filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, which became effective on May 27, 2010, and a related prospectus supplement dated as of May 31, 2011.
The Notes were issued under an Indenture dated May 27, 2010 (the "Base Indenture"), between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association, as Trustee, as supplemented by the Second Supplemental Indenture, dated June 3, 2011 (the "Supplemental Indenture" and together with the Base Indenture, the "Indenture"). The Notes were sold pursuant to an Underwriting Agreement dated May 31, 2011 (the "Underwriting Agreement"), among the Company and Goldman, Sachs & Co., Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, as representatives of the several underwriters named therein. The Underwriting Agreement and Supplemental Indenture are filed as exhibits to this Current Report on Form 8-K and shall be incorporated by reference into the Registration Statement and any amendments thereto.
The Notes bear interest at a fixed annual rate of 2.950%, payable semi-annually on June 15 and December 15 of each year, commencing December 15, 2011. The Indenture contains covenants which, subject to certain exceptions, limit the ability of the Company to, among other things, incur liens or engage in sale/leaseback transactions. Upon a change of control triggering event (as defined in the Indenture), the Indenture requires the Company to make an offer to repurchase the Notes at 101% of their principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest. The Company has the option to redeem the Notes up to the date that is one month prior to the maturity date of the Notes, in whole or in part, at 100% of the principal amount plus a make-whole premium, plus accrued and unpaid interest, and on or after the date that is one month prior to the maturity date of the Notes, in whole or in part, at 100% of the principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest.
The Underwriting Agreement and Supplemental Indenture are filed as exhibits to this Current Report on Form 8-K and shall be incorporated by reference into the Registration Statement and any amendments thereto.
 
The information set forth in Item 1.01 is incorporated herein by reference.
 
On June 3, 2011, Cahill Gordon & Reindel , counsel to the Company, issued an opinion and consent (attached hereto as Exhibit 5.1 and 23.1, respectively, and incorporated herein by reference). The opinion and consent are filed as exhibits to this Current Report on Form 8-K and shall be incorporated by reference into the Registration Statement and any amendments thereto.
LLP
 
Exhibit 1.1: Underwriting Agreement dated May 31, 2011, among the Company and Goldman, Sachs & Co., Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, as representatives of the several underwriters named therein.
Exhibit 4.2: Second Supplemental Indenture dated June 3, 2011, between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association, as Trustee.
Exhibit 5.1: Opinion of Cahill Gordon & Reindel as to the validity of the Notes.
LLP
Exhibit 23.1: Consent of Cahill Gordon & Reindel (contained in Exhibit 5.1 hereto).
LLP
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Exhibit Index
 

Exhibit 1.1
May 31, 2011
GOLDMAN, SACHS & CO.
MERRILL LYNCH, PIERCE, FENNER & SMITH INCORPORATED
WELLS FARGO SECURITIES, LLC
As Representatives of the several Underwriters
c/o GOLDMAN, SACHS & CO.
200 West Street
New York, NY 10282
MERRILL LYNCH, PIERCE, FENNER & SMITH INCORPORATED
One Bryant Park
New York, NY 10036
WELLS FARGO SECURITIES, LLC
301 S. College Street
Charlotte, NC 28288
Ladies and Gentlemen:
Airgas, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""), proposes to issue and sell to the several underwriters named in Schedule A (the ""), acting severally and not jointly, the respective amounts set forth in such Schedule A of $250,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 2.950% Notes due 2016 (the ""). Goldman, Sachs & Co., Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC have agreed to act as representatives of the several Underwriters (in such capacity, the "") in connection with the offering and sale of the Securities.
Introductory.
Company
Underwriters
Securities
Representatives
The Securities will be issued pursuant to an indenture, dated as of May 27, 2010 (the ""), between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee (the ""). Certain terms of the Securities will be established pursuant to a supplemental indenture (the "") to the Base Indenture (together with the Base Indenture, the ""). The Securities will be issued in book-entry form in the name of Cede & Co., as nominee of The Depository Trust Company (the ""), pursuant to a Blanket Letter of Representations, to be dated on or before the Closing Date (as defined in Section 2 below) (the ""), between the Company and the Depositary.
Base Indenture
Trustee
Supplemental Indenture
Indenture
Depositary
DTC Agreement
The Company has prepared and filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "") a registration statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-167140), which contains a base prospectus (the ""), to be used in connection with the public offering and
Commission
Base Prospectus
sale of debt securities, including the Securities, and other securities of the Company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (collectively, the ""), and the offering thereof from time to time in accordance with Rule 415 under the Securities Act. Such registration statement, including the financial statements, exhibits and schedules thereto, in the form in which it became effective under the Securities Act, including any required information deemed to be a part thereof at the time of effectiveness pursuant to Rule 430B under the Securities Act, is called the "." The term "" shall mean the final prospectus supplement relating to the Securities, together with the Base Prospectus, that is first filed pursuant to Rule 424(b) after the date and time that this Agreement is executed (the "") by the parties hereto. The term "" shall mean any preliminary prospectus supplement relating to the Securities, together with the Base Prospectus, that is first filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 424(b). Any reference herein to the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus shall be deemed to refer to and include the documents that are or are deemed to be incorporated by reference therein pursuant to Item 12 of Form S-3 under the Securities Act prior to 3:00 p.m. on May 31, 2011 (the ""). All references in this Agreement to the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus, the Prospectus, or any amendments or supplements to any of the foregoing, shall include any copy thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to its Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval System ("").
Securities Act
Registration Statement
Prospectus
Execution Time
Preliminary Prospectus
Initial Sale Time
EDGAR
All references in this Agreement to financial statements and schedules and other information which is "contained," "included" or "stated" (or other references of like import) in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or the Preliminary Prospectus shall be deemed to mean and include all such financial statements and schedules and other information which is or is deemed to be incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or the Preliminary Prospectus, as the case may be, prior to the Initial Sale Time; and all references in this Agreement to amendments or supplements to the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or the Preliminary Prospectus shall be deemed to include the filing of any document under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (collectively, the ""), which is or is deemed to be incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or the Preliminary Prospectus, as the case may be, after the Initial Sale Time.
Exchange Act
The Company hereby confirms its agreement with the Underwriters as follows:
SECTION 1. . The Company hereby represents, warrants and covenants to each Underwriter as of the date hereof, as of the Initial Sale Time and as of the Closing Date (in each case, a ""), as follows:
Representations and Warranties of the Company
Representation Date
(a) The Company meets the requirements for use of Form S-3 under the Securities Act. The Registration Statement has become effective under the Securities Act and no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement has been issued under the Securities Act and no proceedings for that purpose have been instituted or are pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, are contemplated or threatened by the Commission, and any request on the part of the Commission for additional information has been complied with. In addition, the Indenture has been duly
Compliance with Registration Requirements.
 
qualified under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (the "").
Trust Indenture Act
At the respective times the Registration Statement and any post-effective amendments thereto became effective and at each Representation Date, the Registration Statement and any amendments thereto (i) complied and will comply in all material respects with the requirements of the Securities Act and the Trust Indenture Act, and (ii) did not and will not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading. At the date of the Prospectus and at the Closing Date, neither the Prospectus nor any amendments or supplements thereto included or will include an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted or will omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the representations and warranties in this subsection shall not apply to statements in or omissions from the Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment or the Prospectus or any amendments or supplements thereto made in reliance upon and in conformity with information furnished to the Company in writing by any of the Underwriters through the Representatives expressly for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter through the Representatives consists of the information described as such in Section 8 hereof.
Each Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus, at the time each was filed with the SEC, complied in all material respects with the Securities Act, and the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus delivered to the Underwriters for use in connection with the offering of the Securities will, at the time of such delivery, be identical to any electronically transmitted copies thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to EDGAR, except to the extent permitted by Regulation S-T.
(b) The term "" shall mean (i) the Preliminary Prospectus dated May 31, 2011, (ii) the issuer free writing prospectuses as defined in Rule 433 of the Securities Act (each, an ""), if any, identified in Annex I hereto and (iii) any other free writing prospectus that the parties hereto shall hereafter expressly agree in writing to treat as part of the Disclosure Package. As of the Initial Sale Time, the Disclosure Package did not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. The preceding sentence does not apply to statements in or omissions from the Disclosure Package based upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives specifically for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter through the Representatives consists of the information described as such in Section 8 hereof.
Disclosure Package.
Disclosure Package
Issuer Free Writing Prospectus
(c) The documents incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus (i) at the time they were or hereafter are filed with the Commission, complied or will comply in all material respects with the requirements of the Exchange Act and (ii) when read together with the other information in the Disclosure Package, at the Initial Sale Time, and when read together with the other information in the Prospectus, at the date of the Prospectus and at the
Incorporated Documents.
 
Closing Date, did not or will not include an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
(d) . (i) At the time of filing the Registration Statement, (ii) at the time of the most recent amendment thereto for the purposes of complying with Section 10(a)(3) of the Securities Act (whether such amendment was by post-effective amendment, incorporated report filed pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act or form of prospectus), (iii) at the time the Company or any person acting on its behalf (within the meaning, for this clause only, of Rule 163(c) of the Securities Act) made any offer relating to the Securities in reliance on the exemption of Rule 163 of the Securities Act, and (iv) as of the Execution Time, the Company was and is a "well known seasoned issuer" as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. The Registration Statement is an "automatic shelf registration statement," as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act, that automatically became effective not more than three years prior to the Execution Time; the Company has not received from the Commission any notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) of the Securities Act objecting to use of the automatic shelf registration statement form and the Company has not otherwise ceased to be eligible to use the automatic shelf registration form.
Company is a Well-Known Seasoned Issuer
(e) . (i) At the time of filing the Registration Statement and (ii) as of the Execution Time (with such date being used as the determination date for purposes of this clause (ii)), the Company was not and is not an Ineligible Issuer (as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act), without taking account of any determination by the Commission pursuant to Rule 405 of the Securities Act that it is not necessary that the Company be considered an Ineligible Issuer.
Company is not an Ineligible Issuer
(f) . Each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, as of its issue date and at all subsequent times through the completion of the offering of Securities under this Agreement or until any earlier date that the Company notified or notifies the Representatives as described in the next sentence, did not, does not and will not include any information that conflicted, conflicts or will conflict with the information contained in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus. If at any time following issuance of an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus there occurred or occurs an event or development as a result of which such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus conflicted or would conflict with the information contained in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus the Company has promptly notified or will promptly notify the Representatives and has promptly amended or supplemented or will promptly amend or supplement, at its own expense, such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus to eliminate or correct such conflict. The foregoing two sentences do not apply to statements in or omissions from any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus based upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives specifically for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter through the Representatives consists of the information described as such in Section 8 hereof.
Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses
(g) . The Company has not distributed or will not distribute, prior to the later of the Closing Date and the completion of the Underwriters' distribution of the Securities, any offering material in connection with the offering
Distribution of Offering Material by the Company
 
and sale of the Securities other than (i) the Preliminary Prospectus, (ii) the Prospectus, (iii) any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus reviewed and consented to by the Representatives and included in Annex I hereto, (iv) the Registration Statement or (v) any electronic road show or other written communications reviewed and consented to by the Representatives and included in Annex II hereto (collectively, ""). Each such Company Additional Written Communication, when taken together with the Disclosure Package, did not, and at the Closing Date will not, contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; that this representation, warranty and agreement shall not apply to statements in or omissions from each such Company Additional Written Communication made in reliance upon and in conformity with information furnished to the Company in writing by any Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use in any Company Additional Written Communication, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter through the Representatives consists of the information described as such in Section 8 hereof.
Company Additional Written Communication
provided
(h) There are no persons with registration or other similar rights to have any equity or debt securities registered for sale under the Registration Statement or included in the offering contemplated by this Agreement, except for such rights as have been duly waived.
No Applicable Registration or Other Similar Rights.
(i) This Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company.
The Underwriting Agreement.
(j) . The Indenture has been duly qualified under the Trust Indenture Act and has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company and constitutes a valid and binding agreement of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms, except as the enforcement thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent transfer, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws relating to or affecting the rights and remedies of creditors or by general equitable principles.
Authorization of the Indenture
(k) The Securities to be purchased by the Underwriters from the Company are in the form contemplated by the Indenture, have been duly authorized for issuance and sale pursuant to this Agreement and the Indenture and, at the Closing Date, will have been duly executed by the Company and, when authenticated in the manner provided for in the Indenture and delivered against payment of the purchase price therefor, will constitute valid and binding obligations of the Company, enforceable in accordance with their terms, except as the enforcement thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent transfer, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws relating to or affecting the rights and remedies of creditors or by general equitable principles, and will be entitled to the benefits of the Indenture.
Authorization of the Securities.
(l) . None of the Company or any of its subsidiaries has sustained since the date of the latest audited financial statements included in the Disclosure Package any loss or interference with its business from fire, explosion, flood or other calamity, whether or not covered by insurance, or from any labor dispute or court or governmental action, order or decree, which loss or interference is material to the business of the Company, taken as a
No Material Adverse Effect
 
whole, otherwise than as set forth or contemplated in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus; and, since the respective dates as of which information is given in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, there has not been any change in the capital stock or long-term debt of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or any material adverse change, or any development involving a prospective material adverse change, in or affecting the general affairs, management, financial position, stockholders' equity or results of operations of the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole (a ""), otherwise than as set forth or contemplated in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus.
Material Adverse Effect
(m) . The Company and its subsidiaries has good and marketable title in fee simple to all real property and good and marketable title to all personal property owned by them and material to the business of the Company, taken as a whole, in each case free and clear of all liens, encumbrances and defects except such as are described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus or such as do not materially affect the value of such property and do not materially interfere with the use made and proposed to be made of such property by the Company or its subsidiaries; and any real property and buildings held under lease by the Company or its subsidiaries and material to the business of the Company and its subsidiaries are held by them under valid, subsisting and enforceable leases with such exceptions as are not material and do not materially interfere with the use made and proposed to be made of such property and buildings by the Company and its subsidiaries.
Title to Properties
(n) . The Company has been duly incorporated or organized and is validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware, with power and authority (corporate and other) to own its properties and conduct its business as described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, and has been duly qualified as a foreign corporation or similar entity for the transaction of business and is in good standing under the laws of each other jurisdiction in which it owns or leases properties or conducts any business so as to require such qualification, or is subject to no material liability or disability by reason of the failure to be so qualified in any such jurisdiction; and each subsidiary of the Company has been duly incorporated or organized and is validly existing as a corporation or similar entity in good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of incorporation or organization and has been duly qualified as a foreign corporation or similar entity for the transaction of business and is in good standing under the laws of each other jurisdiction in which it owns or leases properties or conducts any business so as to require such qualification, or is subject to no material liability or disability by reason of the failure to be so qualified in any such jurisdiction.
Incorporation and Good Standing of the Company
(o) . All of the issued shares of capital stock of the Company have been duly and validly authorized and issued and are fully paid and nonassessable; and all of the issued shares of capital stock of each subsidiary of the Company have been duly and validly authorized and issued, are fully paid and nonassessable and (except for directors' qualifying shares and except as otherwise set forth in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus) are owned directly or indirectly by the Company, free and clear of all liens, encumbrances, equities or claims other than as described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus.
Capital Stock
(p) X. None of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement (including, without limitation, the use of the proceeds from the sale of the Securities) will violate or result in a violation of Section 7 of the Exchange Act, or any regulation
Regulations T, U and
 
promulgated thereunder, including, without limitation, Regulations T, U, and X of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.
(q) . Prior to the date hereof, none of the Company or any of its affiliates has taken any action which is designed to or which has constituted or which might have been expected to cause or result in stabilization or manipulation of the price of any security of the Company in connection with the offering of the Securities.
No Price Stabilization or Manipulation
(r) The issue and sale of the Securities and the compliance by the Company with all of the provisions of the Securities, the Indenture and this Agreement and the consummation of the transactions herein and therein contemplated will not conflict with or result in a breach or violation of (i) any of the terms or provisions of, or constitute a default under, any indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, loan agreement or other agreement or instrument to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party or by which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is bound or to which any of the property or assets of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is subject, (ii) any of the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation, By-laws or similar organizational documents of the Company or (iii) any existing statute, order, rule or regulation of any court or governmental agency or body having jurisdiction over the Company or any of its subsidiaries or any of its properties, except, in the case of clauses (i) and (iii) above, for such breaches or violations which would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect or prevent or be reasonably likely to prevent the Company from performing its obligations hereunder; and no consent, approval, authorization or other order of, or registration or filing with, any court or other governmental or regulatory authority or agency is required for the Company's execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement or consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, by the Disclosure Package or by the Prospectus, except such as have been obtained or made by the Company and are in full force and effect under the Securities Act, applicable state securities or blue sky laws and from the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (the ""). None of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is (i) in violation of its Certificate of Incorporation, By-laws or similar organizational documents, (ii) in default in the performance or observance of any obligation, covenant or condition contained in any indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, loan agreement, lease or other agreement or instrument to which it is a party or by which it or any of its properties may be bound, or (iii) in violation of any law or statute or any judgment, order, rule or regulation of any court or arbitrator or governmental or regulatory authority, except for, with respect to clauses (ii) and (iii) only, defaults that, individually or in the aggregate, would not have a Material Adverse Effect.
Non-Contravention of Existing Instruments; No Further Authorizations or Approvals Required.
FINRA
(s) . The statements set forth in the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus under the caption "Description of the Notes" and "Description of the Debt Securities", insofar as they purport to constitute a summary of the terms of the Indenture and the Securities, and under the captions "Certain U.S. Federal Income Tax Consequences" and "Description of Other Obligations", insofar as they purport to describe the provisions of the laws and documents referred to therein, are accurate, complete and fair.
Accuracy of Statements in the Prospectus
(t) . Other than as set forth in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, there are no legal or governmental proceedings pending to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party or of which any property of the Company or any of its
No Material Proceedings
 
subsidiaries is the subject which, if determined adversely to the Company or any of its subsidiaries, would individually or in the aggregate have a Material Adverse Effect; and, to the best of the Company's knowledge, no such proceedings are threatened or contemplated by governmental authorities or threatened by others.
(u) . The Company is not and, after giving effect to the offering and sale of the Securities, will not be an "investment company," as such term is defined in the United States Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the "").
Investment Company Act
Investment Company Act
(v) .Neither the Company nor any of its affiliates does business with the government of Cuba or with any person or affiliate located in Cuba within the meaning of Section 517.075, Florida Statutes.
No Business with Cuba
(w) . KPMG LLP, who have certified certain financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries, are an independent registered public accounting firm as required by the Securities Act and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder and the rules and regulations of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States); any non-audit services provided by KPMG LLP to the Company has been approved by the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company.
Independent Accountants
(x) . The Company and its subsidiaries and their respective officers and directors are in compliance with the applicable provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, including the rules and regulations of the Commission promulgated thereunder.
Sarbanes-Oxley Compliance
(y) . The Company has established and maintains disclosure controls and procedures (as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15 and 15d-14 under the Exchange Act); such disclosure controls and procedures are designed to ensure that material information relating to the Company and its subsidiaries is made known to the chief executive officer and chief financial officer of the Company by others within the Company or any of its subsidiaries, and such disclosure controls and procedures are reasonably effective to perform the functions for which they were established, subject to the limitations of any such control system; the Company's auditors and the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company have been advised of: (i) any significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal controls which could adversely affect the Company's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial data; and (ii) any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a role in the Company's internal controls; and since the date of the most recent evaluation of such disclosure controls and procedures, there have been no significant changes in internal controls or in other factors that could significantly affect internal controls, other than any corrective actions, if any, with regard to significant deficiencies.
Disclosure Controls and Procedures
(z) . The Company and its subsidiaries maintain a system of "internal control over financial reporting" (as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) of the Exchange Act) that is in compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and is sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that: (i) transactions are executed in accordance with management's
Internal Controls and Procedures
 
general or specific authorization; (ii) transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles and to maintain accountability for assets; (iii) access to assets is permitted only in accordance with management's general or specific authorization; and (iv) the recorded accountability for assets is compared with existing assets at reasonable intervals and appropriate action is taken with respect to any differences.
(aa) . The financial statements, together with the related schedules and notes, included or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus present fairly the consolidated financial position of the entities to which they relate as of and at the dates indicated and the results of their operations and cash flows for the periods specified. Such financial statements have been prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles applied on a consistent basis throughout the periods involved, except as may be expressly stated in the related notes thereto. The financial data set forth or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus fairly present the information set forth therein on a basis reasonably consistent with that of the audited financial statements contained or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus.
Preparation of Financial Statements
(bb) . Except as described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus and except for those matters that would not, individually or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Effect, (i) each of the Company and its subsidiaries is in compliance with all applicable federal, state, local or foreign statutes, laws, rules, regulations or ordinances relating to pollution or protection of human health or the environment (including, without limitation, ambient air, surface water, groundwater, land surface or subsurface strata) or wildlife, including, without limitation, laws and regulations relating to the release or threatened release of chemicals, pollutants, contaminants, wastes, toxic substances, hazardous substances, petroleum or petroleum products (collectively, "") or to the manufacture, processing, distribution, use, treatment, storage, disposal, transport or handling of Hazardous Materials (collectively, ""), (ii) each of the Company and its subsidiaries has obtained and is in compliance with all permits, authorizations and approvals required for the conduct of its operations under any Environmental Laws and (iii) there are no pending or, to the Company's knowledge, threatened administrative, regulatory or judicial actions, suits, demands, demand letters, claims, liens, notices of noncompliance or violation, investigations or proceedings relating to any Environmental Laws against the Company or any of its subsidiaries and (iv) there are no events or circumstances that might reasonably be expected to form the basis of an order for clean-up or remediation, or an action, suit or proceeding by any private party or governmental body or agency against or affecting the Company or any of its subsidiaries relating to Hazardous Materials or Environmental Laws.
Compliance with Environmental Laws
Hazardous Materials
Environmental Laws
(cc) . There are no franchises, contracts or documents which are required to be described in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package, the Prospectus or the documents incorporated by reference therein or to be filed as exhibits to the Registration Statement which have not been so described and filed as required.
Accuracy of Exhibits
 
Any certificate signed by an officer of the Company and delivered to the Representatives or to counsel for the Underwriters shall be deemed to be a representation and warranty by the Company to each Underwriter as to the matters set forth therein.
SECTION 2. .
Purchase, Sale and Delivery of the Securities
(a) The Company agrees to issue and sell to the several Underwriters all of the Securities upon the terms herein set forth. On the basis of the representations, warranties and agreements herein contained, and upon the terms but subject to the conditions herein set forth, the Underwriters agree, severally and not jointly, to purchase from the Company the aggregate principal amount of Securities set forth opposite their names on Schedule A at a purchase price of 99.260% of the principal amount of the Securities, payable on the Closing Date.
The Securities.
(b) Delivery of certificates for the Securities in global form to be purchased by the Underwriters and payment therefor shall be made at the offices of Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP, 450 Lexington Avenue, New York, New York 10017 (or such other place as may be agreed to by the Company and the Representatives) at 9:00 a.m., New York City time, on June 3, 2011, or such other time and date as the Underwriters and the Company shall mutually agree (the time and date of such closing are called the "").
The Closing Date.
Closing Date
(c) The Representatives hereby advise the Company that the Underwriters intend to offer for sale to the public, as described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, their respective portions of the Securities as soon after the Execution Time as the Representatives, in their sole judgment, have determined is advisable and practicable.
Public Offering of the Securities.
(d) Payment for the Securities shall be made at the Closing Date by wire transfer of immediately available funds to the order of the Company.
Payment for the Securities.
It is understood that the Representatives have been authorized, for their own accounts and for the accounts of the several Underwriters, to accept delivery of and receipt for, and make payment of the purchase price for, the Securities that the Underwriters have agreed to purchase. The Representatives may (but shall not be obligated to) make payment for any Securities to be purchased by any Underwriter whose funds shall not have been received by the Representatives by the Closing Date for the account of such Underwriter, but any such payment shall not relieve such Underwriter from any of its obligations under this Agreement.
(e) The Company shall deliver, or cause to be delivered, to the Representatives for the accounts of the several Underwriters certificates for the Securities at the Closing Date, against the irrevocable release of a wire transfer of immediately available funds for the amount of the purchase price therefor. The certificates for the Securities shall be in such denominations and registered in such names and denominations as the Representatives shall have requested at least two full business days prior to the Closing Date and shall be made available for inspection on the business day preceding the Closing Date at a location in New York City, as the Representatives may designate. Time shall be of the essence, and delivery at
Delivery of the Securities.
 
the time and place specified in this Agreement is a further condition to the obligations of the Underwriters.
SECTION 3. The Company covenants and agrees with each Underwriter as follows:
Covenants of the Company.
(a) The Company, subject to Section 3(b), will comply with the requirements of Rule 430B of the Securities Act, and will promptly notify the Representatives, and confirm the notice in writing, of (i) the effectiveness during the Prospectus Delivery Period (as defined below) of any post-effective amendment to the Registration Statement or the filing of any supplement or amendment to the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus, (ii) the receipt of any comments from the Commission during the Prospectus Delivery Period, (iii) any request by the Commission for any amendment to the Registration Statement or any amendment or supplement to the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus or for additional information, and (iv) the issuance by the Commission of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement or of any order preventing or suspending the use of the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus, or of the suspension of the qualification of the Securities for offering or sale in any jurisdiction, or of the initiation or threatening of any proceedings for any of such purposes. The Company will promptly effect the filings necessary pursuant to Rule 424 and will take such steps as it deems necessary to ascertain promptly whether the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus transmitted for filing under Rule 424 was received for filing by the Commission and, in the event that it was not, it will promptly file such document. The Company will use its reasonable best efforts to prevent the issuance of any stop order and, if any stop order is issued, to obtain the lifting thereof at the earliest possible moment.
Compliance with Securities Regulations and Commission Requests.
(b) During such period beginning on the date of this Agreement and ending on the later of the Closing Date or such date as, in the opinion of counsel for the Underwriters, the Prospectus is no longer required by law to be delivered in connection with sales of the Securities by an Underwriter or dealer, including in circumstances where such requirement may be satisfied pursuant to Rule 172 of the Securities Act (the ""), the Company will give the Representatives notice of its intention to file or prepare any amendment to the Registration Statement (including any filing under Rule 462(b) of the Securities Act), or any amendment, supplement or revision to the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus, whether pursuant to the Securities Act, the Exchange Act or otherwise, will furnish the Representatives with copies of any such documents a reasonable amount of time prior to such proposed filing or use, as the case may be, and will not file or use any such document to which the Representatives or counsel for the Underwriters shall reasonably object.
Filing of Amendments.
Prospectus Delivery Period
(c) The Company has furnished or will deliver to the Representatives and counsel for the Underwriters, without charge, signed copies of the Registration Statement as originally filed and of each amendment thereto (including exhibits filed therewith or incorporated by reference therein and documents incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference therein) and signed copies of all consents and certificates of experts, and will also deliver to the Representatives, without charge, a conformed copy of the Registration Statement as originally filed and of each amendment thereto (without exhibits) for each of the Underwriters. The Registration Statement and each amendment thereto furnished to
Delivery of Registration Statements.
 
the Underwriters will be identical to any electronically transmitted copies thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to EDGAR, except to the extent permitted by Regulation S-T.
(d) The Company will deliver to each Underwriter, without charge, as many copies of the Preliminary Prospectus as such Underwriter may reasonably request, and the Company hereby consents to the use of such copies for purposes permitted by the Securities Act. The Company will furnish to each Underwriter, without charge, during the Prospectus Delivery Period, such number of copies of the Prospectus as such Underwriter may reasonably request. The Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus and any amendments or supplements thereto furnished to the Underwriters will be identical to any electronically transmitted copies thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to EDGAR, except to the extent permitted by Regulation S-T.
Delivery of Prospectuses.
(e) . The Company will comply with the Securities Act and the Exchange Act so as to permit the completion of the distribution of the Securities as contemplated in this Agreement and in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus. If at any time during the Prospectus Delivery Period, any event shall occur or condition shall exist as a result of which it is necessary, in the opinion of counsel for the Underwriters or for the Company, to amend the Registration Statement in order that the Registration Statement will not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading or to amend or supplement the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus in order that the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus, as the case may be, will not include an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances existing at the Initial Sale Time or at the time it is delivered or conveyed to a purchaser, not misleading, or if it shall be necessary, in the opinion of either such counsel, at any such time to amend the Registration Statement or amend or supplement the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus in order to comply with the requirements of any law, the Company will (1) notify the Representatives of any such event, development or condition and (2) promptly prepare and file with the Commission, subject to Section 3(b) hereof, such amendment or supplement as may be necessary to correct such statement or omission or to make the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus comply with such law, and the Company will furnish to the Underwriters, without charge, such number of copies of such amendment or supplement as the Underwriters may reasonably request.
Continued Compliance with Securities Laws
(f) The Company shall cooperate with the Representatives and counsel for the Underwriters to qualify or register the Securities for sale under (or obtain exemptions from the application of) the state securities or blue sky laws of those jurisdictions designated by the Representatives, shall comply with such laws and shall continue such qualifications, registrations and exemptions in effect so long as required for the distribution of the Securities. The Company shall not be required to qualify to transact business or to take any action that would subject it to general service of process in any such jurisdiction where it is not presently qualified or where it would be subject to taxation as a foreign business. The Company will advise the Representatives promptly of the suspension of the qualification or registration of (or any such exemption relating to) the Securities for offering, sale or trading in any jurisdiction or any initiation or threat of any proceeding for any such purpose, and in the event of the issuance of any order suspending such qualification, registration or exemption, the Company
Blue Sky Compliance.
 
shall use its reasonable best efforts to obtain the withdrawal thereof at the earliest possible moment.
(g) The Company shall apply the net proceeds from the sale of the Securities sold by them in the manner described under the caption "Use of Proceeds" in the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus.
Use of Proceeds.
(h) The Company will cooperate with the Underwriters and use their reasonable best efforts to permit the Securities to be eligible for clearance and settlement through the facilities of the Depositary.
Depositary.
(i) During the Prospectus Delivery Period, the Company shall file, on a timely basis, with the Commission and the New York Stock Exchange all reports and documents required to be filed under the Exchange Act.
Periodic Reporting Obligations.
(j) During the period commencing on the date hereof and ending on the Closing Date, the Company will not, without the prior written consent of the Representatives (which consent may be withheld at the sole discretion of the Representatives), directly or indirectly, sell, offer, contract or grant any option to sell, pledge, transfer or establish an open "put equivalent position" within the meaning of Rule 16a-1(h) under the Exchange Act, or otherwise dispose of or transfer, or announce the offering of, or file any registration statement under the Securities Act in respect of, any debt securities of the Company similar to the Securities or securities exchangeable for or convertible into debt securities similar to the Securities (other than as contemplated by this Agreement with respect to the Securities).
Agreement Not to Offer or Sell Additional Securities.
(k) . The Company will prepare a final term sheet containing only a description of the Securities, in a form approved by the Underwriters and attached as Exhibit B hereto, and will file such term sheet pursuant to Rule 433(d) under the Securities Act within the time required by such rule (such term sheet, the ""). Any such Final Term Sheet is an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus for purposes of this Agreement.
Final Term Sheet
Final Term Sheet
(l) . The Company represents that it has not made, and agrees that, unless it obtains the prior written consent of the Representatives, it will not make, any offer relating to the Securities that would constitute an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or that would otherwise constitute a "free writing prospectus" (as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act) required to be filed by the Company with the Commission or retained by the Company under Rule 433 of the Securities Act; provided that the prior written consent of the Representatives shall be deemed to have been given in respect of any Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses included in Annex I to this Agreement. Any such free writing prospectus consented to or deemed to be consented to by the Representatives is hereinafter referred to as a "." The Company agrees that (i) it has treated and will treat, as the case may be, each Permitted Free Writing Prospectus as an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, and (ii) has complied and will comply, as the case may be, with the requirements of Rules 164 and 433 of the Securities Act applicable to any Permitted Free Writing Prospectus, including in respect of timely filing with the Commission, legending and record keeping. The Company consents to the use by any Underwriter of a free writing prospectus that (a) is not an
Permitted Free Writing Prospectuses
Permitted Free Writing Prospectus
 
"issuer free writing prospectus" as defined in Rule 433, and (b) contains only (i) information describing the preliminary terms of the Securities or their offering, (ii) information permitted by Rule 134 under the Securities Act or, (iii) information that describes the final terms of the Securities and other customary information.
(m) If immediately prior to the third anniversary (the "") of the initial effective date of the Registration Statement, any of the Securities remain unsold by the Underwriters, the Company will prior to the Renewal Deadline file, if it has not already done so and is eligible to do so, a new automatic shelf registration statement relating to the Securities, in a form satisfactory to the Representatives. If the Company is no longer eligible to file an automatic shelf registration statement, the Company will prior to the Renewal Deadline, if it has not already done so, file a new shelf registration statement relating to the Securities, in a form satisfactory to the Representatives, and will use its reasonable best efforts to cause such registration statement to be declared effective within 60 days after the Renewal Deadline. The Company will take all other action necessary or appropriate to permit the public offering and sale of the Securities to continue as contemplated in the expired registration statement relating to the Securities. References herein to the Registration Statement shall include such new automatic shelf registration statement or such new shelf registration statement, as the case may be.
Registration Statement Renewal Deadline.
Renewal Deadline
(n) . If at any time during the Prospectus Delivery Period, the Company receives from the Commission a notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) or otherwise ceases to be eligible to use the automatic shelf registration statement form, the Company will (i) promptly notify the Representatives, (ii) promptly file a new registration statement or post-effective amendment on the proper form relating to the Securities, in a form satisfactory to the Representatives, (iii) use its reasonable best efforts to cause such registration statement of post-effective amendment to be declared effective and (iv) promptly notify the Representatives of such effectiveness. The Company will take all other action necessary or appropriate to permit the public offering and sale of the Securities to continue as contemplated in the registration statement that was the subject of the Rule 401(g)(2) notice or for which the Company has otherwise become ineligible. References herein to the Registration Statement shall include such new registration statement or post-effective amendment, as the case may be.
Notice of Inability to Use Automatic Shelf Registration Statement Form
(o) . The Company agrees to pay the required Commission filing fees relating to the Securities within the time required by and in accordance with Rule 456(b)(1) and 457(r) of the Securities Act.
Filing Fees
(p) The Company will comply with all applicable securities and other laws, rules and regulations, including, without limitation, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and use its reasonable best efforts to cause the Company's directors and officers, in their capacities as such, to comply with such laws, rules and regulations, including, without limitation, the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
Compliance with Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
(q) The Company will not take, directly or indirectly, any action designed to cause or result in, or that has constituted or might reasonably be expected to
No Manipulation of Price.
 
constitute, under the Exchange Act or otherwise, the stabilization or manipulation of the price of any securities of the Company to facilitate the sale or resale of the Securities.
The Representatives, on behalf of the several Underwriters, may, in their sole discretion, waive in writing the performance by the Company of any one or more of the foregoing covenants or extend the time for their performance.
SECTION 4. The Company agrees to pay all costs, fees and expenses incurred in connection with the performance of its obligations hereunder and in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby, including without limitation (i) all expenses incident to the issuance and delivery of the Securities (including all printing and engraving costs), (ii) all necessary issue, transfer and other stamp taxes in connection with the issuance and sale of the Securities, (iii) all fees and expenses of the Company's counsel, independent public or certified public accountants and other advisors to the Company, (iv) all costs and expenses incurred in connection with the preparation, printing, filing, shipping and distribution of the Registration Statement (including financial statements, exhibits, schedules, consents and certificates of experts), each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus, and all amendments and supplements thereto, and this Agreement, the Indenture, the DTC Agreement and the Securities, (v) all filing fees, reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses incurred by the Company or the Underwriters in connection with qualifying or registering (or obtaining exemptions from the qualification or registration of) all or any part of the Securities for offer and sale under the state securities or blue sky laws, and, if requested by the Representatives, preparing a "Blue Sky Survey" or memorandum, and any supplements thereto, advising the Underwriters of such qualifications, registrations and exemptions, (vi) the filing fees incident to, and the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel to the Underwriters in connection with, the review, if any, by the FINRA of the terms of the sale of the Securities, (vii) the fees and expenses of the Trustee, including the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel for the Trustee in connection with the Indenture and the Securities, (viii) any fees payable in connection with the rating of the Securities with the ratings agencies, (ix) all fees and expenses (including reasonable fees and expenses of counsel) of the Company in connection with approval of the Securities by the Depositary for "book-entry" transfer, (x) all other fees, costs and expenses referred to in Item 14 of Part II of the Registration Statement, and (xi) all other fees, costs and expenses incurred in connection with the performance of its obligations hereunder for which provision is not otherwise made in this Section. Except as provided in this Section 4 and Sections 6, 8 and 9 hereof, the Underwriters shall pay their own expenses, including the fees and disbursements of their counsel.
Payment of Expenses.
SECTION 5. The obligations of the several Underwriters to purchase and pay for the Securities as provided herein on the Closing Date shall be subject to the accuracy of the representations and warranties on the part of the Company set forth in Section 1 hereof as of each Representation Date as though then made and to the timely performance by the Company of its covenants and other obligations hereunder, and to each of the following additional conditions; subject, in each case, to the right of the Underwriters to waive any such condition as they believe appropriate:
Conditions of the Obligations of the Underwriters.
(a) . The Registration Statement shall have become effective under the Securities Act and no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the
Effectiveness of Registration Statement
 
Registration Statement shall have been issued under the Securities Act and no proceedings for that purpose shall have been instituted or be pending or threatened by the Commission, any request on the part of the Commission for additional information shall have been complied with to the reasonable satisfaction of counsel to the Underwriters and the Company shall not have received from the Commission any notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) of the Securities Act objecting to use of the automatic shelf registration statement form. The Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus shall have been filed with the Commission in accordance with Rule 424(b) (or any required post-effective amendment providing such information shall have been filed and declared effective in accordance with the requirements of Rule 430A).
(b) On the date hereof, the Representatives shall have received from KPMG LLP, independent registered public accountants for the Company, a letter dated the date hereof addressed to the Underwriters, in form and substance satisfactory to the Representatives with respect to the audited and unaudited financial statements and certain financial information contained in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus.
Accountants' Comfort Letter.
(c) . On the Closing Date, the Representatives shall have received from KPMG LLP, independent public or certified public accountants for the Company, a letter dated such date, in form and substance satisfactory to the Representatives, to the effect that they reaffirm the statements made in the letter furnished by them pursuant to subsection (b) of this Section 5, except that the specified date referred to therein for the carrying out of procedures shall be no more than three business days prior to the Closing Date.
Bring-down Comfort Letter
(d) If the Registration Statement and/or the offering of the Securities has been filed with the FINRA for review, the FINRA shall not have raised any objection with respect to the fairness and reasonableness of the underwriting terms and arrangements.
No Objection.
(e) (i) None of the Company or any of its subsidiaries shall have sustained since the date of the latest audited financial statements included in, or incorporated by reference in, the Disclosure Package any loss or interference with its business from fire, explosion, flood or other calamity, whether or not covered by insurance, or from any labor dispute or court or governmental action, order or decree, otherwise than as set forth or contemplated in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, and (ii) since the respective dates as of which information is given in, or in any document incorporated by reference in, the Disclosure Package and Prospectus (exclusive of any amendment or supplement thereto on or after the date of this Agreement) there shall not have been any change in the capital stock or long-term debt of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or any change, or any development involving a prospective change, in or affecting the general affairs, management, financial position, stockholders' equity or results of operations of the Company and its subsidiaries, otherwise than as set forth or contemplated in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, the effect of which, in any such case described in clause (i) or (ii), is in the judgment of the Representatives so material and adverse as to make it impracticable or inadvisable to proceed with the public offering, sale or the delivery of the Securities on the terms and in the manner contemplated in this Agreement and in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus.
No Material Adverse Change.
 
(f) . On or after the date hereof (i) no downgrading shall have occurred in the rating accorded the Company's securities by any "nationally recognized statistical rating organization," as that term is defined by the Commission for purposes of Section 3(a)(62) of the Exchange Act, and (ii) no such organization shall have publicly announced that it has under surveillance or review, with possible negative implications, its rating of any of the Company's securities.
No Ratings Agency Change
(g) . Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP, counsel for the Underwriters, shall have furnished to the Representatives such opinion or opinions, dated the Closing Date, as the Representatives may reasonably request, and such counsel shall have received such papers and information as they may reasonably request to enable them to pass upon such matters.
Opinion of Counsel for the Underwriters
(h) . Cahill Gordon & Reindel LLP, counsel for the Company, shall have furnished to the Representatives their written opinion, dated the Closing Date, in form as set forth on Exhibit A-1 hereto.
Opinion of Counsel for the Company
(i) . Robert H. Young, Jr., general counsel for the Company, shall have furnished to the Representatives his written opinion, dated the Closing Date, in form as set forth on Exhibit A-2 hereto.
Opinion of General Counsel for the Company
(j) . The Company shall have furnished or caused to be furnished to the Representatives at the Closing Date certificates of officers of the Company reasonably satisfactory to the Representatives as to the accuracy of the representations and warranties of the Company herein at and as of such Closing Date, as to the performance by the Company of all of its obligations hereunder to be performed at or prior to such Closing Date, as to the matters set forth in subsections (e) and (f) of this Section 5 and as to such other matters as the Representatives may reasonably request, including, but not limited to, to the effect that:
Officers' Certificate
(i) the Company has received no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement, and no proceedings for such purpose have been instituted or threatened by the Commission; and
(ii) the Company has not received from the Commission any notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) of the Securities Act objecting to use of the automatic shelf registration statement form.
If any condition specified in this Section 5 is not satisfied when and as required to be satisfied, this Agreement may be terminated by the Representatives by notice to the Company at any time on or prior to the Closing Date, which termination shall be without liability on the part of any party to any other party, except that Sections 4, 6, 8, 9 and 17 shall at all times be effective and shall survive such termination.
SECTION 6. If this Agreement shall be terminated pursuant to Section 10 hereof, the Company shall not then be under any liability to any Underwriter except as provided in Section 4, 8 or 11 hereof; but, if for any other reason, the Securities are not delivered by or on behalf of the Company as provided herein, the Company
Reimbursement of Underwriters' Expenses.
 
will reimburse the Underwriters through the Representatives for all out-of-pocket expenses approved in writing by the Representatives, including fees and disbursements of counsel, reasonably incurred by the Underwriters in making preparations for the purchase, sale and delivery of the Securities, but the Company shall then be under no further liability to any Underwriter except as provided in Sections 4, 8 and 11 hereof.
SECTION 7. This Agreement shall not become effective until the execution of this Agreement by the parties hereto.
Effectiveness of This Agreement.
SECTION 8. .
Indemnification
(a) The Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless each Underwriter, its directors, officers, employees and agents, and each person, if any, who controls any Underwriter within the meaning of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act against any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense, as incurred, to which such Underwriter or such director, officer, employee, agent or controlling person may become subject, under the Securities Act, the Exchange Act or other federal or state statutory law or regulation, or at common law or otherwise (including in settlement of any litigation, if such settlement is effected with the written consent of the Company), insofar as such loss, claim, damage, liability or expense (or actions in respect thereof as contemplated below) arises out of or is based (i) upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Registration Statement, or any amendment thereto, or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading; or (ii) upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, any Company Additional Written Communication, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; and to reimburse each Underwriter and each such director, officer, employee, agent and controlling person for any and all expenses (including the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel chosen by the Representatives) as such expenses are reasonably incurred by such Underwriter or such director, officer, employee, agent or controlling person in connection with investigating, defending, settling, compromising or paying any such loss, claim, damage, liability, expense or action; , that the foregoing indemnity agreement shall not apply to any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense to the extent, but only to the extent, arising out of or based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use in the Registration Statement, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, any Company Additional Written Communication, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto). The indemnity agreement set forth in this Section 8(a) shall be in addition to any liabilities that the Company may otherwise have.
Indemnification of the Underwriters.
provided, however
(b) Each Underwriter agrees, severally and not jointly, to indemnify and hold harmless the Company, its directors, officers and employees and each person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, against any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense,
Indemnification of the Company, Its Directors and Officers.
 
as incurred, to which the Company or any such director, officer, employee or controlling person may become subject, under the Securities Act, the Exchange Act, or other federal or state statutory law or regulation, or at common law or otherwise (including in settlement of any litigation, if such settlement is effected with the written consent of such Underwriter), insofar as such loss, claim, damage, liability or expense (or actions in respect thereof as contemplated below) arises out of or is based (i) upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Registration Statement, or any amendment thereto, or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading; or (ii) upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, any Company Additional Written Communication, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, in each case to the extent, but only to the extent, that such untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission was made in the Registration Statement, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, any Company Additional Written Communication, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto), in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use therein; and to reimburse the Company or any such director, officer, employee or controlling person for any legal and other expense reasonably incurred by the Company or any such director, officer, employee or controlling person in connection with investigating, defending, settling, compromising or paying any such loss, claim, damage, liability, expense or action. The Company hereby acknowledges that the only information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use in the Registration Statement, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, any Company Additional Written Communication, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) are the statements set forth in the table in the first paragraph and the statements set forth in the third, seventh and eighth paragraphs under the heading "Underwriting" in the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus. The indemnity agreement set forth in this Section 8(b) shall be in addition to any liabilities that each Underwriter may otherwise have.
(c) Promptly after receipt by an indemnified party under this Section 8 of notice of the commencement of any action, such indemnified party will, if a claim in respect thereof is to be made against an indemnifying party under this Section 8, notify the indemnifying party in writing of the commencement thereof, but the omission so to notify the indemnifying party will not relieve it from any liability which it may have to any indemnified party for contribution or otherwise than under the indemnity agreement contained in this Section 8 or to the extent it is not materially prejudiced (through the forfeiture of substantive rights or defenses) as a proximate result of such failure. In case any such action is brought against any indemnified party and such indemnified party seeks or intends to seek indemnity from an indemnifying party, the indemnifying party will be entitled to participate in, and, to the extent that it shall elect, jointly with all other indemnifying parties similarly notified, by written notice delivered to the indemnified party, to assume the defense thereof with counsel satisfactory to such indemnified party; provided, however, such indemnified party shall have the right to employ its own counsel in any such action and to participate in the
Notifications and Other Indemnification Procedures.
 
defense thereof, but the fees and expenses of such counsel shall be at the expense of such indemnified party, unless: (i) the employment of such counsel has been specifically authorized in writing by the indemnifying party; (ii) the indemnifying party has failed promptly to assume the defense and employ counsel reasonably satisfactory to the indemnified party; or (iii) the named parties to any such action (including any impleaded parties) include both such indemnified party and the indemnifying party or any affiliate of the indemnifying party, and such indemnified party shall have reasonably concluded that either (x) there may be one or more legal defenses available to it which are different from or additional to those available to the indemnifying party or such affiliate of the indemnifying party or (y) a conflict may exist between such indemnified party and the indemnifying party or such affiliate of the indemnifying party (it being understood, however, that the indemnifying party shall not, in connection with any one such action or separate but substantially similar or related actions in the same jurisdiction arising out of the same general allegations or circumstances, be liable for the fees and expenses of more than one separate firm of attorneys (in addition to a single firm of local counsel) for all such indemnified parties, which firm shall be designated in writing by the Representatives and that all such reasonable fees and expenses shall be reimbursed as they are incurred). Upon receipt of notice from the indemnifying party to such indemnified party of its election so to assume the defense thereof, the indemnifying party shall not be liable to such indemnified party under such subsection for any legal expenses of other counsel or any other expenses, in each case subsequently incurred by such indemnified party, in connection with the defense thereof other than reasonable costs of investigation.
(d) No indemnifying party shall, without the written consent of the indemnified party, effect the settlement or compromise of, or consent to the entry of any judgment with respect to, any pending or threatened action or claim in respect of which indemnification or contribution may be sought hereunder (whether or not the indemnified party is an actual or potential party to such action or claim) unless such settlement, compromise or judgment (i) includes an unconditional release of the indemnified party from all liability arising out of such action or claim and (ii) does not include a statement as to, or an admission of, fault, culpability or a failure to act, by or on behalf of any indemnified party. The indemnifying party shall not be required to indemnify the indemnified party for any amount paid or payable by the indemnified party in the settlement of any proceeding effected without the written consent of the indemnifying party, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld.
Settlements.
SECTION 9. If the indemnification provided for in Section 8 is for any reason held to be unavailable to or otherwise insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party in respect of any losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses referred to therein, then each indemnifying party shall contribute to the aggregate amount paid or payable by such indemnified party, as incurred, as a result of any losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses referred to therein (i) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Company on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other hand, from the offering of the Securities pursuant to this Agreement or (ii) if the allocation provided by clause (i) above is not permitted by applicable law, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only the relative benefits referred to in clause (i) above but also the relative fault of the Company on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other hand, in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses, as well as any other relevant
Contribution.
 
equitable considerations. The relative benefits received by the Company on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other hand, in connection with the offering of the Securities pursuant to this Agreement shall be deemed to be in the same respective proportions as the total net proceeds from the offering of the Securities pursuant to this Agreement (before deducting expenses) received by the Company, and the total underwriting discount and commissions received by the Underwriters, in each case as set forth on the front cover page of the Prospectus bear to the aggregate initial public offering price of the Securities as set forth on such cover. The relative fault of the Company on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other hand, shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether any such untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company on the one hand, or the Underwriters, on the other hand, and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission.
The amount paid or payable by a party as a result of the losses, claims, damages, liabilities and expenses referred to above shall be deemed to include, subject to the limitations set forth in Section 8(c), any reasonable legal or other fees or expenses reasonably incurred by such party in connection with investigating or defending any action or claim.
The Company and the Underwriters agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 9 were determined by pro rata allocation (even if the Underwriters were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation which does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to in this Section 9.
Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 9, no Underwriter shall be required to contribute any amount in excess of the amount by which the total price at which the Securities underwritten by it and distributed to investors were offered to investors exceeds the amount of any damages which such Underwriter has otherwise been required to pay by reason of such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission. No person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Securities Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. The Underwriters' obligations to contribute pursuant to this Section 9 are several, and not joint, in proportion to their respective underwriting commitments as set forth opposite their names in Schedule A. For purposes of this Section 9, each director, officer, employee and agent of an Underwriter and each person, if any, who controls an Underwriter within the meaning of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act shall have the same rights to contribution as such Underwriter, and each director of the Company, each officer of the Company, each employee of the Company and each person, if any, who controls the Company with the meaning of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act shall have the same rights to contribution as the Company.
SECTION 10. If, on the Closing Date, any one or more of the several Underwriters shall fail or refuse to purchase Securities that it or they have agreed to purchase hereunder on such date, and the aggregate principal amount of Securities, which such defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters agreed but failed or refused to purchase does not exceed 10% of the aggregate principal amount of the Securities to be purchased on such date, the other Underwriters shall be obligated, severally, in the proportion to the aggregate principal amounts of such Securities set forth opposite their respective names on
Default of One or More of the Several Underwriters.
 
Schedule A bears to the aggregate principal amount of such Securities set forth opposite the names of all such non-defaulting Underwriters, or in such other proportions as may be specified by the Representatives with the consent of the non-defaulting Underwriters, to purchase such Securities which such defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters agreed but failed or refused to purchase on such date. If, on the Closing Date, any one or more of the Underwriters shall fail or refuse to purchase such Securities and the aggregate principal amount of such Securities with respect to which such default occurs exceeds 10% of the aggregate principal amount of Securities to be purchased on such date, and arrangements satisfactory to the Representatives and the Company for the purchase of such Securities are not made within 48 hours after such default, this Agreement shall terminate without liability of any party to any other party except that the provisions of Sections 4, 6, 8, 9 and 17 shall at all times be effective and shall survive such termination. In any such case, either the Representatives or the Company shall have the right to postpone the Closing Date, but in no event for longer than seven days in order that the required changes, if any, to the Registration Statement, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, any Company Additional Written Communication, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus or any other documents or arrangements may be effected.
As used in this Agreement, the term "Underwriter" shall be deemed to include any person substituted for a defaulting Underwriter under this Section 10. Any action taken under this Section 10 shall not relieve any defaulting Underwriter from liability in respect of any default of such Underwriter under this Agreement.
SECTION 11. Prior to the Closing Date, this Agreement may be terminated by the Representatives by notice given to the Company if at any time (i) trading or quotation in any of the Company's securities shall have been suspended or materially limited by the Commission or the New York Stock Exchange, or trading in securities generally on the New York Stock Exchange shall have been suspended or materially limited; (ii) a general moratorium on commercial banking activities shall have been declared by any of federal or New York authorities; (iii) there shall have occurred any outbreak or escalation of hostilities involving the United States or the declaration by the United States of a national emergency or war or any other calamity or crisis, if the effect of any such event specified in this clause (iii) in the judgment of the Representatives makes it impracticable or inadvisable to proceed with the offering or the delivery of the Securities on the terms and in the manner contemplated in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus; (iv) there shall have occurred a material adverse change in the existing financial, political or economic conditions in the United States or elsewhere which, in the judgment of the Representatives, would materially and adversely affect the financial markets or the markets for the Securities and other debt securities; or (v) there shall have occurred a material disruption in commercial banking or securities settlement or clearance services. Any termination pursuant to this Section 11 shall be without liability of any party to any other party except as provided in Sections 4 and 6 hereof, and provided further that Sections 4, 6, 8, 9 and 17 shall survive such termination and remain in full force and effect.
Termination of This Agreement.
SECTION 12. . The Company acknowledges and agrees that: (i) the purchase and sale of the Securities pursuant to this Agreement, including the determination of the public offering price of the Securities and any related discounts and commissions, is an arm's-length commercial transaction between the Company on the one hand, and the several
No Fiduciary Duty
 
Underwriters, on the other hand, and the Company is capable of evaluating and understanding and understands and accepts the terms, risks and conditions of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement; (ii) in connection with each transaction contemplated hereby and the process leading to such transaction each Underwriter is and has been acting solely as a principal and is not the financial advisor, agent or fiduciary of the Company or its affiliates, stockholders, creditors or employees or any other party; (iii) no Underwriter has assumed or will assume an advisory, agency or fiduciary responsibility in favor of the Company with respect to any of the transactions contemplated hereby or the process leading thereto (irrespective of whether such Underwriter has advised or is currently advising the Company on other matters) and no Underwriter has any obligation to the Company with respect to the offering contemplated hereby except the obligations expressly set forth in this Agreement; (iv) the several Underwriters and their respective affiliates may be engaged in a broad range of transactions that involve interests that differ from those of the Company and that the several Underwriters have no obligation to disclose any of such interests by virtue of any advisory, agency or fiduciary relationship; and (v) the Underwriters have not provided any legal, accounting, regulatory or tax advice with respect to the offering contemplated hereby and the Company has consulted its own legal, accounting, regulatory and tax advisors to the extent it deemed appropriate.
This Agreement supersedes all prior agreements and understandings (whether written or oral) between the Company and the several Underwriters with respect to the subject matter hereof. The Company hereby waives and releases, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any claims that the Company may have against the several Underwriters with respect to any breach or alleged breach of agency or fiduciary duty.
SECTION 13. The respective indemnities, agreements, representations, warranties and other statements of the Company of its officers and of the several Underwriters set forth in or made pursuant to this Agreement (i) will remain operative and in full force and effect, regardless of any (A) investigation, or statement as to the results thereof, made by or on behalf of any Underwriter, the officers or employees of any Underwriter, or any person controlling any Underwriter, the Company or the officers or employees of the Company or any person controlling the Company, as the case may be, or (B) acceptance of the Securities and payment for them hereunder and (ii) will survive delivery of and payment for the Securities sold hereunder and any termination of this Agreement.
Representations and Indemnities to Survive Delivery.
SECTION 14. All communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be mailed, hand delivered or telecopied and confirmed to the parties hereto as follows:
Notices.
If to the Representatives:
Goldman, Sachs & Co.
200 West Street
New York, NY 10282
Attention: Registration Department
and
Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith
 
Incorporated
One Bryant Park
NY1-100-18-03
New York, NY 10036
Facsimile: 646-855-5958
Attention: High Grade Transaction Management/Legal
and
Wells Fargo Securities, LLC
301 S. College Street
Charlotte, NC 28288
Facsimile: 704-383-9165
Attention: Transaction Management
If to the Company:
Airgas, Inc.
259 North Radnor-Chester Road, Suite 100
Radnor, Pennsylvania 19087
Facsimile: 610-225-3271
Attention: Secretary
with a copy to:
Cahill Gordon & Reindel
LLP
80 Pine Street
New York, NY 10005
Facsimile: 212-269-5420
Attention: James J. Clark
  Michael A. Sherman
Any party hereto may change the address for receipt of communications by giving written notice to the others.
SECTION 15. This Agreement will inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto, including any substitute Underwriters pursuant to Section 10 hereof, and to the benefit of the directors, officers, employees, agents and controlling persons referred to in Sections 8 and 9, and in each case their respective successors, and no other person will have any right or obligation hereunder. The term "successors" shall not include any purchaser of the Securities as such from any of the Underwriters merely by reason of such purchase.
Successors.
SECTION 16. The invalidity or unenforceability of any Section, paragraph or provision of this Agreement shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other Section, paragraph or provision hereof. If any Section, paragraph or provision of
Partial Unenforceability.
 
this Agreement is for any reason determined to be invalid or unenforceable, there shall be deemed to be made such minor changes (and only such minor changes) as are necessary to make it valid and enforceable.
SECTION 17. In accordance with the requirements of the USA Patriot Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001)), the Underwriters are required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies their respective clients, including the Company, which information may include the name and address of their respective clients, as well as other information that will allow the Underwriters to properly identify their respective clients.
The Patriot Act.
SECTION 18. THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED AND INTERPRETED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE INTERNAL LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK APPLICABLE TO AGREEMENTS MADE AND TO BE PERFORMED IN THAT STATE.
Governing Law Provisions.
SECTION 19. The Company and each of the Underwriters hereby irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, any and all right to trial by jury in any legal proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby.
Waiver To Trial By Jury.
SECTION 20. This Agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts, each one of which shall be an original, with the same effect as if the signatures thereto and hereto were upon the same instrument. This Agreement may not be amended or modified unless in writing by all of the parties hereto, and no condition herein (express or implied) may be waived unless waived in writing by each party whom the condition is meant to benefit. The Section headings herein are for the convenience of the parties only and shall not affect the construction or interpretation of this Agreement.
General Provisions.
Each of the parties hereto acknowledges that it is a sophisticated business person who was adequately represented by counsel during negotiations regarding the provisions hereof, including, without limitation, the indemnification provisions of Section 8 and the contribution provisions of Section 9, and is fully informed regarding said provisions. Each of the parties hereto further acknowledges that the provisions of Sections 8 and 9 hereto fairly allocate the risks in light of the ability of the parties to investigate the Company, its affairs and its business in order to assure that adequate disclosure has been made in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus (and any amendments and supplements thereto), as required by the Securities Act and the Exchange Act.
 
If the foregoing is in accordance with your understanding of our agreement, kindly sign and return to the Company the enclosed copies hereof, whereupon this instrument, along with all counterparts hereof, shall become a binding agreement in accordance with its terms.
 
 
 
The foregoing Underwriting Agreement is hereby confirmed and accepted by the Representatives as of the date first above written.
 
 
 
 
Final Term Sheet dated May 31, 2011
 
None.
 
1. Based solely on a certificate from the Secretary of State of Delaware, the Company is a corporation validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware, with full corporate power and authority to own, lease and operate its properties and conduct its businesses as described in the Disclosure Package and Prospectus.
2. The Securities and the Indenture conform in all material respects to the description thereof contained in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus.
3. The Indenture has been duly qualified under the Trust Indenture Act and has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company. Assuming due authorization, execution and delivery of the Indenture by the parties thereto (other than the Company), the Indenture constitutes a legal, valid and binding obligation of the Company enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms, except as enforcement may be limited by (i) bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, fraudulent conveyance and transfer acts, moratorium or other laws affecting creditor's rights generally; and (ii) judicial discretion and general principles of equity (regardless of whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law), including, without limitation, principles that (a) include a requirement that a creditor act with reasonableness and in good faith and deal fairly with its debtors, (b) limit a creditor's right to accelerate maturity of a debt upon the occurrence of a default deemed immaterial, or (c) might render certain waivers unenforceable, and we wish to advise you that the remedy of specific performance or injunctive relief (whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law) is subject to the exercise of judicial discretion (collectively, the "")
Enforceability Exceptions
4. The Securities have been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company and, when authenticated in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture and delivered to and paid for by the Underwriters pursuant to the Underwriting Agreement, will constitute legal, valid and binding obligations of the Company entitled to the benefits of the Indenture and enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms, except as enforcement may be limited by the Enforceability Exceptions.
5. The issue and sale of the Securities, the consummation of the other transactions contemplated by the Underwriting Agreement and Indenture (the "Documents") or the performance by the Company of its obligations under the Documents do not conflict with or result in a breach or violation of (a) the Certificate of Incorporation or By-laws of the Company, (b) any of the terms or conditions of, or constitute a default under, any Applicable Contract or (c) any Applicable Law or, to our knowledge, any order or decree applicable to the Company of any Governmental Authority, except, in the case of clauses (b) and (c) for such breaches or violations that would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect or prevent or be reasonably likely to prevent the Company from performing its obligations under the Documents. Our opinion in clause (b) of the preceding sentence relating to Applicable Contracts does not extend to compliance with any financial ratio or any limitation in any contractual restriction expressed as a dollar amount (or an amount expressed in another
 
currency). As used herein, "" means those agreements or instruments identified in Schedule A hereto, in each case as in effect on the date hereof; "" means those laws, rules and regulations of the State of New York, the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware and the federal laws of the United States of America which, in our experience, are normally applicable to transactions of the type contemplated by the Transaction Documents (other than the securities registration provisions and anti-fraud provisions of the United States federal securities laws, state securities or blue sky laws, and the rules and regulations of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc.), without our having made any special investigation as to the applicability of any specific law, rule or regulation; and "" means any court, regulatory body, administrative agency or governmental body of the State of New York or the State of Delaware (with respect to the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware only) or the United States of America having jurisdiction over the Company under Applicable Laws.
Applicable Contracts
Applicable Laws
Governmental Authorities
6. No authorization, approval or other action by, and no notice to, consent of, order of, or filing with, any Governmental Authority is required for the issue and sale of the Securities or the consummation of the transactions contemplated by the Documents, other than (i) those that have been obtained or made and, if applicable, are in full force and effect under the Securities Act or the Trust Indenture Act, (ii) those that may be required under applicable state securities or blue sky laws and (iii) those that may be required from the FINRA.
7. The Underwriting Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company.
8. The Company is not, and after giving effect to the offering and sale of the Securities and the application of the proceeds thereof as described in the Prospectus, will not be required to register as an "investment company" as such term is defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
9. The statements made in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus under the captions "Description of the Notes" and "Description of the Debt Securities", insofar as they purport to constitute summaries of the principal terms of the Securities and the Indenture, and under the caption "Certain U.S. Federal Income Tax Consequences", insofar as they purport to describe the material tax consequences of an investment in the Securities, fairly summarize the matters therein described.
10. The Registration Statement originally became effective under the Securities Act on May 27, 2010 and thereupon, assuming prior payment by the Company of the pay-as-you-go registration fee for the offering of the Securities, the offering of the Securities as contemplated by the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus became registered under the Securities Act and, to our knowledge, after inquiry, no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement has been issued and no proceedings for that purpose have been instituted or are pending or contemplated under the Securities Act.
To be included in a separate letter:
 
We have participated in conferences with officers and other representatives of the Company, representatives of the independent registered public accounting firm for the Company, representatives of counsel for the Underwriters and representatives of the Underwriters at which the contents of the Registration Statement, the Prospectus and the documents specified in Schedule A hereto (the "General Disclosure Documents") and related matters were discussed. Although we have made certain inquiries and investigations in connection with the preparation of the Registration Statement, the Prospectus and the General Disclosure Documents, the limitations inherent in the role of outside counsel are such that we cannot and do not assume any responsibility for the accuracy, completeness or fairness of the statements contained in such documents, except as provided in paragraphs 2 and 9 of our opinion to you of even date herewith. Subject to the foregoing, we advise you that (a) the Registration Statement and the Prospectus (in each case other than (i) the documents filed under the Exchange Act incorporated by reference therein and (ii) the Trustee's Statement of Eligibility on Form T-l) appear on their face to be appropriately responsive in all material respects to the requirements of the Securities Act and the applicable rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder and (b) no facts have come to our attention that lead us to believe that (i) the Registration Statement, as of its most recent effective date (which for purposes of this letter shall be deemed to be the date upon which the Initial Sale Time occurred), contained an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, (ii) the Prospectus, as of its date or as of the date hereof, contained or contains an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted or omits to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading or (iii) the General Disclosure Documents, taken together, as of the Initial Sale Time, contained an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading (it being understood that we express no comment in clauses (a) or (b) with respect to the financial statements or other financial data that is included in or omitted from the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or the General Disclosure Documents).
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. The Company is duly qualified to do business and in good standing in all jurisdictions in which its ownership or lease of property or the conduct of its business requires such qualification, except to the extent that any failure so to qualify would not individually or in the aggregate have a Material Adverse Effect.
2. To my knowledge and other than as set forth in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, there are no pending actions, suits, or proceedings against or affecting the Company or any of its subsidiaries or properties that, if determined adversely to the Company or its subsidiaries would individually or in the aggregate have a Material Adverse Effect, or would materially and adversely affect the ability of the Company to perform its obligations under the Indenture or the Underwriting Agreement (collectively, the "Documents"); and, to the best of such counsel's knowledge, no such proceedings are threatened or contemplated by governmental authorities or threatened by others.
3. Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries is in violation of its respective charter or by-laws or in default in the performance of any obligation, agreement, covenant or condition contained in any indenture, loan agreement, mortgage, lease or other agreement or instrument to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party or by which the Company or any of its subsidiaries or their respective property is bound, which violation or default would have a Material Adverse Effect.
4. The documents incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, Disclosure Package and the Prospectus (other than the financial statements and supporting schedules therein, as to which no opinion is rendered), when they were filed with the Commission, complied as to form in all material respects with the requirements of the Exchange Act.
 
Issuer Free Writing Prospectus
(relating to Preliminary Prospectus Supplement dated
May 31, 2011 and Prospectus dated May 27, 2010)
Filed pursuant to Rule 433
Registration Number 333-167140
 
 
The issuer has filed a registration statement (including a prospectus) with the SEC for the offering to which this communication relates. Before you invest, you should read the prospectus in that registration statement and other documents the issuer has filed with the SEC for more complete information about the issuer and this offering. You may get these documents for free by visiting EDGAR on the SEC Web site at www.sec.gov. Alternatively, Goldman, Sachs & Co., Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated or Wells Fargo Securities, LLC can arrange to send you the prospectus if you request it by calling Goldman, Sachs & Co. at the following collect number 1-866-471-2526, calling or e-mailing Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, toll free at 1-800-294-1322 or dg.prospectus_requests@baml.com or calling or emailing Wells Fargo Securities, LLC toll-free at 1-800-326-5897 or cmClientsupport@wachovia.com.
 

Exhibit 4.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
THIS SECOND SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE, dated as of June 3, 2011 (the ""), between Airgas, Inc., a Delaware corporation, as issuer (the "") and U.S. Bank National Association, a National Banking Association organized and existing under the laws of the United States of America, as trustee (the "").
Second Supplemental Indenture
Company
Trustee
WHEREAS, the Company has executed and delivered to the Trustee an Indenture, dated as of May 27, 2010 (the "" and as supplemented by this Second Supplemental Indenture, the ""), providing for the issuance by the Company from time to time of its unsecured senior debentures, notes or other evidences of indebtedness to be issued in one or more series unlimited as to principal amount (the "");
Base Indenture
Indenture
Securities
WHEREAS, the Company has duly authorized and desires to cause to be established pursuant to the Base Indenture and this Second Supplemental Indenture a new series of Securities designated the "2.950% Notes due 2016" (the ""), the form and terms of such Notes to be set forth in this Second Supplemental Indenture;
Notes
WHEREAS, all things necessary to make this Second Supplemental Indenture a valid agreement of the Company and the Trustee, in accordance with its terms, and a valid amendment of, and supplement to, the Base Indenture have been done;
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the purchase and acceptance of the Notes by the Holders thereof, the Company covenants and agrees with the Trustee, for the equal and ratable benefit of the Holders, that the Base Indenture is supplemented and amended, to the extent expressed herein, as follows:
SECTION 1.1 Generally.
(a) Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined herein shall have the respective meanings ascribed thereto in the Base Indenture.
(b) The rules of interpretation set forth in the Base Indenture shall be applied hereto as if set forth in full herein.
SECTION 1.2 Definition of Certain Terms.
For all purposes of this Second Supplemental Indenture, except as otherwise expressly provided or unless the context otherwise requires, the following terms shall have the following respective meanings:
"" means, when used in connection with a sale and leaseback transaction, at any date of determination, the product of (1) the net proceeds from such sale and leaseback transaction multiplied by (2) a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of full years of the term of the lease relating to the property involved in such sale and leaseback transaction (without regard to any options to renew or extend such term) remaining at the date of the making of such computation and the denominator of which is the number of full years of the term of such lease measured from the first day of such term.
Attributable Debt
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Rule 13d-3 and Rule 13d-5 under the Exchange Act, except that in calculating the beneficial ownership of any particular "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act), such "person" will be deemed to have beneficial ownership of all securities that such "person" has the right to acquire by conversion or exercise of other securities, whether such right is currently exercisable or is exercisable only upon the occurrence of a subsequent condition. The terms "Beneficially Owns" and "Beneficially Owned" have a corresponding meaning.
Beneficial Owner
"" means the occurrence of any of the following:
Change of Control
(1) the direct or indirect sale, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger or consolidation), in one or a series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the properties or assets of the Company and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole to any "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) other than a Principal or a Related Party of a Principal;
(2) the adoption of a plan relating to the liquidation or dissolution of the Company;
(3) the consummation of any transaction (including, without limitation, any merger or consolidation) the result of which is that any "person" (as defined above) other than a Principal and its Related Parties, becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the Voting Stock of the Company, measured by voting power rather than number of shares;
(4) the Company consolidates with, or merges with or into, any Person (other than a Principal or a Related Party of a Principal), or any Person (other than a Principal or a Related Party of a Principal) consolidates with, or merges with or into, the Company, in any such event pursuant to a transaction in which any of the outstanding Voting Stock of the Company or such other Person is converted into or exchanged for cash, securities or other property, other than any such transaction where the shares of the Voting Stock of the Company outstanding immediately prior to such transaction constitute, or are converted into or exchanged for, a majority of the Voting Stock of the surviving Person immediately after giving effect to such transaction; or
 
(5) the first day on which a majority of the members of the Board of Directors of the Company are not Continuing Directors.
"" means an offer to repurchase Notes pursuant to Section 4.1 hereof.
Change of Control Offer
"" means, with respect to Notes tendered for purchase pursuant to a Change of Control Offer, an amount equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of such Notes plus accrued and unpaid interest thereon, if any, to the date of purchase.
Change of Control Payment
"" means, with respect to the Notes, the Notes cease to be rated Investment Grade by each of the Rating Agencies on any date during the period (the "") commencing 60 days prior to the first public announcement by the Company of any Change of Control (or pending Change of Control) and ending 60 days following consummation of such Change of Control (which Trigger Period will be extended following consummation of a Change of Control for so long as any of the Rating Agencies has publicly announced that it is considering a possible ratings change). Notwithstanding the foregoing, no Change of Control Triggering Event will be deemed to have occurred in connection with any particular Change of Control unless and until such Change of Control has actually been consummated.
Change of Control Triggering Event
Trigger Period
"" means the U.S. Treasury security selected by an Independent Investment Banker as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term ("") of the Notes to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of such Notes.
Comparable Treasury Issue
Remaining Life
"" means, with respect to any Redemption Date, (1) the average of five Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such Redemption Date, after excluding the highest and lowest Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (2) if the Independent Investment Banker obtains fewer than five such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such quotations.
Comparable Treasury Price
"" means, as of any date of determination, any member of the Board of Directors of the Company who:
Continuing Directors
(1) was a member of such Board of Directors on the date of the prospectus supplement relating to the Notes (May 31, 2011);
(2) was nominated for election or elected to such Board of Directors with the approval of a majority of the Continuing Directors who were members of such Board of Directors at the time of such nomination or election; or
(3) is a designee of a Principal or was nominated by a Principal.
 
"" means all Indebtedness for borrowed money, including purchase money indebtedness, having a maturity of more than one year from the date of its creation or having a maturity of less than one year but by its terms being renewable or extendible, at the option of the obligor in respect thereof, beyond one year from its creation.
Funded Debt
"" means to issue, assume, guarantee, incur or otherwise become liable for. The terms "Incurred," "Incurrence" and "Incurring" shall each have a correlative meaning.
Incur
"" means any of Goldman, Sachs & Co., Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated or Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, as appointed by the Company, and their respective successors, or if all of such firms are unwilling or unable to select the Comparable Treasury Issue, an independent investment banking institution of national standing appointed by the Company.
Independent Investment Banker
"" means a rating of Baa3 or better by Moody's (or its equivalent under any successor rating category of Moody's) and a rating of BBB- or better by S&P (or its equivalent under any successor rating category of S&P), and the equivalent investment grade credit rating from any replacement rating agency or rating agencies selected by the Company under the circumstances permitting the Company to select a replacement agency and in the manner for selecting a replacement agency, in each case as set forth in the definition of "Rating Agency."
Investment Grade
"" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc., a subsidiary of Moody's Corporation, and its successors.
Moody's
"" means any land, land improvements or building, together with the land upon which it is erected and fixtures comprising a part thereof, in each case, owned or leased by us or any Restricted Subsidiary and located in the United States, the gross book value (without deduction of any reserve for depreciation) of which on the date as of which the determination is being made is an amount which exceeds 1.0% of Consolidated Net Tangible Assets.
Principal Property
"" means Peter McCausland (and in the event of his incompetence or death, his estate, heirs, executor, administrator, committee or other personal representative (collectively, "heirs")) or any Person controlled, directly or indirectly, by Peter McCausland or his heirs.
Principal
"" means each of Moody's and S&P; , that if Moody's or S&P ceases to rate the Notes or fails to make a rating of the Notes publicly available for reasons outside our control, the Company may appoint another "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" within the meaning of Section 3(a)(62) of the Exchange Act as a replacement for such Rating Agency; , that the Company shall give notice of such appointment to the Trustee.
Rating Agency
provided
provided
 
"" means (1) each of Goldman, Sachs & Co., Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and a Primary Treasury Dealer (defined herein) selected by Wells Fargo Securities, LLC and their respective successors, provided, however, that if any of the foregoing shall cease to be a primary U.S. Government securities dealer in New York City (a ""), the Company will substitute for such bank another Primary Treasury Dealer and (2) any other Primary Treasury Dealer selected by the Independent Investment Banker after consultation with the Company.
Reference Treasury Dealer
Primary Treasury Dealer
"" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any Redemption Date, the average, as determined by the Independent Investment Banker, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Independent Investment Banker at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the third Business Day preceding such Redemption Date.
Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations
"" means:
Related Party
(1) any immediate family member (in the case of an individual) of the Principal; or
(2) any trust, corporation, partnership or other entity, the beneficiaries, stockholders, partners, owners or Persons beneficially holding an 80% or more controlling interest of which consist of the Principal.
"" means any Subsidiary which, at the time of determination, owns or is a lessee pursuant to a capital lease of any Principal Property.
Restricted Subsidiary
"" means any Subsidiary that would be a "significant subsidiary" as defined in Article 1, Rule 1-02 of Regulation S-X, promulgated pursuant to the Securities Act, as such Regulation is in effect on the date of this Second Supplemental Indenture.
Significant Subsidiary
"" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., and its successors.
S&P
"" means, with respect to any Redemption Date, (1) the yield, under the heading which represents the average for the immediately preceding week, appearing in the most recently published statistical release designated "H.15(519)" or any successor publication which is published weekly by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and which establishes yields on actively traded U.S. Treasury securities adjusted to constant maturity under the caption "Treasury Constant Maturities," for the maturity corresponding to the Comparable Treasury Issue (if no maturity is within three months before or after the Remaining Life, yields for the two published maturities most closely
Treasury Rate
 
corresponding to the Comparable Treasury Issue will be determined and the Treasury Rate will be interpolated or extrapolated from such yields on a straight line basis, rounding to the nearest month) or (2) if such release (or any successor release) is not published during the week preceding the calculation date or does not contain such yields, the rate per annum equal to the semi-annual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, calculated using a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such Redemption Date. The Treasury Rate will be calculated on the third business day preceding the Redemption Date.
"" of any specified Person as of any date means the Capital Stock of such Person that is at the time entitled to vote generally in the election of the Board of Directors of such Person.
Voting Stock
SECTION 2.1 Form.
The Notes and the Trustee's certificates of authentication shall be substantially in the form of to this Second Supplemental Indenture, which are hereby incorporated into this Second Supplemental Indenture. The terms and provisions contained in the Notes shall constitute, and are hereby expressly made, a part of this Second Supplemental Indenture and to the extent applicable, the Company and the Trustee, by their execution and delivery of this Second Supplemental Indenture, expressly agree to such terms and provisions and to be bound thereby.
Exhibit A-1
SECTION 2.2 Amount and Payment of Principal and Interest.
(a) The Trustee shall authenticate and deliver the Notes for original issue on the date hereof in the aggregate principal amount of $250,000,000. The principal amount of each Note shall be payable on June 15, 2016.
(b) The Notes shall bear interest at 2.950% per year beginning on the date of issuance until the Notes are redeemed, paid, or duly provided for. Interest shall be paid semiannually in arrears on June 15 and December 15 of each year (each an ""), commencing on December 15, 2011. The regular record date for interest payable on the Notes shall be the June 1 and December 1, as the case may be, immediately preceding each Interest Payment Date. Interest will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year comprised of twelve 30-day months. Any payment of principal or interest required to be made on a day that is not a Business Day need not be made on such day, but may be made on the next succeeding Business Day with the same force and effect as if made on such day and no interest shall accrue as a result of such delayed payment.
Interest Payment Date
 
(c) Subject to the terms and conditions contained herein, the Company may from time to time, without the consent of the existing Holders create and issue additional Notes in one or more tranches (the "") having the same terms and conditions as the Notes in all respects, except for issue date and the first payment of interest thereon. Such Additional Notes, at the Company's determination and in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture, will be consolidated with and form a single series with the previously outstanding Notes for all purposes under the Indenture, including, without limitation, amendments, waivers and redemptions. If such Additional Notes are not fungible with the Notes for U.S. federal income tax purposes, however, such Additional Notes will have a separate CUSIP number. The aggregate principal amount of the Additional Notes, if any, shall be unlimited.
Additional Notes
SECTION 2.3 Denominations.
The Notes will be issuable only in fully registered form without coupons in denominations of $2,000 and any integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof.
SECTION 2.4 Global Securities.
The Notes will be issuable in the form of one or more Global Securities and the Depository for such Global Security will be The Depository Trust Company in accordance with the Base Indenture.
SECTION 2.5 Payment, Transfer and Exchange.
(a) The principal and interest on Notes represented by Global Securities will be payable to the Depository or its nominee, as the case may be, as the sole registered owner and the sole Holder of the Global Securities represented thereby. The principal and interest on Notes represented by Physical Securities will be payable, either in person or by mail, at the office of the Paying Agent.
(b) Transfers of Global Securities will be limited to transfer in whole, but not in part, to the Depository, its successors or their respective nominees. Interests of beneficial owners in the Global Securities may be transferred or exchanged for Physical Securities in accordance with the Indenture. Notes represented by Physical Securities are presented to the Registrar with a request from the Holder of such Securities to register a transfer or to exchange them for an equal principal amount of Securities of other authorized denominations, the Registrar will register the transfer as requested in accordance with the Indenture.
SECTION 2.6 Registrar and Paying Agent.
The Company initially appoints the Trustee as Registrar and Paying Agent. The Company may change the Paying Agent and Registrar without notice to Holders.
 
SECTION 2.7 Ranking.
The Notes will be senior unsecured obligations of the Company. The payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Notes will (i) rank equally in right of payment with all other indebtedness of the Company that is not by its terms expressly subordinated to other indebtedness of the Company, and (ii) rank senior in right of payment to all indebtedness of the Company that is, by its terms, expressly subordinated to the senior indebtedness of the Company.
SECTION 2.8 Trustee's Right to Refuse Directions in Certain Circumstances.
With respect to directions given by the Holders of a majority in principal amount pursuant to the Indenture to the Trustee in its exercise of any trust or power, the Trustee will be entitled to refuse to follow any such direction that conflicts with law or the Indenture or that the Trustee determines in good faith is unduly prejudicial to the rights of other Holders or that may involve the Trustee in personal liability, unless the Trustee is offered indemnity satisfactory to it.
SECTION 3.1 Redemption.
(a) Except as provided in this Article III and in Article IV below, the Company shall have no obligation to redeem, purchase or repay the Notes pursuant to any mandatory redemption, sinking fund or analogous provisions or at the option of a Holder thereof.
(b) The Notes are subject to redemption at any time or from time to time, in whole or in part, at the Company's option. If the Redemption Date is prior to May 15, 2016, the Notes may be redeemed by the Company at a Redemption Price equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed, and (ii) as determined by the Reference Treasury Dealer, the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest in respect of the Notes to be redeemed discounted to the date of redemption on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the applicable Treasury Rate plus 20 basis points. If the Redemption Date is on or after May 15, 2016, the Notes may be redeemed by the Company at a Redemption Price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed. In each case, accrued interest will be paid to the Redemption Date. The Company may provide in such notice that payment of such Redemption Price and performance of the Company's obligations with respect to such redemption or purchase may be performed by another Person. Any such notice may, at the Company's discretion, be subject to the satisfaction of one or more conditions precedent.
 
SECTION 3.2 Redemption Procedures.
The Trustee will select Notes called for redemption in part on a pro rata basis or on as nearly a pro rata basis as is practicable (subject to procedures of the Depository); that the principal amount of any Note remaining outstanding after redemption in part shall be $2,000 and any integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof. In the case of Notes represented by Physical Securities, a new Note in principal amount equal to the unredeemed portion thereof will be issued in the name of the Holder thereof upon cancellation of the original Note. In the case of Notes represented by a Global Security, the outstanding principal amount of the Global Security representing the Notes will be reduced by book-entry. Notes called for redemption become due on the Redemption Date. On and after the Redemption Date, interest stops accruing on Notes or any portions of the Notes called for redemption (unless there is a default in the payment of the Redemption Price and accrued interest). On or before the Redemption Date, the Company shall deposit with the Paying Agent (or the Trustee) money sufficient to pay the Redemption Price of an accrued interest on the Notes to be redeemed on the Redemption Date.
provided
SECTION 3.3 Notice of Redemption.
(a) At the Company's written request made at least 15 days prior to the date on which notice of redemption is to be given (unless a shorter notice shall be agreed to in writing by the Trustee), the Trustee shall give the notice of redemption in the Company's name and at the Company's sole expense.
(b) Notices of redemption shall be mailed by first class mail at least 30 but not more than 60 days before the Redemption Date to each Holder of Notes to be redeemed at its registered address. If any Note is to be redeemed in part only, the notice of redemption that relates to such Note shall state the portion of the principal amount thereof to be redeemed.
(c) Any notice to Holders of Notes of any redemption will include the appropriate calculation of the Redemption Price, but does not need to include the Redemption Price itself. The actual Redemption Price, calculated as described above, will be set forth in an Officers' Certificate of the Company delivered to the Trustee no later than two Business Days prior to the Redemption Date
SECTION 4.1 Change of Control.
(a) Upon the occurrence of a Change of Control Triggering Event, unless all Notes have been called for redemption, each Holder of Notes shall have the right to require the Company to purchase all or a portion (equal to $2,000 and any integral multiple of $1,000 in
 
excess thereof) of such Holder's Notes at an offer price in cash equal to the Change of Control Payment, subject to the rights of Holders of Notes on the relevant date to receive interest due on the relevant Interest Payment Date.
(b) Within 30 days following any Change of Control Triggering Event or at the Company's option, prior to any Change of Control but after the public announcement of the pending Change of Control, the Company shall mail, or cause to be mailed, by first class mail, a notice to the Trustee and to each Holder describing the transaction or transactions that constitute the Change of Control Triggering Event and specifying:
(i) that the Change of Control Offer is being made pursuant to this Section 4.1 and that all Notes tendered will be accepted for payment;
(ii) the Change of Control Payment and the purchase date, which shall be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed (the "");
Change of Control Payment Date
(iii) the CUSIP numbers for the Notes;
(iv) that any Note not tendered will continue to accrue interest;
(v) that, unless the Company defaults in the payment of the Change of Control Payment, all Notes accepted for payment pursuant to the Change of Control Offer will cease to accrue interest after the Change of Control Payment Date;
(vi) that Holders electing to have any Notes purchased pursuant to a Change of Control Offer will be required to surrender such Notes to the Paying Agent at the address specified in the notice prior to the close of business on the third Business Day preceding the Change of Control Payment Date;
(vii) that Holders will be entitled to withdraw their election referred to in clause (vi) if the Paying Agent receives, not later than the close of business on the second Business Day preceding the Change of Control Payment Date, a facsimile transmission or letter setting forth the name of the Holder, the principal amount of Notes delivered for purchase, and a statement that such Holder is withdrawing his election to have the Notes purchased;
(viii) that Holders whose Notes are being purchased only in part will be issued new Notes equal in principal amount to the unpurchased portion of the Notes surrendered, which unpurchased portion will be equal to $2,000 in principal amount and any integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof; and
 
(ix) that, if mailed prior to the date of consummation of the Change of Control, the Change of Control Offer is conditioned on the Change of Control being consummated on or prior to the Change of Control Payment Date.
(c) The Company shall cause the Change of Control Offer to remain open for such period as is required by applicable law. The Company shall comply, in all material respects, with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Exchange Act and any other securities laws and regulations thereunder to the extent those laws and regulations are applicable in connection with the repurchase of the Notes as a result of a Change of Control Triggering Event. To the extent that the provisions of any such securities laws or regulations conflict with the provisions of this Section 4.1, the Company will comply with those securities laws and regulations and will not be deemed to have breached its obligations under this Section 4.1 by virtue of any such conflict.
(d) On the Change of Control Payment Date, the Company will, to the extent lawful:
(i) accept or cause a third party to accept for payment all Notes or portions thereof properly tendered pursuant to the Change of Control Offer;
(ii) deposit or cause a third party to deposit with the Paying Agent an amount equal to the Change of Control Payment in respect of all Notes or portions of Notes properly tendered; and
(iii) deliver or cause to be delivered to the Trustee the Notes so accepted together with an Officers' Certificate stating the aggregate principal amount of Notes or portions of Notes being purchased by the Company.
(e) The Paying Agent will promptly mail to each Holder of Notes properly tendered the Change of Control Payment for such Notes, and the Trustee will promptly authenticate and mail (or cause to be transferred by book entry) to each Holder a new Note equal in principal amount to any unpurchased portion of the Notes surrendered, if any; that each new Note will be in a principal amount of $2,000 and any integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof. The Company will publicly announce the results of the Change of Control Offer on or as soon as practicable after the Change of Control Payment Date.
provided
(f) The Company shall not be required to make a Change of Control Offer upon a Change of Control Triggering Event if a third party involved in the applicable Change of Control makes the Change of Control Offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements set forth in this Section 4.1 applicable to a Change of Control Offer made by the Company and purchases all Notes properly tendered and not withdrawn under such Change of Control Offer.
 
In addition to the covenants in Article IV of the Base Indenture, the Company will comply with the following:
SECTION 5.1 Restrictions on Liens. (a) The Company will not, and will not permit any Restricted Subsidiary to, Incur any Indebtedness secured by any Lien on any shares of stock, Indebtedness or other obligations of a Restricted Subsidiary or any Principal Property of the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary, whether such shares of stock, Indebtedness or other obligations of a Subsidiary or Principal Property is owned at the date of this Second Supplemental Indenture or thereafter acquired, without in any such case effectively providing that all the notes will be directly secured equally and ratably with such Lien.
(b) These restrictions do not apply to:
(1) the Incurrence of any Lien on any shares of stock, Indebtedness or other obligations of a Subsidiary or any Principal Property acquired after the date of this Second Supplemental Indenture (including acquisitions by way of merger or consolidation) by the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary contemporaneously with such acquisition, or within 180 days thereafter, to secure or provide for the payment or financing of any part of the purchase price thereof, or the assumption of any Lien upon any shares of stock, Indebtedness or other obligations of a Subsidiary or any Principal Property acquired after the date of this Second Supplemental Indenture existing at the time of such acquisition, or the acquisition of any shares of stock, Indebtedness or other obligations of a Subsidiary or any Principal Property subject to any Lien without the assumption thereof, provided that every such Lien referred to in this clause (1) shall attach only to the shares of stock, Indebtedness or other obligations of a Subsidiary or any Principal Property so acquired and fixed improvements thereon;
(2) any Lien on any shares of stock, Indebtedness or other obligations of a Subsidiary or any Principal Property existing on the date the Notes are initially issued;
(3) any Lien on any shares of stock, Indebtedness or other obligations of a Subsidiary or any Principal Property in favor of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary;
(4) any Lien on Principal Property being constructed or improved securing loans to finance such construction or improvements;
(5) any Lien in favor of the United States of America or any State, or in favor of any department, agency or instrumentality or political division, or in favor of
 
any other country or any political subdivision of a foreign country, the purpose of which is to secure partial, progress, advance or other payments;
(6) any Lien imposed by law, for example mechanics', workmen's, repairmen's or other similar Liens arising in the ordinary course of business;
(7) any pledges or deposits under workmen's compensation or similar legislation or in certain other circumstances;
(8) any Lien in connection with legal proceedings;
(9) any Lien for taxes or assessments;
(10) any Lien to secure the performance of bids, tenders, letters of credit, contracts (other than contracts for the payment of indebtedness), leases, statutory obligations, surety, customs, appeal, performance and payment bonds and other obligations of like nature, in each such case arising in the ordinary course of business; and
(11) any renewal of or substitution for any Lien permitted by any of the preceding clauses (1) through (4) above, provided, in the case of a Lien permitted under clause (1), (2) or (4) above, the debt secured is not increased nor the Lien extended to any additional assets.
(c) Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary may create or assume Liens in addition to those permitted by Section 5.1(b)(1) through (11), and renew, extend or replace such Liens, provided that at the time of such creation, assumption, renewal, extension or replacement of such Lien, and after giving effect thereto, the total outstanding Indebtedness secured by Liens Incurred pursuant to this paragraph, together with the total outstanding Attributable Debt Incurred in connection with any sale and leaseback transactions entered into pursuant to the provisions of this Second Supplemental Indenture described in Section 5.2(b) does not exceed 10% of Consolidated Net Tangible Assets.
(d) For the purposes of this Section 5.1 and Section 5.2 of this Second Supplemental Indenture, the giving of a guarantee which is secured by a Lien on any shares of stock, Indebtedness or other obligations of a Subsidiary or any Principal Property, and the creation of a Lien on any shares of stock, Indebtedness or other obligations of a Subsidiary or any Principal Property to secure Indebtedness that existed prior to the creation of such Lien, shall be deemed to involve the creation of Indebtedness in an amount equal to the principal amount guaranteed or secured by such Lien.
SECTION 5.2 Limitation on Sale and Leaseback Transactions. (a) The Company will not, and will not permit any Restricted Subsidiary to, sell or transfer, directly or indirectly, except to the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary, any Principal Property as an
 
entirety, or any substantial portion thereof, with the intention of taking back a lease of such property, except a lease for a period of three years or less at the end of which it is intended that the use of such property by the lessee will be discontinued; that, notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary may sell any such Principal Property and lease it back for a longer period:
provided
(1) if the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary would be entitled, pursuant to the provisions of this Second Supplemental Indenture described above under Section 5.1 to create a mortgage on the property to be leased securing Funded Debt in an amount equal to the Attributable Debt with respect to such sale and leaseback transaction without equally and ratably securing the outstanding notes;
(2) if the Company promptly informs the Trustee of such transaction, the net proceeds of such transaction are at least equal to the fair market value (as determined by board resolution) of such property, and the Company causes an amount equal to the net proceeds of the sale to be applied to the retirement, within 180 days after receipt of such proceeds, of Funded Debt Incurred or assumed by the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary (including the Notes); or
(3) if the Company, within 180 days after the sale or transfer, applies or causes a Restricted Subsidiary to apply an amount equal to the greater of the net proceeds of such sale or transfer or the fair market value of the Principal Property (or portion thereof) so sold and leased back at the time of entering into such sale and leaseback transaction (in either case as determined by board resolution) to purchase other Principal Property having a fair market value at least equal to the fair market value of the Principal Property (or portion thereof) sold or transferred in such sale and leaseback transaction.
(b) Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary may enter into sale and leaseback transactions in addition to those permitted in Section 5.2(a) and without any obligation to retire any outstanding notes or other Funded Debt, provided that at the time of entering into such sale and leaseback transactions and after giving effect thereto, the total outstanding Attributable Debt Incurred pursuant to this Section 5.2(b), together with any of the total outstanding Indebtedness secured by Liens created, assumed or otherwise incurred pursuant to the provisions of this Second Supplemental Indenture described in Section 5.1(a) does not exceed 10% of Consolidated Net Tangible Assets.
SECTION 5.3 Reports. Whether or not required by the Commission, so long as any notes are outstanding, the Company will furnish to the Holders of Notes, within the time periods specified in the Commission's rules and regulations:
(1) all quarterly and annual financial information that would be required to be contained in a filing with the Commission on Forms 10-Q and 10-K if the
 
Company were required to file such Forms, including a "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and, with respect to the annual information only, a report on the annual financial statements by the Company's certified independent accountants; and
(2) all current reports that would be required to be filed with the Commission on Form 8-K if the Company were required to file such reports.
In addition, whether or not required by the Commission, the Company will file a copy of all of the information and reports referred to in clauses (1) and (2) above with the Commission for public availability within the time periods specified in the Commission's rules and regulations (unless the Commission will not accept such a filing) and make such information available to securities analysts and prospective investors upon request, provided that for the avoidance of doubt, information or reports filed with the Commission shall be deemed furnished to the Holders of Notes.
SECTION 6.1 Amendments to Section 5.01 of the Base Indenture.
Section 5.01(2) of the Base Indenture is deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following:
"(2) the Successor Company assumes all the obligations of the Company under the Securities and this Indenture pursuant to agreements reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee; and".
SECTION 6.2 Amendments to Section 6.01 of the Base Indenture.
(a) Section 6.01(3) of the Base Indenture is deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following:
"(3) a failure to perform any of the Company's other covenants or agreements contained in this Indenture (other than a covenant or warranty a default in whose performance or whose breach is elsewhere in this Section specifically dealt with or which has expressly been included in this Indenture solely for the benefit of a series of Securities other than such series) applicable to the Securities of any series, for a period of 60 days after written notice to the Company by the Trustee or to the Company and the Trustee by holders of at least 25% of the principal amount of the Securities of such series then outstanding (for purposes of Section 5.3 of the Second Supplemental Indenture, the 60 day period will be extended to 90 days) specifying such default or breach and requiring it to be remedied and stating that such notice is a "" hereunder;".
Notice of Default
 
(b) The word "and" is deleted from the end of Section 6.01(5) of the Base Indenture, and the following is inserted before the period at the end of Section 6.01(6) of the Base Indenture:
" and;
(7) default under any mortgage, indenture or instrument under which there may be issued or by which there may be secured or evidenced any Indebtedness for money borrowed by the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries (or the payment of which is guaranteed by the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries), whether such Indebtedness or guarantee now exists or is created after the date of the Indenture, if that default (a) is caused by a failure to pay principal at its Stated Maturity after giving effect to any applicable grace period provided in such Indebtedness (a ""); or (b) results in the acceleration of such Indebtedness prior to its express maturity, and, in each case, the principal amount of any such Indebtedness, together with the principal amount of any other such Indebtedness under which there has been a Payment Default or the maturity of which has been so accelerated, aggregates $100.0 million or more."
Payment Default
SECTION 6.3 Amendments to Section 9.01 of the Base Indenture.
Section 9.01(b) of the Base Indenture is deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following:
"(b) Subject to Sections 9.01(c) and 9.02, the Company may at any time elect to terminate some or all of its obligations under the outstanding Securities and this Indenture (hereinafter, "") except for obligations under Sections 2.04, 2.07 and 2.08 and obligations under the TIA. The Company may terminate its obligations under Section 4.1 and Sections 5.1 and 5.2 of the Second Supplemental Indenture on a date the conditions set forth in Section 9.02 are satisfied (hereinafter, "") and thereafter, any omission to comply with any covenant referred to above will not constitute a Default or an Event of Default with respect to the Securities. The Company may exercise its Legal Defeasance option notwithstanding its prior exercise of its Covenant Defeasance option."
Legal Defeasance
Covenant Defeasance
SECTION 7.1 Ratification of Base Indenture.
The Base Indenture, as supplemented by this Second Supplemental Indenture, is in all respects ratified and confirmed, and this Second Supplemental Indenture shall be deemed part of the Base Indenture in the manner and to the extent herein and therein provided.
SECTION 7.2 Trustee Not Responsible for Recitals.
 
The recitals contained herein and in the Notes, except with respect to the Trustee's certificates of authentication, shall be taken as the statements of the Company, and the Trustee assumes no responsibility for the correctness of the same. The Trustee makes no representations as to the validity or sufficiency of this Second Supplemental Indenture or of the Notes.
SECTION 7.3 Table of Contents, Headings, etc.
The table of contents and headings of the Articles and Sections of this Second Supplemental Indenture have been inserted for convenience of reference only, are not to be considered a part hereof and shall in no way modify or restrict any of the terms or provisions hereof.
SECTION 7.4 Counterpart Originals.
The parties may sign any number of copies of this Second Supplemental Indenture. Each signed copy shall be an original, but all of them together represent the same agreement.
SECTION 7.5 Governing Law.
THIS SECOND SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE AND THE NOTES SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this Second Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed all as of the date and year first written above.
 
EXHIBIT A-1
THIS NOTE IS A GLOBAL SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A DEPOSITORY OR A NOMINEE THEREOF. THIS NOTE MAY NOT BE EXCHANGED IN WHOLE OR IN PART FOR A NOTE REGISTERED, AND NO TRANSFER OF THIS SECURITY IN WHOLE OR IN PART MAY BE REGISTERED, IN THE NAME OF ANY PERSON OTHER THAN SUCH DEPOSITORY OR A NOMINEE THEREOF, EXCEPT IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE.
UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY TO THE ISSUER OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO., OR SUCH OTHER NAME AS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY AND ANY PAYMENT HEREON IS MADE TO CEDE & CO., ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL SINCE THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
CUSIP No.: 009363 AL6
ISIN No.: US009363AL64
 
AIRGAS, INC., a Delaware corporation, as issuer (the ""), for value received, promises to pay to CEDE & CO. or registered assigns the principal sum of $250,000,000 on June 15, 2016.
Company
Interest Payment Dates: June 15 and December 15, commencing December 15, 2011.
Record Dates: June 1 and December 1.
Reference is made to the further provisions of this Note contained herein, which will for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Note to be signed manually or by facsimile by one of its duly authorized officers.
Dated: June 3, 2011
 
 
Dated:
1. . AIRGAS, INC., a Delaware corporation, as issuer (the ""), promises to pay, until the principal hereof is paid or made available for payment, interest on the principal amount set forth on the face hereof at a rate of 2.950% per annum. Interest hereon will accrue from and including the most recent date to which interest has been paid or, if no interest has been paid, from and including June 3, 2011 to but excluding the date on which interest is paid. Interest shall be payable in arrears on June 15 and December 15 of each year, commencing December 15, 2011. Interest will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year comprised of twelve 30-day months. The Company shall pay interest on overdue principal and on overdue interest (to the full extent permitted by law) at the rate borne by the Notes.
Interest
Company
2. . The Company will pay interest hereon (except defaulted interest) to the Persons who are registered Holders at the close of business on the June 1 and December 1 immediately preceding the interest payment date (whether or not a Business Day). Holders do not have to surrender Notes to a Paying Agent to collect principal payments. The Company will pay to the Paying Agent principal and interest in money of the United States of America that at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts. If a Holder has given wire transfer instructions to the Company, the Company will pay, or cause to be paid by the Paying Agent, all principal and interest on that Holder's Notes in accordance with those instructions. All other payments on the Notes will be made at the office or agency of the Paying Agent and Registrar unless the Company elects to make interest payments by check mailed to the Holders at their address set forth in the register of Holders.
Method of Payment
3. . Initially, U.S. Bank National Association (the "") will act as a Paying Agent and Registrar. The Company may change any Paying Agent or Registrar without notice to the Holders. The Company or any of its Subsidiaries may act as Paying Agent or Registrar.
Paying Agent and Registrar
Trustee
4. . This Note is one of the series designated on the face hereof. This Note is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the Company issued and to be issued in one or more series under an Indenture dated as of May 27, 2010 (the ""), between the Company and the Trustee, as supplemented by the Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of June 3, 2011, between the Company and the Trustee (the "" and, together with the Base Indenture, as supplemented by the Second Supplemental Indenture, the ""). This is one of an issue of Notes of the Company issued, or to be issued, under the Indenture. The terms of the Notes include those stated in the Indenture and those made part of the Indenture by reference to the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 (15 U.S. Code  77aaa-77bbbb), as amended from time to time (the ""). The Notes are subject to all such terms, and Holders are referred to the Indenture and the Trust Indenture Act for a statement of
Indenture
Base Indenture
Second Supplemental Indenture
Indenture
Trust Indenture Act
them. Capitalized and certain other terms used herein and not otherwise defined have the meanings set forth in the Indenture.
5. . The Notes are subject to redemption at any time or from time to time, in whole or in part, at the Company's option. If the Redemption Date is prior to May 15, 2016, the Notes may be redeemed by the Company at a Redemption Price equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed, and (ii) as determined by the Reference Treasury Dealer, the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest in respect of the Notes to be redeemed discounted to the date of redemption on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the applicable Treasury Rate plus 20 basis points. If the Redemption Date is on or after May 15, 2016, the Notes may be redeemed by the Company at a Redemption Price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed. In each case, accrued interest will be paid to the Redemption Date. The Company may provide in such notice that payment of such Redemption Price and performance of the Company's obligations with respect to such redemption or purchase may be performed by another Person. Any such notice may, at the Company's discretion, be subject to the satisfaction of one or more conditions precedent.
Optional Redemption
Any notice to Holders of Notes of a redemption pursuant to paragraph 5 hereof will include the appropriate calculation of the Redemption Price, but does not need to include the Redemption Price itself. The actual Redemption Price, calculated as described above, will be set forth in an Officers' Certificate of the Company delivered to the Trustee no later than two Business Days prior to the Redemption Date.
6. . The Trustee will select Notes called for redemption in part pursuant to paragraph 5 on a basis or on as nearly a basis as is practicable (subject to procedures of the Depository); that the principal amount of any Note remaining outstanding after redemption in part shall be $2,000 and any integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof. A new Note in principal amount equal to the unredeemed portion thereof will be issued in the name of the Holder thereof upon cancellation of the original Note, or in the case of Notes represented by a Global Security, the outstanding principal amount of such Global Security will be reduced by book-entry. Notes called for redemption pursuant to paragraph 5 hereto become due on the Redemption Date. On and after the Redemption Date, interest stops accruing on Notes or portions of them called for redemption (unless there is a default in the payment thereof).
Redemption Procedures
pro rata
pro rata
provided
7. . Notices of redemption pursuant to paragraph 5 shall be mailed by first class mail at least 30 but not more than 60 days before the Redemption Date to each Holder of Notes to be redeemed at its registered address. If any Note is to be redeemed in part only, the notice of redemption that relates to such Note shall state the portion of the principal amount thereof to be redeemed.
Notice of Redemption
8. . Upon the occurrence of a Change of Control Triggering Event, unless all Notes have been called for redemption pursuant to paragraph 5 of this Note, each Holder of Notes of this series shall have the right to require the Company to repurchase all or any part (equal to $2,000 and any integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof) of such Notes
Change of Control
at an offer price in cash equal to the Change of Control Payment. The Change of Control Offer will be made in accordance with the terms specified in the Indenture.
9. . The Notes are in registered form without coupons in denominations of $2,000 and any integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof. A Holder may transfer or exchange Notes in accordance with the Indenture. The Registrar may require a Holder, among other things, to furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents and to pay to it any taxes and fees required by law or permitted by the Indenture.
Denominations, Transfer, Exchange
10. . The registered Holder of this Note may be treated as the owner of this Note for all purposes.
Persons Deemed Owners
11. . If money for the payment of principal or interest remains unclaimed for two years, the Trustee or Paying Agent will pay the money back to the Company at its written request. After that, Holders entitled to the money must look to the Company for payment as general creditors.
Unclaimed Money
12. . The Company and the Trustee (if a party thereto) may, without the consent of the Holders of any outstanding Notes, amend, waive or supplement the Indenture or the Notes for certain specified purposes, including, among other things, curing ambiguities, defects or inconsistencies, maintaining the qualification of the Indenture under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended, providing for the assumption by a successor to the Company of its obligations under the Indenture and making any change that does not materially and adversely affect the rights of any Holder. Other amendments and modifications of the Indenture or the Notes may be made by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority of the aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Notes, subject to certain exceptions requiring the consent of the Holders of the particular Notes to be affected.
Amendment, Supplement, Waiver, Etc
13. . When a successor corporation assumes all the obligations of its predecessor under the Notes and the Indenture and the transaction complies with the terms of Article Five of the Base Indenture, the predecessor corporation will, except as provided in Article Five of the Base Indenture, be released from those obligations.
Successor Corporation
14. . Events of Default are set forth in the Indenture. Subject to certain limitations in the Indenture, if an Event of Default (other than an Event of Default specified in Sections 6.01(4) and 6.01(5) of the Base Indenture) occurs and is continuing, then, and in each and every such case, either the Trustee, by notice in writing to the Company, or the Holders of not less than 25% of the principal amount of the Notes then outstanding, by notice in writing to the Company and the Trustee, may, and the Trustee at the request of such Holders shall, declare due and payable, if not already due and payable, the principal of and any accrued and unpaid interest on all of the Notes; and upon any such declaration all such amounts upon such Notes shall become and be immediately due and payable, anything in the Indenture or in the Notes to the contrary notwithstanding. If an Event of Default specified in Sections 6.01(4) and 6.01(5) of the Base Indenture occurs, then the principal of and any accrued and unpaid interest on all of the Notes shall immediately become due and payable without any declaration or other
Defaults and Remedies
act on the part of the Trustee or any Holder. Holders may not enforce the Indenture or the Notes except as provided in the Indenture. The Trustee may require indemnity satisfactory to it before it enforces the Indenture or the Notes. Subject to certain limitations, Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding Notes may direct the Trustee in its exercise of any trust or power, provided, that the Trustee will be entitled to refuse to follow any such direction that conflicts with law or the Indenture or that the Trustee determines in good faith is unduly prejudicial to the rights of other Holders or that may involve the Trustee in personal liability, unless the Trustee is offered indemnity satisfactory to it. The Trustee may withhold from Holders notice of any continuing default (except a default in payment of principal, premium, if any, or interest on the Notes or a default in the observance or performance of any of the obligations of the Company under Article Five of the Base Indenture) if it determines that withholding notice is in their best interests.
15. . Subject to certain limitations imposed by the Trust Indenture Act, the Trustee, in its individual or any other capacity, may make loans to, accept deposits from, and perform services for the Company or its Affiliates, and may otherwise deal with the Company or its Affiliates, as if it were not Trustee.
Trustee Dealings with Company
16. . No past, present or future director, officer, employee, incorporator, agent, member or stockholder or Affiliate of the Company, as such, shall have any liability for any obligations of the Company under the Notes, the Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of, or by reason of, such obligations or their creation. Each Holder of Notes by accepting a Note waives and releases all such liabilities. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for issuance of the Notes.
No Recourse Against Others
17. . The Company's obligations pursuant to the Indenture will be discharged, except for obligations pursuant to certain sections thereof, subject to the terms of the Indenture, upon the payment of all the Notes or upon the irrevocable deposit with the Trustee of United States dollars or Government Obligations sufficient to pay when due principal of and interest on the Notes to maturity or redemption.
Discharge
18. . This Note shall not be valid until the Trustee signs the certificate of authentication on the other side of this Security.
Authentication
19. . THIS NOTE SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK. The Trustee and the Company agree to submit to the jurisdiction of the courts of the State of New York in any action or proceeding arising out of or relating to the Indenture or the Notes.
Governing Law
20. . Customary abbreviations may be used in the name of a Holder or an assignee, such as: TEN COM (= tenants in common), TENANT (= tenants by the entireties), JT TEN (= joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common), CUST (= Custodian), and U/G/M/A (= Uniform Gifts to Minors Act).
Abbreviations
The Company will furnish to any Holder upon written request and without charge a copy of the Indenture. Requests may be made to:
If to the Company:
Airgas, Inc.
259 North Radnor-Chester Rd.
Radnor, Pennsylvania 19087-5283
Attn: General Counsel
Fax: (610) 225-3271
With a copy to:
Cahill Gordon & Reindel LLP
80 Pine Street
New York, NY 10005
Attn: Michael Sherman
Fax: (212) 378-2598
I or we assign and transfer this Note to:
 
 
 
 
and irrevocably appoint:
Agent to transfer this Note on the books of the Company. The Agent may substitute another to act for him.
 
Signatures must be guaranteed by an "eligible guarantor institution" meeting the requirements of the Registrar, which requirements include membership or participation in the Security Transfer Agent Medallion Program ("STAMP") or such other "signature guarantee program" as may be determined by the Registrar in addition to, or in substitution for, STAMP, all in accordance with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.

Exhibit 5.1
June 3, 2011
Airgas, Inc.
259 North Radnor-Chester Road
Radnor, PA 19087-5283
Re:
2.950% Notes due 2016
Ladies and Gentlemen:
In connection with the registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), of $250,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 2.950% Notes due 2016 (the "") of Airgas, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""), pursuant to a Registration Statement on Form S-3 (Registration No. 333-167140) (the "") and the issuance of the Securities under an Indenture dated as of May 27, 2010 (the ""), between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association (the ""), as supplemented by the Second Supplemental Indenture dated as of June 3, 2011 (the "") between the Company and the Trustee, we, as your counsel, have examined such corporate records, certificates and other documents, and such questions of law, as we have considered necessary or appropriate for the purposes of this opinion.
Act
Securities
Company
Registration Statement
Base Indenture
Trustee
Supplemental Indenture
Upon the basis of such examination, we advise you that the Securities constitute valid and legally binding obligations of the Company, subject to bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent transfer, reorganization, moratorium and similar laws of general applicability relating to or affecting creditors' rights and to general equity principles.
The foregoing opinion is limited to the Federal laws of the United States and the laws of the State of New York, and we are expressing no opinion as to the effect of the laws of any other jurisdiction.
We have relied as to certain factual matters on information obtained from public officials, officers of the Company and other sources believed by us to be responsible, and we have assumed that the Base Indenture and the Supplemental Indenture thereto under which the Securities have been issued have been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Trustee thereunder, an assumption which we have not independently verified.
We hereby consent to the filing of this opinion as an exhibit to the Registration Statement and to the reference to us in the Registration Statement. In giving such consent, we do not thereby admit that we are in the category of persons whose consent is required under Section 7 of the Act.
 
 


