FILE:ARG/ARG-8K-20110728073023.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, DC 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): July 28, 2011
AIRGAS, INC.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
(610) 687-5253
(Registrant's telephone number, including area code)
:
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On July 28, 2011, Airgas, Inc. (the Company) reported its earnings for its first quarter ended June 30, 2011, as described in the press release attached as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
The information contained in this Form 8-K report shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
    Non-GAAP Measures:
The press release attached as Exhibit 99.1 contains certain financial measures that are not defined under generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). The Company presented its Adjusted Earnings per Diluted Share measure to provide investors meaningful insight into the Companys earnings performance without the impact of debt extinguishment charges, multi-employer pension plan withdrawal charges, costs and benefits related to Air Products unsolicited takeover attempt, a one-time interest penalty and Business Support Center restructuring charges and related costs. The Company presented Adjusted Operating Margin computations to help investors assess the Companys operating performance without the impact of charges associated with the Companys withdrawal from multi-employer pension plans, costs and benefits related to Air Products unsolicited takeover attempt and Business Support Center restructuring charges. The Company presented Free Cash Flow and Adjusted Cash From Operations to provide investors meaningful insight into the Companys ability to generate cash from operations without the impact of cash used related to Air Products' unsolicited takeover attempt, which is available for servicing debt obligations and for the execution of its business strategies, including acquisitions, the prepayment of debt, the payment of dividends, or to support other investing and financing activities. The Company presented Return on Capital to help investors assess how effectively the Company uses the capital invested in its operations.
The Companys intent is to provide non-GAAP financial information to enhance investors understanding of the Companys consolidated financial statements and should be considered by the reader in addition to, but not instead of, the financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. In addition, it should be noted that the Companys non-GAAP information may be different from the non-GAAP information provided by other companies.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(a) None
(b) None
(c) None
(d) Exhibits.
99.1 - Press Release dated July 28, 2011
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Exhibit Index

Exhibit 99.1
Airgas Reports Record Earnings in Fiscal First Quarter 2012; Raises Full-Year Guidance
Record adjusted diluted EPS* of $0.99, excluding net $0.06 of special items, up 19% over prior year
Same-store sales up 9% over prior year
Return on capital* of 12.1%, up 160 basis points over prior year
Full-year adjusted diluted EPS* guidance raised to $3.90 to $4.05 from $3.75 to $3.90
RADNOR, Pa.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--July 28, 2011--Airgas, Inc. (NYSE: ARG), the largest U.S. distributor of industrial, medical, and specialty gases, and related supplies, today reported net earnings of $74.8 million, or $0.93 per diluted share, for its first quarter ended June 30, 2011. Excluding $0.06 of special items, consisting of the previously announced Business Support Center restructuring charge of $0.10, multi-employer pension plan withdrawal charges of $0.01, and a $0.05** benefit from lower than previously estimated net costs related to the fiscal 2011 unsolicited takeover attempt, adjusted earnings per diluted share were a record $0.99*, an increase of 19% from $0.83* in the prior year. Prior year GAAP earnings per diluted share of $0.76 included legal and professional fees and other costs of $0.03** related to the unsolicited takeover attempt, multi-employer pension plan withdrawal charges of $0.02, and debt extinguishment charges of $0.02. Adjusted earnings per diluted share include SAP implementation costs and depreciation expense of $0.08 for the current quarter and $0.03 for the prior year quarter, and the current quarter reflects the benefit of the Companys two recently completed share repurchase programs, which substantially offsets these incremental SAP costs.
First quarter sales were $1.2 billion, an increase of 11% over the prior year. Total same-store sales grew 9% in the quarter, with hardgoods up 13% and gas and rent up 7%. Acquisitions contributed sales growth of 2% in the quarter. Sequentially, sales increased 6% from the fourth quarter both in total and on a sales-per-day basis.
Although more than a year old, the economic recovery has been slow, and the strength displayed in manufacturing-intensive regions of the U.S. and in our hardgoods business is indicative of the early stages of a recovery, said Airgas Chief Executive Officer Peter McCausland. Since the beginning of our fiscal year in April, we have acquired four businesses with nearly $70 million in aggregate annual revenues, including industrial gas and welding distributor ABCO in New England, as well as carbon dioxide and dry ice producer and distributor Pain Enterprises in the Midwestern U.S.
Adjusted operating margin* for the quarter was 12.4%, a 10 basis point improvement over the prior year, despite a 60 basis point impact from incremental SAP implementation costs and depreciation expense.
Even with the burden of SAP implementation costs, the strength of our business in a modest economic expansion is evident, McCausland said. Our return on capital* increased by 160 basis points over last year to 12.1% as we continue to leverage our national footprint and industry-leading platform as sales volumes recover.
Free cash flow* for the quarter was $71 million, compared to $114 million in the prior year, driven by adjusted cash from operations* of $139 million. The decrease in free cash flow from the prior year reflects an increase in capital expenditures and working capital to support sales growth, as well as an increase in the first quarter payout of accrued annual incentive compensation. As of June 30, 2011, the Company had completed the additional $300 million share repurchase program announced on May 5, 2011, repurchasing 4.46 million shares on the open market at an average price of $67.19. The Companys prior $300 million share repurchase program, announced in February 2011 and completed in March, resulted in 4.78 million shares repurchased at an average price of $62.76.
Guidance Update
The Company expects adjusted earnings per diluted share* for the second quarter of fiscal 2012 to increase 19% to 24% from $0.83 in the prior year to $0.99 to $1.03, which includes $0.08 of SAP implementation costs and depreciation expense, compared to $0.05 in the prior year.
For fiscal 2012, the Company expects adjusted earnings per diluted share* to increase 17% to 21% from $3.34 in fiscal 2011 to $3.90 to $4.05, which includes an anticipated $0.32 of SAP implementation costs and depreciation expense, compared to $0.14 in fiscal 2011.
All fiscal 2012 adjusted diluted EPS* guidance includes the benefit of the two recently completed share repurchase programs, which offsets incremental year-over-year SAP costs. The guidance excludes the impact of restructuring charges, which were $0.10 in the first quarter, and related costs of $0.07 expected to be incurred over the balance of the year. The restructuring charges arise from the consolidation of accounting and certain administrative functions of twelve regional distribution companies into four Business Support Centers. The guidance also excludes any net impact related to the 2011 unsolicited takeover attempt and any multi-employer pension plan withdrawal charges.
We remain on track with our SAP implementation, and our second regional distribution company, Airgas Great Lakes, is on schedule to go live at the beginning of September, said McCausland. We still expect implementation costs to be heaviest in fiscal 2012, and we expect to complete the implementation in fiscal 2013 as the benefits begin to ramp up. Given our favorable business trends and sharp operating focus, our future prospects are very attractive.
The Company will conduct an earnings teleconference at 10:00 a.m. Eastern Time on Thursday, July 28. The teleconference will be available by calling (800) 500-0920. The presentation materials (this press release, slides to be presented during the Companys teleconference and information about how to access a live and on-demand webcast of the teleconference) are available in the Investor Information section of the Companys website at . A webcast of the teleconference will be available live and on demand through August 26 at . A replay of the teleconference will be available through August 5. To listen, call (888) 203-1112 and enter passcode 5848693.
www.airgas.com
http://investor.shareholder.com/arg/events.cfm
* See attached reconciliations and calculations of the non-GAAP adjusted earnings per diluted share, adjusted operating margin, adjusted cash from operations, free cash flow, and return on capital.
** The legal and professional fees and other costs incurred were in response to Air Products unsolicited takeover attempt.
.
About Airgas, Inc
Airgas, Inc. (NYSE: ARG), through its subsidiaries, is the largest U.S. distributor of industrial, medical, and specialty gases, and hardgoods, such as welding equipment and supplies. Airgas is also one of the largest U.S. distributors of safety products, the largest U.S. producer of nitrous oxide and dry ice, the largest liquid carbon dioxide producer in the Southeast, and a leading distributor of process chemicals, refrigerants, and ammonia products. More than 14,000 employees work in approximately 1,100 locations, including branches, retail stores, gas fill plants, specialty gas labs, production facilities, and distribution centers. Airgas also distributes its products and services through eBusiness, catalog, and telesales channels. Its national scale and strong local presence offer a competitive edge to its diversified customer base. For more information, please visit .
www.airgas.com
This press release contains statements that are forward looking, as that term is defined by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 or by the SEC in its rules, regulations and releases. These statements include, but are not limited to: expectations for adjusted earnings per diluted share to be in the range of $0.99 to $1.03 (which includes $0.08 of SAP implementation costs and depreciation expense, compared to $0.05 in the prior year) for the second quarter of fiscal 2012, and in the range of $3.90 to $4.05 (which includes $0.32 of SAP implementation costs and depreciation expense, compared to $0.14 in fiscal 2011) for fiscal year 2012; expectations for $0.07 per diluted share in costs related to the transition to Business Support Centers expected to be incurred over the balance of fiscal 2012; expectations regarding the timing and magnitude of SAP implementation costs to be incurred and benefits to be achieved; and expectations for our future prospects. Forward-looking statements also include any statement that is not based on historical fact, including statements containing the words "believes," "may," "plans," "will," "could," "should," "estimates," "continues," "anticipates," "intends," "expects," and similar expressions. We intend that such forward-looking statements be subject to the safe harbors created thereby. All forward-looking statements are based on current expectations regarding important risk factors and should not be regarded as a representation by us or any other person that the results expressed therein will be achieved. Airgas assumes no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements for any reason, except as required by law. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement include: adverse changes in customer buying patterns resulting from deterioration in current economic conditions; weakening in the operating and financial performance of our customers, which can negatively impact our sales and our ability to collect our accounts receivable; postponement of projects due to economic developments; customer acceptance of price increases; the success of implementing and continuing our cost reduction programs; our ability to achieve anticipated acquisition synergies; supply cost pressures; increased industry competition; our ability to successfully identify, consummate, and integrate acquisitions; our continued ability to access credit markets on satisfactory terms; significant fluctuations in interest rates; increases in energy costs and other operating expenses eroding planned cost savings; higher than expected implementation costs of the SAP system; conversion problems related to the SAP system that disrupt our business and negatively impact customer relationships; higher than expected costs related to restructuring and Business Support Center transition; the impact of tightened credit markets on our customers; the impact of changes in tax and fiscal policies and laws; the potential for increased expenditures relating to compliance with environmental regulatory initiatives; the impact of new environmental, healthcare, tax, accounting, and other regulation; continued potential liability under the Multiemployer Pension Plan Amendments Act of 1980 with respect to our participation in or withdrawal from multi-employer pension plans for our union employees; the economic recovery in the U.S.; the effect of catastrophic events; political and economic uncertainties associated with current world events; and other factors described in the Company's reports, including its March 31, 2011 Form 10-K and other forms filed by the Company with the SEC.
Consolidated statements of earnings, condensed consolidated balance sheets, consolidated statements of cash flows, and reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures follow below.
Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Financial Measures (Unaudited)
Adjusted Operating Margin
Reconciliations and computations of adjusted operating margin:
The Company believes the above adjusted operating margin computations help investors assess the Companys operating performance without the impact of Business Support Center restructuring charges, costs and benefits related to Air Products unsolicited takeover attempt, and MEPP withdrawal charges. Non-GAAP numbers should be read in conjunction with GAAP financial measures, as non-GAAP metrics are merely a supplement to, and not a replacement for, GAAP financial measures. It should be noted as well that our adjusted operating margin computations may be different from the adjusted operating margin computations provided by other companies.
Return on Capital
Reconciliations and computations of return on capital:
The Company believes this return on capital computation helps investors assess how effectively the Company uses the capital invested in its operations. Non-GAAP numbers should be read in conjunction with GAAP financial measures, as non-GAAP metrics are merely a supplement to, and not a replacement for, GAAP financial measures. It should be noted as well that our return on capital computation may be different from the return on capital computations provided by other companies.
Free Cash Flow and Adjusted Cash from Operations
Reconciliations and computations of free cash flow and adjusted cash from operations:
The Company believes that free cash flow and adjusted cash from operations provide investors meaningful insight into the Company's ability to generate cash from operations without the impact of cash used related to Air Products unsolicited takeover attempt, which is available for servicing debt obligations and for the execution of its business strategies, including acquisitions, the prepayment of debt, the payment of dividends, or to support other investing and financing activities. Non-GAAP numbers should be read in conjunction with GAAP financial measures, as non-GAAP metrics are merely a supplement to, and not a replacement for, GAAP financial measures. It should be noted as well that our free cash flow and adjusted cash from operations metrics may be different from free cash flow and adjusted cash from operations metrics provided by other companies.
CONTACT: Airgas, Inc. Jay Worley, 610-902-6206 or Barry Strzelec, 610-902-6256
Media Contact:
jay.worley@airgas.com
Investor Contact:
barry.strzelec@airgas.com


