FILE:ARG/ARG-8K-20110831153225.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The annual meeting of the stockholders of Airgas, Inc. ("Airgas" or the "Company") was held on August 29, 2011, where the Company's stockholders voted on the following:
 
 
 
 
The final voting results for each such item are set forth below.
. The following persons were elected as directors for terms expiring at the 2014 Annual Meeting:
Election of Directors
 
. The proposal was approved by the following vote:
Ratification of the Appointment of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
 
. The following table summarizes the results of the advisory vote on the Company's executive compensation:
Advisory Vote on the Company's Executive Compensation
 
. The following table summarizes the results of the advisory vote on the frequency of future advisory votes on the Company's executive compensation:
Advisory Vote Regarding the Frequency of Future Advisory Votes on the Company's Executive Compensation
 
The Airgas Board of Directors (the "Board") carefully evaluated the results of the vote on this proposal, along with other relevant factors, in considering the frequency of future advisory votes on executive compensation. As a result, the Board determined that the Company will include a stockholder advisory vote on executive compensation in its proxy materials on an annual basis until the next required vote on the frequency of future advisory votes on the Company's executive compensation.
 
On August 29, 2011, the Airgas Board unanimously elected Peter McCausland, Airgas President and Chief Executive Officer, as Chairman of the Board and John C. van Roden, Jr. as Presiding Director, as described in the press release attached as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
(d) Exhibits.
99.1  Press Release dated August 29, 2011
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Airgas Announces Director Election Results of Annual Stockholder Meeting
Airgas, Inc. (NYSE: ARG) today announced that, based upon certified results following today's Annual Meeting of Stockholders, all four of Airgas' nominees have been elected to the Airgas Board of Directors. The Company noted that each of its nominees, Peter McCausland, Lee M. Thomas, John C. van Roden, Jr. and Ellen C. Wolf, received the support of 80% or more of the shares voted. Broadridge, the independent Inspector of Elections, certified the results of the stockholder vote at Airgas' 2011 Annual Meeting.
RADNOR, PA - August 29, 2011
-
Following the annual meeting, the Board of Directors unanimously elected company founder and CEO McCausland as Chairman of the Board, and van Roden as Presiding Director.
About Airgas, Inc.
Airgas, Inc. (NYSE: ARG), through its subsidiaries, is the largest U.S. distributor of industrial, medical and specialty gases, and hardgoods, such as welding equipment and supplies. Airgas is also one of the largest U.S. distributors of safety products, the largest U.S. producer of nitrous oxide and dry ice, the largest liquid carbon dioxide producer in the Southeast, and a leading distributor of process chemicals, refrigerants, and ammonia products. More than 14,000 employees work in approximately 1,100 locations, including branches, retail stores, gas fill plants, specialty gas labs, production facilities and distribution centers. Airgas also distributes its products and services through eBusiness, catalog and telesales channels. Its national scale and strong local presence offer a competitive edge to its diversified customer base. For more information, please visit .
www.airgas.com
Media Contact:
Jay Worley (610) 902-6206
jay.worley@airgas.com
Investor Contact:
Barry Strzelec (610) 902-6256
barry.strzelec@airgas.com


