FILE:ARG/ARG-8K-20120503073734.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, DC 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): May 1, 2012
AIRGAS, INC.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
(610) 687-5253
(Registrant's telephone number, including area code)
:
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On May 3, 2012, Airgas, Inc. (Airgas or the Company) reported its earnings for its fourth quarter ended March 31, 2012, as described in the press release attached as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
The information contained in this Item 2.02 shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
Non-GAAP Measures:
The press release attached as Exhibit 99.1 contains certain financial measures that are not defined under generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).  The Company presented its Adjusted Earnings per Diluted Share metric to provide investors meaningful insight into the Companys earnings performance without the impact of Business Support Center restructuring charges and related costs, asset impairment charges, costs and benefits related to Air Products unsolicited takeover attempt, multi-employer pension plan withdrawal charges, income tax benefits related to the LLC reorganization and foreign tax liability true-up, debt extinguishment charges and a one-time interest penalty.  The Company presented its Adjusted Effective Tax Rate metric to help investors assess the Company's effective tax rate without the impact of income tax benefits resulting from the LLC reorganization and a foreign tax liability true-up, and income tax impacts related to other special items. The Company presented Adjusted Operating Margin computations to help investors assess the Companys operating performance without the impact of Business Support Center restructuring charges and related costs, asset impairment charges, costs and benefits related to Air Products unsolicited takeover attempt, and multi-employer pension plan withdrawal charges.  The Company presented Return on Capital to help investors assess how effectively the Company uses the capital invested in its operations.  The Company presented Free Cash Flow and Adjusted Cash From Operations to provide investors meaningful insight into the Companys ability to generate cash from operations without the impact of cash used related to Air Products unsolicited takeover attempt and multi-employer pension plan withdrawals, which is available for servicing debt obligations and for the execution of its business strategies, including acquisitions, the repayment of debt, the payment of dividends, or to support other investing and financing activities.
The Companys intent is to provide non-GAAP financial information to enhance investors understanding of the Companys consolidated financial statements and such information should be considered by the reader in addition to, but not instead of, the financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. In addition, it should be noted that the Companys non-GAAP information may be different from the non-GAAP information provided by other companies.
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On May 3, 2012, Airgas announced (1) the transition of Peter McCausland from Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Airgas to Executive Chairman immediately following the 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders in mid-August 2012 (the Transition Date), (2) the transition of Michael Molinini from Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer to President and Chief Executive Officer of Airgas effective as of the Transition Date, and (3) the expansion of the Board of Directors to 11 members and the election of Mr. Molinini to the Board effective immediately. The press release announcing the leadership transition is attached as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
As of the Transition Date, Mr. Molinini will continue to lead the Companys operations and information technology initiatives, while also assuming responsibility for finance and human resources. Mr. Molinini will continue to report to Mr. McCausland. In his role as Executive Chairman, Mr. McCausland will continue to lead the development of Airgas growth strategies and to serve as Chairman of the Companys Management Committee. He will also retain responsibility for corporate development, risk management and governance. Mr. McCauslands compensation will continue as described under the headings Compensation Discussion and Analysis and Executive Compensation in the Companys proxy statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on July 20, 2011, except as may be determined by the Governance and Compensation Committee of the Board.  Effective on the Transition Date, Mr. Molinini will receive an increase in his annual base salary to $850,000 and an increase in his annual cash incentive award target to 100% of his annual base salary.
Mr. McCausland, age 62, has been an Airgas director from June 1986 until September 15, 2010 and from September 23, 2010 to the present and has served as Chairman of the Board from 1987 to September 15, 2010 and from August 29, 2011 to the present.  Mr. McCausland has also served as the Chief Executive Officer of Airgas since May 1987 and President of Airgas from June 1986 to August 1988, from April 1993 to November 1995, from April 1997 to January 1999 and from January 2005 to the present. Mr. McCausland serves as a director of the Fox Chase Cancer Center, the Independence Seaport Museum and The Philadelphia Orchestra. Mr. McCausland also serves on the Board of Visitors of the Boston University School of Law and the College of Arts and Sciences of the University of South Carolina.
Mr. Molinini, age 61, has been Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer since January 2005. Prior to that time, Mr. Molinini served as Senior Vice President - Hardgoods Operations from August 1999 to January 2005, with company-wide responsibility for directing sales and marketing, procurement, and distribution center logistics, and as Vice President - Airgas Direct Industrial from April 1997 to July 1999, leading the build out of Airgas' hardgoods supply chain, including development of the Radnor private label program. Prior to joining Airgas, Mr. Molinini served as Vice President of Marketing of National Welders Supply Company, Inc. (National Welders), an Airgas joint venture, from 1991 to 1997, where he managed all gases and hardgoods sales and marketing programs.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(a) None
(b) None
(c) None
(d) Exhibits.
99.1 - Press Release dated May 3, 2012, reporting the Companys earnings
99.2 - Press Release dated May 3, 2012, announcing the Companys leadership transition
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Exhibit Index

Exhibit 99.1
Airgas Reports Record Fiscal Fourth Quarter and Full Year Earnings
Record fourth quarter adjusted diluted EPS* of $1.11, up 26% over prior year
Fourth quarter same-store sales up 11% over prior year
Return on capital* of 12.5%, up 60 basis points over prior year
Record full-year adjusted diluted EPS* of $4.11, up 23% over prior year
Fiscal year 2013 adjusted diluted EPS* guidance of $4.70 to $4.85
RADNOR, Pa.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--May 3, 2012--Airgas, Inc. (NYSE: ARG), the largest U.S. distributor of industrial, medical, and specialty gases, and related supplies, today reported strong performance in sales, operating income, and earnings for its fourth quarter ended March 31, 2012. Business trends reflect growth across the Companys diverse customer base with particular strength in large manufacturing, petrochemical, and energy customers.
Fourth quarter adjusted earnings per diluted share* were a record $1.11, an increase of 26% from $0.88 in the prior year. Results included SAP implementation costs and depreciation expense of $0.09 and $0.04 per diluted share for the current and prior year quarters, respectively, and the current quarter reflected the benefit of share repurchases which offset the incremental SAP costs.
Our performance was very strong this quarter across most of our core business, with particular strength in manufacturing, petrochemical and energy customers, and noticeable improvement in our construction customer base, despite a weak new project market, said Airgas Chief Executive Officer Peter McCausland. Our product line adjacency businesses also performed well relative to our expectations, highlighted by strong pre-season demand in our refrigerants business that contributed nicely to our earnings this quarter.
Fourth quarter sales were $1.24 billion, an increase of 13% over the prior year. Same-store sales grew 11% in the quarter, with hardgoods up 15% and gas and rent up 9%. Acquisitions contributed sales growth of 2% in the quarter. Sequentially, total sales increased 8% from the third quarter, reflecting the impact of two additional selling days, the falloff of the holiday impact, and continued business growth. Sequentially, sales per day increased 4% from the third quarter on a consolidated basis and increased 3% in the Distribution business segment.
Adjusted operating margin* of 12.2% for the fourth quarter included 90 basis points of impact from SAP implementation costs and depreciation expense. Prior year adjusted operating margin* of 12.2% included only 50 basis points of impact from SAP implementation costs and depreciation expense.
The strength of our hardgoods same-store sales growth relative to gas and rent, and the sales mix shift within hardgoods to welding and automation equipment, reflect the continued modest expansion and reinvestment were seeing by larger customers in the manufacturing-intensive regions of the U.S., said Airgas Chief Operating Officer Michael L. Molinini. While the mix shift has a dilutive effect on our gross margin, we have continued to leverage our national footprint and industry-leading platform to increase our underlying operating margin and expand our return on capital* to 12.5% this quarter, 60 basis points over the prior year. A continuation of current business trends, coupled with the future benefits of our SAP implementation, indicates very attractive prospects for Airgas.
For the full year, sales increased 12% from the prior year to $4.7 billion. Total same-store sales increased 10%, with hardgoods up 14% and gas and rent up 7%, while acquisitions contributed 2% sales growth for the year.
Full year adjusted earnings per diluted share* were a record $4.11, an increase of 23% from $3.35 in the prior year. Results included SAP implementation costs and depreciation expense of $0.34 and $0.14 per diluted share for the current and prior year, respectively, and the current year reflected the benefit of share repurchases, which offset the incremental SAP costs.
Our record sales and earnings performance this year is a testament to the value of our investment in organic growth initiatives such as our Strategic Accounts program, as well as our strong operating culture and customer-centric approach to doing business, said McCausland. Our acquisition pipeline continues to improve, and in fiscal 2012 we acquired eight businesses with aggregate annual revenues of more than $106 million, including our recent purchase of Nordan Smith with 17 locations across Mississippi, Arkansas, and Alabama.
Free cash flow* for the year was $262 million, compared to $387 million in the prior year, and adjusted cash from operations* was $593 million for the year, compared to $617 million in the prior year. The decrease in free cash flow from the prior year reflects an increase in capital expenditures and working capital to support strong sales growth.
During the fiscal 2011 fourth quarter, the Company completed a $300 million share repurchase program, repurchasing 4.78 million shares at an average price of $62.76. During the first quarter of fiscal 2012, the Company completed an additional $300 million share repurchase program, repurchasing 4.46 million shares at an average price of $67.19.
Guidance
The Company expects adjusted earnings per diluted share* for the first quarter of fiscal 2013 to increase 12% to 16% from $1.00 in the prior year to $1.12 to $1.16, which includes $0.08 of SAP implementation costs and depreciation expense in both periods.
For fiscal 2013, the Company expects adjusted earnings per diluted share* to increase 14% to 18% from $4.11 in fiscal 2012 to $4.70 to $4.85, which includes approximately $0.12 to $0.16 of SAP implementation costs and depreciation expense, net of expected benefits. Fiscal 2012 adjusted earnings per diluted share* included $0.34 of SAP implementation costs and depreciation expense.
Fiscal 2013 guidance excludes restructuring charges related to the consolidation of our regional accounting and administrative functions into four Business Support Centers, which are expected to approximate a net charge of $0.02 in the first quarter and $0.06 for the full year. Special gains and charges in fiscal 2012 were a net total charge of $0.11.
The Company will conduct an earnings teleconference at 10:00 a.m. Eastern Time on Thursday, May 3. The teleconference will be available by calling (888) 587-0615. The presentation materials (this press release, slides to be presented during the Companys teleconference and information about how to access a live and on-demand webcast of the teleconference) are available in the Investor Information section of the Companys website at . A webcast of the teleconference will be available live and on demand through June 1 at . A replay of the teleconference will be available through May 11. To listen, call (888) 203-1112 and enter passcode 9254540.
www.airgas.com
http://investor.shareholder.com/arg/events.cfm
* See attached reconciliations and calculations of the non-GAAP adjusted earnings per diluted share, adjusted effective tax rate, adjusted operating margin, adjusted cash from operations, free cash flow, and return on capital.
.
About Airgas, Inc
Airgas, Inc. (NYSE: ARG), through its subsidiaries, is the largest U.S. distributor of industrial, medical and specialty gases, and hardgoods, such as welding equipment and supplies. Airgas is also a leading U.S. producer of atmospheric gases, carbon dioxide, dry ice, and nitrous oxide, one of the largest U.S. distributors of safety products, and a leading U.S. distributor of refrigerants, ammonia products, and process chemicals. More than 15,000 employees work in approximately 1,100 locations, including branches, retail stores, gas fill plants, specialty gas labs, production facilities and distribution centers. Airgas also markets its products and services through eBusiness, catalog and telesales channels. Its national scale and strong local presence offer a competitive edge to its diversified customer base. For more information, please visit .
www.airgas.com
This press release contains statements that are forward looking, as that term is defined by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 or by the SEC in its rules, regulations and releases. These statements include, but are not limited to: expectations for adjusted earnings per diluted share to be in the range of $1.12 to $1.16 (which includes $0.08 of SAP implementation costs and depreciation expense, compared to $0.08 in the prior year) for the first quarter of fiscal 2013, and in the range of $4.70 to $4.85 (which includes approximately $0.12 to $0.16 of SAP implementation costs and depreciation expense, net of expected benefits); expectations for restructuring charges related to the consolidation of our regional accounting and administrative functions into four Business Support Centers of $0.02 for the first quarter of fiscal 2013 and $0.06 for fiscal year 2013; expectations regarding SAP implementation risk, and the timing and magnitude of SAP implementation costs to be incurred and benefits to be achieved; and expectations for the continuation of current business trends, the Companys future prospects, the value of the Companys organic growth initiatives, and the continuing improvement of the Companys acquisition pipeline. Forward-looking statements also include any statement that is not based on historical fact, including statements containing the words "believes," "may," "plans," "will," "could," "should," "estimates," "continues," "anticipates," "intends," "expects," and similar expressions. We intend that such forward-looking statements be subject to the safe harbors created thereby. All forward-looking statements are based on current expectations regarding important risk factors and should not be regarded as a representation by us or any other person that the results expressed therein will be achieved. Airgas assumes no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements for any reason, except as required by law. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement include: adverse changes in customer buying patterns resulting from deterioration in current economic conditions; weakening in the operating and financial performance of our customers, which could negatively impact our sales and our ability to collect our accounts receivable; postponement of projects due to economic developments; customer acceptance of price increases; our ability to achieve anticipated acquisition synergies; supply cost pressures; increased industry competition; our ability to successfully identify, consummate, and integrate acquisitions; our continued ability to access credit markets on satisfactory terms; significant fluctuations in interest rates; increases in energy costs and other operating expenses eroding planned cost savings; higher than expected implementation costs of the SAP system; conversion problems related to the SAP system that disrupt our business and negatively impact customer relationships; higher than expected costs related to restructuring and Business Support Center transition; the impact of tightened credit markets on our customers; the impact of changes in tax and fiscal policies and laws; the potential for increased expenditures relating to compliance with environmental regulatory initiatives; the impact of new environmental, healthcare, tax, accounting, and other regulation; the economic recovery in the U.S.; the effect of catastrophic events; political and economic uncertainties associated with current world events; and other factors described in the Company's reports, including its March 31, 2011 Form 10-K, subsequent Forms 10-Q, and other forms filed by the Company with the SEC.
Consolidated statements of earnings, condensed consolidated balance sheets, consolidated statements of cash flows, and reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures follow below.
Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Financial Measures (Unaudited)
Adjusted Earnings per Diluted Share and Earnings Guidance
Reconciliations of adjusted earnings per diluted share and earnings guidance:
Guidance for adjusted earnings per diluted share excludes Business Support Center restructuring charges.
The Company believes its adjusted earnings per diluted share metric provides investors meaningful insight into its earnings performance without the impact of Business Support Center restructuring charges and related costs, asset impairment charges, costs (benefits) related to Air Products unsolicited takeover attempt, MEPP withdrawal charges, income tax benefits related to the LLC reorganization and foreign tax liability true-up, debt extinguishment charges, and one-time interest penalty. Non-GAAP numbers should be read in conjunction with GAAP financial measures, as non-GAAP metrics are merely a supplement to, and not a replacement for, GAAP financial measures. It should also be noted that the Companys adjusted earnings per diluted share metric may be different from adjusted earnings per diluted share metrics provided by other companies.
Adjusted Effective Tax Rate
Reconciliations of adjusted effective tax rate:
The Company believes its adjusted effective tax rate metric helps investors assess its effective tax rate without the impact of income tax benefits resulting from the LLC reorganization and a foreign tax liability true-up, and income tax impacts related to other special items. Non-GAAP numbers should be read in conjunction with GAAP financial measures, as non-GAAP metrics are merely a supplement to, and not a replacement for, GAAP financial measures. It should also be noted that the Companys adjusted effective tax rate metric may be different from the adjusted effective tax rate metrics provided by other companies.
Adjusted Operating Margin
Reconciliations of adjusted operating margin:
The Company believes its adjusted operating margin metric helps investors assess its operating performance without the impact of Business Support Center restructuring charges and related costs, asset impairment charges, costs (benefits) related to Air Products unsolicited takeover attempt, and MEPP withdrawal charges. Non-GAAP numbers should be read in conjunction with GAAP financial measures, as non-GAAP metrics are merely a supplement to, and not a replacement for, GAAP financial measures. It should also be noted that the Companys adjusted operating margin metric may be different from the adjusted operating margin metrics provided by other companies.
Return on Capital
Reconciliations and computations of return on capital:
The Company believes its return on capital metric helps investors assess how effectively it uses the capital invested in its operations. Non-GAAP numbers should be read in conjunction with GAAP financial measures, as non-GAAP metrics are merely a supplement to, and not a replacement for, GAAP financial measures. It should be noted as well that the Companys return on capital metric may be different from the return on capital metrics provided by other companies.
Free Cash Flow and Adjusted Cash from Operations
Reconciliations and computations of free cash flow and adjusted cash from operations:
The Company believes its free cash flow and adjusted cash from operations metrics provide investors meaningful insight into its ability to generate cash from operations, excluding the impact of cash used related to Air Products unsolicited takeover attempt and MEPP withdrawals, which is available for servicing debt obligations and for the execution of its business strategies, including acquisitions, the repayment of debt, the payment of dividends, or to support other investing and financing activities. Non-GAAP numbers should be read in conjunction with GAAP financial measures, as non-GAAP metrics are merely a supplement to, and not a replacement for, GAAP financial measures. It should also be noted that the Companys free cash flow and adjusted cash from operations metrics may be different from free cash flow and adjusted cash from operations metrics provided by other companies.
CONTACT: Airgas, Inc. Barry Strzelec, 610-902-6256 or Doug Sherman, 610-902-6270
Investor Contact:
barry.strzelec@airgas.com
Media Contact:
doug.sherman@airgas.com

Exhibit 99.2
Airgas Announces Leadership Transition
Michael L. Molinini to be Named President and Chief Executive Officer Following 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders; Joins Board of Directors
Airgas Founder Peter McCausland to Serve as Executive Chairman of the Board
RADNOR, Pa.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--May 3, 2012--Airgas, Inc. (NYSE: ARG) today announced that effective immediately following the Companys 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders scheduled to be held in mid-August, Airgas Founder Peter McCausland will assume the role of Executive Chairman of the Board of Directors, and current Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer Michael L. Molinini will succeed him as President and Chief Executive Officer.
In connection with this leadership transition, the Airgas Board of Directors has unanimously elected Molinini to serve as a director of the Company, effective immediately, expanding the Board to eleven directors. Molinini will stand for re-election to the Board at the Companys 2012 Annual Meeting. In his expanded role, Molinini will continue to lead the Companys operations and information technology initiatives, while also assuming responsibility for finance and human resources. McCausland will continue to lead the development of Airgas growth strategies. In addition, McCausland will continue to serve as Chairman of the Companys Management Committee and will retain responsibility for corporate development, risk management and governance.
Mike and I have worked together for 15 years; he is a proven leader with an outstanding record of accomplishment both here at Airgas and in his previous roles, said McCausland. I am confident that Mike is the right person to serve as Airgas next CEO and that he will continue to build on our 30-year track record of operational excellence and shareholder value creation. Mike and I, together with our CFO Bob McLaughlin, will continue to be actively engaged with our shareholders and the rest of the investment community. As Airgas founder and largest shareholder, I am committed to making sure that this plan is successful, and I am looking forward to working with Mike and the entire management team in the years ahead. As I always say, the best time at Airgas is now.
This leadership transition is a natural result of the Boards long-time focus on developing a deep management team and represents the next step in the evolution of Airgas, said Lee Thomas, Chairman of the Airgas Boards Governance and Compensation Committee. The companys current momentum provides an opportune time for Mike to take on increased responsibility, allowing Peter to focus his expertise, industry experience, and considerable energy on the areas of the business about which he is most passionate  strategic planning, mergers and acquisitions, and corporate governance.
I am honored and energized by the confidence that Peter and the rest of the Board have in me, and I look forward to enhancing Airgas position as one of the premier industrial gas companies in the world, said Molinini. Peter and I have worked successfully together for many years and I am pleased that he will stay actively involved in Airgas, continuing to contribute the vision and leadership that have helped make the company what it is today. I plan to continue his tradition of strong, active leadership and nurturing Airgas entrepreneurial culture in pursuit of the tremendous opportunities ahead for Airgas. Our more than 15,000 associates are the best in the business, and together we will continue to focus on serving our one million loyal customers, operating safely, and growing the business for years to come.
Peter McCausland is Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Airgas. McCausland founded Airgas in 1982, has been President and Chief Executive Officer since 1987, previously served as Chairman of the Board from 1987 to September 2010, and was elected Chairman again in August 2011. Before founding Airgas, McCausland served as General Counsel for MG Industries, Inc., an industrial gas producer. He also was a founding partner in the law firm of McCausland Keen & Buckman, where he focused on mergers, acquisitions, and financings. McCausland serves as a director of the Fox Chase Cancer Center, the Independence Seaport Museum, and the Philadelphia Orchestra Association. He also serves on the Board of Visitors of the College of Arts and Sciences, University of South Carolina, and on the Board of Visitors at the Boston University School of Law.
Michael L. Molinini is Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of Airgas and is a member of the Management Committee. Prior to assuming this position in January 2005, he was Senior Vice President  Hardgoods, with company-wide responsibility for directing sales and marketing, procurement, and distribution center logistics. Molinini joined Airgas in April 1997 as Group Vice President of Airgas Direct Industrial and led the build out of Airgas' hardgoods supply chain, including development of the Radnor private label program. Prior to joining Airgas, Molinini served as Vice President  Marketing at National Welders Supply Company, an Airgas joint venture, where he managed all gases and hardgoods sales and marketing programs. Molinini joined National Welders after spending 19 years with the Linde Division of Union Carbide Corporation in a variety of operations, sales and management positions.
The Company will discuss this executive leadership transition during its fiscal 2012 fourth quarter earnings conference call scheduled for today, May 3, 2012 at 10:00 am ET. A webcast of the teleconference will be available live and on demand through June 1 at . The teleconference will be available by calling 888-587-0615. A replay of the teleconference will be available through May 11. To listen, call 888-203-1112 and enter passcode 9254540.
http://investor.shareholder.com/arg/events.cfm
About Airgas, Inc.
Airgas, Inc. (NYSE: ARG), through its subsidiaries, is the largest U.S. distributor of industrial, medical and specialty gases, and hardgoods, such as welding equipment and supplies. Airgas is also a leading U.S. producer of atmospheric gases, carbon dioxide, dry ice, and nitrous oxide, one of the largest U.S. distributors of safety products, and a leading U.S. distributor of refrigerants, ammonia products, and process chemicals. More than 15,000 employees work in approximately 1,100 locations, including branches, retail stores, gas fill plants, specialty gas labs, production facilities and distribution centers. Airgas also markets its products and services through eBusiness, catalog and telesales channels. Its national scale and strong local presence offer a competitive edge to its diversified customer base. For more information, please visit .
www.airgas.com
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release may contain statements that are forward looking, as that term is defined by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 or by the Securities and Exchange Commission in its rules, regulations and releases, and we intend that any such forward-looking statements be subject to the safe harbors created thereby. Forward-looking statements are generally identified with the words "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "intend," "estimate," "target," "may," "will," "would," "plan," "project," "should," "continue" or the negative thereof or other similar expressions, or discussion of future goals or aspirations, which are predictions of or indicate future events and trends and which do not relate to historical matters. These statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding the Companys leadership transition. All forward-looking statements are based on current expectations regarding important risk factors and should not be regarded as a representation by us or any other person that the results expressed therein will be achieved. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement include the factors described in the Company's reports, including its Form 10-K dated March 31, 2011, subsequent Forms 10-Q and other forms filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
CONTACT: Airgas, Inc. Doug Sherman, 610-902-6270 or Barry Strzelec, 610-902-6256
Media Contact:
doug.sherman@airgas.com
Investor Contact:
barry.strzelec@airgas.com


