FILE:ARG/ARG-8K-20120725073530.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, DC 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): July 25, 2012
AIRGAS, INC.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
(610) 687-5253
(Registrant's telephone number, including area code)
:
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On July 25, 2012, Airgas, Inc. (the Company) reported its earnings for its first quarter ended June 30, 2012, as described in the press release attached as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
The information contained in this Form 8-K report shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.     
Non-GAAP Measures:
The press release attached as Exhibit 99.1 contains certain financial measures that are not defined under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). The Company presented its Adjusted Earnings per Diluted Share measure to provide investors meaningful insight into the Companys earnings performance without the impact of Business Support Center restructuring charges and related costs, asset impairment charges, the gain on the sale of businesses, costs (benefits) related to Air Products unsolicited takeover attempt, multi-employer pension plan withdrawal charges, and income tax benefits related to the LLC reorganization and foreign tax liability true-up. The Company presented Adjusted Operating Income and Adjusted Operating Margin financial measures to help investors assess the Companys operating performance without the impact of Business Support Center restructuring charges and related costs, asset impairment charges, costs (benefits) related to Air Products unsolicited takeover attempt, and multi-employer pension plan withdrawal charges. The Company presented Free Cash Flow, Adjusted Capital Expenditures, and Adjusted Cash From Operations to provide investors meaningful insight into the Companys ability to generate cash from operations without the impact of cash used related to Air Products unsolicited takeover attempt, which is available for servicing debt obligations and for the execution of its business strategies, including acquisitions, the repayment of debt, the payment of dividends, or to support other investing and financing activities. The Company presented Return on Capital to help investors assess how effectively the Company uses the capital invested in its operations.
The Companys intent is to provide non-GAAP financial information to enhance investors understanding of the Companys consolidated financial statements and should be considered by the reader in addition to, but not instead of, the financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. In addition, it should be noted that the Companys non-GAAP information may be different from the non-GAAP information provided by other companies.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(a) None
(b) None
(c) None
(d) Exhibits.
99.1 - Press Release dated July 25, 2012
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Exhibit Index

Exhibit 99.1
Airgas Reports Fiscal First Quarter Earnings
Record first quarter adjusted diluted EPS* of $1.13, up 13% over prior year
First quarter same-store sales up 7% over prior year
Return on capital* of 12.6%, up 50 basis points over prior year
Revised fiscal year 2013 adjusted diluted EPS* guidance to $4.65 to $4.75 from $4.70 to $4.85
RADNOR, Pa.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--July 25, 2012--Airgas, Inc. (NYSE: ARG), the largest U.S. distributor of industrial, medical, and specialty gases, and related supplies, today reported strong performance in sales, operating income, and earnings for its first quarter ended June 30, 2012, despite moderating business trends and the impact of disruption within its helium supply chain during the quarter.
First quarter adjusted earnings per diluted share* were a record $1.13, an increase of 13% from $1.00 in the prior year. Results included SAP implementation costs and depreciation expense of $0.10 and $0.08 per diluted share for the current and prior year quarters, respectively. In addition, lower helium sales volumes driven by the inability of suppliers to meet their helium supply commitments to the Company during the quarter reduced earnings by $0.04 per diluted share, some of which was anticipated.
Our earnings were strong, notwithstanding the significant incremental challenges we faced in our helium supply chain during the quarter, said Airgas Chief Executive Officer Peter McCausland. The slow and steady growth we had been seeing across our customer base through May moderated in June. We are paying close attention to our business trends and tightening controls on our operating expenses. Though we are appropriately cautious about near-term conditions, we remain optimistic about the long-term prospects for the U.S. manufacturing and energy industries and our ability to leverage our unique value proposition and unrivaled platform to drive growth in these and other key customer segments.
First quarter sales were $1.26 billion, an increase of 8% over the prior year. Same-store sales grew 7% in the quarter, with hardgoods up 9% and gas and rent up 5%. Acquisitions, net of a divestiture, contributed sales growth of 1% in the quarter. Sequentially, sales increased 1% from the fourth quarter.
While SAP implementation costs were higher than anticipated this quarter and are expected to be so for the remainder of the year, the number one priority in an undertaking of this magnitude is getting it right, said Airgas Chief Operating Officer Michael L. Molinini. In the past five months, we have successfully converted four regional companies and trained more than 2,000 users, which is a significant accomplishment for which our associates are to be commended. The implementation is on-schedule, with nearly seventy percent of the distribution business running on SAP, and we remain confident that we will realize the economic benefits as planned and that this investment will further enhance the value of our full-service offering to customers.
Adjusted operating margin* was 12.5% for the first quarter and included 100 basis points of impact from SAP implementation costs and depreciation expense. Prior year adjusted operating margin* was 12.4% and included 90 basis points of impact from SAP implementation costs and depreciation expense.
Return on capital* was 12.6% for the twelve months ended June 30, 2012, an increase of 50 basis points over the prior year.
The Company generated strong free cash flow* of $76 million for the quarter, compared to $71 million in the prior year, and adjusted cash from operations* was $155 million for the quarter, compared to $139 million in the prior year.
Guidance
While we expect the global helium supply chain to improve in early calendar 2013, the year-over-year headwinds will continue to be greater than we had originally anticipated for the remainder of the current fiscal year, McCausland said. We believe the economic recovery has indeed hit a soft patch but expect most of our customer segments to continue to post modest growth this year. Our fiscal 2013 outlook assumes mid-single-digit same-store sales in our core distribution business. Should business conditions deteriorate, however, we will have to revisit our outlook.
The Company expects adjusted earnings per diluted share* for the second quarter of fiscal 2013 to increase 2% to 6% from $1.03 in the prior year to $1.05 to $1.09, which reflects an estimated year-over-year decline of $0.02 from the impact of lost sales due to helium supply chain constraints, as well as $0.10 of SAP implementation costs and depreciation expense compared to $0.07 of expense in the prior year. Second quarter guidance also reflects an estimated decline of $0.03 from the impact of one less selling day relative to the first quarter of fiscal 2013 and the second quarter of fiscal 2012.
For fiscal 2013, the Company expects adjusted earnings per diluted share* to increase 13% to 16% from $4.11 in fiscal 2012 to $4.65 to $4.75, which reflects the impact of two less selling days in fiscal 2013, an estimated year-over-year decline of $0.10 from the impact of lost sales due to helium supply constraints, as well as approximately $0.12 to $0.16 of SAP implementation costs and depreciation expense, net of expected benefits. Fiscal 2012 adjusted earnings per diluted share* included $0.34 of SAP implementation costs and depreciation expense.
Fiscal 2013 guidance excludes restructuring charges and other special charges, which were $0.05 in the first quarter and are expected to be approximately $0.03 for the second quarter and $0.11 for the full year, as well as a $0.07 gain on the sale of businesses in the first quarter. Special gains and charges in fiscal 2012 were a net total charge of $0.11.
The Company will conduct an earnings teleconference at 10:00 a.m. Eastern Time on Wednesday, July 25. The teleconference will be available by calling (888) 539-3686. The presentation materials (this press release, slides to be presented during the Companys teleconference and information about how to access a live and on-demand webcast of the teleconference) are available in the Investor Information section of the Companys website at . A webcast of the teleconference will be available live and on demand through August 23 at . A replay of the teleconference will be available through August 2. To listen, call (888) 203-1112 and enter passcode 6307460.
www.airgas.com
http://investor.shareholder.com/arg/events.cfm
* See attached reconciliations and calculations of the non-GAAP adjusted earnings per diluted share, adjusted operating income and adjusted operating margin, adjusted capital expenditures, adjusted cash from operations, free cash flow, and return on capital.
.
About Airgas, Inc
Airgas, Inc. (NYSE: ARG), through its subsidiaries, is the largest U.S. distributor of industrial, medical and specialty gases, and hardgoods, such as welding equipment and supplies. Airgas is also a leading U.S. producer of atmospheric gases, carbon dioxide, dry ice, and nitrous oxide, one of the largest U.S. distributors of safety products, and a leading U.S. distributor of refrigerants, ammonia products, and process chemicals. More than 15,000 employees work in approximately 1,100 locations, including branches, retail stores, gas fill plants, specialty gas labs, production facilities and distribution centers. Airgas also markets its products and services through eBusiness, catalog and telesales channels. Its national scale and strong local presence offer a competitive edge to its diversified customer base. For more information, please visit .
www.airgas.com
This press release contains statements that are forward looking, as that term is defined by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 or by the SEC in its rules, regulations and releases. These statements include, but are not limited to: expectations related to the second quarter of fiscal 2013, including adjusted earnings per diluted share in the range of $1.05 to $1.09, a year-over-year decline of $0.02 per diluted share from lost sales due to helium supply chain constraints, $0.10 per diluted share of SAP implementation costs and depreciation expense, and $0.03 per diluted share of restructuring and other special charges; expectations related to fiscal year 2013, including adjusted earnings per diluted share in the range of $4.65 to $4.75, a year-over-year decline of $0.10 per diluted share from lost sales due to helium supply chain constraints, approximately $0.12 to $0.16 per diluted share of SAP implementation costs and depreciation expense, net of expected benefits, and $0.11 per diluted share of restructuring and other special charges; expectations for the remainder of the current fiscal year regarding improvement in the global helium supply chain, and related year-over-year headwinds greater than originally anticipated, and modest growth for most of our customer segments; expectations for mid-single digit same-store sales growth in our core distribution business in fiscal 2013; expectations regarding future SAP implementation costs, our realization of the economic benefits as planned and the further enhanced value of our full-service offering to customers; and tightening controls on our operating expenses. Forward-looking statements also include any statement that is not based on historical fact, including statements containing the words "believes," "may," "plans," "will," "could," "should," "estimates," "continues," "anticipates," "intends," "expects," and similar expressions. We intend that such forward-looking statements be subject to the safe harbors created thereby. All forward-looking statements are based on current expectations regarding important risk factors and should not be regarded as a representation by us or any other person that the results expressed therein will be achieved. Airgas assumes no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements for any reason, except as required by law. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement include: continued or increased disruption in our helium supply chain; adverse changes in customer buying patterns resulting from deterioration in current economic conditions; weakening in the operating and financial performance of our customers, which could negatively impact our sales and our ability to collect our accounts receivable; postponement of projects due to economic developments; customer acceptance of price increases; our ability to achieve anticipated acquisition synergies; supply cost pressures; increased industry competition; our ability to successfully identify, consummate, and integrate acquisitions; our continued ability to access credit markets on satisfactory terms; significant fluctuations in interest rates; increases in energy costs and other operating expenses eroding planned cost savings; higher than expected implementation costs of the SAP system; conversion or implementation problems related to the SAP system that disrupt our business and negatively impact customer relationships; our ability to achieve anticipated benefits enabled by our conversion to the SAP system; higher than expected costs related to our Business Support Center transition; the impact of tightened credit markets on our customers; the impact of changes in tax and fiscal policies and laws; the potential for increased expenditures relating to compliance with environmental regulatory initiatives; the impact of new environmental, healthcare, tax, accounting, and other regulation; the economic recovery in the U.S.; the effect of catastrophic events; political and economic uncertainties associated with current world events; and other factors described in the Company's reports, including its March 31, 2012 Form 10-K and other Forms filed by the Company with the SEC.
Consolidated statements of earnings, condensed consolidated balance sheets, consolidated statements of cash flows, and reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures follow below.
CONTACT: Barry Strzelec, 610-902-6256 or Doug Sherman, 610-902-6270
Airgas, Inc.
Investor Contact:
barry.strzelec@airgas.com
Media Contact:
doug.sherman@airgas.com


