FILE:ARG/ARG-8K-20120126073525.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, DC 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): January 26, 2012
AIRGAS, INC.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
(610) 687-5253
(Registrant's telephone number, including area code)
:
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On January 26, 2012, Airgas, Inc. (the Company) reported its earnings for its third quarter ended December 31, 2011, as described in the press release attached as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
The information contained in this Form 8-K report shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.     
    Non-GAAP Measures:
The press release attached as Exhibit 99.1 contains certain financial measures that are not defined under generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). The Company presented its Adjusted Earnings per Diluted Share metric to provide investors meaningful insight into the Companys earnings performance without the impact of Business Support Center restructuring charges and related costs, asset impairment charges, costs and benefits related to Air Products unsolicited takeover attempt, multi-employer pension plan withdrawal charges, a one-time interest penalty, and debt extinguishment charges. The Company presented Adjusted Operating Margin computations to help investors assess the Companys operating performance without the impact of Business Support Center restructuring charges and related costs, asset impairment charges, costs and benefits related to Air Products unsolicited takeover attempt, and multi-employer pension plan withdrawal charges. The Company presented Free Cash Flow and Adjusted Cash From Operations to provide investors meaningful insight into the Companys ability to generate cash from operations without the impact of cash used related to Air Products unsolicited takeover attempt and multi-employer pension plan withdrawals, which is available for servicing debt obligations and for the execution of its business strategies, including acquisitions, the repayment of debt, the payment of dividends, or to support other investing and financing activities. The Company presented Return on Capital to help investors assess how effectively the Company uses the capital invested in its operations.
The Companys intent is to provide non-GAAP financial information to enhance investors understanding of the Companys consolidated financial statements and should be considered by the reader in addition to, but not instead of, the financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. In addition, it should be noted that the Companys non-GAAP information may be different from the non-GAAP information provided by other companies.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(a) None
(b) None
(c) None
(d) Exhibits.
99.1 - Press Release dated January 26, 2012
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Exhibit Index

Exhibit 99.1
Airgas Reports Strong Fiscal 2012 Third Quarter Earnings
Adjusted diluted EPS* of $0.97, up 21% over prior year
Same-store sales up 9% over prior year
Return on capital* of 12.3%, up 100 basis points over prior year
Full-year adjusted diluted EPS* guidance updated to $4.03 to $4.07 from $3.97 to $4.07
RADNOR, Pa.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--January 26, 2012--Airgas, Inc. (NYSE: ARG), the largest U.S. distributor of industrial, medical, and specialty gases, and related supplies, today reported strong performance in sales, operating income, and earnings for its third quarter ended December 31, 2011. Business trends reflect continued volume growth across the Companys customer base with particular strength in large manufacturing, petrochemical, and energy customers.
Third quarter adjusted earnings per diluted share* were $0.97, an increase of 21% from $0.80 in the prior year. Results included SAP implementation costs and depreciation expense of $0.10 and $0.02 per diluted share for the current and prior year quarters, respectively, and the current quarter reflected the benefit of the Companys two recently completed share repurchase programs, which largely offset the incremental SAP costs.
Third quarter sales were $1.15 billion, an increase of 12% over the prior year. Same-store sales grew 9% in the quarter, with hardgoods up 14% and gas and rent up 7%. Acquisitions contributed sales growth of 3% in the quarter. Sequentially, total sales declined 3% from the second quarter, driven by normal seasonality in the All Other Operations business segment, the impact of holidays, and two fewer selling days in the third quarter. Sequentially, sales per day were comparable to the second quarter on a consolidated basis and increased 2% in the Distribution business segment.
We continue to see evidence of steady economic growth in U.S. manufacturing, as well as in our petrochemical and energy customers, said Airgas Chief Executive Officer Peter McCausland. Strong growth in welding and automation equipment revenue is outpacing the remainder of our hardgoods portfolio, which is an encouraging indicator of future activity in our industrial customer base.
Adjusted operating margin* of 11.7% for the third quarter included 110 basis points of impact from SAP implementation costs and depreciation expense. Prior year adjusted operating margin* of 12.2% included only 30 basis points of impact from SAP implementation costs and depreciation expense. Distribution segment operating margin, which does not include an allocation of SAP implementation costs, was 12.7% for the third quarter, a 30 basis point improvement over the prior year.
Our sharp operating focus drove sequential expansion in our Distribution segment gross and operating margins, McCausland said. Our return on capital* increased by 100 basis points over last year to 12.3% as we continue to leverage our national footprint and industry-leading platform on growing sales volumes.
Year-to-date free cash flow* through the third quarter was $175 million, compared to $255 million in the prior year, and adjusted cash from operations* was $417 million for the current year-to-date period compared to $419 million in the prior year. The year-to-date decrease in free cash flow from the prior year reflects an increase in capital expenditures and working capital to support strong sales growth. Free cash flow for the current and prior year quarters was $69 million and $67 million, respectively.
During the fiscal 2011 fourth quarter, the Company completed a $300 million share repurchase program, repurchasing 4.78 million shares at an average price of $62.76. During the first quarter of fiscal 2012, the Company completed an additional $300 million share repurchase program, repurchasing 4.46 million shares at an average price of $67.19.
Guidance Update
The Company expects adjusted earnings per diluted share* for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012 to increase 18% to 23% from $0.88 in the prior year to $1.04 to $1.08, which includes $0.08 of SAP implementation costs and depreciation expense, compared to $0.04 in the prior year, and also includes the benefit from share repurchases. The sequential increase in adjusted earnings per diluted share from the third quarter primarily reflects the impact of two additional selling days, the falloff of the third quarter holiday impact, and continued business growth in the Distribution segment.
For fiscal 2012, the Company expects adjusted earnings per diluted share* to increase 21% to 22% from $3.34 in fiscal 2011 to $4.03 to $4.07, which includes an anticipated $0.33 of SAP implementation costs and depreciation expense, compared to $0.14 in fiscal 2011, and also includes the benefit from share repurchases.
Special gains and charges for fiscal 2012 are expected to approximate a net charge of $0.17 compared to a net charge of $0.41 in fiscal 2011. All special gains and charges are excluded from the quarter and full year adjusted earnings guidance above.
I am pleased with the significant progress we have made on our SAP implementation, with nearly forty percent of the business now running smoothly on our new platform, said McCausland. While we are still primarily focused on converting our remaining regional companies to SAP, we have now begun to deploy resources toward the attainment of benefits, consistent with our implementation plan.
The Company will conduct an earnings teleconference at 10:00 a.m. Eastern Time on Thursday, January 26. The teleconference will be available by calling (888) 576-4397. The presentation materials (this press release, slides to be presented during the Companys teleconference and information about how to access a live and on-demand webcast of the teleconference) are available in the Investor Information section of the Companys website at . A webcast of the teleconference will be available live and on demand through February 24 at . A replay of the teleconference will be available through February 3. To listen, call (888) 203-1112 and enter passcode 4238569.
www.airgas.com
http://investor.shareholder.com/arg/events.cfm
* See attached reconciliations and calculations of the non-GAAP adjusted earnings per diluted share, adjusted operating margin, adjusted cash from operations, free cash flow, and return on capital.
.
About Airgas, Inc
Airgas, Inc. (NYSE: ARG), through its subsidiaries, is the largest U.S. distributor of industrial, medical and specialty gases, and hardgoods, such as welding equipment and supplies. Airgas is also a leading U.S. producer of atmospheric gases, carbon dioxide, dry ice, and nitrous oxide, one of the largest U.S. distributors of safety products, and a leading U.S. distributor of refrigerants, ammonia products, and process chemicals. More than 14,000 employees work in approximately 1,100 locations, including branches, retail stores, gas fill plants, specialty gas labs, production facilities and distribution centers. Airgas also distributes its products and services through eBusiness, catalog and telesales channels. Its national scale and strong local presence offer a competitive edge to its diversified customer base. For more information, please visit .
www.airgas.com
This press release contains statements that are forward looking, as that term is defined by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 or by the SEC in its rules, regulations and releases. These statements include, but are not limited to: expectations for adjusted earnings per diluted share to be in the range of $1.04 to $1.08 (which includes $0.08 of SAP implementation costs and depreciation expense, compared to $0.04 in the prior year) for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012, and in the range of $4.03 to $4.07 (which includes $0.33 of SAP implementation costs and depreciation expense, compared to $0.14 in fiscal 2011) for fiscal year 2012; expectations regarding SAP implementation risk, and the timing and magnitude of SAP implementation costs to be incurred and benefits to be achieved; and growth in welding and automation equipment revenues as an indicator of future activity levels. Forward-looking statements also include any statement that is not based on historical fact, including statements containing the words "believes," "may," "plans," "will," "could," "should," "estimates," "continues," "anticipates," "intends," "expects," and similar expressions. We intend that such forward-looking statements be subject to the safe harbors created thereby. All forward-looking statements are based on current expectations regarding important risk factors and should not be regarded as a representation by us or any other person that the results expressed therein will be achieved. Airgas assumes no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements for any reason, except as required by law. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement include: adverse changes in customer buying patterns resulting from deterioration in current economic conditions; weakening in the operating and financial performance of our customers, which could negatively impact our sales and our ability to collect our accounts receivable; postponement of projects due to economic developments; customer acceptance of price increases; our ability to achieve anticipated acquisition synergies; supply cost pressures; increased industry competition; our ability to successfully identify, consummate, and integrate acquisitions; our continued ability to access credit markets on satisfactory terms; significant fluctuations in interest rates; increases in energy costs and other operating expenses eroding planned cost savings; higher than expected implementation costs of the SAP system; conversion problems related to the SAP system that disrupt our business and negatively impact customer relationships; higher than expected costs related to restructuring and Business Support Center transition; the impact of tightened credit markets on our customers; the impact of changes in tax and fiscal policies and laws; the potential for increased expenditures relating to compliance with environmental regulatory initiatives; the impact of new environmental, healthcare, tax, accounting, and other regulation; the economic recovery in the U.S.; the effect of catastrophic events; political and economic uncertainties associated with current world events; and other factors described in the Company's reports, including its March 31, 2011 Form 10-K, subsequent Forms 10-Q, and other forms filed by the Company with the SEC.
Consolidated statements of earnings, condensed consolidated balance sheets, consolidated statements of cash flows, and reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures follow below.
Guidance for adjusted earnings per diluted share excludes Business Support Center restructuring charges and related costs, asset impairment charges, any net impact related to the 2011 unsolicited takeover attempt, and any MEPP withdrawal charges.
The Company believes its adjusted earnings per diluted share metric provides investors meaningful insight into its earnings performance without the impact of Business Support Center restructuring charges and related costs, asset impairment charges, costs (benefits) related to Air Products unsolicited takeover attempt, MEPP withdrawal charges, one-time interest penalty, and debt extinguishment charges. Non-GAAP numbers should be read in conjunction with GAAP financial measures, as non-GAAP metrics are merely a supplement to, and not a replacement for, GAAP financial measures. It should also be noted that the Companys adjusted earnings per diluted share metric may be different from adjusted earnings per diluted share metrics provided by other companies.
The Company believes its adjusted operating margin metric helps investors assess its operating performance without the impact of Business Support Center restructuring charges and related costs, asset impairment charges, costs (benefits) related to Air Products unsolicited takeover attempt, and MEPP withdrawal charges. Non-GAAP numbers should be read in conjunction with GAAP financial measures, as non-GAAP metrics are merely a supplement to, and not a replacement for, GAAP financial measures. It should also be noted that the Companys adjusted operating margin metric may be different from the adjusted operating margin metrics provided by other companies.
The Company believes its return on capital metric helps investors assess how effectively it uses the capital invested in its operations. Non-GAAP numbers should be read in conjunction with GAAP financial measures, as non-GAAP metrics are merely a supplement to, and not a replacement for, GAAP financial measures. It should be noted as well that the Companys return on capital metric may be different from the return on capital metrics provided by other companies.
The Company believes its free cash flow and adjusted cash from operations metrics provide investors meaningful insight into its ability to generate cash from operations, excluding the impact of cash used related to Air Products unsolicited takeover attempt and MEPP withdrawals, which is available for servicing debt obligations and for the execution of its business strategies, including acquisitions, the repayment of debt, the payment of dividends, or to support other investing and financing activities. Non-GAAP numbers should be read in conjunction with GAAP financial measures, as non-GAAP metrics are merely a supplement to, and not a replacement for, GAAP financial measures. It should also be noted that the Companys free cash flow and adjusted cash from operations metrics may be different from free cash flow and adjusted cash from operations metrics provided by other companies.
CONTACT: Airgas, Inc. Jay Worley, 610-902-6206 or Barry Strzelec, 610-902-6256
Media Contact:
jay.worley@airgas.com
Investor Contact:
barry.strzelec@airgas.com


