FILE:ARG/ARG-8K-20121023074026.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, DC 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): October 23, 2012
AIRGAS, INC.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
(610) 687-5253
(Registrant's telephone number, including area code)
:
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On October 23, 2012, Airgas, Inc. (the Company) reported its earnings for its second quarter ended September 30, 2012, as described in the press release attached as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
The information contained in this Item 2.02 shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.     
Non-GAAP Measures:
The press release attached as Exhibit 99.1 contains certain financial measures that are not defined under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). The Company presented its Adjusted Earnings per Diluted Share financial measure to provide investors meaningful insight into the Companys earnings performance without the impact of Business Support Center restructuring and other special charges, the gain on the sale of businesses, costs (benefits) related to Air Products unsolicited takeover attempt, multi-employer pension plan withdrawal charges, and income tax benefits related to the LLC reorganization and foreign tax liability true-up. The Company presented its Adjusted Operating Income and Adjusted Operating Margin financial measures to help investors assess the Companys operating performance without the impact of Business Support Center restructuring and other special charges. The Company presented its Return on Capital financial measure to help investors assess how effectively the Company uses the capital invested in its operations. The Company presented its Adjusted Cash from Operations, Adjusted Capital Expenditures and Free Cash Flow financial measures to provide investors meaningful insight into the Companys ability to generate cash from operations without the impact of cash expenditures related to Air Products unsolicited takeover attempt and multi-employer pension plan withdrawal charges, which is available for servicing debt obligations and for the execution of its business strategies, including acquisitions, the repayment of debt, the payment of dividends, or to support other investing and financing activities.
The Companys intent is to provide non-GAAP financial information to enhance investors understanding of the Companys consolidated financial statements and should be considered by the reader in addition to, but not instead of, the financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. In addition, it should be noted that the Companys non-GAAP information may be different from the non-GAAP information provided by other companies.
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On October 23, 2012, the Company announced a new program to repurchase up to $600 million of its outstanding shares of common stock subject to the terms and conditions of the announcement. A press release announcing the repurchase program is attached as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(a) None
(b) None
(c) None
(d) Exhibits.
99.1 - Press Release dated October 23, 2012, reporting the Companys earnings
99.2 - Press Release dated October 23, 2012, announcing the Companys share repurchase program
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Exhibit Index

Exhibit 99.1
Airgas Reports Fiscal Second Quarter Earnings
Second quarter diluted EPS of $1.03 and adjusted diluted EPS* of $1.05, each up 2% over prior year
Second quarter same-store sales up 3% over prior year
Year-to-date free cash flow* of $121 million, up 15% over prior year
Return on capital* of 12.5%, up 20 basis points over prior year
Revised fiscal year 2013 diluted EPS guidance to $4.42 to $4.57 from $4.61 to $4.71; revised fiscal year 2013 adjusted diluted EPS* guidance to $4.45 to $4.60 from $4.65 to $4.75
RADNOR, Pa.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--October 23, 2012--Airgas, Inc. (NYSE: ARG), the largest U.S. supplier of industrial, medical, and specialty gases, and related products, today reported solid financial results for its second quarter ended September 30, 2012, in moderating macroeconomic conditions across its diversified customer base during the quarter and in light of the year-over-year impacts of incrementally higher SAP implementation costs, one less selling day, and helium supply constraints.
Second quarter earnings per diluted share were $1.03, an increase of 2% over prior year earnings per diluted share of $1.01. Excluding a $0.02 restructuring charge, adjusted earnings per diluted share* were $1.05, an increase of 2% over prior year adjusted earnings per diluted share* of $1.03. Results included SAP implementation costs and depreciation expense of $0.09 per diluted share in the current year quarter compared to $0.07 in the prior year quarter, a year-over-year negative impact of approximately $0.03 due to one less selling day in the current year quarter, and a year-over-year decline of $0.02 from the impact of lower sales due to helium supply constraints.
Our second quarter earnings reflect the resilience of our business and our 15,000 dedicated associates in a sluggish economic environment, said Airgas Executive Chairman Peter McCausland. Though the relative strength of the U.S. metal fabrication and energy sectors overall has softened of late, we continue to win new business in these sectors on the strength of our strategic accounts program, technical support, breadth of our product and service offering, and outstanding customer service. The year-over-year earnings headwinds we faced this quarter from one less selling day, helium supply constraints, and incremental SAP costs reduced our year-over-year earnings growth by $0.07, further highlighting the solid performance in our underlying business.
Second quarter sales were $1.23 billion, an increase of 4% over the prior year. Same-store sales grew 3% in the quarter, with gas and rent up 4% and hardgoods up 1%.
Current business conditions present some near-term challenges, but we will continue to invest in our growth strategies, said Airgas Chief Executive Officer Michael L. Molinini. Our SAP implementation is on-schedule, with ten of our twelve regional distribution businesses now running successfully on the new system. We remain confident that we will realize the economic benefits as planned and that this investment will further enhance the value of our full-service offering to customers and help our business operate more efficiently over the long-term.
Operating margin was 11.8% for the second quarter and included 90 basis points of impact from SAP implementation costs and depreciation expense. Prior year operating margin was 12.0% and included 70 basis points of impact from SAP implementation costs and depreciation expense. Adjusted operating margin* was 12.0% and 12.2% in the current and prior year quarters, respectively.
Return on capital* was 12.5% for the twelve months ended September 30, 2012, an increase of 20 basis points over the prior year.
Year-to-date free cash flow* through the second quarter was $121 million, an increase of 15% over the prior year, and adjusted cash from operations* was $277 million, an increase of 8% over the prior year.
Since the beginning of its fiscal year, the Company has acquired eight businesses with aggregate annual revenues of more than $19 million.
Guidance
The broad-based moderation in business conditions that persisted during the second quarter has continued during October, McCausland said. Accordingly, were reducing our outlook for earnings growth for the balance of our fiscal year. Though were appropriately cautious about the near-term business environment, were very optimistic about the long-term prospects for the U.S. manufacturing and energy industries and our ability to leverage our unique value proposition and unrivaled platform to drive growth in these and other key customer segments.
The Company expects earnings per diluted share for the third quarter of fiscal 2013 to increase 11% to 17% from $0.93 in the prior year to $1.03 to $1.09. The Company expects adjusted earnings per diluted share* for the third quarter of fiscal 2013 to increase 8% to 14% from $0.97 in the prior year to $1.05 to $1.11. Guidance for both earnings per diluted share and adjusted earnings per diluted share* reflects an estimated year-over-year decline of $0.03 from the impact of lower sales due to helium supply constraints, as well as $0.01 to $0.02 of SAP implementation costs and depreciation expense, net of expected benefits, compared to $0.10 of expense in the prior year.
For fiscal 2013, the Company expects earnings per diluted share to increase 11% to 14% from $4.00 in the prior year to $4.42 to $4.57. The Company expects adjusted earnings per diluted share* to increase 8% to 12% from $4.11 in the prior year to $4.45 to $4.60. Guidance for both earnings per diluted share and adjusted earnings per diluted share* reflects an estimated year-over-year decline of $0.06 from the impact of two less selling days in fiscal 2013, an estimated year-over-year decline of $0.10 from the impact of lower sales due to helium supply constraints, as well as approximately $0.12 to $0.16 of SAP implementation costs and depreciation expense, net of expected benefits. Fiscal 2012 adjusted earnings per diluted share* included $0.34 of SAP implementation costs and depreciation expense.
Fiscal 2013 adjusted earnings per diluted share* guidance excludes restructuring and other special charges, which were $0.05 in the first quarter and $0.02 in the second quarter, and are expected to be $0.02 in the third quarter and $0.10 for the full year, and also excludes a $0.07 gain on the sale of businesses in the first quarter. Special gains and charges in fiscal 2012 were a net total charge of $0.11.
The Company will conduct an earnings teleconference at 10:00 a.m. Eastern Time on Tuesday, October 23. The teleconference will be available by calling (888) 204-4368 (U.S./Canada) or (913) 312-0968 (International). The presentation materials (this press release, slides to be presented during the Companys teleconference and information about how to access a live and on demand webcast of the teleconference) are available in the Investor Information section of the Companys website at . A webcast of the teleconference will be available live and on demand through November 23 at . A replay of the teleconference will be available through October 31. To listen, call (888) 203-1112 (U.S./Canada) or (719) 457-0820 (International) and enter passcode 8448259.
www.airgas.com
http://investor.shareholder.com/arg/events.cfm
* See attached reconciliations and computations of non-GAAP adjusted earnings per diluted share, adjusted operating margin, adjusted cash from operations, free cash flow, and return on capital.
About Airgas, Inc.
Airgas, Inc. (NYSE: ARG), through its subsidiaries, is one of the nations leading suppliers of industrial, medical and specialty gases, and hardgoods, such as welding equipment and related products. Airgas is a leading U.S. producer of atmospheric gases with 16 air separation plants, a leading producer of carbon dioxide, dry ice, and nitrous oxide, one of the largest U.S. suppliers of safety products, and a leading U.S. supplier of refrigerants, ammonia products, and process chemicals. More than 15,000 employees work in approximately 1,100 locations, including branches, retail stores, gas fill plants, specialty gas labs, production facilities and distribution centers. Airgas also markets its products and services through eBusiness, catalog and telesales channels. Its national scale and strong local presence offer a competitive edge to its diversified customer base. For more information, please visit .
www.airgas.com
This press release contains statements that are forward looking, as that term is defined by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 or by the SEC in its rules, regulations and releases. These statements include, but are not limited to: expectations related to the third quarter of fiscal 2013, including earnings per diluted share of $1.03 to $1.09, adjusted earnings per diluted share of $1.05 to $1.11, a year-over-year decline of $0.03 per diluted share from the impact of lower sales due to helium supply constraints, $0.01 to $0.02 per diluted share of SAP implementation costs and depreciation expense, net of expected benefits, and $0.02 per diluted share of restructuring and other special charges; expectations related to fiscal year 2013, including earnings per diluted share of $4.42 to $4.57, adjusted earnings per diluted share of $4.45 to $4.60, a year-over-year decline of $0.06 from the impact of two less selling days in fiscal 2013, a year-over-year decline of $0.10 per diluted share from the impact of lower sales due to helium supply constraints, approximately $0.12 to $0.16 per diluted share of SAP implementation costs and depreciation expense, net of expected benefits, and $0.10 per diluted share of restructuring and other special charges; expectations regarding future SAP implementation costs, our realization of the economic benefits as planned, the further enhanced value of our full-service offering to customers, and the more efficient operation of our business over the long-term; and our outlook for earnings growth for the balance of our fiscal year, the near-term business environment, and our long-term prospects. Forward-looking statements also include any statement that is not based on historical fact, including statements containing the words "believes," "may," "plans," "will," "could," "should," "estimates," "continues," "anticipates," "intends," "expects," and similar expressions. We intend that such forward-looking statements be subject to the safe harbors created thereby. All forward-looking statements are based on current expectations regarding important risk factors and should not be regarded as a representation by us or any other person that the results expressed therein will be achieved. Airgas assumes no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements for any reason, except as required by law. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement include: continued or increased disruption in our helium supply chain; adverse changes in customer buying patterns resulting from deterioration in current economic conditions; weakening in the operating and financial performance of our customers, which could negatively impact our sales and our ability to collect our accounts receivable; postponement of projects due to economic developments; customer acceptance of price increases; our ability to achieve anticipated acquisition synergies; supply cost pressures; increased industry competition; our ability to successfully identify, consummate, and integrate acquisitions; our continued ability to access credit markets on satisfactory terms; significant fluctuations in interest rates; increases in energy costs and other operating expenses eroding planned cost savings; higher than expected implementation costs of the SAP system; conversion or implementation problems related to the SAP system that disrupt our business and negatively impact customer relationships; our ability to achieve anticipated benefits enabled by our conversion to the SAP system; higher than expected costs related to our Business Support Center transition; the impact of tightened credit markets on our customers; the impact of changes in tax and fiscal policies and laws; the potential for increased expenditures relating to compliance with environmental regulatory initiatives; the impact of new environmental, healthcare, tax, accounting, and other regulation; the economic recovery in the U.S.; the effect of catastrophic events; political and economic uncertainties associated with current world events; and other factors described in the Company's reports, including its March 31, 2012 Form 10-K, subsequent Form 10-Q, and other Forms filed by the Company with the SEC.
Consolidated statements of earnings, condensed consolidated balance sheets, consolidated statements of cash flows, and reconciliations and computations of non-GAAP financial measures follow below.
Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Financial Measures (Unaudited)
Adjusted Earnings per Diluted Share and Earnings Guidance
Guidance for adjusted earnings per diluted share excludes Business Support Center restructuring and other special charges and the gain on the sale of businesses.
The Company believes its adjusted earnings per diluted share financial measure provides investors meaningful insight into its earnings performance without the impact of Business Support Center restructuring and other special charges, the gain on the sale of businesses, costs (benefits) related to Air Products unsolicited takeover attempt, multi-employer pension plan withdrawal charges, and income tax benefits related to the LLC reorganization and foreign tax liability true-up. Non-GAAP financial measures should be read in conjunction with GAAP financial measures, as non-GAAP financial measures are merely a supplement to, and not a replacement for, GAAP financial measures. It should also be noted that the Companys adjusted earnings per diluted share financial measure may be different from adjusted earnings per diluted share financial measures provided by other companies.
Adjusted Operating Income and Adjusted Operating Margin
The Company believes its adjusted operating income and adjusted operating margin financial measures help investors assess its operating performance without the impact of Business Support Center restructuring and other special charges. Non-GAAP financial measures should be read in conjunction with GAAP financial measures, as non-GAAP financial measures are merely a supplement to, and not a replacement for, GAAP financial measures. It should also be noted that the Companys adjusted operating income and adjusted operating margin financial measures may be different from the adjusted operating income and adjusted operating margin financial measures provided by other companies.
Return on Capital
The Company believes its return on capital financial measure helps investors assess how effectively it uses the capital invested in its operations. Non-GAAP financial measures should be read in conjunction with GAAP financial measures, as non-GAAP financial measures are merely a supplement to, and not a replacement for, GAAP financial measures. It should be noted as well that the Companys return on capital financial measure may be different from the return on capital financial measures provided by other companies.
Adjusted Cash from Operations, Adjusted Capital Expenditures, and Free Cash Flow
The Company believes its adjusted cash from operations, adjusted capital expenditures, and free cash flow measures provide investors meaningful insight into its ability to generate cash from operations, excluding the impact of cash expenditures related to Air Products unsolicited takeover attempt and multi-employer pension plan withdrawal charges, which is available for servicing debt obligations and for the execution of its business strategies, including acquisitions, the repayment of debt, the payment of dividends, or to support other investing and financing activities. Non-GAAP measures should be read in conjunction with GAAP financial measures, as non-GAAP measures are merely a supplement to, and not a replacement for, GAAP financial measures. It should also be noted that the Companys adjusted cash from operations, adjusted capital expenditures, and free cash flow measures may be different from adjusted cash from operations, adjusted capital expenditures, and free cash flow measures provided by other companies.
CONTACT: Airgas, Inc. Barry Strzelec, 610-902-6256 or Doug Sherman, 610-902-6270
Investor Contact:
barry.strzelec@airgas.com
Media Contact:
doug.sherman@airgas.com

Exhibit 99.2
Airgas Announces $600 Million Stock Repurchase Program
RADNOR, Pa.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--October 23, 2012--Airgas, Inc. (NYSE: ARG) today announced a program to repurchase up to $600 million of its outstanding shares of common stock. As of October 22, 2012, Airgas had approximately 77.3 million common shares outstanding.
Airgas is well-positioned for sustained long-term growth, and this share repurchase program reflects our confidence in the future, said Airgas Executive Chairman Peter McCausland. Our balance sheet is solid, and we continue to generate strong cash flow, which affords us the opportunity to repurchase shares and realize attractive earnings accretion while continuing to fund our growth strategies.
Airgas may repurchase shares from time to time for cash in open market transactions or in privately-negotiated transactions in accordance with applicable federal securities laws. The Company will determine the timing and the amount of any repurchases based on its evaluation of market conditions, share price, and other factors. The stock repurchase program has no pre-established closing date and may be suspended or discontinued at any time.
About Airgas, Inc.
Airgas, Inc. (NYSE: ARG), through its subsidiaries, is one of the nations leading suppliers of industrial, medical and specialty gases, and hardgoods, such as welding equipment and related products. Airgas is a leading U.S. producer of atmospheric gases with 16 air separation plants, a leading producer of carbon dioxide, dry ice, and nitrous oxide, one of the largest U.S. suppliers of safety products, and a leading U.S. supplier of refrigerants, ammonia products, and process chemicals. More than 15,000 employees work in approximately 1,100 locations, including branches, retail stores, gas fill plants, specialty gas labs, production facilities and distribution centers. Airgas also markets its products and services through eBusiness, catalog and telesales channels. Its national scale and strong local presence offer a competitive edge to its diversified customer base. For more information, please visit .
www.airgas.com
This communication contains statements that are forward looking. Forward-looking statements include the statements identified as forward-looking in the Company's press release announcing its quarterly earnings, as well as any statement that is not based on historical fact. These statements include, but are not limited to: our positioning for sustained long-term growth and our confidence in the future; the realization of attractive earnings accretion from share repurchases; our cash flow generation and ability to fund our growth strategies; the timing, form, and amount of repurchases; and the suspension or discontinuance of the share repurchase program. All forward-looking statements are based on current expectations regarding important risk factors and should not be regarded as a representation by us or any other person that the results expressed therein will be achieved. Airgas assumes no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements for any reason, except as required by law. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement include the factors identified in the Company's press release announcing its quarterly earnings, as well as other factors described in the Company's reports, including its March 31, 2012 Form 10-K, subsequent Form 10-Q, and other Forms filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
CONTACT: Barry Strzelec, 610-902-6256 or Doug Sherman, 610-902-6270
Airgas
Investor Contact:
barry.strzelec@airgas.com
Media Contact:
doug.sherman@airgas.com


