Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Information required by this item is incorporated by reference to Nucors 2007 Annual Report, page 4 (Forward looking Statements) and pages 22 through 32. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk In the ordinary course of business, Nucor is exposed to a variety of market risks. We continually monitor these risks and develop appropriate strategies to manage them. Interest Rate Risk Nucor manages interest rate risk by using a combination of variable rate and fixed rate debt. At December 31, 2007, 19% of Nucors long term debt was in industrial revenue bonds that have variable interest rates that are adjusted weekly or annually. The remaining 81% of Nucors debt is at fixed rates. Future changes in interest rates are not expected to significantly impact earnings. Nucor also makes use of interest rate swaps to manage net exposure to interest rate changes. As of December 31, 2007, there were no such contracts outstanding. Nucors investment practice is to invest in securities that are highly liquid with short maturities. As a result, we do not expect changes in interest rates to have a significant impact on the value of our investment securities. Commodity Price Risk In the ordinary course of business, Nucor is exposed to market risk for price fluctuations of raw materials and energy, principally scrap steel and natural gas. We attempt to negotiate the best prices for our raw materials and energy requirements and to obtain prices for our steel products that match market price movements in response to supply and demand. Nucor has a raw material surcharge designed to pass through the high cost of scrap steel and other raw materials. Our surcharge mechanism has worked effectively to reduce the normal time lag in passing through higher raw material costs so that we can maintain our gross margins. 10 Table of Contents Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk, continued Nucor also uses derivative financial instruments to hedge a portion of our exposure to price risk related to natural gas purchases used in the production process when management believes it is prudent to do so. Gains and losses from the use of these instruments are deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) on the consolidated balance sheets and recognized into cost of products sold in the same period as the underlying physical transaction. At December 31, 2007, accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) includes $4.0 million in unrealized net of tax gains for the fair value of these derivative instruments. A sensitivity analysis of changes in the price of hedged natural gas purchases indicates that declines of 10% and 25% in natural gas prices would reduce the fair value of our natural gas hedge position by $32.5 million and $81.3 million, respectively. Any resulting changes in fair value would be recorded as adjustments to accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax. Because these instruments are structured and used as hedges, these hypothetical losses would be offset by the benefit of lower prices paid for the natural gas used in the normal production cycle. Foreign Currency Risk Prior to the acquisition of Harris Steel, Nucor was principally a domestic manufacturer of steel and steel products with customers located primarily in the U.S. Nucor was exposed to currency fluctuations, however, due to its joint ventures in Brazil and Australia and the direct reduced iron facility in Trinidad. When the Company entered into the agreement to acquire Harris Steel in January 2007, Nucor became exposed to Canadian currency fluctuations and hedged a portion of the exposure associated with the closing of the transaction in March 2007. The Company continues to be exposed to foreign currency risk through its operations in Canada. 
 
