Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Information required by this item is incorporated by reference to Nucors 2009 Annual Report, page 2 (Forward looking Statements) and pages 20 through 32. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk In the ordinary course of business, Nucor is exposed to a variety of market risks. We continually monitor these risks and develop appropriate strategies to manage them. Interest Rate Risk Nucor manages interest rate risk by using a combination of variable rate and fixed rate debt. At December 31, 2009, 14% of Nucors long term debt was in industrial revenue bonds that have variable interest rates that are adjusted weekly or annually. The remaining 86% of Nucors debt is at fixed rates. Future changes in interest rates are not expected to significantly impact earnings. Nucor also makes use of interest rate swaps to manage net exposure to interest rate changes. As of December 31, 2009, there were no such contracts outstanding. Nucors investment practice is to invest in securities that are highly liquid with short maturities. As a result, we do not expect changes in interest rates to have a significant impact on the value of our investment securities. Commodity Price Risk In the ordinary course of business, Nucor is exposed to market risk for price fluctuations of raw materials and energy, principally scrap steel, other ferrous and nonferrous metals, alloys and natural gas. We attempt to negotiate the best prices for our raw materials and energy requirements and to obtain prices for our steel products that match market price movements in response to supply and demand. Nucor has a raw material surcharge designed to pass through the cost increases of scrap steel and other raw materials. Due to decreased demand for and cost of raw materials, however, the surcharge is impacting our sales prices to a lesser extent than in prior years. Through the first three quarters of 2009, our earnings were negatively impacted from accelerated consumption of high cost iron units purchased prior to the abrupt downturn in economic activity late in 2008. Since pig iron has purchase lead times of four to six months from ordering to delivery, dramatically and rapidly reduced sales volumes in the fourth quarter of 2008 and through much of 2009 resulted in the accumulation of increased tons of pig iron inventories, primarily at our steel mills, ordered at peak market prices. As of the end of the third quarter of 2009, we had completed the usage of those high cost iron units. The impact on 2009 net 15 Table of Contents Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk, continued earnings of the high priced raw material inventory overhang was approximately $420.0 million or $0.85 per share after taxes. As a result, we experienced significant improvement in our raw material costs during the fourth quarter of 2009 and expect to continue to see improved margins in 2010. Nucor also uses derivative financial instruments to hedge a portion of our exposure to price risk related to natural gas purchases used in the production process and to hedge a portion of our aluminum and copper purchases and sales. Gains and losses from derivatives designated as hedges are deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) on the consolidated balance sheets and recognized into earnings in the same period as the underlying physical transaction. At December 31, 2009, accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) included $74.1 million in unrealized net of tax losses for the fair value of these derivative instruments. Changes in the fair values of derivatives not designated as hedges are recognized in earnings each period. The following table presents the negative effect on pre tax income of a hypothetical change in the fair value of derivative instruments outstanding at December 31, 2009, due to an assumed 10% and 25% change in the market price of each of the indicated commodities (in thousands): Commodity Derivative 10% Change 25% Change Natural gas $ 23,949 $ 59,871 Aluminum 2,257 5,642 Copper 656 1,639 Any resulting changes in fair value would be recorded as adjustments to other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax, or recognized in net earnings, as appropriate. These hypothetical losses would be partially offset by the benefit of lower prices paid or higher prices received for the physical commodities. Foreign Currency Risk Nucor is exposed to foreign currency risk through its operations in Canada and Trinidad and its joint ventures in Australia and Italy. We periodically use derivative contracts to mitigate the risk of currency fluctuations. Open foreign currency derivative contracts at December 31, 2009 and 2008 were insignificant. 
 
