Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Information required by this item is incorporated by reference to Nucors 2011 Annual Report, page 2 (Forward looking Statements) and pages 20 through 35. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk In the ordinary course of business, Nucor is exposed to a variety of market risks. We continually monitor these risks and develop appropriate strategies to manage them. Interest Rate Risk Nucor manages interest rate risk by using a combination of variable rate and fixed rate debt. At December 31, 2011, 24% of Nucors long term debt was in industrial revenue bonds that have variable interest rates that are adjusted weekly or annually. The remaining 76% of Nucors debt is at fixed rates. Future changes in interest rates are not expected to significantly impact earnings. Nucor also makes use of interest rate swaps to manage net exposure to interest rate changes. As of December 31, 2011, there were no such contracts outstanding. Nucors investment practice is to invest in securities that are highly liquid with short maturities. As a result, we do not expect changes in interest rates to have a significant impact on the value of our investment securities. Commodity Price Risk In the ordinary course of business, Nucor is exposed to market risk for price fluctuations of raw materials and energy, principally scrap steel, other ferrous and nonferrous metals, alloys and natural gas. We attempt to negotiate the best prices for our raw materials and energy requirements and to obtain prices for our steel products that match market price movements in response to supply and demand. Nucor utilizes a raw material surcharge as a component of pricing steel to facilitate the passing through of increased costs of scrap steel and other raw materials. In periods of stable demand for our products, our surcharge mechanism has worked effectively to reduce the normal time lag in passing through higher raw material costs so that we can maintain our gross margins. When demand for and cost of raw materials is lower, however, the surcharge impacts our sales prices to a lesser extent. 18 Nucor also uses derivative financial instruments to hedge a portion of our exposure to price risk related to natural gas purchases used in the production process and to hedge a portion of our scrap, aluminum and copper purchases and sales. Gains and losses from derivatives designated as hedges are deferred in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) on the consolidated balance sheets and recognized into earnings in the same period as the underlying physical transaction. At December 31, 2011, accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) included $40.3 million in unrealized net of tax losses for the fair value of these derivative instruments. Changes in the fair values of derivatives not designated as hedges are recognized in earnings each period. The following table presents the negative effect on pre tax earnings of a hypothetical change in the fair value of derivative instruments outstanding at December 31, 2011, due to an assumed 10% and 25% change in the market price of each of the indicated commodities (in thousands): Commodity Derivative 10% Change 25% Change Natural gas $ 1,100 $ 2,700 Aluminum 3,030 7,576 Copper 300 750 Any resulting changes in fair value would be recorded as adjustments to other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax, or recognized in net earnings, as appropriate. These hypothetical losses would be partially offset by the benefit of lower prices paid or higher prices received for the physical commodities. Foreign Currency Risk Nucor is exposed to foreign currency risk through its operations in Canada, Europe, Trinidad and Australia. We periodically use derivative contracts to mitigate the risk of currency fluctuations. Open foreign currency derivative contracts at December 31, 2011 and 2010 were insignificant. 
 
