FILE:GIS/GIS-8K-20020918170705.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 --------------------- FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): September 18, 2002 GENERAL MILLS, INC. -------------------------------------------------- (Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Charter) Delaware 1-1185 41-0274440 - ------------------------ ------------ ------------------- (State of Incorporation) (Commission (IRS Employer File Number) Identification No.) Number One General Mills Boulevard Minneapolis, Minnesota 55426 (Mail: P.O. Box 1113) (Mail: 55440) - ---------------------------------------- -------------- (Address of Principal Executive Offices) (Zip Code) Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (763) 764-7600
ITEM 5. OTHER EVENTS. On September 18, 2002, the Registrant entered into a Distribution Agreement (the "Distribution Agreement") with Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated that provides for the issuance and sale, from time to time, of up to $750,000,000 aggregate initial offering price of General Mills CoreNotes(SM) (the "CoreNotes"). The CoreNotes will be issued pursuant to an Indenture (the "Indenture") dated as of February 1, 1996 between the Registrant and U.S. Bank National Association (formerly known as First Trust of Illinois, National Association), as trustee, and an Officers' Certificate and Authentication Order (including forms of notes to represent the CoreNotes) under the Indenture dated September 18, 2002 (the "Officers' Certificate"). The offer and sale of the CoreNotes has been registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, by a registration statement on Form S-3 (Registration No. 333-75808) (the "Registration Statement"). The purpose of this Current Report is to file with the Commission the Distribution Agreement and the Officers' Certificate. ITEM 7. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, PRO FORMA FINANCIAL INFORMATION AND EXHIBITS. (c) Exhibits. The following exhibits to the Registration Statement are filed as part of this report: 1.1 Distribution Agreement dated September 18, 2002 between General Mills, Inc. and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated. 4.1 Officers' Certificate and Authentication Order (including forms of notes to represent the CoreNotes) dated September 18, 2002 relating to the CoreNotes.
SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of Section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. Dated: September 18, 2002 GENERAL MILLS, INC. By: /s/ Siri S. Marshall --------------------------------- Name: Siri S. Marshall Title: Senior Vice President, General Counsel
EXHIBIT INDEX Exhibit Number Description ------ ----------- 1.1 Distribution Agreement dated September 18, 2002 among General Mills, Inc. and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated. 4.1 Officers' Certificate and Authentication Order (including forms of notes to represent the CoreNotes) dated September 18, 2002 relating to the CoreNotes.

GENERAL MILLS, INC. GENERAL MILLS CORENOTESSM DUE NINE MONTHS OR MORE FROM DATE OF ISSUE DISTRIBUTION AGREEMENT September 18, 2002 Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated 4 World Financial Center Floor 15 New York, New York 10080 Dear Sirs: General Mills, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), confirms its agreement with Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated (the "Purchasing Agent") with respect to the issue and sale by the Company of its General Mills CoreNotesSM Due Nine Months or More From Date of Issue (the "Notes"). The Notes are to be issued pursuant to an Indenture, dated as of February 1, 1996, as amended or modified from time to time (the "Indenture"), between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association (formerly First Trust of Illinois, National Association), as trustee (the "Trustee"). As of the date hereof, the Company has authorized the issuance and sale of up to U.S. $750,000,000 aggregate initial offering price of Notes to or through the Purchasing Agent pursuant to the terms of this Agreement. It is understood, however, that the Company may from time to time authorize the issuance of additional Notes and that such additional Notes may be sold to or through the Purchasing Agent pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, all as though the issuance of such Notes were authorized as of the date hereof. This Agreement specifies terms and conditions on which Notes may be sold by the Company (i) to the Purchasing Agent as principal for resale and (ii) directly to investors through the Purchasing Agent as an agent of the Company in soliciting offers for the purchase of Notes. The Company has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") a registration statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-75808) and pre-effective amendment no. 1 thereto for the registration of debt securities, including the Notes, under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "1933 Act"), and the offering thereof from time to time in accordance with Rule 415 of the rules and regulations of the Commission under the 1933 Act (the "1933 Act Regulations"). Such registration statement has been declared effective by the Commission and the Indenture has been duly qualified under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended (the "1939 Act"), and the Company has filed such post-effective amendments thereto as may be required prior to its acceptance of any offer for the purchase of Notes and each such
post-effective amendment has been declared effective by the Commission. Such registration statement (as so amended, if applicable) is referred to herein as the "Registration Statement"; and the final prospectus and all applicable amendments or supplements thereto relating to the offering of Notes (including the final prospectus supplement relating to the offering of Notes and the pricing supplement that sets forth the terms of a particular issue of Notes), in the form first furnished to the Purchasing Agent for use in confirming sales of Notes, are collectively referred to herein as the "Prospectus"; provided, however, that all references to the "Registration Statement" and the "Prospectus" shall also be deemed to include all documents incorporated therein by reference pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "1934 Act"), prior to any acceptance by the Company of an offer for the purchase of Notes; provided, further, that if the Company files a registration statement with the Commission pursuant to Rule 462(b) of the 1933 Act Regulations (the "Rule 462(b) Registration Statement"), then, after such filing, all references to the "Registration Statement" shall also be deemed to include the Rule 462(b) Registration Statement. A "preliminary prospectus" shall be deemed to refer to any prospectus used before the Registration Statement became effective and any prospectus furnished by the Company after the registration statement became effective and before any acceptance by the Company of an offer for the purchase of Notes which omitted information to be included upon pricing in a form of prospectus filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 424(b) of the 1933 Act Regulations. For purposes of this Agreement, all references to the Registration Statement, Prospectus or preliminary prospectus or to any amendment or supplement thereto shall be deemed to include any copy filed with the Commission pursuant to its Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval system ("EDGAR"). All references in this Agreement to financial statements and schedules and other information which is "disclosed", "contained," "included" or "stated" (or other references of like import) in the Registration Statement, Prospectus or preliminary prospectus shall be deemed to include all such financial statements and schedules and other information which is incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, Prospectus or preliminary prospectus, as the case may be; and all references in this Agreement to amendments or supplements to the Registration Statement, Prospectus or preliminary prospectus shall be deemed to include the filing of any document under the 1934 Act which is incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, Prospectus or preliminary prospectus, as the case may be. SECTION 1. Appointment as Purchasing Agent. (a) Appointment. Subject to the terms and conditions stated herein and subject to the reservation by the Company of the right to sell Notes directly on its own behalf, the Company hereby agrees that Notes will be sold exclusively to or through the Purchasing Agent pursuant to the terms of this Agreement. The Company agrees that it will not appoint any other agents to act on its behalf, or to assist it, in the placement of the Notes. (b) Sale of Notes. The Company shall not sell or approve the solicitation of offers for the purchase of Notes in excess of the amount which shall be authorized by the Company from time to time or in excess of the aggregate initial offering price of Notes registered pursuant to the Registration Statement. The Purchasing Agent shall have no responsibility for maintaining records with respect to the aggregate initial offering price of Notes sold, or of otherwise monitoring the availability of Notes for sale, under the Registration Statement. 2
(c) Purchases as Principal. The Purchasing Agent shall not have any obligation to purchase Notes from the Company as principal. However, absent an agreement between the Purchasing Agent and the Company for the Purchasing Agent to act as an agent for the Company, the Purchasing Agent shall be deemed to be acting as principal in connection with any offering of Notes by the Company. Accordingly, the Purchasing Agent may agree from time to time to purchase Notes from the Company as principal for resale to investors determined by such Purchasing Agent. Any purchase of Notes from the Company by the Purchasing Agent as principal shall be made in accordance with Section 3(a) hereof. (d) Solicitations as Agent. If agreed upon between the Purchasing Agent and the Company, the Purchasing Agent, acting solely as an agent for the Company and not as principal, will solicit offers for the purchase of Notes. The Purchasing Agent will communicate to the Company, orally, each offer for the purchase of Notes solicited by it on an agency basis other than those offers rejected by the Purchasing Agent. The Purchasing Agent shall have the right, in its discretion reasonably exercised, to reject any offer for the purchase of Notes, in whole or in part, and any such rejection shall not be deemed a breach of its agreement contained herein. The Company may accept or reject any offer for the purchase of Notes, in whole or in part. The Purchasing Agent shall make reasonable efforts to assist the Company in obtaining performance by each purchaser whose offer for the purchase of Notes has been solicited by it on an agency basis and accepted by the Company. The Purchasing Agent shall not have any liability to the Company in the event that any such purchase is not consummated for any reason. If the Company shall default on its obligation to deliver Notes to a purchaser whose offer has been solicited by the Purchasing Agent on an agency basis and accepted by the Company, the Company shall (i) hold the Purchasing Agent harmless against any loss, claim or damage arising from or as a result of such default by the Company and (ii) pay to the Purchasing Agent any commission to which it would otherwise be entitled absent such default. (e) Reliance. The Company and the Purchasing Agent agree that any Notes purchased from the Company by the Purchasing Agent as principal shall be purchased, and any Notes the placement of which the Purchasing Agent arranges as an agent of the Company shall be placed by the Purchasing Agent, in reliance on the representations, warranties, covenants and agreements of the Company contained herein and on the terms and conditions and in the manner provided herein. SECTION 2. Representations and Warranties. (a) The Company represents and warrants to the Purchasing Agent as of the date hereof, as of the date of each acceptance by the Company of an offer for the purchase of Notes (whether to the Purchasing Agent as principal or through the Purchasing Agent as agent), as of the date of each delivery of Notes (whether to the Purchasing Agent as principal or through the Purchasing Agent as agent) (the date of each such delivery to the Purchasing Agent as principal is referred to herein as a "Settlement Date"), and as of any time that the Registration Statement or the Prospectus shall be amended or supplemented (each of the times referenced above is referred to herein as a "Representation Date"), as follows: 3
(i) Due Incorporation, Good Standing and Due Qualification of the Company. The Company has been duly incorporated and is validly existing as a corporation in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware with corporate power and authority to own, lease and operate its properties and to conduct its business as described in the Prospectus and to enter into this Agreement and consummate the transactions contemplated hereby; the Company is duly qualified as a foreign corporation to transact business and is in good standing in each jurisdiction in which such qualification is required, whether by reason of the ownership or leasing of property or the conduct of business, except where the failure to so qualify or be in good standing would not result in a material adverse change in the consolidated financial position, stockholders' equity or results of operations, prospects, business or properties of the Company and its subsidiaries considered as one enterprise, whether or not arising from transactions in the ordinary course of business (a "Material Adverse Effect"). (ii) Due Incorporation, Good Standing and Due Qualification of Significant Subsidiaries. Each significant subsidiary (as such term is defined in Rule 1-02 of Regulation S-X promulgated under the 1933 Act), if any (each, a "Significant Subsidiary") has been duly incorporated and is validly existing as a corporation in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation, has corporate power and authority to own, lease and operate its properties and conduct its business as described in the Prospectus and is duly qualified as a foreign corporation to transact business and is in good standing in each jurisdiction in which such qualification is required, whether by reason of the ownership or leasing of property or the conduct of business, except where the failure to so qualify or be in good standing would not result in a Material Adverse Effect. (iii) Registration Statement and Prospectus. The Company meets the requirements for use of Form S-3 under the 1933 Act; the Registration Statement (or any Rule 462(b) Registration Statement) has become effective under the 1933 Act and no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement (or any Rule 462(b) Registration Statement) has been issued under the 1933 Act and no proceedings for that purpose have been instituted or are pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, are contemplated by the Commission, and any request on the part of the Commission for additional information has been complied with; the Indenture has been duly qualified under the 1939 Act; at the respective times that the Registration Statement (including any Rule 462(b) Registration Statement) and any post-effective amendment thereto (including the filing of the Company's most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K with the Commission (the "Annual Report on Form 10-K")) became effective and at each Representation Date, the Registration Statement (including any Rule 462(b) Registration Statement) and any amendments thereto complied in all material respects with the requirements of the 1933 Act and the 1933 Act Regulations and the 1939 Act and the rules and regulations of the Commission under the 1939 Act (the "1939 Act Regulations") and did not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading; each preliminary prospectus and prospectus filed as part of the Registration Statement as originally filed or as part of any amendment thereto, or filed pursuant to Rule 424 under the 1933 Act, complied when so filed in all material respects with the 1933 Act Regulations; each preliminary prospectus and the Prospectus delivered to the Purchasing Agent for use in connection with the offering of Notes are identical in 4
substance to any electronically transmitted copies thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to EDGAR, except to the extent required or permitted by Regulation S-T; and at the date hereof, at the date of the Prospectus and each amendment or supplement thereto and at each Representation Date, neither the Prospectus nor any amendment or supplement thereto included an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; provided, however, that the representations and warranties in this subsection shall not apply to (1) any Trustee's Statement of Eligibility on Form T-1 (the "Form T-1") or (2) statements in or omissions from the Registration Statement or the Prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto made in reliance upon and in conformity with information furnished to the Company in writing by the Purchasing Agent expressly for use in the Registration Statement or the Prospectus. (iv) Incorporated Documents. The documents incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference in the Prospectus, at the time they were filed with the Commission, complied in all material respects with the requirements of the 1934 Act and the rules and regulations of the Commission under the 1934 Act (the "1934 Act Regulations") and, when read together with the other information in the Prospectus, at the date hereof, at the date of the Prospectus and at each Representation Date, did not include an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. (v) Independent Accountants. To the best of the Company's knowledge, the accountants who certified the financial statements and any supporting schedules thereto included in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus are independent public accountants as required by the 1933 Act and the 1933 Act Regulations. (vi) Financial Statements. The consolidated financial statements of the Company included in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus, together with the related schedules and notes, as well as those financial statements, schedules and notes of any other entity included in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus, present fairly in all material respects the consolidated financial position of the Company and its subsidiaries, or such other entity, as the case may be, at the dates indicated and the consolidated statement of operations, stockholders' equity and cash flows of the Company and its subsidiaries, or such other entity, as the case may be, for the periods specified; such financial statements have been prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") applied on a consistent basis throughout the periods involved (except as otherwise noted therein); the supporting schedules, if any, included in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus present fairly in all material respects in accordance with GAAP the information required to be stated therein; the selected financial data and the summary financial information included in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus present fairly in all material respects on the basis stated in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus the information shown therein; and any pro forma consolidated financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries and the related notes thereto included in the Registration Statement and the 5
Prospectus present fairly in all material respects on the basis stated therein the information shown therein, have been prepared in accordance with the Commission's rules with respect to pro forma financial statements and have been compiled on the bases described therein, and the assumptions used in the preparation thereof are reasonable and the adjustments used therein are appropriate to give effect to the transactions and circumstances referred to therein. (vii) No Material Changes. Since the respective dates as of which information is given in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus, except as otherwise stated therein, there has been no Material Adverse Effect. (viii) Authorization, etc. of this Agreement, the Indenture and the Notes. This Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company; the Indenture has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company and will be a valid and legally binding agreement of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms, except as enforcement thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally or by general equitable principles (regardless of whether enforcement is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law), and except further as enforcement thereof may be limited by requirements that a claim with respect to any debt securities issued under the Indenture that are payable in a foreign or composite currency (or a foreign or composite currency judgment in respect of such claim) be converted into U.S. dollars at a rate of exchange prevailing on a date determined pursuant to applicable law or by governmental authority to limit, delay or prohibit the making of payments outside the United States; the Notes have been duly authorized by the Company for offer, sale, issuance and delivery pursuant to this Agreement and, when issued, executed, authenticated and delivered in the manner provided for in the Indenture and delivered against payment of the consideration therefor, will constitute valid and legally binding obligations of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms, except as enforcement thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally or by general equitable principles (regardless of whether enforcement is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law); the Notes will be substantially in a form previously certified to the Purchasing Agent and contemplated by the Indenture; and the Notes will be entitled to the benefits of the Indenture. (ix) Descriptions of the Indenture and the Notes. The Indenture and the Notes conform and will conform in all material respects to the statements relating thereto contained in the Prospectus and are substantially in the form filed or incorporated by reference, as the case may be, as an exhibit to the Registration Statement. (x) Accuracy of Exhibits. There are no contracts or documents which are required to be described in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or the documents incorporated by reference therein or to be filed as exhibits thereto which have not been so described and filed as required. 6
(xi) Noncontravention. The execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement, the Indenture, the Notes and any other agreement or instrument entered into or issued or to be entered into or issued by the Company in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby, the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby (including the issuance and sale of the Notes and the use of proceeds therefrom as described in the Prospectus) and the compliance by the Company with its obligations hereunder and under the Indenture, the Notes and such other agreements or instruments have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action and do not and will not, whether with or without the giving of notice or the passage of time or both, conflict with or constitute a breach of, or default or event or condition which gives the holder of any note, debenture or other evidence of indebtedness (or any person acting on such holder's behalf) the right to require the repurchase, redemption or repayment of all or a portion of such indebtedness by the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries (a "Repayment Event") under, or result in the creation or imposition of any lien, charge or encumbrance upon any assets, properties or operations of the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries pursuant to, any material contract, indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, loan or credit agreement, note, lease or other agreement or instrument to which the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries is a party or by which it or any of them may be bound or to which any of the property or assets of the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries is subject, nor will such action result in any violation of the provisions of the charter or by-laws of the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries or any applicable law, statute, rule, regulation, judgment, order, writ or decree of any government, government instrumentality or court, domestic or foreign, having jurisdiction over the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries or any of their assets, properties or operations. (xii) Absence of Labor Disputes. Except as set forth or contemplated in the Prospectus, no labor dispute with the employees of the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries exists or, to the knowledge of the Company, is threatened that could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. (xiii) Absence of Proceedings. Except as set forth or contemplated in the Prospectus, there is no action, suit or proceeding before or brought by any court or governmental agency or body, domestic or foreign, now pending, or to the knowledge of the Company threatened, against or affecting the Company or any of its subsidiaries which is required to be disclosed in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus (other than as stated therein), or which could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect, or which could reasonably be expected to materially and adversely affect the performance by the Company of its obligations under this Agreement, the Indenture and the Notes or the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby; and the aggregate of all such pending actions, suits and proceedings which are not described in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus, including ordinary routine litigation incidental to the business, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. 7
(xiv) No Filings, Regulatory Approvals etc. No filing with, or approval, authorization, consent, license, registration, qualification, order or decree of, any court or governmental authority or agency, domestic or foreign, is necessary or required for the due authorization, execution and delivery by the Company of this Agreement, the Indenture and the Notes or for the performance by the Company of the transactions contemplated hereby, except such as have been previously made, obtained or rendered, as applicable, and such as may be required under the blue sky laws of any jurisdiction in connection with the offer or purchase of Notes in the manner contemplated hereby. (xv) Investment Company Act. The Company is not, and upon the issuance and sale of the Notes as herein contemplated and the application of the net proceeds therefrom as described in the Prospectus will not be, an "investment company" within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the ("1940 Act"). (xvi) Ratings. The General Mills CoreNotesSM under which the Notes are issued (the "Program") are rated Baa1 by Moody's Investors Service, Inc. and A- by Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, or such other rating as to which the Company shall have most recently notified the Purchasing Agent pursuant to Section 4(a) hereof. (xvii) Stabilization or Manipulation. The Company has not taken, directly or indirectly, any action designed to or that would constitute or that might reasonably be expected to cause or result in, under the 1934 Act or otherwise, stabilization or manipulation of the price of any security of the Company to facilitate the sale or resale of the Securities. (b) Additional Certifications. Any certificate signed by any officer of the Company or any of its subsidiaries and delivered to the Purchasing Agent or to counsel for the Purchasing Agent in connection with an offering of Notes to the Purchasing Agent as principal or through the Purchasing Agent as agent shall be deemed a representation and warranty by the Company to the Purchasing Agent as to the matters covered thereby on the date of such certificate and, unless subsequently amended or supplemented, at each Representation Date subsequent thereto. SECTION 3. Purchases as Principal; Solicitations as Agent. (a) Purchases as Principal. Notes purchased from the Company by the Purchasing Agent as principal shall be made in accordance with terms agreed upon between the Purchasing Agent and the Company (which terms, unless otherwise agreed, shall, to the extent applicable, include those terms specified in Exhibit A hereto and shall be agreed upon orally, with written confirmation (including facsimile or e-mail transmission) prepared by the Purchasing Agent). The Purchasing Agent's commitment to purchase Notes as principal shall be deemed to have been made on the basis of the representations and warranties of the Company herein contained and shall be subject to the terms and conditions herein set forth. Unless the context otherwise requires, references herein to "this Agreement" shall include the applicable agreement of the Purchasing Agent to purchase Notes from the Company as principal. Each purchase of Notes, unless otherwise agreed, shall be at a discount from the principal amount of each such Note equivalent to the applicable commission set forth in Schedule A hereto. The Purchasing Agent may engage the services of any broker or dealer in connection with the resale of the Notes purchased by it as principal or allow all or any portion of the discount received by it in connection with such purchases to any broker or dealer. At the time of each purchase of Notes 8
from the Company by the Purchasing Agent as principal, the Purchasing Agent shall specify the requirements for the officers' certificate, opinion of counsel and comfort letter pursuant to Sections 7(b), 7(c) and 7(d) hereof. (b) Solicitations as Agent. On the basis of the representations and warranties herein contained, but subject to the terms and conditions herein set forth, when agreed by the Company and the Purchasing Agent, the Purchasing Agent, as an agent of the Company, will use its reasonable efforts to solicit offers for the purchase of Notes upon the terms set forth in the Prospectus and pursuant to the Procedures (as hereinafter defined). The Purchasing Agent is authorized to appoint any sub-agent with respect to solicitations of offers to purchase Notes. All Notes sold through the Purchasing Agent as agent will be sold at 100% of their principal amount unless otherwise agreed upon between the Company and the Purchasing Agent. The Company reserves the right, in its sole discretion, to suspend solicitation of offers for the purchase of Notes through the Purchasing Agent, as an agent of the Company, commencing at any time for any period of time or permanently. As soon as practicable after receipt of instructions from the Company and the Purchasing Agent, the Purchasing Agent will suspend solicitation of offers for the purchase of Notes from the Company until such time as the Company has advised the Purchasing Agent that such solicitation may be resumed. The Company agrees to pay the Purchasing Agent, as consideration for soliciting offers to purchase Notes as an agent of the Company, a commission, in the form of a discount, equal to the applicable percentage of the principal amount of each Note sold by the Company as a result of any such solicitation made by the Purchasing Agent, as set forth in Schedule A hereto. (c) Administrative Procedures. The purchase price, interest rate, maturity date and other terms of the Notes specified in Exhibit A hereto (as applicable) shall be agreed upon between the Company and the Purchasing Agent and specified in a pricing supplement to the Prospectus (each, a "Pricing Supplement") to be prepared by the Company in connection with each sale of Notes. Except as otherwise specified in the applicable Pricing Supplement, the Notes will be issued in denominations of U.S. $1,000 or any larger amount that is an integral multiple of U.S. $1,000. Administrative procedures with respect to the issuance and sale of the Notes (the "Procedures") shall be agreed upon from time to time among the Company, the Purchasing Agent and the Trustee. The initial Procedures, which are set forth in Exhibit B hereto, shall remain in effect until changed by agreement among the Company, the Purchasing Agent and the Trustee. The Purchasing Agent and the Company agree to perform, and the Company agrees to cause the Trustee to agree to perform, their respective duties and obligations specifically provided to be performed by them in the Procedures. SECTION 4. Covenants of the Company. The Company covenants and agrees with the Purchasing Agent as follows: (a) Notice of Certain Events. The Company will notify the Purchasing Agent immediately, and confirm such notice in writing, of (i) the effectiveness of any post-effective amendment to the Registration Statement or the filing of any amendment or supplement to the Prospectus (other than any amendment or supplement thereto providing solely for the 9
determination of the variable terms of the Notes or relating solely to the offering of securities other than the Notes), (ii) the receipt of any comments from the Commission, (iii) any request by the Commission for any amendment to the Registration Statement or any amendment or supplement to the Prospectus or for additional information, (iv) the issuance by the Commission of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement, or of any order preventing or suspending the use of any preliminary prospectus, or of the initiation of any proceedings for that purpose or (v) any change in the rating assigned by any nationally recognized statistical rating organization to the Program or any other debt securities of the Company, or the public announcement by any nationally recognized statistical rating organization that it has under surveillance or review, with possible negative implications, its rating of the Program or any such debt securities, or the withdrawal by any nationally recognized statistical rating organization of its rating of the Program or any such debt securities. The Company will use its best efforts to prevent the issuance of any stop order and, if any stop order is issued, to obtain the lifting thereof as soon as possible. (b) Filing or Use of Amendments. The Company will give the Purchasing Agent advance notice of its intention to file or prepare any additional registration statement with respect to the registration of additional Notes, any amendment to the Registration Statement (including any filing under Rule 462(b) of the 1933 Act Regulations) or any amendment or supplement to the prospectus included in the Registration Statement at the time it became effective or to the Prospectus (other than an amendment or supplement thereto providing solely for the determination of the variable terms of the Notes or relating solely to the offering of securities other than the Notes), whether pursuant to the 1933 Act, the 1934 Act or otherwise, and will furnish to the Purchasing Agent copies of any such document a reasonable amount of time prior to such proposed filing or use, as the case may be. (c) Delivery of the Registration Statement. The Company has furnished to the Purchasing Agent and to counsel for the Purchasing Agent, without charge, signed and conformed copies of the Registration Statement as originally filed and of each amendment thereto (including exhibits filed therewith or incorporated by reference therein and documents incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference therein) and signed and conformed copies of all consents and certificates of experts. The Registration Statement and each amendment thereto furnished to the Purchasing Agent will be identical in substance to any electronically transmitted copies thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to EDGAR, except to the extent required or permitted by Regulation S-T. (d) Delivery of the Prospectus. The Company will deliver to the Purchasing Agent, without charge, as many copies of each preliminary prospectus as the Purchasing Agent may reasonably request, and the Company hereby consents to the use of such copies for purposes permitted by the 1933 Act. The Company will furnish to the Purchasing Agent, without charge, such number of copies of the Prospectus (as amended or supplemented) as the Purchasing Agent may reasonably request. The Prospectus and any amendments or supplements thereto furnished to the Purchasing Agent will be identical in substance to any electronically transmitted copies thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to EDGAR, except to the extent required or permitted by Regulation S-T. 10
(e) Preparation of Pricing Supplements. The Company will prepare, with respect to any Notes to be sold to or through the Purchasing Agent pursuant to this Agreement, a Pricing Supplement with respect to such Notes in a form previously approved by the Purchasing Agent. The Company will deliver such Pricing Supplement no later than 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on the business day following the date of the Company's acceptance of the offer for the purchase of such Notes and will file such Pricing Supplement pursuant to Rule 424(b)(3) under the 1933 Act. (f) Revisions of Prospectus -- Material Changes. Except as otherwise provided in subsection (m) of this Section 4, if at any time during the term of this Agreement any event shall occur or condition shall exist as a result of which it is necessary, in the opinion of counsel for the Purchasing Agent or counsel for the Company, to amend the Registration Statement in order that the Registration Statement will not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading or to amend or supplement the Prospectus in order that the Prospectus will not include an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein not misleading in the light of the circumstances existing at the time the Prospectus is delivered to a purchaser, or if it shall be necessary, in the opinion of either such counsel, to amend the Registration Statement or amend or supplement the Prospectus in order to comply with the requirements of the 1933 Act or the 1933 Act Regulations, the Company shall give immediate notice, confirmed in writing, to the Purchasing Agent to cease the solicitation of offers for the purchase of Notes in their capacity as agent and to cease sales of any Notes they may then own as principal, and the Company will promptly prepare and file with the Commission, subject to Section 4(b) hereof, such amendment or supplement as may be necessary to correct such statement or omission or to make the Registration Statement and Prospectus comply with such requirements, and the Company will furnish to the Purchasing Agent, without charge, such number of copies of such amendment or supplement as the Purchasing Agent may reasonably request. In addition, the Company will comply with the 1933 Act, the 1933 Act Regulations, the 1934 Act and the 1934 Act Regulations so as to permit the completion of the distribution of each offering of Notes. (g) Prospectus Revisions -- Periodic Financial Information. Except as otherwise provided in subsection (m) of this Section 4, on or prior to the date on which there shall be released to the general public interim financial statement information related to the Company with respect to each of the first three quarters of any fiscal year or preliminary financial statement information with respect to any fiscal year, the Company shall furnish such information to the Purchasing Agent, and shall cause the Prospectus to be amended or supplemented to include or incorporate by reference financial information with respect thereto and corresponding information for the comparable period of the preceding fiscal year, as well as such other information and explanations as shall be required by the 1933 Act or the 1933 Act Regulations. (h) Prospectus Revisions -- Audited Financial Information. Except as otherwise provided in subsection (m) of this Section 4, on or prior to the date on which there shall be released to the general public financial information included in or derived from the audited consolidated financial statements of the Company for the preceding fiscal year, other than on a Form 10-K for such fiscal year, the Company shall furnish such information to the Purchasing 11
Agent, and shall cause the Prospectus to be amended or supplemented to include, or incorporate by reference such audited consolidated financial statements and the report or reports, and consent or consents to such inclusion, of the independent accountants with respect thereto, as well as such other information and explanations as shall be required by the 1933 Act or the 1933 Act Regulations. (i) Earnings Statements. The Company will timely file such reports pursuant to the 1934 Act as are necessary in order to make generally available to its securityholders as soon as practicable an earnings statement for the purposes of, and to provide the benefits contemplated by, the last paragraph of Section 11(a) of the 1933 Act. (j) Reporting Requirements. The Company, during the period when the Prospectus is required to be delivered under the 1933 Act or the 1934 Act, will file all documents required to be filed with the Commission pursuant to the 1934 Act within the time periods prescribed by the 1934 Act and the 1934 Act Regulations. (k) Restriction on Offers and Sales of Securities. Unless otherwise agreed upon between the Purchasing Agent and the Company, from the date of the agreement by the Purchasing Agent to purchase the related Notes from the Company to and including the Settlement Date with respect thereto, the Company will not, without the prior written consent of the Purchasing Agent, issue, sell, offer or contract to sell, grant any option for the sale of, or otherwise dispose of, any debt securities of the Company with terms substantially similar to the Notes (other than the Notes that are to be sold pursuant to such agreement). (l) Use of Proceeds. The Company will use the net proceeds received by it from the issuance and sale of the Notes in the manner specified in the Prospectus. (m) Suspension of Certain Obligations. The Company shall not be required to comply with the provisions of subsections (f), (g) or (h) of this Section 4 during any period from the time (i) the Purchasing Agent shall have suspended solicitation of offers for the purchase of Notes in its capacity as agent pursuant to a request from the Company and (ii) the Purchasing Agent shall not then hold any Notes purchased from the Company as principal, as the case may be, until the time the Company shall determine that solicitation of offers for the purchase of Notes should be resumed or the Purchasing Agent shall subsequently purchase Notes from the Company as principal. SECTION 5. Conditions of Purchasing Agent's Obligations. The obligations of the Purchasing Agent to purchase Notes from the Company as principal, the obligations of the Purchasing Agent to solicit offers for the purchase of Notes as an agent of the Company and the obligations of any purchasers of Notes sold through the Purchasing Agent as an agent of the Company, will be subject to the accuracy of the representations and warranties on the part of the Company herein contained or contained in any certificate of an officer of the Company or any of its subsidiaries delivered pursuant to the provisions hereof, to the performance and observance by the Company of its covenants and other obligations hereunder, and to the following additional conditions precedent: 12
(a) Effectiveness of Registration Statement. The Registration Statement (including any Rule 462(b) Registration Statement) has become effective under the 1933 Act and no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement shall have been issued under the 1933 Act and no proceedings for that purpose shall have been instituted or shall be pending or threatened by the Commission, and any request on the part of the Commission for additional information shall have been complied with to the reasonable satisfaction of counsel to the Purchasing Agent. (b) Legal Opinions. On the date hereof, the Purchasing Agent shall have received the following legal opinions, dated as of the date hereof and in form and substance satisfactory to the Purchasing Agent: (1) Opinion of Counsel for the Company. The favorable opinion of the Company's General Counsel, to the effect set forth in Exhibit C hereto and to such further effect as the Purchasing Agent may reasonably request. (2) Opinion of Counsel for the Purchasing Agent. The favorable opinion of Davis Polk & Wardwell, counsel for the Purchasing Agent, with respect to the matters set forth in 6, 7, 8 and the penultimate paragraph of Exhibit C hereto. (c) Officers' Certificate. On the date hereof, there shall not have been, since the respective dates as of which information is given in the Prospectus, except as set forth or contemplated in the Prospectus, any Material Adverse Effect, and the Purchasing Agent shall have received a certificate of the President or a Vice President of the Company and of the chief financial officer or chief accounting officer of the Company, dated as of the date hereof, to the effect that (i) there has been no such Material Adverse Effect, (ii) the representations and warranties of the Company herein contained are true and correct with the same force and effect as though expressly made at and as of the date of such certificate, (iii) the Company has complied with all agreements and satisfied all conditions on its part to be performed or satisfied at or prior to the date of such certificate, and (iv) to the knowledge of such officers no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement has been issued and no proceedings for that purpose have been instituted, are pending or, to the best of such officers' knowledge, are threatened by the Commission. (d) Comfort Letter of KPMG LLP. On the date hereof, the Purchasing Agent shall have received a letter from KPMG LLP, dated as of the date hereof and in form and substance satisfactory to the Purchasing Agent, to the effect set forth in Exhibit D hereto. (e) Additional Documents. On the date hereof, counsel to the Purchasing Agent shall have been furnished with such documents and opinions as such counsel may require for the purpose of enabling such counsel to pass upon the issuance and sale of Notes as herein contemplated and related proceedings, or in order to evidence the accuracy of any of the representations and warranties, or the fulfillment of any of the conditions, herein contained; and all proceedings taken by the Company in connection with the issuance and sale of Notes as herein contemplated shall be satisfactory in form and substance to the Purchasing Agent and to counsel to the Purchasing Agent. 13
If any condition specified in this Section 5 shall not have been fulfilled when and as required to be fulfilled, this Agreement may be terminated by the Purchasing Agent by notice to the Company at any time and any such termination shall be without liability of any party to any other party except as provided in Section 10 hereof and except that Sections 8, 9, 11, 14 and 15 hereof shall survive any such termination and remain in full force and effect. SECTION 6. Delivery of and Payment for Notes Sold through the Purchasing Agent as Agent. Delivery of Notes sold through the Purchasing Agent as an agent of the Company shall be made by the Company to the Purchasing Agent for the account of any purchaser only against payment therefor in immediately available funds. In the event that a purchaser shall fail either to accept delivery of or to make payment for a Note on the date fixed for settlement, the Purchasing Agent shall promptly notify the Company and deliver such Note to the Company and, if the Purchasing Agent has theretofore paid the Company for such Note, the Company will promptly return such funds to the Purchasing Agent. If such failure has occurred for any reason other than default by the Purchasing Agent in the performance of its obligations hereunder, the Company will reimburse the Purchasing Agent on an equitable basis for its loss of the use of the funds for the period such funds were credited to the Company's account. SECTION 7. Additional Covenants of the Company. The Company further covenants and agrees with the Purchasing Agent as follows: (a) Reaffirmation of Representations and Warranties. Each acceptance by the Company of an offer for the purchase of Notes (whether to the Purchasing Agent as principal or through the Purchasing Agent as agent), and each delivery of Notes (whether to the Purchasing Agent as principal or through the Purchasing Agent as agent), shall be deemed to be an affirmation that the representations and warranties of the Company herein contained and contained in any certificate theretofore delivered to the Purchasing Agent pursuant hereto are true and correct at the time of such acceptance or sale, as the case may be, and an undertaking that such representations and warranties will be true and correct at the time of delivery to the Purchasing Agent or to the purchaser or its agent, as the case may be, of the Notes relating to such acceptance or sale, as the case may be, as though made at and as of each such time (it being understood that such representations and warranties shall relate to the Registration Statement and Prospectus as amended and supplemented to each such time). (b) Subsequent Delivery of Certificates. Each time that (i) there is filed with the Commission any Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q or Annual Report on Form 10-K incorporated by reference into the Registration Statement or the Prospectus, (ii) (if required in connection with the purchase of Notes from the Company by the Purchasing Agent as principal) the Company sells Notes to the Purchasing Agent as principal (iii) at such times as may reasonably be requested by the Purchasing Agent in the event of a material change in circumstances in respect of the Company or (iv) the Company sells Notes in a form not previously certified to the Purchasing Agent by the Company, the Company shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the Purchasing Agent, forthwith a certificate dated the date of filing with the Commission or the date of effectiveness of such amendment or supplement, as applicable, or the date of such sale, as the case may be, in form satisfactory to the Purchasing Agent to the effect that the statements 14
contained in the certificate referred to in Section 5(c) hereof which were last furnished to the Purchasing Agent are true and correct at the time of the filing or effectiveness of such amendment or supplement, as applicable, or the time of such sale, as the case may be, as though made at and as of such time (except that such statements shall be deemed to relate to the Registration Statement and the Prospectus as amended and supplemented to such time) or, in lieu of such certificate, a certificate of the same tenor as the certificate referred to in Section 5(c) hereof, modified as necessary to relate to the Registration Statement and the Prospectus as amended and supplemented to the time of delivery of such certificate (it being understood that, in the case of clause (ii) above, any such certificate shall also include a certification that, except as set forth or contemplated in the Prospectus, there has been no Material Adverse Effect since the date of the agreement by the Purchasing Agent to purchase Notes from the Company as principal). (c) Subsequent Delivery of Legal Opinions. Each time that (i) there is filed with the Commission any Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q or Annual Report on Form 10-K incorporated by reference into the Registration Statement or the Prospectus, (ii) (if required in connection with the purchase of Notes from the Company by the Purchasing Agent as principal) the Company sells Notes to the Purchasing Agent as principal (iii) at such times as may reasonably be requested by the Purchasing Agent in the event of a material change in circumstances in respect of the Company or (iv) the Company sells Notes in a form not previously certified to the Purchasing Agent by the Company, the Company shall furnish or cause to be furnished forthwith to the Purchasing Agent and to counsel to the Purchasing Agent the written opinion of the Company's General Counsel, or other counsel satisfactory to the Purchasing Agent, dated the date of filing with the Commission or the date of effectiveness of such amendment or supplement, as applicable, or the date of such sale, as the case may be, in form and substance satisfactory to the Purchasing Agent, of the same tenor as the opinion referred to in Section 5(b)(1) hereof, but modified, as necessary, to relate to the Registration Statement and the Prospectus as amended and supplemented to the time of delivery of such opinion or, in lieu of such opinion, counsel last furnishing such opinion to the Purchasing Agent shall furnish the Purchasing Agent with a letter substantially to the effect that the Purchasing Agent may rely on such last opinion to the same extent as though it was dated the date of such letter authorizing reliance (except that statements in such last opinion shall be deemed to relate to the Registration Statement and the Prospectus as amended and supplemented to the time of delivery of such letter authorizing reliance). (d) Subsequent Delivery of Comfort Letters. Each time that (i) the Registration Statement or the Prospectus shall be amended or supplemented to include additional financial information (other than by an amendment or supplement relating solely to the issuance and/or offering of securities other than the Notes and other than by any report on Form 8-K filed by the Company pursuant to the 1934 Act that the Purchasing Agent agrees is not subject to the terms of this subsection) or (ii) (if required in connection with the purchase of Notes from the Company by the Purchasing Agent as principal) the Company sells Notes to the Purchasing Agent as principal, the Company shall cause KPMG LLP forthwith to furnish to the Purchasing Agent a letter, dated the date of filing with the Commission or the date of effectiveness of such amendment or supplement, as applicable, or the date of such sale, as the case may be, in form satisfactory to the Purchasing Agent, of the same tenor as the letter referred to in Section 5(d) hereof but modified to relate to the Registration Statement and Prospectus as amended and supplemented to the date of such letter. 15
SECTION 8. Indemnification. (a) Indemnification of the Purchasing Agent. The Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Purchasing Agent and each person, if any, who controls the Purchasing Agent within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act as follows: (i) against any and all loss, liability, claim, damage and expense whatsoever, as incurred, arising out of an untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Registration Statement (or any amendment thereto), or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, or arising out of an untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact included in any preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto), or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; (ii) against any and all loss, liability, claim, damage and expense whatsoever, as incurred, to the extent of the aggregate amount paid in settlement of any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or any claim whatsoever based upon any such untrue statement or omission, or any such alleged untrue statement or omission, provided that any such settlement is effected with the written consent of the Company; and (iii) against any and all expense whatsoever, as incurred (including the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel for the Purchasing Agent), reasonably incurred in investigating, preparing or defending against any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or any claim whatsoever based upon any such untrue statement or omission, or any such alleged untrue statement or omission, to the extent that any such expense is not paid under subparagraph (i) or (ii) above; provided, however, that this indemnity does not apply to any loss, liability, claim, damage or expense to the extent arising out of an untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by the Purchasing Agent expressly for use in the Registration Statement (or any amendment thereto) or any preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto); and provided further, that the foregoing indemnity with respect to any preliminary prospectus shall not inure to the benefit of the Purchasing Agent (or to the benefit of any person controlling the Purchasing Agent) from whom the person asserting any such loss, liability, claim, damage or expense purchased Notes if such untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission made in any preliminary prospectus is eliminated or remedied in the Prospectus which is required to be delivered pursuant to the 1933 Act and a factual determination has been made that a copy of the Prospectus (excluding documents incorporated by reference) had not been sent or delivered to such person at or prior to the written confirmation of the sale of such Notes to such person. 16
(b) Indemnification of Company, Directors and Officers. The Purchasing Agent severally agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Company, its directors, each of its officers who signs the Registration Statement and each person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act against any and all loss, liability, claim, damage and expense described in the indemnity contained in Section 8(a) hereof, as incurred, but only with respect to untrue statements or omissions, or alleged untrue statements or omissions, made in the Registration Statement (or any amendment thereto) or any preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by the Purchasing Agent expressly for use in the Registration Statement (or any amendment thereto) or such preliminary prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto). (c) Actions Against Parties; Notification. Each indemnified party shall give notice as promptly as reasonably practicable to each indemnifying party of any action commenced against it in respect of which indemnity may be sought hereunder, but failure to so notify an indemnifying party shall not relieve such indemnifying party from any liability hereunder to the extent it is not materially prejudiced as a result thereof and in any event shall not relieve it from any liability which it may have otherwise than on account of this indemnity agreement. The indemnifying party shall be entitled to appoint counsel of the indemnifying party's choice at the indemnifying party's expense to represent the indemnified party in any action for which indemnification is sought (in which case the indemnifying party shall not thereafter be responsible for the fees and expenses of any separate counsel retained by the indemnified party or parties except as set forth below); provided, however, that such counsel shall be satisfactory to the indemnified party. Notwithstanding the indemnifying party's election to appoint counsel to represent the indemnified party in an action, the indemnified party shall have the right to employ separate counsel (including local counsel), and the indemnifying party shall bear the reasonable fees, costs and expenses of such separate counsel if (i) the use of counsel chosen by the indemnifying party to represent the indemnified party would present such counsel with a conflict of interest, (ii) the actual or potential defendants in, or targets of, any such action include both the indemnified party and the indemnifying party and the indemnified party shall have reasonably concluded that there may be legal defenses available to it and/or other indemnified parties which are different from or additional to those available to the indemnifying party, (iii) the indemnifying party shall not have employed counsel satisfactory to the indemnified party to represent the indemnified party within a reasonable time after notice of the institution of such action or (iv) the indemnifying party shall authorize the indemnified party to employ separate counsel at the expense of the indemnifying party. No indemnifying party shall, without the prior written consent of the indemnified parties, settle or compromise or consent to the entry of any judgment with respect to any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or any claim whatsoever in respect of which indemnification or contribution could be sought under this Section 8 or 9 hereof (whether or not the indemnified parties are actual or potential parties thereto), unless such settlement, compromise or consent (i) includes an unconditional release of each indemnified party from all liability arising out of such litigation, investigation, proceeding or claim and (ii) does not include a statement as to or an admission of fault, culpability or a failure to act by or on behalf of any indemnified party. 17
SECTION 9. Contribution. If the indemnification provided for in Section 8 hereof is for any reason unavailable to or insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party in respect of any losses, liabilities, claims, damages or expenses referred to therein, then each indemnifying party shall contribute to the aggregate amount of such losses, liabilities, claims, damages and expenses incurred by such indemnified party, as incurred, (i) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Company, on the one hand, and the Purchasing Agent, on the other hand, from the offering of the Notes that were the subject of the claim for indemnification or (ii) if the allocation provided by clause (i) is not permitted by applicable law, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only the relative benefits referred to in clause (i) above but also the relative fault of the Company, on the one hand, and the Purchasing Agent, on the other hand, in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such losses, liabilities, claims, damages or expenses, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The relative benefits received by the Company, on the one hand, and the Purchasing Agent, on the other hand, in connection with the offering of the Notes that were the subject of the claim for indemnification shall be deemed to be in the same respective proportions as the total net proceeds from the offering of such Notes (before deducting expenses) received by the Company and the total discount or commission received by the Purchasing Agent, as the case may be, bears to the aggregate initial offering price of such Notes. The relative fault of the Company, on the one hand, and the Purchasing Agent, on the other hand, shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether any untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company or by the Purchasing Agent and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission. The Company and the Purchasing Agent agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 9 were determined by pro rata allocation (even if the Purchasing Agent were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation which does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to above in this Section 9. The aggregate amount of losses, liabilities, claims, damages and expenses incurred by an indemnified party and referred to above in this Section 9 shall be deemed to include any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such indemnified party in investigating, preparing or defending against any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or any claim whatsoever based upon any applicable untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission. Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 9, (i) the Purchasing Agent shall not be required to contribute any amount in excess of the amount by which the total discount or commission received by the Purchasing Agent in connection with the offering of the Notes that were the subject of the claim for indemnification exceeds the amount of any damages which the 18
Purchasing Agent has otherwise been required to pay by reason of any applicable untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission and (ii) no person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the 1933 Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. For purposes of this Section 9, each person, if any, who controls the Purchasing Agent within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act shall have the same rights to contribution as the Purchasing Agent, and each director of the Company, each officer of the Company and each person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act shall have the same rights to contribution as the Company. SECTION 10. Payment of Expenses. The Company will pay all expenses incident to the performance of its obligations under this Agreement, including: (a) The preparation, filing, printing and delivery of the Registration Statement as originally filed and all amendments thereto and any preliminary prospectus, the Prospectus and any amendments or supplements thereto; (b) The preparation, printing and delivery of this Agreement and the Indenture; (c) The preparation, issuance and delivery of the Notes, including any fees and expenses relating to the eligibility and issuance of Notes in book-entry form and the cost of obtaining CUSIP or other identification numbers for the Notes; (d) The fees and disbursements of the Company's accountants, counsel and other advisors or agents (including any calculation agent or exchange rate agent) and of the Trustee and its counsel; (e) The reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel to the Purchasing Agent incurred in connection with the establishment of the Program and incurred from time to time in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby; (f) The fees charged by nationally recognized statistical rating organizations for the rating of the Program and Notes; (g) The fees and expenses incurred in connection with any listing of Notes on a securities exchange; (h) The filing fees incident to, and the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel to the Purchasing Agent in connection with, the review, if any, by the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. (the "NASD"); and (i) Any advertising and other out-of-pocket expenses of the Purchasing Agent incurred with the approval of the Company. 19
SECTION 11. Representations, Warranties and Agreements to Survive Delivery. All representations, warranties and agreements contained in this Agreement or in certificates of officers of the Company or any of its subsidiaries submitted pursuant hereto or thereto shall remain operative and in full force and effect, regardless of any investigation made by or on behalf of the Purchasing Agent or any controlling person of the Purchasing Agent, or by or on behalf of the Company, and shall survive each delivery of and payment for the Notes. SECTION 12. Termination. (a) Termination of this Agreement. This Agreement (excluding any agreement by the Purchasing Agent to purchase Notes from the Company as principal) may be terminated for any reason, at any time by either the Company or the Purchasing Agent, upon the giving of 30 days' prior written notice of such termination to the other party hereto. (b) Termination of Agreement to Purchase Notes as Principal. The Purchasing Agent may terminate any agreement by the Purchasing Agent to purchase Notes from the Company as principal, immediately upon notice to the Company, at any time on or prior to the Settlement Date relating thereto, if (i) there has been, since the date of such agreement or since the respective dates as of which information is given in the Prospectus (exclusive of any supplement thereto), any Material Adverse Effect, except as set forth or contemplated in the Prospectus, or (ii) there has occurred any material adverse change in the financial markets in the United States or, if such Notes are denominated and/or payable in, or indexed to, one or more foreign or composite currencies, in the international financial markets, or any outbreak of hostilities or escalation thereof or other calamity or crisis or any change or development or event involving a prospective change in national or international political, financial or economic conditions, in each case the effect of which is such as to make it, in the judgment of the Purchasing Agent, impracticable or inadvisable to market such Notes or enforce contracts for the sale of such Notes, or (iii) trading in any securities of the Company has been suspended or limited by the Commission or a national securities exchange, or if trading generally on the New York Stock Exchange or the American Stock Exchange or in the Nasdaq National Market has been suspended or limited, or minimum or maximum prices for trading have been fixed, or maximum ranges for prices have been required, by either of said exchanges or by such system or by order of the Commission, the NASD or any other governmental authority, or a material disruption has occurred in commercial banking or securities settlement or clearance services in the United States, or (iv) a banking moratorium has been declared by either Federal or New York authorities or by the relevant authorities in the country or countries of origin of any foreign or composite currency in which such Notes are denominated and/or payable, or (v) the rating assigned by any nationally recognized statistical rating organization to the Program or any other debt securities of the Company as of the date of such agreement shall have been lowered or withdrawn since that date or if any such rating organization shall have publicly announced that it has under surveillance or review its rating of the Program or any such debt securities, or (vi) there shall have come to the attention of the Purchasing Agent any facts that would cause the Purchasing Agent to believe that the Prospectus, at the time it was required to be delivered to a purchaser of such Notes, included an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances existing at the time of such delivery, not misleading. 20
(c) General. In the event of any such termination, neither party will have any liability to the other party hereto, except that (i) the Purchasing Agent shall be entitled to any commissions earned in accordance with the third paragraph of Section 3(b) hereof, (ii) if at the time of termination (a) the Purchasing Agent shall own any Notes purchased by it from the Company as principal or (b) an offer to purchase any of the Notes has been accepted by the Company but the time of delivery to the purchaser or his agent of such Notes relating thereto has not occurred, the covenants set forth in Sections 4 and 7 hereof shall remain in effect until such Notes are so resold or delivered, as the case may be, and (iii) the covenant set forth in Section 4(i) hereof, the provisions of Section 10 hereof, the indemnity and contribution agreements set forth in Sections 8 and 9 hereof, and the provisions of Sections 11, 14 and 15 hereof shall remain in effect. SECTION 13. Notices. Unless otherwise provided herein, all notices required under the terms and provisions hereof shall be in writing, either delivered by hand, by mail or by telex, telecopier or telegram, and any such notice shall be effective when received at the address specified below. If to the Company: General Mills, Inc. Number One General Mills Blvd. Minneapolis, Minnesota 55440 Attention: General Counsel Telecopy No.: (763) 764-3302 With a copy to: General Mills, Inc. Treasury Department Number One General Mills Blvd. Minneapolis, Minnesota 55440 Attention: Treasurer Telecopy No.: (763) 764-7384 If to the Purchasing Agent: Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated 4 World Financial Center Floor 15 New York, New York 10080 Attention: Transaction Management Group Telecopy No.: (212) 449-2234 or at such other address as such party may designate from time to time by notice duly given in accordance with the terms of this Section 13. 21
SECTION 14. Parties. This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the Purchasing Agent and the Company and their respective successors. Nothing expressed or mentioned in this Agreement is intended or shall be construed to give any person, firm or corporation, other than the parties hereto and their respective successors and the directors, officers, and controlling persons referred to in Sections 8 and 9 hereof and their heirs and legal representatives, any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or in respect of this Agreement or any provision herein contained. This Agreement and all conditions and provisions hereof are intended to be for the sole and exclusive benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors, and said directors, officers, and controlling persons and their heirs and legal representatives, and for the benefit of no other person, firm or corporation. No purchaser of Notes shall be deemed to be a successor by reason merely of such purchase. SECTION 15. GOVERNING LAW. THIS AGREEMENT AND ALL THE RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS OF THE PARTIES SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK WITHOUT REGARD TO CONFLICT OF LAW PRINCIPLES. SECTION 16. Effect of Headings. The Article and Section headings herein are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof. SECTION 17. Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts and, if executed in more than one counterpart, the executed counterparts hereof shall constitute a single instrument. 22
If the foregoing is in accordance with the Purchasing Agent's understanding of our agreement, please sign and return to the Company a counterpart hereof, whereupon this Distribution Agreement, along with all counterparts, will become a binding agreement between the Purchasing Agent and the Company in accordance with its terms. Very truly yours, GENERAL MILLS, INC. By: /s/ James A. Lawrence -------------------------------- Name: James A. Lawrence Title: Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer CONFIRMED AND ACCEPTED, as of the date first above written: MERRILL LYNCH, PIERCE, FENNER & SMITH INCORPORATED By: /s/ Scott Primrose ------------------------------ Authorized Signatory
SCHEDULE A The Company shall pay the Purchasing Agent, on a discount basis, a commission for the sale of each Note equal to the principal amount of such Note multiplied by the appropriate percentage set forth below. - ------------------ * As agreed to by the Company and the Agent at the time of sale. Sch A-1
EXHIBIT A PRICING TERMS Principal Amount: $___________ Interest Rate: Interest Payment Dates: Redemption Dates: Optional Repayment Date(s): Survivor's Option: Original Issue Date: Stated Maturity Date: Authorized Denomination: Issue Price: Price to Public: ____%, plus accrued interest, if any, from ___________ Settlement Date and Time: Additional/Other Terms: Purchasing Agent acting as [principal] [agent for the Company] Also, in connection with the purchase of Notes from the Company by the Purchasing Agent as principal, agreement as to whether the following will be required: Officers' Certificate pursuant to Section 7(b) of the Distribution Agreement. Legal Opinion pursuant to Section 7(c) of the Distribution Agreement. Comfort Letter pursuant to Section 7(d) of the Distribution Agreement. A-1
EXHIBIT B GENERAL MILLS, INC. General Mills CoreNotes(SM) Due Nine Months or More from the Date of Issue Administrative Procedures September 18, 2002 ------------- General Mills, Inc. (the "Company") is offering General Mills CoreNotes(SM) Due Nine Months or More from the Date of Issue (the "Notes") on a continuing basis. The Notes are being sold pursuant to a Distribution Agreement dated September 18, 2002 (as it may be supplemented or amended from time to time, the "Distribution Agreement"), between the Company and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, as purchasing agent (the "Purchasing Agent" or "Merrill Lynch"), to which these Administrative Procedures are attached as Exhibit B. The Distribution Agreement specifies terms and conditions on which the Notes may be sold by the Company to the Purchasing Agent as principal for resale, both (i) to customers of the Purchasing Agent and (ii) to selected broker-dealers (the "Selling Group") for distribution to their customers and directly to investors through the Purchasing Agent as an agent of the Company in soliciting offers for the purchase of Notes. The Notes will be unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness of the Company. The offer and sale of the Notes have been registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). U.S. Bank National Association (the "Trustee") is the trustee under the indenture dated as of February 1, 1996, as amended or modified from time to time (the "Indenture"), pursuant to which the Notes are being issued. The Notes will be issued in book-entry form and represented by one or more fully registered global notes without coupons (each, a "Global Note") held by the Trustee, as agent for The Depository Trust Company ("DTC"), and recorded in the book-entry system maintained by DTC. The terms of each Global Note will be determined as set forth below. Owners of beneficial interests in a Global Note will be entitled to physical delivery of Notes issued in certificated form equal in principal amount to their respective beneficial interests only under certain limited circumstances described in the Indenture. This document explains the administrative procedures applicable to the offering and issuance of the Notes. To the extent the procedures set forth below conflict with any of the provisions of the Notes, the Indenture, the Distribution Agreement or the Letter of Representations from the Company and the Trustee to DTC dated September 18, 2002 (the "Letter of Representations"), then the relevant provisions of the Notes, the Indenture, the Distribution Agreement and the Letter of Representations shall control. Capitalized terms used herein that are not otherwise defined shall have the meanings ascribed thereto in the Distribution Agreement or the Indenture. B-1
Administrative responsibilities outlined below and record-keeping responsibilities will be performed by the Company's Treasury Department. The Company will advise the Purchasing Agent and the Trustee in writing of those persons handling administrative responsibilities with whom the Purchasing Agent and the Trustee are to communicate regarding offers to purchase Notes and the details of their delivery. ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES FOR NOTES ISSUED IN BOOK-ENTRY FORM In connection with the qualification of Notes for eligibility in the book-entry system maintained by DTC, the Trustee will perform the custodial, document control and administrative functions described below, in accordance with its obligations under the Letter of Representations, the Medium-Term Note Certificate Agreement between the Trustee and DTC, dated June 22, 1994 (the "Certificate Agreement"), and its obligations as a participant in DTC, including DTC's Same-Day Funds Settlement system ("SDFS"). These administrative procedures may be modified in compliance with DTC's then applicable procedures and upon agreement by the Company, the Trustee and the Purchasing Agent.
Maturities: Each Note will have a maturity of nine months or more from the date of issue (the "Stated Maturity Date"), as specified in the applicable Pricing Supplement (as defined in "Preparation of Pricing Supplement" below), unless the principal of the Note, or any installment of principal, becomes due and payable prior to the Stated Maturity Date. This could happen by the declaration of acceleration of maturity, redemption at the option of the Company, or repayment at the option of the purchaser. The applicable Pricing Supplement will state whether the Notes have the Survivor's Option (as described in the Survivor's Option Rider to the forms of Note attached as Exhibits C and D to the Officers' Certificate and Authentication Order with respect to the Notes of even date herewith (the "Officers' Certificate")) (the "Survivor's Option") or are otherwise subject to redemption or repayment prior to their Stated Maturity at the option of the Company or the purchaser, respectively, and specify the date or dates (respectively, a "Redemption Date" and "Repayment Date") on which such redemption or repayment may be made. Issuance: All Notes having the same terms will be represented initially by a single Global Note. Each Global Note will be dated and issued as of the date of its authentication by the Trustee. Each Global Note that relates to an interest-bearing Note will bear an interest accrual date (the "Interest Accrual Date"), which will be (i) with respect to an original Global Note (or any portion thereof), its original issuance date (which will be the settlement date for the Notes represented by such Global Note) and (ii) with respect to any Global Note (or portion thereof) issued subsequently upon exchange of a Global Note or in lieu of a destroyed, lost or stolen Global Note, the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for on the predecessor Global Note or Notes (or if no such payment or provision has been made, the original issuance date of the predecessor Global Note or Notes), regardless of the date of authentication of such subsequently issued Global Note. Identification: The Company has received from the CUSIP Service Bureau (the "CUSIP Service Bureau") of Standard & Poor's Corporation ("Standard & Poor's") one series of CUSIP numbers consisting of approximately 900 CUSIP numbers for future assignment to Notes. The Company will provide DTC and the Trustee with a list of such CUSIP numbers. The Company will assign CUSIP numbers as described below under "Procedure for Rate Setting and Posting." DTC will notify the CUSIP Service Bureau periodically of the CUSIP numbers that the Company has assigned to Notes. The Trustee will notify the
B-2
Company at any time when fewer than 100 of the reserved CUSIP numbers remain unassigned to Notes and the Company, if it deems necessary, will reserve additional CUSIP numbers for assignment to Notes and will provide the Trustee and DTC with the list of additional CUSIP numbers so obtained. Registration: Unless otherwise specified by DTC, each Global Note will be registered in the name of CEDE & Co., as nominee for DTC, on the Security Register maintained under the Indenture. The beneficial owner of a Note (i.e., an owner of a beneficial interest in a Global Note) (or one or more indirect participants in DTC designated by such owner) will designate one or more participants in DTC (with respect to such Note, the "Participants") to act as agent or agents for such owner in connection with the book-entry system maintained by DTC, and DTC will record in book-entry form, in accordance with instructions provided by such Participants, a credit balance with respect to such Note in the account of such Participants. The ownership interest of such beneficial owner in such Note will be recorded through the records of such Participants or through the separate records of such Participants and one or more indirect participants in DTC. Transfers: Transfers of interests in a Global Note will be accomplished by book entries made by DTC and, in turn, by Participants (and in certain cases, one or more indirect participants in DTC) acting on behalf of beneficial transferors and transferees of such Note. Exchanges: The Trustee, at the Company's request, may deliver to DTC and the CUSIP Service Bureau at any time a written notice of consolidation specifying (a) the CUSIP numbers of two or more Global Notes Outstanding on such date that represent Notes having the same terms and for which interest has been paid to the same date; (b) a date, occurring at least 30 days after such written notice is delivered and at least 30 days before the next Interest Payment Date for the related Notes, on which such Global Notes shall be exchanged for a single replacement Global Note; and (c) a new CUSIP number, obtained from the Company, to be assigned to such replacement Global Note. Upon receipt of such a notice, DTC will send to its participants (including the Trustee) a written reorganization notice to the effect that such exchange will occur on such date. Prior to the specified exchange date, the Trustee will deliver to the CUSIP Service Bureau written notice setting forth such exchange date and the new CUSIP number and stating that, as of such exchange date, the CUSIP numbers of the Global Notes to be exchanged will no longer be valid. On the specified exchange date, the Trustee will exchange such Global Notes for a single Global Note bearing the new CUSIP number. The CUSIP numbers of the exchanged Global Notes will, in accordance with CUSIP Service Bureau procedures, be cancelled and not immediately reassigned. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Global Notes to be exchanged exceed $500,000,000 in aggregate principal amount, one replacement Global Note will be authenticated and issued to represent each $500,000,000 of principal amount of the exchanged Global Notes and an additional Global Note will be authenticated and issued to represent any remaining principal amount of such Global Notes (see "Denominations" below). Denominations: Notes are subject to a minimum order of $1,000, and Global Notes will be issued in denominations of $1,000 or any amount in excess which is an integral multiple of $1,000. Global Notes will be denominated in principal amounts not in excess of $500,000,000. If one or more Notes having an aggregate principal amount in excess of $500,000,000 would, but for the preceding sentence, be represented by a single Global Note, then one Global Note will be issued to represent each $500,000,000 principal amount of such Note or Notes and an additional Global Note will be issued to represent any remaining principal amount of such Note or Notes. In such a case, each of the Global Notes representing such Note or Notes shall be assigned the same CUSIP number.
B-3
Issue Price: Unless otherwise specified in the applicable Pricing Supplement, each Note will be issued at 100% of principal amount. Interest: General. Each interest-bearing Note will bear interest from and including its date of issue or from and including the most recent Interest Payment Date as to which interest on such Note (or any Predecessor Security to such Note) has been paid or made available for payment at a fixed rate per annum, specified in the applicable Pricing Supplement, until the principal of the Note is paid or made available for payment. Each payment of interest on an interest-bearing Note will include interest to, but excluding, as the case may be, the relevant Interest Payment Date or Maturity (as defined in "Payment of Principal, Premium, if any, and Interest, if any"). Interest Payments. Interest on each interest-bearing Note will be payable either monthly, quarterly, semiannually or annually on each Interest Payment Date and at Maturity or, if applicable, earlier redemption or repayment. Unless otherwise indicated in the applicable Pricing Supplement, interest will be paid to the Person in whose name the Note is registered at the close of business on the first day of the calendar month in which the interest payment is to be made, whether or not a Business Day (the "Regular Record Date"), except that interest, if any, due at Maturity will be paid to the Person to whom the principal of the Note is paid. The interest payment frequency for each Note will be set out in the applicable Pricing Supplement. Unless otherwise indicated in the applicable Pricing Supplement, the "Interest Payment Dates" for Notes with the stated interest payment frequencies will be as follows: Interest Payment Interest Payment Dates Frequency Monthly: Fifteenth day of each calendar month, beginning in the first calendar month following the month in which the Note was issued. Quarterly: Fifteenth day of every third month, beginning in the third calendar month following the month in which the Note was issued. Semiannual: Fifteenth day of every sixth month, beginning in the sixth calendar month following the month in which the Note was issued. Annual: Fifteenth day of every twelfth month, beginning in the twelfth calendar month following the month in which the Note was issued. Calculation of Interest: Unless otherwise specified in the applicable Pricing Supplement, interest on each interest-bearing Note (including interest for partial periods) will be calculated on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months. Business Day: Unless defined otherwise in the applicable Pricing Supplement, "Business Day" means each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday which is not a day on which banking institutions in The City of New York are authorized or obligated by law or executive order to close. Redemption/ Unless otherwise specified in the applicable Pricing Supplement, all Notes are subject Repayment: to the Survivor's Option but are not otherwise subject to redemption or repayment prior to their Stated Maturity.
B-4
Payments of Principal, Payments of Interest Only. Promptly after each Regular Record Date, the Trustee will Premium, if any, and deliver to the Company and DTC a written notice specifying by CUSIP number the amount of Interest, if any: interest to be paid on each interest-bearing Note on the following Interest Payment Date (other than an Interest Payment Date coinciding with Maturity) and the total of such amounts. DTC will confirm the amount payable on each interest-bearing Note on such Interest Payment Date by reference to the daily bond reports published by Standard & Poor's. On such Interest Payment Date, the Company and the Trustee will make payments at the times and in the manner set forth below under "Manner of Payment." If any Interest Payment Date for any Note is not a Business Day, the payment due on such day shall be made on the next succeeding Business Day and no additional interest shall accrue for the period from the Interest Payment Date to that next succeeding Business Day. Payments at Maturity. On or about the first Business Day of each month, the Trustee will deliver to the Company and DTC a written list of principal, premium, if any, and interest to be paid on each Note maturing or subject to redemption (pursuant to a sinking fund or otherwise) or repayment ("Maturity") in the following month. The Trustee, the Company and DTC will confirm the amounts of such principal, premium, if any, and interest payments, if any, with respect to each Note on or about the fifth Business Day preceding the Maturity of such Note. At Maturity, the Company and the Trustee will make payments at the times and in the manner set forth below under "Manner of Payment." If the date of Maturity of a Note is not a Business Day, the payment due on such day shall be made on the next succeeding Business Day and no additional interest shall accrue for the period from Maturity to that next succeeding Business Day. Promptly after payment to DTC of the principal, premium, if any, and interest, if any, due at Maturity of a Global Note, the Trustee will cancel and destroy such Global Note in accordance with the Indenture and so advise the Company. Manner of Payment. The total amount of principal, premium, if any, and interest, if any, due on Global Notes on any Interest Payment Date or at Maturity shall be paid by the Company to the Trustee in funds available for use by the Trustee on such date. The Company will make such payment on such Global Notes by wire transfer to the Trustee or by instructing the Trustee to withdraw funds from an account maintained by the Company with the Trustee. The Company will confirm such instructions in writing to the Trustee. For payments at Maturity: prior to 10:00 A.M., New York City time, on such date or as soon as possible thereafter, the Trustee will pay in U.S. dollars by separate wire transfer (using Fedwire message entry instructions in a form previously specified by DTC) to an account at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York previously specified by DTC, in funds available for immediate use by DTC, each payment of principal, premium, if any, and interest, if any, due on a Global Note on such date. For payments of interest other than at Maturity: the Trustee will pay DTC each payment of interest in U.S. dollars in same-day funds in accordance with existing arrangements between the Trustee and DTC. Thereafter for all payments on such date, DTC will pay, in accordance with its SDFS operating procedures then in effect, such amounts in funds available for immediate use to the respective Participants with payments in amounts proportionate to their respective holdings in principal amount of beneficial interest in such Global Note as are recorded in the book-entry system maintained by DTC. The Company and the Trustee are responsible only for making payment to DTC and neither the Company nor the Trustee shall have any responsibility or liability for the payment by DTC to its Participants of any amounts so paid.
B-5
Withholding Taxes. The amount of any taxes required under applicable law to be withheld from any interest payment on a Note will be determined and withheld by the Participant, indirect participant in DTC or other Person responsible for forwarding payments and materials directly to the beneficial owner of such Note. Procedure for Rate The Company and the Purchasing Agent will discuss, from time to time, the terms for Setting and Posting: Notes that may be sold as a result of the solicitation of orders by the Purchasing Agent. If the Company decides to set terms for any Notes in respect of which the Purchasing Agent is to solicit orders (the setting of such terms to be referred to herein as "Posting") or if the Company decides to change the terms previously posted, it will promptly advise the Purchasing Agent by telephone (confirmed in writing or by electronic transmission) and/or by electronic transmission (including facsimile or e-mail transmission) of the terms to be posted. The Company will assign a separate CUSIP number for each tranche of Notes to be posted, and will advise the Trustee and Purchasing Agent of said assignment by telephone (confirmed in writing or by electronic transmission) and/or by electronic transmission (including facsimile or e-mail transmission). The Purchasing Agent will, in turn, include the assigned CUSIP number on all communications to Selling Group members. Offering of Notes: In the event that there is a Posting and the Purchasing Agent intends to act as principal with respect to the purchase of any Notes so Posted, the Purchasing Agent will communicate to Selling Group members the terms of each tranche of the Notes that is the subject of the Posting. Thereafter, the Purchasing Agent, along with the Selling Group members, will solicit offers to purchase the Notes accordingly.
B-6
Offers to Purchase No later than 3:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the fourth day subsequent to the day on Notes: which a Posting occurs, or if such fourth day is not a Business Day, on the preceding Business Day, or on such other Business Day and time as shall be mutually agreed upon by the Company and the Purchasing Agent (any such day, a "Trade Date"), the Purchasing Agent will (i) inform the Company that none of the Notes of a particular tranche that has been Posted will be purchased or (ii) communicate to the Company in writing (including facsimile or e-mail transmission) or by telephone, confirmed in writing (including facsimile or e-mail transmission), the following details of the terms of any offers to purchase Notes (the "Note Offer Information"): 1. The amount of each tranche as to which offers to purchase are being made, and whether the Purchasing Agent is acting as principal or as agent with respect to those offers; 2. The interest rate, if any, for each tranche; 3. The frequency of interest payments, if any, and, if different from those set forth under "Interest" above, the Interest Payment Dates and Regular Record Dates for each tranche; 4. The Settlement Date; 5. The Stated Maturity for each tranche; 6. The issue price for each tranche and, for any tranche of Notes that are discount Notes, the total amount of original issue discount, the yield to maturity, the short accrual period of original issue discount, the method to be used to determine yield for the short accrual period and any other appropriate terms related to original issue discount; 7. The Purchasing Agent's commission for each tranche determined pursuant to the Distribution Agreement; 8. The Trade Date; 9. If any Note is redeemable by the Company prior to its Stated Maturity, such of the following as are applicable: (i) The date or dates on and after which such Note may be redeemed (the "Redemption Commencement Date"), (ii) The initial redemption price (% of par), (iii) The amount (% of par) that the initial redemption price shall decline (but not below par) on each anniversary of the Redemption Commencement Date, if any; 10. Whether the Notes of each tranche have the Survivor's Option or are otherwise subject to repayment prior to their Stated Maturity at the option of the Holder; and 11. Any other terms of the various tranches of Notes.
B-7
Acceptance and Upon receipt of an offer to purchase Notes as described in "Offers to Purchase Notes," Rejection of Offers: the Company will be deemed to have accepted such offer or offers if it promptly informs the Purchasing Agent in writing (including facsimile or e-mail transmission) or by telephone confirmed in writing (including facsimile or e-mail transmission) that the offer or offers to purchase the Notes have been accepted, in whole or in part. If the Purchasing Agent is acting as principal, the Purchasing Agent will thereafter promptly inform participating Selling Group members of the action taken by the Company. If Notes are purchased by the Purchasing Agent as principal, the Company's acceptance, together with the Note Offer Information, shall constitute an agreement to purchase Notes described in Section 3(a) of the Distribution Agreement on the terms set forth in the Note Offer Information. The Purchasing Agent may reject offers to purchase Notes received by it in whole or in part in the reasonable exercise of its discretion. No order for less than $1,000 principal amount of Notes will be accepted. The Company has the sole right to accept offers to purchase Notes, including offers made by the Purchasing Agent acting as principal, and may reject any offer in whole or in part. Preparation of Pricing In connection with the agreement to sell and purchase on a Trade Date, the Company will Supplement: prepare a pricing supplement to the Prospectus as amended or supplemented reflecting the appropriate Note Offer Information for each tranche of Notes to be sold and purchased (the "Pricing Supplement"). The Company (i) will timely electronically file such Pricing Supplement with the SEC in accordance with the applicable paragraph of Rule 424 and (ii) will, on or prior to the close of business on the Trade Date, or as soon as possible thereafter, deliver to the Purchasing Agent a copy of such Pricing Supplement in PDF form by e-mail to the following three addresses: (1) mtnsuppl@na2.us.ml.com, (2) agenther@exchange.ml.com and (3) gkobes@exchange.ml.com. The Purchasing Agent will cause such Pricing Supplement, together with a copy of the Prospectus and Prospectus Supplement, to accompany each written confirmation of a sale sent to a purchaser of Notes or such purchaser's agent. Settlement: The receipt of immediately available funds by the Company in payment for Notes and the authentication and issuance of the Global Note representing such Notes shall constitute "Settlement" with respect to such Notes. All offers accepted by the Company will be settled generally within three Business Days pursuant to the timetable for Settlement set forth below, unless the Company and the purchaser agree to Settlement on a later date, which shall be specified upon acceptance of such offer (the date of such Settlement, the "Settlement Date"). Settlement Procedures: Unless otherwise agreed by the Purchasing Agent and the Company in writing, Settlement Procedures with regard to each Note sold by the Company to the Purchasing Agent, acting as principal, or through the Purchasing Agent, acting as agent for the Company, shall be as follows: A. The Company and the Purchasing Agent will complete the procedures described above under the headings "Offers to Purchase Notes" and "Acceptance and Rejection of Offers": B. The Company will confirm the previously assigned CUSIP number to the Global Note representing such Note and then advise the Trustee and the Purchasing Agent by telephone (which may be confirmed in writing at any time on the same date) or by electronic transmission (including facsimile or e-mail transmission) of the Note Offer Information and the assigned CUSIP number.
B-8
C. The Trustee will communicate to DTC and the Purchasing Agent through DTC's Participant Terminal System, a pending deposit message specifying the following Settlement information: 1. The Note Offer Information; 2. The numbers of the participant accounts maintained by DTC on behalf of the Trustee and the Purchasing Agent; 3. With respect to interest-bearing Notes, the initial Interest Payment Date for such Note, number of days by which such date succeeds the related DTC record date (which term means the Regular Record Date) and, if then calculated, the amount of interest payable on such Initial Interest Payment Date (which amount shall have been confirmed by the Trustee); 4. The CUSIP number of the Global Note representing such Notes; and 5. Whether such Global Note represents any other Notes issued or to be issued (to the extent then known). D. DTC will credit such Note to the participant account of the Trustee maintained by DTC. E. The Trustee will complete, consistent with the Note Offer Information, and deliver a Global Note representing such Note in a form that has been authorized by the Company and approved by the Purchasing Agent and the Trustee (which forms shall, unless otherwise agreed in writing by the Company and the Purchasing Agent, be those attached as Exhibits C and D to the Officers' Certificate). F. The Trustee will authenticate the Global Note representing such Note and maintain possession of such Global Note. G. The Trustee will enter an SDFS deliver order through DTC's Participant Terminal System instructing DTC to (i) debit such Note to the Trustee's participant account and credit such Note to the participant account of the Purchasing Agent maintained by DTC and (ii) debit the settlement account of the Purchasing Agent and credit the settlement account of the Trustee maintained by DTC, in an amount equal to the Issue Price of such Note less the Purchasing Agent's commission. The entry of such a deliver order shall be deemed to constitute a representation and warranty by the Trustee to DTC that (a) the Global Note representing such Note has been issued and authenticated and (b) the Trustee is holding such Global Note pursuant to the Certificate Agreement. H. The Purchasing Agent will enter an SDFS deliver order through DTC's Participant Terminal System instructing DTC to (i) debit such Note to the Purchasing Agent's participant account and credit such Note to the participant accounts of the Participants to whom such Note is to be credited maintained by DTC and (ii) debit the settlement accounts of such Participants and credit the settlement account of the Purchasing Agent maintained by DTC, in an amount equal to the price of the Note so credited to their accounts. I. Transfers of funds in accordance with SDFS deliver orders described in Settlement Procedures "G" and "H" will be settled in accordance with SDFS operating procedures in effect on the Settlement Date. J. The Trustee will credit to an account of the Company maintained at Wells Fargo Bank Minnesota, N.A.: ABA 091-000-019, funds available for immediate use in an
B-9
amount equal to the amount credited to the Trustee's DTC participant account in accordance with Settlement Procedure "G." K. The Trustee will send a copy of the Global Note representing such Note by first-class mail to the Company. L. The Purchasing Agent will confirm the purchase of each Note to the purchaser thereof either by transmitting to the Participant to whose account such Note has been credited a confirmation order through DTC's Participant Terminal System or by mailing a written confirmation to such purchaser. In all cases the Prospectus as most recently amended or supplemented (including, without limitation, the Pricing Supplement relating to such Note) must accompany or precede such confirmation. M. The Trustee will send to the Company a statement setting forth the principal amount of Notes outstanding as of that date under the Indenture and setting forth the CUSIP number(s) assigned to, and a brief description of, any orders of which the Company has advised the Trustee but which have not yet been settled. Settlement Procedures Settlement Procedures "A" through "M" shall be completed as soon as possible but not Timetable: later than the respective times (New York City time) set forth below:
NOTES: The Prospectus as most recently amended or supplemented (including, without limitation, the Pricing Supplement relating to such Note) must accompany or precede any written confirmation given to the customer (Settlement Procedure "L"). Settlement Procedure "I" is subject to extension in accordance with any extension Fedwire closing deadlines and in the other events specified in the SDFS operating procedures in effect on the Settlement Date. If Settlement of a Note is rescheduled or cancelled, the Trustee will deliver to DTC, through DTC's Participant Terminal System, a cancellation message to such effect by no later than 2:00 p.m., New York City time, on the Business Day immediately preceding the scheduled Settlement Date. DTC will arrange for the pending deposit message to be transmitted to Standard & Poor's, which will use the information in the message to include certain terms of the related Global Note in the appropriate daily bond report published by Standard & Poor's. Failure to Settle: If the Trustee fails to enter an SDFS deliver order with respect to a Note pursuant to Settlement Procedure "G," the Trustee may deliver to DTC, through DTC's Participant Terminal System, as soon as practicable a withdrawal message instructing DTC to debit
B-10
such Note to the participant account of the Trustee maintained at DTC. DTC will process the withdrawal message, provided that such participant account contains Notes having the same terms and having a principal amount that is at least equal to the principal amount of such Note to be debited. If withdrawal messages are processed with respect to all the Notes issued or to be issued represented by a Global Note, the Trustee will cancel such Global Note in accordance with the Indenture, make appropriate entries in its records and so advise the Company. The CUSIP number assigned to such Global Note shall, in accordance with CUSIP Service Bureau procedures, be cancelled and not immediately reassigned. If withdrawal messages are processed with respect to one or more, but not all, of the Notes represented by a Global Note, the Trustee will exchange such Global Note for two Global Notes, one of which shall represent such Notes and shall be cancelled immediately after issuance, and the other of which shall represent the remaining Notes previously represented by the surrendered Global Note and shall bear the CUSIP number of the surrendered Global Note. If the purchase price for any Note is not timely paid to the Participants with respect to such Note by the beneficial purchaser thereof (or a person, including an indirect participant in DTC, acting on behalf of such purchaser), such Participants and, in turn, the Purchasing Agent may enter SDFS deliver orders through DTC's participant Terminal System reversing the orders entered pursuant to Settlement Procedures "G" and "H," respectively. Thereafter, the Trustee will deliver the withdrawal message and take the related actions described in the preceding paragraph. If such failure shall have occurred in a transaction in which the Purchasing Agent was acting as agent for any reason other than default by the Purchasing Agent in the performance of its obligations hereunder or under the Distribution Agreement, the Company will reimburse the Purchasing Agent on an equitable basis for its loss of the use of funds during the period when they were credited to the account of the Company. Notwithstanding the foregoing, upon any failure to settle with respect to a Note, DTC may take any actions in accordance with its SDFS operating procedures then in effect. In the event of a failure to settle with respect to one or more, but not all, of Notes that were to have been represented by a Global Note, the Trustee will provide, in accordance with Settlement Procedures "D" and "E," for the authentication and issuance of a Global Note representing the other Notes to have been represented by such Global Note and will make appropriate entries in its records. Procedure for Term If the Company decides to change terms with respect to Notes that have been Posted, the Changes: Company will promptly advise the Purchasing Agent of the new terms by telephone (confirmed in writing or by electronic transmission) and/or by electronic transmission (including facsimile or e-mail transmission) of the terms to be posted, which will forthwith suspend solicitation of purchases of Notes at the prior terms. The Purchasing Agent may telephone the Company with recommendations as to the changed terms. Suspension of Subject to the Company's representations, warranties and covenants contained in the Solicitation; Amendment Distribution Agreement, the Company's Treasury Department may instruct the Purchasing or Supplement: Agent to suspend solicitation of purchases at any time. Upon receipt of such instructions, the Purchasing Agent will forthwith suspend solicitation until such time as the Company's Treasury Department has advised it that solicitation of purchases may be resumed as provided in the Distribution Agreement. If the Company decides to amend or supplement the Registration Statement or the Prospectus (other than any amendment or supplement providing solely for the determination of the variable terms of the Notes or relating solely to the offering of securities other than the Notes), it will take the actions required by the Distribution Agreement. In the event that at the time the Purchasing Agent suspends solicitation of purchases there shall be any orders for Settlement outstanding, the Company will, consistent with its obligations under the Distribution Agreement, promptly advise the Purchasing Agent whether such orders may be settled
B-11
and whether copies of the Prospectus as in effect at the time of the suspension may be delivered in connection with the Settlement of such orders. The Company will have the sole responsibility for such decision and for any arrangements which may be made in the event that the Company determines that such orders may not be settled or that copies of such Prospectus may not be so delivered. Trustee Reports: On the first Business Day of each month, the Trustee will deliver to the Company a written statement indicating the total principal amount of Notes outstanding as of the immediately preceding Business Day.
B-12
EXHIBIT C FORM OF OPINION OF COMPANY'S COUNSEL TO BE DELIVERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 5(b)(1) (1) The Company has been duly incorporated and is validly existing as a corporation in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware. (2) The Company has corporate power and authority to own, lease and operate its properties and to conduct its business as described in the Prospectus and to enter into the Distribution Agreement and consummate the transactions contemplated in the Distribution Agreement. (3) The Company is duly qualified as a foreign corporation to transact business and is in good standing in each jurisdiction in which such qualification is required, whether by reason of the ownership or leasing of property or the conduct of business, except where the failure to so qualify or be in good standing would not result in a Material Adverse Effect. (4) The Company's authorized equity capitalization is as set forth in the Prospectus. (5) Each Significant Subsidiary has been duly incorporated and is validly existing as a corporation in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation, has corporate power and authority to own, lease and operate its properties and to conduct its business as described in the Prospectus and is duly qualified as a foreign corporation to transact business and is in good standing in each jurisdiction in which such qualification is required, whether by reason of the ownership or leasing of property or the conduct of business, except where the failure to so qualify or be in good standing would not result in a Material Adverse Effect. (6) The Distribution Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company. (7) The Indenture has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company and (assuming due authorization, execution and delivery thereof by the Trustee) constitutes a valid and legally binding agreement of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms, except as the enforcement thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally or by general equitable principles (regardless of whether enforcement is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law), and except further as enforcement thereof may be limited by requirements that a claim with respect to any debt securities issued under the Indenture that are payable in a foreign or composite currency (or a foreign or composite currency judgment in respect of such claim) be converted into U.S. dollars at a rate of exchange prevailing on a date determined pursuant to applicable law or by governmental authority to limit, delay or prohibit the making of payments outside the United States. C-1
(8) The Notes have been duly authorized by the Company for offer, sale, issuance and delivery pursuant to the Distribution Agreement and, when issued, executed, authenticated and delivered in the manner provided for in the Indenture and delivered against payment of the consideration therefor, will constitute valid and legally binding obligations of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms, except as the enforcement thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally or by general equitable principles (regardless of whether enforcement is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law); the Notes, in the forms certified on the date hereof, are in the form contemplated by the Indenture; and the Notes are entitled to the benefits of the Indenture. (9) The Indenture and the Notes, in the forms certified on the date hereof, conform in all material respects to the statements relating thereto contained in the Prospectus and are in substantially the form filed or incorporated by reference, as the case may be, as an exhibit to the Registration Statement. (10) The information in the Prospectus under "Description of Debt Securities We May Offer", "Description of the Notes" and "Certain United States Federal Income Tax Considerations" and the information in the Registration Statement under Item 15, to the extent that such information constitutes matters of law, summaries of legal matters, the Company's charter and bylaws or legal proceedings, or legal conclusions, has been reviewed by me and is correct in all material respects. (11) The execution, delivery and performance of the Distribution Agreement, the Indenture, the Notes and any other agreement or instrument entered into or issued or to be entered into or issued by the Company in connection with the transactions contemplated thereby, the consummation of the transactions contemplated in the Distribution Agreement (including the issuance and sale of the Notes and the use of proceeds therefrom as described in the Prospectus) and the compliance by the Company with its obligations under the Distribution Agreement and under the Indenture, the Notes and such other agreements or instruments have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action and do not and will not, whether with or without the giving of notice or the passage of time or both, conflict with or constitute a breach of, or default or Repayment Event under, or result in the creation or imposition of any lien, charge or encumbrance upon any assets, properties or operations of the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries pursuant to, any material contract, indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, loan or credit agreement, note, lease or other agreement or instrument to which the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries is a party or by which it or any of them may be bound or to which any of the property or assets of the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries is subject, nor will such action result in any violation of the provisions of the charter or by-laws of the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries or any applicable law, statute, rule, regulation, judgment, order, writ or decree of any government, government instrumentality or court, domestic or foreign, having jurisdiction over the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries or any of their assets, properties or operations. (12) To the best of my knowledge, except as set forth or contemplated in the Prospectus, there is not pending or threatened any action, suit or proceeding to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party or to which the assets, properties or operations of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is subject, before or brought by any court or governmental agency or body, domestic or foreign, which could reasonably be expected to result in a Material C-2
Adverse Effect or could reasonably be expected to materially and adversely affect the performance by the Company of its obligations under the Distribution Agreement, the Indenture or the Notes or the consummation of the transactions contemplated by the Distribution Agreement. (13) To the best of my knowledge, there are no franchises, contracts, indentures, mortgages, loan agreements, notes, leases or other instruments required to be described or referred to in the Registration Statement or to be filed as exhibits to the Registration Statement other than those described or referred to therein or filed or incorporated by reference as exhibits thereto, and the descriptions thereof or references thereto are correct in all material respects. (14) To the best of my knowledge, there are no statutes or regulations that are required to be described in the Prospectus that are not described as required. (15) The Registration Statement has been declared effective under the 1933 Act; any required filing of the Prospectus pursuant to Rule 424(b) has been made in the manner and within the time period required by Rule 424(b); and to the best of my knowledge, no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement has been issued under the 1933 Act and no proceedings for that purpose have been initiated or are pending or threatened by the Commission. (16) The Registration Statement and the Prospectus, and each amendment or supplement to the Registration Statement and Prospectus, as of their respective effective or issue dates (other than the financial statements, supporting schedules and other financial data included therein or omitted therefrom and the Form T-1, as to which I express no opinion), complied as to form in all material respects with the requirements of the 1933 Act and the 1933 Act Regulations. (17) The documents incorporated by reference in the Prospectus (other than the financial statements, supporting schedules and other financial data included therein or omitted therefrom, as to which I express no opinion), when they were filed with the Commission, complied as to form in all material respects with the requirements of the 1934 Act and the 1934 Act Regulations. (18) The Indenture has been duly qualified under the 1939 Act. (19) The Company is not, and upon the issuance and sale of the Notes and the application of the net proceeds therefrom as described in the Prospectus will not be, an "investment company" within the meaning of the 1940 Act. (20) No filing with, or approval, authorization, consent, license, registration, qualification, order or decree of, any court or governmental authority or agency, domestic or foreign, is necessary or required for the due authorization, execution and delivery by the Company of the Distribution Agreement, the Indenture and the Notes or for the performance by the Company of the transactions contemplated in the Distribution Agreement, except such as have been previously made, obtained or rendered, as applicable, and such as may be required under the blue sky laws of any jurisdiction in connection with the offer or purchase of Notes in the manner contemplated by the Distribution Agreement. C-3 x
Nothing has come to my attention that would lead me to believe that the Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment thereto (except for financial statements, supporting schedules and other financial data included therein or omitted therefrom and for the Form T-1, as to which I make no statement), at the time the Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment thereto (including the filing of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K with the Commission) became effective or at the date of any agreement of the Purchasing Agent to purchase Notes from the Company as principal, contained an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading or that the Prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto (except for financial statements, supporting schedules and other financial data included therein or omitted therefrom, as to which I make no statement), at the time the Prospectus was issued, at the time any such amended or supplemented prospectus was issued or at the date hereof, included or includes an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted or omits to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. In rendering my opinion, I may rely (A) as to matters of fact (but not as to legal conclusions), to the extent they deem proper, on certificates of responsible officers of the Company and public officials and (B) as to matters involving the application of the laws of any jurisdiction other than the State of Delaware or the Federal Laws of the United States, upon the opinion of other counsel of good standing whom I believe to be reliable (which opinion shall be dated and furnished to the Purchasing Agent on the date hereof, shall be satisfactory in form and substance to counsel for the Purchasing Agent and shall expressly state that the Purchasing Agent may rely on such opinion as if it were addressed to them), provided that I state in my opinion that I believe that the Purchasing Agent are justified in relying upon such opinion. C-4
EXHIBIT D FORM OF ACCOUNTANT'S COMFORT LETTER PURSUANT TO SECTION 5(d) 1. We are independent certified public accountants with respect to the Company within the meaning of the Act and the applicable rules and regulations thereunder adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). 2. In our opinion, the consolidated balance sheets of the Company as of May 26, 2002 and May 27, 2001, and the related consolidated statements of earnings, cash flows and stockholders' equity for each of the years in the three-year period ended May 26, 2002, and related financial statement schedule all audited by us and incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement comply as to form in all material respects with the applicable accounting requirements of the Act and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the related rules and regulations adopted by the SEC. 3. We have not audited any financial statements of the Company as of any date or for any period subsequent to May 26, 2002; although we have conducted an audit for the year ended May 26, 2002, the purpose (and therefore the scope) of the audit was to enable us to express our opinion on the consolidated financial statements as of May 26, 2002, and for the year then ended, but not on the consolidated financial statements for any interim period within that year. Therefore, we are unable to and do not express any opinion on the unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets of the Company as of August 26, 2001 and August 27, 2000, November 25, 2001 and November 26, 2000, and February 24, 2002 and February 25, 2001, the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of earnings for the 13-week periods ended August 26, 2001 and August 27, 2000 the 13-week periods and 26-week periods ended November 25, 2001 and November 26, 2000, and the 13-week and 39-week periods ended February 24, 2002 and February 25, 2001 and the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of cash flows for the 13-week periods ended August 26, 2001 and August 27, 2000, the 26-week periods ended November 25, 2001 and November 26, 2000 and the 39-week periods ended February 24, 2002 and February 25, 2001 included in the Company's quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarters ended August 26, 2001, November 25, 2001 and February 24, 2002, respectively, all of which are incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, or on the financial position, results of operations, or cash flows as of any date or period subsequent to May 26, 2002. 4. For purposes of this letter we have read the fiscal 2002 and 2003 minutes of meetings of the stockholders, board of directors and committees of the Company as set forth in the minute books as of September 16, 2002, officials of the Company having advised us that the minutes of all such meetings through that date were set forth therein (except that the [INSERT DATE] minutes of the board of directors, finance committee, audit committee, and compensation committee meetings have not yet been prepared by the Company); we have carried out other procedures to September 16, 2002 as follows (our work did not extend to the period from September 17, 2002 to September 18, 2002, inclusive): a. With respect to the 13-week periods ended August 26, 2001 and August 27, 2000 and the 13-week and 26-week periods ended November 25, 2001 and November 26, 2000, and the 13-week and 39-week periods ended February 24, 2002 and February 25, 2001 we have: (i) Performed the procedures specified by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants for a review of interim financial D-1
information as described in SAS No. 71, Interim Financial Information, on the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements, described in 3, incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement. (ii)Inquired of certain officials of the Company who have responsibility for financial and accounting matters whether the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements referred to in 4a(i) comply as to form in all material respects with the applicable accounting requirements of the Act and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as it applies to Form 10-Q and the related rules and regulations adopted by the SEC. b. With respect to the 13 week-periods ended August 25, 2002 and August 26, 2001 we have: (i) Read the unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheet as of August 25, 2002 and the unaudited consolidated statements of earnings for the 13-week periods ended August 25, 2002 and August 26, 2001, furnished to us by the Company, and included in the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on September 18, 2002, officials of the Company having advised us that no such financial statements as of any date or for any period subsequent to August 25, 2002 were available. (ii) Performed the procedures specified by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants for a review of interim financial information as described in SAS No. 71, Interim Financial Information, on the unaudited condensed consolidated financial information, described in b(i), incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement. (iii) Inquired of certain officials of the Company who have responsibility for financial and accounting matters whether the unaudited condensed consolidated financial information referred to in b(i) is stated on a basis substantially consistent with that of the audited consolidated financial statements incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement. The foregoing procedures do not constitute an audit conducted in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America. Also, they would not necessarily reveal matters of significance with respect to the comments in the following paragraph. Accordingly, we make no representations regarding the sufficiency of the foregoing procedures for your purposes. 5. Nothing came to our attention as a result of the foregoing procedures, however, that caused us to believe that: a. Any material modifications should be made to the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements described in 4a for them to be in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. b. The unaudited consolidated condensed financial statements described in 4a do not comply as to form in all material respects with the applicable accounting requirements of the Act and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as it applies to Form 10-Q and the related rules and regulations adopted by the SEC. D-2
c. The unaudited consolidated condensed financial information referred to in 4b(i) were not stated on a basis substantially consistent with that of the audited consolidated financial statements incorporated by reference on the Registration Statement. 6. As mentioned in 4b, Company officials have advised us that no consolidated financial statements as of any date or for any period subsequent to August 25, 2002, are available; accordingly, the procedures carried out by us with respect to changes in financial statement items after August 25, 2002 have, of necessity been more limited than those with respect to the periods referred to in 4. We have inquired of certain officials of the Company who have responsibility for financial and accounting matters whether: (a) At September 16, 2002, there was any change in preferred or common stock, increase in long-term debt, or any decreases in consolidated net current assets or stockholders' equity of the Company as compared with amounts shown on the August 25, 2002, unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheet incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, or (b) For the period from August 25, 2002 to September 16, 2002, there were any decreases, as compared to the corresponding period in the preceding year, in consolidated net sales or in the total or per-share amounts of net earnings. On the basis of these inquiries and our reading of the minutes as described in 4, nothing came to our attention that caused us to believe that there was any such change, increase, or decrease, except in all instances for changes, increases, or decreases that the Registration Statement discloses have occurred or may occur, except officials of the Company have advised us that: [ ] As of September 16, 2002, as compared with the corresponding amounts shown on the August 25, 2002 balance sheet, there have been changes in common stock for the issuance of common stock pursuant to employee and directors stock option plans and employee stock purchase plans, the purchase of treasury stock, and other transactions involving put and call options. [ ] For the period from August 25, 2002 to September 16, 2002, as compared with the corresponding period in the preceding year, Company officials are unable to make any representation concerning decreases in total or per share amounts of net earnings due to the unavailability of consolidated financial statements for any period subsequent to August 25, 2002. 7. In our opinion, the combined balance sheets of Pillsbury as of June 30, 2001 and 2000, and the related combined statements of operations, stockholders' deficit and comprehensive income (loss), and cash flows for each of the fiscal years in the three-year period ended June 30, 2001, all audited by us and incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, comply as to form in all material respects with the applicable accounting requirements of the Act and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the related rules and regulations adopted by the SEC. 8. We have not audited any financial statements of Pillsbury as of any date or for any period subsequent to June 30, 2001; although we have conducted an audit for the year ended June 30, 2001, the purpose (and therefore the scope) of the audit was to enable us to express our opinion on the combined financial statements as of June 30, 2001, and for the year then ended, but not on the combined financial statements for any interim period within that year. Therefore, we are unable to and do not express any opinion on the unaudited condensed combined balance sheets of Pillsbury as of September 30, 2001 and 2000 and the unaudited condensed combined statements of operations and cash flows for the three month periods ended September 30, 2001 and 2000, included in D-3
the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K/A filed on January 29, 2002, all of which are incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, or on the financial position, results of operations or cash flows as of any date or for any period subsequent to June 30, 2001. 9. For purposes of this letter we have read the fiscal 2002 minutes of meetings of the stockholders, board of directors and committees of Pillsbury as set forth in the minute books as of October 31, 2001, officials of the Company having advised us that the minutes of all such meetings through that date were set forth therein; we have carried out other procedures to September 16, 2002 as follows (our work did not extend to the period from September 17, 2002 to September 18, 2002, inclusive): a. With respect to the three-month periods ended September 30, 2001 and 2000, we have: (i) Performed the procedures specified by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants for a review of interim financial information as described in SAS No. 71, Interim Financial Information, on the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements, described in 8, incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement. (ii)Inquired of certain officials of the Company who have responsibility for financial and accounting matters whether the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements referred to in a(i) comply as to form in all material respects with the applicable accounting requirements of the Act and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as it applies to Form 10-Q and the related rules and regulations adopted by the SEC. The foregoing procedures do not constitute an audit conducted in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America. Also, they would not necessarily reveal matters of significance with respect to the comments in the following paragraph. Accordingly, we make no representations regarding the sufficiency of the foregoing procedures for your purposes. 10. Nothing came to our attention as a result of the foregoing procedures described in 9 above, however, that caused us to believe that: (a) Any material modifications should be made to the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements described in 8, for them to be in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. (b) The unaudited consolidated condensed financial statements described in 8 do not comply as to form in all material respects with the applicable accounting requirements of the Act and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as it applies to Form 10-Q and the related rules and regulations adopted by the SEC. 11. At your request, we have: a. Read the unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet as of August 26, 2001, the unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of operations for the 13-week period ended August 26, 2001, and the unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of operations for the year ended May 27, 2001 included in the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K/A filed on January 11, 2002 and incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement. D-4
b. Read the unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of operations for the 26-week period ended November 25, 2001, included in the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K/A filed on January 29, 2002 and incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement. c. Inquired of certain officials of the Company who have responsibility for financial and accounting matters about: (i) The basis for their determination of the pro forma adjustments, and (ii)Whether the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements referred to in (a) and (b) comply as to form in all material respects with the applicable accounting requirements of Rule 11-02 of Regulation S-X. d. Proved the arithmetic accuracy of the application of the pro forma adjustments to the historical amounts in the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements. The foregoing procedures are substantially less in scope than an examination, the objective of which is the expression of an opinion on management's assumptions, the pro forma adjustments, and the application of those adjustments to historical financial information. Accordingly, we do not express such an opinion. The foregoing procedures would not necessarily reveal matters of significance with respect to the comments in the following paragraph. Accordingly, we make no representation about the sufficiency of the foregoing procedures for your purposes. 12. Nothing came to our attention as a result of the procedures specified in 11, however, that caused us to believe that the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements referred to in 11(a) and (b) incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement do not comply as to form in all material respects with the applicable accounting requirements of Rule 11-02 of Regulation S-X and that the pro forma adjustments have not been properly applied to the historical amounts in the compilation of those statements. Had we performed additional procedures or had we made an examination of the pro forma condensed combined financial statements, other matters might have come to our attention that would have been reported to you. 13. For purposes of this letter, we have also read the items identified by you in the attached extracts from the annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended May 26, 2002, the quarterly reports of Form 10-Q for the quarters ended August 26, 2001 and November 25, 2001, the prospectus and the prospectus supplement, and have performed the following procedures, which were applied as indicated with respect to the symbols explained below. For the purpose of reporting our findings in the following symbols, the term "accounting records" means those records, which officials of the Company represented to us were developed from various sources, including the books of original entry, that are subject to the internal control structure of the Company's accounting systems. A. Compared the dollar amount or percentage with the corresponding dollar amount or percentage set forth in or derived from the Company's audited consolidated financial statements or notes thereto, which are incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, for the period indicated and found them to be in agreement. B. Compared the dollar amount or percentage with the corresponding dollar amount or percentage set forth in or derived from the Company's audited D-5
consolidated financial statements or notes thereto for the period indicated and found them to be in agreement. C. Compared the dollar amount or percentage with the corresponding dollar amount or percentage set forth in or derived from the Company's unaudited consolidated financial statements or notes thereto which are incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, for the period indicated and found them to be in agreement. Note that as a result of the issuance of EITF 01-9 "Accounting for Consideration Given by a Vendor to a Customer or a Reseller of the Vendor's Products" and the Company's adoption of this accounting rule, certain coupon and trade promotion expenses were reclassified from selling, general and administrative expense to a reduction of net sales. The unaudited quarterly financial information in the Company's 2002 Annual Report and the unaudited condensed consolidated financial information referred to in 4b(i), incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, reflect these reclassifications. D. Compared the dollar amount or percentage with the corresponding dollar amount or percentage set forth in or derived from the accounting records of the Company and found them to be in agreement. For purposes of the procedures enumerated above, in those instances in which the compared amounts, percentages, or ratios were in agreement except that they were not rounded to the same degree, we have nevertheless stated that we found the compared amounts to be in agreement. We make no comment as to the appropriateness or completeness of the Company's explanation of the causes of the increases or decreases discussed in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 14. Nothing came to our attention as a result of the foregoing procedures, however, that caused us to believe that the information included or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement and the prospectus in response to Regulation S-K, Item 301 (Selected Financial Data), Item 302 (Supplementary Financial Information), Item 402 (Executive Compensation) and Item 503(d) (Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges) does not conform in all material respects with the applicable disclosure requirements of Regulation S-K. 15. Our audits of the respective consolidated and combined financial statements for the periods referred to in the introductory paragraph of this letter comprised audit tests and procedures deemed necessary for the purpose of expressing an opinion on such consolidated and combined financial statements of the Company and Pillsbury, respectively, taken as a whole. For none of the periods referred to therein, or any other period, did we perform audit tests for the purpose of expressing an opinion on individual balances of accounts or summaries of selected transactions such as those enumerated above and, accordingly, we express no opinion thereon. 16. It should be understood that we make no representations regarding questions of legal interpretation or regarding the sufficiency for your purposes of the procedures enumerated in the preceding paragraphs; also, such procedures would not necessarily reveal any material misstatement of the amounts, percentages, ratios or number of shares referred to above. Further, we have addressed ourselves solely to the foregoing data as set forth in the Registration Statement and make no representations regarding the adequacy of disclosure or regarding whether any material facts have been omitted. D-6

GENERAL MILLS, INC. OFFICERS' CERTIFICATE AND AUTHENTICATION ORDER Pursuant to the Indenture dated as of February 1, 1996 (the "Indenture") between General Mills, Inc. (the "Company") and U. S. Bank National Association (formerly known as First Trust of Illinois, National Association), as trustee (the "Trustee"), and resolutions adopted by the Board of Directors of the Company on December 17, 2001 and the Finance Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company on December 17, 2001 (collectively, the "Resolutions"), this Officers' Certificate and Authentication Order is being delivered to the Trustee to establish the terms of a series of Securities in accordance with Section 301 of the Indenture, to establish the form of the Securities of such series in accordance with Section 201 of the Indenture, to establish the procedures for the authentication and delivery of specific Securities of such series from time to time pursuant to Section 303 of the Indenture and to comply with the provisions of Section 102 of the Indenture. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein and defined in the Indenture shall have the respective meanings ascribed to them in the Indenture. A. ESTABLISHMENT OF SERIES PURSUANT TO SECTION 301 OF INDENTURE. There is hereby established pursuant to Section 301 of the Indenture a series of Securities to be offered in a Periodic Offering which shall have the following terms (the numbered clauses set forth below correspond to the numbered subsections of Section 301 of the Indenture): (1) The series of Securities being authorized shall bear the title "General Mills CoreNotes(SM)" (the "Notes"). (2) There shall be no limit upon the aggregate principal amount of the Notes which may be authenticated and delivered under the Indenture; provided, however, that the aggregate initial offering price of the Notes which may be authenticated and delivered under the Indenture pursuant to this Officers' Certificate and Authentication Order shall be limited to $750,000,000 (except for Notes authenticated and delivered upon registration of transfer of, or in exchange for, or in lieu of, other Notes pursuant to Sections 304, 305, 306, 906 or 1107 of the Indenture and except for any Notes which, pursuant to Section 303 of the Indenture, are deemed never to have been authenticated and delivered under the Indenture). (3) Interest on each interest-bearing Note will be paid to the Person in whose name the Note is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date (as defined in paragraph 5 below), except that interest, if any, due at Maturity will be paid to the Person to whom the principal of the Note is paid. (4) Each Note will have a maturity of nine months or more from the date of issue (the "Stated Maturity Date"), as specified in the applicable Authentication Certificate (as defined in Section C below), unless the principal of the Note, or any installment of principal, becomes due and payable prior to the Stated Maturity Date. If
the date of Maturity of a Note is not a Business Day, the payment due on such day shall be made on the next succeeding Business Day and no additional interest shall accrue for the period from Maturity to that next succeeding Business Day. Unless defined otherwise in the applicable Authentication Certificate, "Business Day" means each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday which is not a day on which banking institutions in The City of New York are authorized or obligated by law or executive order to close. (5) Each interest-bearing Note will bear interest from and including its date of issue or from and including the most recent Interest Payment Date (as defined below) as to which interest on such Note (or any Predecessor Security with respect to such Note) has been paid or made available for payment at a fixed rate per annum, specified in the applicable Authentication Certificate, until the principal of the Note is paid or made available for payment. Each payment of interest on a Note will include interest to, but excluding, as the case may be, the relevant Interest Payment Date or Maturity. The interest payment frequency for each Note will be set out in the applicable Authentication Certificate. Unless otherwise indicated in the applicable Authentication Certificate, the "Interest Payment Dates" for Notes with the stated interest payment frequencies will be as follows: Monthly: Fifteenth day of each calendar month, beginning in the first calendar month following the month in which the Note was issued. Quarterly: Fifteenth day of every third month, beginning in the third calendar month following the month in which the Note was issued. Semiannual: Fifteenth day of every sixth month, beginning in the sixth calendar month following the month in which the Note was issued. Annual: Fifteenth day of every twelfth month, beginning in the twelfth calendar month following the month in which the Note was issued. Unless otherwise indicated in the applicable Authentication Certificate, the Regular Record Date will be the first day of the calendar month in which the related interest payment is to be made, whether or not a Business Day. If any Interest Payment Date for a Note is not a Business Day, the payment due on such day shall be made on the next succeeding Business Day and no additional interest shall accrue for the period from such Interest Payment Date to that next succeeding Business Day. Unless otherwise specified in the applicable Authentication Certificate, interest on each interest-bearing Note (including interest for partial periods) will be calculated on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months. Notes that are Original Issue Discount Securities within the meaning of the Indenture ("Original Issue Discount Notes") may be issued at a discount from the principal amount thereof due at Maturity as specified in the applicable Authentication Certificate. 2
(6) Payment of principal of and premium (if any) and interest (if any) on each Note that is represented by a Global Security will be made to the Depositary (as defined in paragraph 16) or its nominee, as the case may be, as the sole registered owner and the sole Holder of the Notes represented thereby for all purposes under the Indenture. In the case of each Note that is not represented by a Global Security, unless otherwise specified in the applicable Authentication Certificate: (a) payments of interest, if any, other than at Maturity will be made by check mailed to the address of the registered Holder thereof as of the close of business on the relevant Regular Record Date as such address appears in the Security Register; and (b) payment of principal of and premium (if any) and interest (if any) at Maturity will be made in immediately available funds upon presentation and surrender of such Note (and, in the case of the exercise of the Survivor's Option (as defined in paragraph 8 below), upon submission of a properly completed election form if required) at the office or agency maintained by the Company for that purpose in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York together with appropriate written wire transfer instructions, provided that the Note is presented to the Trustee in time for the Trustee to make payments in such funds in accordance with its normal procedures. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a registered Holder of $10,000,000 or more in principal amount of Notes with the same Interest Payment Date (whether such Notes otherwise have identical or different terms and provisions) shall be entitled to payment of interest, if any, other than at Maturity by wire transfer of immediately available funds if the registered Holder has delivered appropriate wire transfer instructions in writing to the Trustee not less than 15 days prior to the relevant Interest Payment Date. Any wire transfer instructions received by the Trustee shall remain in effect until revoked by the registered Holder. Payment in accordance with written wire transfer instructions from a registered Holder shall be deemed to constitute full and complete payment of all amounts so paid. (7) If so specified in the applicable Authentication Certificate, the Notes may be redeemed, in whole or in part, at the option of the Company on the date or dates prior to Stated Maturity specified in the applicable Authentication Certificate (the "Redemption Dates") at the price or prices (the "Redemption Prices") specified in the applicable Authentication Certificate. The applicable Authentication Certificate shall also state the period or periods during which the Redemption Prices shall apply. Unless otherwise specified in the applicable Authentication Certificate, the Redemption Prices will be expressed as percentage of the principal amount of such Note or, in the case of Notes issued as Original Issue Discount Notes (as specified in the applicable Authentication Certificate), as a percentage of the Amortized Face Amount (as defined in paragraph 13 below) of such Note. Payments of the Redemption Price shall be made together with (a) accrued interest, if any, through the day preceding the applicable Redemption Date or (b) in the case of a Note issued as an Original Issue Discount Note, any accrued but unpaid "qualified stated interest" payments (as defined in the Treasury Regulations regarding original issue discount issued by the Treasury Department (the "OID Regulations")). 3
(8) Unless otherwise specified in the applicable Authentication Certificate, all Notes are subject to the rights described in the Survivor's Option Riders to the forms of Notes attached hereto as Exhibits B and C (the "Survivor's Option"), which are incorporated herein by reference as though set out in full herein, but are not otherwise subject to redemption or repayment prior to their Stated Maturity either pursuant to any sinking fund or analogous provision or at the option of any Holder thereof. (13) The portion of the principal amount of any Notes which shall be payable upon declaration of acceleration of Maturity thereof pursuant to Section 502 of the Indenture shall be the principal amount thereof; except that, unless otherwise specified in the applicable Authentication Certificate, the portion of the principal amount of Notes issued as Original Issue Discount Notes which shall be payable upon declaration of acceleration of Maturity thereof pursuant to Section 502 of the Indenture shall be the Amortized Face Amount (as defined below) thereof plus interest, if any, accrued through the day preceding the date of Maturity. The "Amortized Face Amount" of an Original Issue Discount Note is equal to the sum of (x) the Issue Price (as defined below) of such Original Issue Discount Note and (y) that portion of the difference between the Issue Price and the principal amount of such Original Issue Discount Note that has been amortized at the Stated Yield (as defined below) of such Original Issue Discount Note (computed in accordance with Section 1272(a)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and Section 1.1275-1(b) of the OID Regulations, in each case as in effect on the original issue date of such Original Issue Discount Note) at the date as of which the Amortized Face Amount is calculated, but in no event can the Amortized Face Amount exceed the principal amount of such Note due at the Stated Maturity thereof. As used in the preceding sentence: (a) "Issue Price" means the principal amount of such Original Issue Discount Note due at the Stated Maturity thereof less the original issue discount of such Original Issue Discount Note specified on the face thereof and in the applicable Authentication Certificate, calculated as required by Section 1.1273-2 of the OID Regulations; and (b) "Stated Yield" means the yield to Stated Maturity specified on the face of such Original Issue Discount Note and in the applicable Authentication Certificate for the period from the original issue date of such Original Issue Discount Note, as specified on the face of such Original Issue Discount Note and in the applicable Authentication Certificate, to the Stated Maturity thereof based on its Issue Price and the principal amount payable at the Stated Maturity thereof. (15) Unless otherwise specified in the applicable Authentication Certificate, the Notes shall be defeasible, in whole or any specified part, pursuant to Section 1302 or Section 1303 of the Indenture or both such Sections. (16) The Notes shall be issuable in whole or in part in the form of one or more Global Securities registered in the name of the Depositary or its nominee. Unless otherwise specified in the applicable Authentication Certificate, the Depositary with respect to such Global Securities shall be The Depository Trust Company. Unless otherwise specified in the applicable Authentication Certificate, the Global Securities shall bear the legends set forth on the forms of Notes attached hereto as Exhibits B and C. Except as provided in the Clause (2) of the last paragraph of Section 305 of the Indenture, such Global Security may not be exchanged in whole or in part for Securities registered, 4
and no transfer of such Global Security in whole or in part may be registered, in the name or names of Persons other than the Depositary for such Global Security or a nominee thereof. So long as the Depositary or its nominee is the registered holder of any Global Security, the Depositary or its nominee, as the case may be, will be considered the sole Holder of the Notes represented by such Global Security for all purposes under the Notes and the Indenture. (17) Unless otherwise specified in the applicable Authentication Certificate, there shall not be any addition to or change in the Events of Default which apply to any Notes nor any change in the right of the Trustee or the requisite Holders of the Notes to declare the principal amount thereof due and payable pursuant to Section 502 of the Indenture. (18) Unless otherwise specified in the applicable Authentication Certificate, there shall not be any addition to or change in the covenants set forth in Article Ten of the Indenture which apply to the Notes. (19) Subject to the terms of the Indenture and the Resolutions, the Notes shall have such other terms and provisions as are (a) provided in the forms of Notes attached hereto as Exhibits B and C and (b) such other terms (which may be in addition to or different from the terms set forth herein or in the forms of Notes attached hereto as Exhibits B and C) as are specified in the applicable Authentication Certificate. B. ESTABLISHMENT OF FORMS OF SECURITIES PURSUANT TO SECTION 201 OF THE INDENTURE. In accordance with Section 201 of the Indenture, the forms attached hereto as Exhibits B and C are hereby established as the forms to represent the Notes, unless a different form is provided in the applicable Authentication Certificate (which Authentication Certificate shall be an "Officers' Certificate" satisfying the requirements of Section 201 of the Indenture). The Notes shall have such additional terms as shall be set forth in the applicable Authentication Certificate. Upon receipt (including receipt upon facsimile or e-mail transmission) of an Authentication Certificate signed by the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer of the Company, you or your authenticating agent is hereby instructed to prepare Notes on the appropriate forms in accordance with the items set forth in such Authentication Certificate, inserting such additional terms in the forms of Notes relating thereto as shall be necessary or appropriate. C. ORDER FOR THE AUTHENTICATION AND DELIVERY OF SECURITIES PURSUANT TO SECTION 303 OF THE INDENTURE. Pursuant to Section 303 of the Indenture, you are hereby requested, as Trustee under the Indenture, from time to time after the date hereof upon receipt (including receipt upon facsimile or e-mail transmission) of one or more certificates in substantially the form attached hereto as Exhibit A (each an "Authentication Certificate" and, collectively, the "Authentication Certificates") signed by the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer of the Company, to authenticate and issue such aggregate principal amount of the Notes, not to exceed $750,000,000 aggregate initial offering price, as shall be set forth in such Authentication Certificates. You shall authenticate, issue and deliver such Notes in the manner provided by the Indenture, the Administrative Procedures with respect to the Notes attached as Exhibit B to the Distribution Agreement dated September 18, 2002 between the Company and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, as the same may be in effect from time to time (the 5
"Administrative Procedures"), and any applicable Authentication Certificate. The procedures specified herein, in the Administrative Procedures and in each Authentication Certificate shall constitute the "other procedures" referred to in the third paragraph of Section 303 of the Indenture with respect to the preparation, authentication, issuance and delivery of the Notes. D. CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 102 OF THE INDENTURE. Each of the undersigned has read the pertinent sections of the Indenture, including Sections 201, 301 and 303 thereof and the definitions in the Indenture relating thereto, and certain other corporate documents and records. In the opinion of each of the undersigned, the undersigned has made such examination or investigation as is necessary to enable the undersigned to express an informed opinion as to whether or not the conditions precedent to (i) the establishment of (a) a series of Securities and (b) the form of such Securities and (ii) the authentication and delivery of such series of Securities contained in the Indenture have been complied with. In the opinion of the undersigned, all conditions precedent to the establishment of the Notes and the form of the Notes have been complied with and, upon your receipt of a properly executed Authentication Order authorizing such authentication and delivery, the conditions precedent to the authentication and delivery of the Notes will have been complied with. Insofar as this Officers' Certificate and Authentication Order relates to legal matters, it is based upon the Opinion of Counsel delivered by the Company to the Trustee contemporaneously herewith. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned have hereunto signed our names on behalf of the Company. Dated: September 18, 2002 GENERAL MILLS, INC. By /s/ James A. Lawrence --------------------------------------- James A. Lawrence Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer By /s/ David B. VanBenschoten --------------------------------------- David B. VanBenschoten Vice President and Treasurer 6
CERTIFICATION I, Elizabeth L. Wittenberg, an Assistant Secretary of the Company, do hereby certify that James A. Lawrence is on the date hereof the duly elected or appointed Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company and the signature set forth above is his own true signature, and further certify that David B. VanBenschoten is on the date hereof the duly elected or appointed Vice President and Treasurer of the Company and the signature set forth above is his own true signature. /s/ Elizabeth L. Wittenberg ---------------------------------- Elizabeth L. Wittenberg Assistant Secretary 7
EXHIBIT A GENERAL MILLS, INC. GENERAL MILLS CORENOTES(SM) AUTHENTICATION CERTIFICATE
Form of Note For Original Issue Discount Notes: | | Book Entry Total Amount of Original Issue Discount: ____________% | | Certificated Yield to Maturity: _____________________________% Name and Address of Registered Owner: Method Used To Determine Yield To Maturity: | | Approximate | | Exact Taxpayer Identification Number of Short Accrual Period: __________________________________ Registered Owner: ______________________________ Original Issue Discount Applicable To Short Accrual Period: ______________________% Method Used To Determine Yield for Short Accrual Period: Original Issue Date: ________________________________ | | Approximate Maturity Date: ______________________________________ | | Exact Original Issue Discount Note: Principal Amount: U.S. $____________________________ | | Subject to special provisions set forth therein Issue Price (Dollar Amount and Percentage of | | For federal income tax purposes only Principal Amount): $_____________/___________% Purchasing Agent's Commission: $____________________ Net Proceeds to the Company: $______________________ Other Terms, if any: Trade Date: _________________________________________ Settlement Date: ____________________________________ CUSIP Number: ______________________________________________ Interest Rate Per Annum, if any: ____________________ Interest Payment Frequency: _________________________ Interest Payment Dates (if other than fifteenth day of Aggregate initial offering price of Debt Securities issued applicable calendar month): under Registration Statement No. 333-75808 through date hereof (including this Note): $ ______________ Regular Record Dates (if other than first calendar day of Aggregate initial offering price of Notes issued through month in which Interest Payment Date occurs): date hereof (including this Note): $ _____________ Survivor's Option: | | Yes | | No GENERAL MILLS, INC. Redemption Terms, if any: Redemption Commencement Date: BY: __________________________________________________* Initial Redemption Price (Percentage of Principal Amount): Name: ______% Title: Amount (Percentage of Principal Amount) Initial Redemption Price Declines Each Anniversary: _____% BY: __________________________________________________* Other Redemption Terms, if any: Name: Title: Date: _____________________________
* To be signed by either the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer (subject to the following sentence, only one signature is required). If this instrument is to be used to provide for a form of Note other than that established the Officers' Certificate and Authentication Order dated September 18, 2002, it must be signed by (1) the Chairman of the Board, a Vice Chairman of the Board, the President or a Vice President and (2) the Senior Vice President, Corporate Finance or a Director of Finances, the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary.
EXHIBIT B REGISTERED NO. _____ PRINCIPAL AMOUNT: $__________ CUSIP NO. __________ GENERAL MILLS, INC. General Mills CoreNotes(SM) ([Global] Note Without Original Issue Discount) [Applicable if the Security is a Global Security: UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION ("DTC"), TO THE ISSUER OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO, HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN. THIS SECURITY IS A GLOBAL SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE THEREOF. THIS SECURITY MAY NOT BE EXCHANGED IN WHOLE OR IN PART FOR A SECURITY REGISTERED, AND NO TRANSFER OF THIS SECURITY IN WHOLE OR IN PART MAY BE REGISTERED, IN THE NAME OF ANY PERSON OTHER THAN SUCH DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE THEREOF, EXCEPT IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE.] ORIGINAL ISSUE DATE: MATURITY DATE: INTEREST RATE PER ANNUM: INTEREST PAYMENT FREQUENCY: INTEREST PAYMENT DATES: SURVIVOR'S OPTION (YES OR NO): REDEMPTION TERMS, IF ANY: OTHER TERMS, IF ANY:
GENERAL MILLS, INC., a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (herein called the "Company", which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to _______________, or registered assigns, the principal sum of _______________ Dollars (U.S. $__________) on the Maturity Date shown above, and to pay interest thereon on each Interest Payment Date shown above from and including the Original Issue Date shown above or from and including the most recent Interest Payment Date as to which interest hereon (or on any Predecessor Security with respect hereto) has been paid or made available for payment, commencing with the Interest Payment Date immediately following the Original Issue Date shown above at the rate per annum equal to the Interest Rate shown above until the principal hereof is paid or made available for payment; provided, however, that if the Original Issue Date is after a Regular Record Date (as defined below) and on or before the immediately following Interest Payment Date, interest payments will commence with the Interest Payment Date following the next succeeding Regular Record Date. Interest (including interest for partial periods) will be calculated on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months. Each payment of interest hereon will include interest to, but excluding, as the case may be, the relevant Interest Payment Date or Maturity. Interest payable, and punctually paid or made available for payment, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided for in the Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Note (or one or more Predecessor Securities with respect hereto) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such Interest Payment Date, which shall be the first day of the calendar month (whether or not a Business Day) in which such Interest Payment Date falls; except that interest due at Maturity will be paid to the Person to whom the principal of this Note is paid. Any such interest not so punctually paid or made available for payment will forthwith cease to be payable to the Person in whose name this Note (or one or more Predecessor Securities with respect hereto) is registered on such Regular Record Date and may either be paid to the Person in whose name this Note (or one or more Predecessor Securities with respect hereto) is registered at the close of business on a special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof shall be given to the Holder of this Note not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Notes may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in the Indenture. [For use with Global Securities: Payment of principal of and premium (if any) and interest on this Note will be made to The Depository Trust Company or its nominee, as the case may be, as the sole registered owner and the sole Holder of the Note represented hereby for all purposes under the Indenture.] [For use with certificated Notes: Payments of interest on this Note other than at Maturity will be made by check mailed to the address of the registered Holder hereof as of the close of business on the relevant Regular Record Date as such address appears in the Security Register; and payment of principal of and premium (if any) and interest on this Note at Maturity will be made in immediately available funds upon presentation and surrender of this Note (and, in the case of the exercise of the Survivor's Option (as defined below), upon submission of a properly 2
completed election form if required) at the office or agency maintained by the Company for that purpose in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York together with appropriate written wire transfer instructions, provided that this Note is presented to the Trustee in time for the Trustee to make payments in such funds in accordance with its normal procedures. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a registered Holder of $10,000,000 or more in principal amount of Notes with the same Interest Payment Date (whether such Notes otherwise have identical or different terms and provisions) shall be entitled to payment of interest, if any, other than at Maturity by wire transfer of immediately available funds if the registered Holder has delivered appropriate wire transfer instructions in writing to the Trustee not less than 15 days prior to the relevant Interest Payment Date. Any wire transfer instructions received by the Trustee shall remain in effect until revoked by the registered Holder. Payment in accordance with written wire transfer instructions from a registered Holder shall be deemed to constitute full and complete payment of all amounts so paid.] Payment of the principal of and premium (if any) and interest on this Note will be made in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal for payment of public and private debts. Any payment on this Note due on a day that is not a Business Day will be made on the next succeeding Business Day and no additional interest shall accrue for the period from such day to that next succeeding Business Day. "Business Day" means each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday which is not a day on which banking institutions in The City of New York are authorized or obligated by law or executive order to close. Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Note set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall have the same effect as though fully set forth in this place. Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by or on behalf of the Trustee referred to below by manual signature, this Note shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed and has caused a facsimile of its corporate seal to be affixed hereto or imprinted hereon. Dated: TRUSTEE'S CERTIFICATE OF GENERAL MILLS, INC. AUTHENTICATION This is one of the series designated herein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture. By: _____________________________ [Name] [Title] 3
U.S. BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as Trustee Attest: _________________________ By: ___________________________________ [Name] Authorized Officer [Title] OR _______________________________________ [SEAL] as Authenticating Agent for the Trustee By: ___________________________________ Authorized Officer 4
[REVERSE OF NOTE] This Note is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the Company (herein called the "Notes"), issued and to be issued in one or more series under an Indenture, dated as of February 1, 1996 (herein called the "Indenture", which term shall have the meaning assigned to it in such instrument), between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association (formerly First Trust of Illinois, National Association), as Trustee (herein called the "Trustee", which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), and reference is hereby made to the Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Notes and of the terms upon which the Notes are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. This Note is one of the series designated on the face hereof. By the terms of the Indenture, the Company may, without the consent of the Holders of any Note, issue an unlimited principal amount of additional Notes of this series and of other separate series, which may have the same or different dates, amounts, Stated Maturities, interest rates and other terms as therein provided. In case an Event of Default, as defined in the Indenture, with respect to the Notes shall have occurred and be continuing, the unpaid principal hereof may be declared, and upon such declaration shall become, due and payable in the manner, with the effect and subject to the conditions provided in the Indenture. If so provided above under the heading "Redemption Terms, If Any," this Note may be redeemed by the Company on and after the dates indicated on the terms indicated. Any redemption of this Note shall be effected on not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' notice to the Holder hereof. Payment of the Redemption Price shall be made together with interest to, but excluding, the applicable Redemption Date. If so provided above under the heading "Survivor's Option (Yes or No)," this Note shall be repayable in whole or in part on the terms set forth in the Survivor's Option Rider attached to this Note. In the event of redemption or repayment of this Note in part only, a new Note or Notes of like tenor in aggregate principal amount equal to and in exchange for the unredeemed portion hereof will be issued in the name of the Holder hereof upon the cancellation hereof; provided, that such Note or Notes shall only be issued in denominations of $1,000 and integral multiples thereof. The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each series to be affected under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding of each series to be affected. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of specified percentages in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of each series at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of all Securities of such series, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Note shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Note and of any Note issued upon the 5
registration of transfer hereof of in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Note. The Notes are issuable in global or definitive form without coupons in denominations of $1,000 and integral multiples thereof. No Notes shall be issuable in denominations of less than $1,000. As provided in the Indenture, and subject to the limitations set forth below and in the Indenture, this Note is exchangeable for Notes of like aggregate principal amount and like tenor in denominations of $1,000 and integral multiples thereof, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same. Upon due presentment for registration of transfer of this Note at the office or agency maintained by the Company for that purpose in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, a new Note or Notes in authorized denominations for an equal aggregate principal amount and like interest rate and maturity will be issued to the transferee in exchange therefore, subject to the limitations provided in the Indenture and to the limitations described below, if applicable. Any exchange or transfer shall be made without charge except for any tax or other governmental charge imposed in connection therewith. [This Note is exchangeable for definitive Notes in registered form only if (x) the Depositary has notified the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary for this Global Note or if the Depositary has ceased to be a clearing agency registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, (y) the Company executes and delivers to the Trustee a Company Order that this Note shall be so exchangeable or (z) there shall have occurred and be continuing an Event of Default with respect to the Notes represented hereby. This Note shall be exchangeable into Notes issuable only in denominations of $1,000 and integral multiples thereof. If this Note is exchangeable pursuant to the preceding sentences, it shall be exchangeable for definitive Notes of like tenor in registered form of differing denominations aggregating a like amount.] The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of either the entire principal of this Note or of certain covenants and Events of Default with respect to this Note, in either case upon compliance with certain conditions set forth in the Indenture. As provided in and subject to the provisions of the Indenture, the Holder of this Note shall not have the right to institute any proceeding with respect to the Indenture or for the appointment of a receiver or trustee or for any other remedy thereunder, unless such Holder shall have previously given the Trustee written notice of a continuing Event of Default with respect to the Securities of this series, the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Notes of this series at the time Outstanding shall have made written request to the Trustee to institute proceedings in respect of such Event of Default as Trustee and offered the Trustee reasonable indemnity, and the Trustee shall not have received from the Holders of a majority in principal amount of Notes of this series at the time Outstanding a direction inconsistent with such request, and shall have failed to institute any such proceeding, for 60 days after receipt of such notice, request and offer of indemnity. The foregoing shall not apply to any suit instituted by the Holder of this Note for the enforcement of any payment of principal hereof or any premium or interest hereon on or after the respective due dates expressed herein. In determining whether the Holders of the requisite principal amount of the Outstanding Notes have given, made or taken any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, 6
waiver or other action under the Indenture, the principal amount of any Note that is an Original Issue Discount Security which shall be deemed to be Outstanding shall be the amount of the principal thereof which would be due and payable as of the date upon the acceleration of the Maturity thereof to such date pursuant to Section 502 of the Indenture. No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Note or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and premium (if any) and interest on this Note at the places, at the respective times, at the rate and and in the currency herein prescribed. The Company, the Trustee and any paying agent may deem and treat the registered holder hereof as the absolute owner of this Note at such holder's address as it appears on the Security Register (whether or not this Note shall be overdue) for the purpose of receiving payment of or on account hereof and for all other purposes, and neither the Company nor the Trustee nor any paying agent shall be affected by any notice to the contrary. All payments made to or upon the order of such registered holder shall, to the extent of the sum or sums paid, effectually satisfy and discharge liability for moneys payable on this Note. No recourse under or upon any obligation, covenant or agreement contained in the Indenture or in any indenture supplemental thereto or any Note, or because of any indebtedness evidenced thereby, shall be had against any incorporator, or against any past, present or future stockholder, officer or director, as such, of the Company or of any successor corporation, either directly or through the Company or any successor corporation, under any rule of law, statute or constitutional provision or by the enforcement of any assessment or by any legal or equitable proceeding or otherwise, all such personal liability of every such incorporator, stockholder, officer and director, as such, being expressly waived and released by acceptance hereof and as a condition of and as part of the consideration for the issuance of this Note. This Note may have such additional or different terms as are set forth above under "Other Terms, If Any." Any terms so set forth shall be deemed to modify and/or supersede, as necessary, any other terms set forth in this Note. Terms used herein which are defined in the Indenture shall have the respective meanings assigned thereto under the Indenture. The Indenture is, and this Note shall be, governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York. 7
SURVIVOR'S OPTION RIDER If the Survivor's Option is applicable to this Note, the Representative (defined below) of a deceased owner of this Note or an interest in this Note shall have the option to elect repayment or repurchase of this Note on the terms and conditions set forth below following the death of such owner (the "Survivor's Option"). Unless specifically provided on the face of this Note, the Survivor's Option may not be exercised unless such deceased owner (i) owned this Note or his or her interest in this Note at the time of his or her death and (ii) acquired this Note or his or her interest in this Note at least six months prior to the date of its submission for repayment. If the Survivor's Option is applicable to this Note, upon the valid exercise of the Survivor's Option, the Company shall repay or repurchase, at its option, the Note (or portion thereof), properly tendered for repayment or repurchase by or on behalf of the person (the "Representative") that has the legal authority to act on behalf of the deceased owner of this Note or an interest in this Note under the laws of the appropriate jurisdiction (including, without limitation, the personal representative or executor of the deceased beneficial owner or the surviving joint owner of the deceased beneficial owner) at a price equal to 100% of the unpaid principal amount of the deceased owner's beneficial interest in this Note plus interest to, but excluding, the date of such repayment or repurchase, subject to the following limitations: (a) The Company may, in its sole discretion, limit the aggregate principal amount of Notes as to which exercises of the Survivor's Option shall be accepted from all deceased beneficial owners in any calendar year (the "Annual Put Limitation") to an amount equal to the greater of $5,000,000 or 5% of the principal amount of all Notes Outstanding as of the end of the most recent calendar year, or such greater amount as the Company in its sole discretion may determine for any calendar year, and may limit to $500,000 the aggregate principal amount of acceptances of exercise of the Survivor's Option in any calendar year for any individual deceased beneficial owner (the "Individual Put Limitation"). (b) The Company shall not make principal repayments pursuant to exercise of the Survivor's Option in amounts that are less than $1,000, and, in the event that the limitations described in the preceding sentence would result in the partial repayment of any Note, the principal amount of such Note remaining Outstanding after repayment must be at least $1,000. (c) Any Note (or portion thereof) tendered pursuant to a valid exercise of the Survivor's Option may not be withdrawn. Each Note (or portion thereof) that is tendered pursuant to valid exercise of the Survivor's Option shall be accepted in the order that all such Notes are received by the Trustee, except for any Note (or portion thereof) the acceptance of which would contravene (i) the Annual Put Limitation, if applied, or (ii) the Individual Put Limitation, if applied, with respect to the relevant individual deceased beneficial owner. If, as of the end of any calendar year, the aggregate principal amount of Notes (or portions thereof) that have been tendered pursuant to the valid exercise of the Survivor's Option during such year has exceeded either the Annual Put 8
Limitation, if applied, or the Individual Put Limitation, if applied, for such year, any exercises of the Survivor's Option with respect to Notes (or portions thereof) not accepted during such calendar year because such acceptance would have contravened either such limitation, if applied, shall be deemed to be tendered on the first day of the following calendar year in the order in which all such Notes (or portions thereof) were originally tendered. Upon acceptance for repayment or repurchase pursuant to exercise of the Survivor's Option, this Note shall be repaid or repurchased on the first Interest Payment Date that occurs 20 or more calendar days after the date of such acceptance unless such date is not a Business Day, in which case the date of repayment or repurchase shall be the next succeeding Business Day. In the event that this Note (or any portion hereof) tendered for repayment or repurchase pursuant to valid exercise of the Survivor's Option is not accepted or repayment or repurchase of this Note (or any portion hereof) will be delayed, the Trustee shall deliver a notice by first-class mail to the registered holder hereof, at its last known address as indicated in the Security Register, that states the reason this Note (or portion hereof) has not been accepted for payment or the repayment will be delayed. Subject to the Company's rights hereunder to limit the aggregate principal amount of Notes as to which exercises of the Survivor's Option shall be accepted in any one calendar year, all questions as to the eligibility or validity of any exercise of the Survivor's Option will be determined by the Trustee, in its sole discretion, which determination shall be final and binding on all parties. If this Note (or a portion hereof) is owned or beneficially owned by tenants by the entirety or joint tenants, this Note (or relevant portion hereof) will be regarded as beneficially owned by a single owner. Accordingly, the death of a tenant by the entirety or joint tenant will be deemed the death of the owner or beneficial owner and the entire principal amount so owned will become eligible for repayment or repurchase. The death of a person owning or beneficially owning this Note (or a portion hereof) by tenancy in common will be deemed the death of the owner or beneficial owner only with respect to the deceased owner's interest in this Note (or relevant portion hereof) so owned, unless a husband and wife are the tenants in common, in which case the death of either will be deemed the death of the owner or beneficial owner and the entire principal amount so owned will be eligible for repayment or repurchase. If this Note (or a portion hereof) is owned or beneficially owned by a trust, it will be regarded as owned or beneficially owned by each beneficiary of the trust to the extent of that beneficiary's interest in the trust (however, a trust's beneficiaries collectively cannot be beneficial owners of more Notes than are owned by the trust). The death of a beneficiary of a trust will be deemed the death of the owner or beneficial owner of this Note (or relevant portion hereof) owned or beneficially owned by the trust to the extent of that beneficiary's interest in the trust. The death of an individual who was a tenant by the entirety or joint tenant in a tenancy which is the beneficiary of a trust will be deemed the death of the beneficiary of the trust. The death of an individual who was a tenant in common in a tenancy which is the beneficiary of a trust will be deemed the death of the beneficiary of the trust only with respect to the deceased 9
holder's beneficial interest in this Note, unless a husband and wife are the tenants in common, in which case the death of either will be deemed the death of the beneficiary of the trust. The death of a person who, during his or her lifetime, was entitled to substantially all of the beneficial interest in this Note (or a portion hereof) will be deemed the death of the owner or beneficial owner of this Note (or relevant portion hereof), regardless of the registration of ownership, if such beneficial interest can be established to the satisfaction of the Trustee. Such beneficial interest will exist in many cases of street name or nominee ownership, custodial arrangements, ownership by a trustee, ownership under the Uniform Transfers to Minors Act and community property or other joint ownership arrangements between spouses. Beneficial interest will be evidenced by such factors as the power to sell or otherwise dispose of this Note, the right to receive the proceeds of sale or disposition and the right to receive interest and principal payments on this Note. If this Note is represented by a Global Note, the Depositary or its nominee is the registered holder hereof and therefore is the only entity that can exercise the Survivor's Option with respect to this Note. To obtain repayment or repurchase pursuant to exercise of the Survivor's Option with respect to this Note, the Representative must provide to the broker or other entity through which the beneficial interest in this Note is held by the deceased beneficial owner: (i) instructions to such broker or other entity to notify the Depositary of such Representative's desire to obtain repayment or repurchase pursuant to exercise of the Survivor's Option, (ii) appropriate evidence satisfactory to the Trustee that (A) the Representative has authority to act on behalf of the deceased beneficial owner, (B) the death of such beneficial owner has occurred (including the date of such death), (C) the deceased was the beneficial owner of an interest in this Note at the time of death and (D) the interest in this Note was acquired by the deceased beneficial owner at least six months prior to the date of its submission for repayment, (iii) if the interest in this Note is held by a nominee of the deceased beneficial owner, a certificate satisfactory to the Trustee from such nominee attesting to the deceased's beneficial ownership in this Note, (iv) a written request for repayment or repurchase signed by the Representative, which signature must be guaranteed by a member firm of a registered national securities exchange or of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. (the "NASD") or a commercial bank or trust company having an office or correspondent in the United States, (v) if applicable, a properly executed assignment or endorsement, (vi) tax waivers and such other instruments or documents that the Trustee reasonably requires in order to establish the validity of the beneficial ownership of this Note and the claimant's entitlement to payment and (vii) any additional information the Trustee reasonably requires to document beneficial ownership or authority to make the election and to cause the repayment or repurchase of this Note. Such broker or other entity shall provide to the Trustee (i) the Repayment Election Form attached as Annex A and (ii) evidence satisfactory to the Trustee from such broker or other entity stating that it represents the deceased beneficial owner. Such broker or other entity shall be responsible for disbursing any payments it receives pursuant to exercise of the Survivor's Option to the appropriate Representative. 10
ABBREVIATIONS The following abbreviations, when used in the inscription on the face of this instrument, shall be construed as though they were written out in full according to applicable laws or regulations: Additional abbreviations may also be used though not in the above list. FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned hereby sell(s), assign(s) and transfer(s) unto Please insert Social Security or Other identifying Number of Assignee ___________________________________________ / / ________________________________________________________________________________ PLEASE PRINT OR TYPEWRITE NAME AND ADDRESS INCLUDING POSTAL ZIP CODE OF ASSIGNEE ________________________________________________________________________________ ________________________________________________________________________________ the within note of GENERAL MILLS, INC. and does hereby irrevocably constitute and appoint _______________ attorney to transfer said Note on the books of the Company, with full power of substitution in the premises. Dated: ___________________________ _________________________________ _________________________________ NOTICE: The signature to this assignment must correspond with the name as written upon the face of the within instrument in every particular, without alteration or enlargement or any change whatever. 11
EXHIBIT C REGISTERED NO._______ PRINCIPAL AMOUNT: $__________ CUSIP NO.____________ GENERAL MILLS, INC. General Mills CoreNotes(SM) ([Global] Note With Original Issue Discount) [Applicable if the Security is a Global Security: UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION ("DTC"), TO THE ISSUER OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO, HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN. THIS SECURITY IS A GLOBAL SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE THEREOF. THIS SECURITY MAY NOT BE EXCHANGED IN WHOLE OR IN PART FOR A SECURITY REGISTERED, AND NO TRANSFER OF THIS SECURITY IN WHOLE OR IN PART MAY BE REGISTERED, IN THE NAME OF ANY PERSON OTHER THAN SUCH DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE THEREOF, EXCEPT IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE.] ORIGINAL ISSUE DATE: MATURITY DATE: [INTEREST RATE PER ANNUM:] [INTEREST PAYMENT FREQUENCY:] [INTEREST PAYMENT DATES:] ISSUE PRICE: TOTAL AMOUNT OF OID: YIELD TO MATURITY: SHORT ACCRUAL PERIOD OID: METHOD USED TO DETERMINE YIELD FOR SHORT ACCRUAL PERIOD (APPROXIMATE OR EXACT):
SURVIVOR'S OPTION (YES OR NO): REDEMPTION TERMS, IF ANY: OTHER TERMS, IF ANY: GENERAL MILLS, INC., a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (herein called the "Company", which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to _______________, or registered assigns, the principal sum of _______________ Dollars (U.S. $__________) on the Maturity Date shown above, [and to pay interest thereon on each Interest Payment Date shown above from and including the Original Issue Date shown above or from and including the most recent Interest Payment Date as to which interest hereon (or on any Predecessor Security with respect hereto) has been paid or made available for payment, commencing with the Interest Payment Date immediately following the Original Issue Date shown above at the rate per annum equal to the Interest Rate shown above until the principal hereof is paid or made available for payment; provided, however, that if the Original Issue Date is after a Regular Record Date (as defined below) and on or before the immediately following Interest Payment Date, interest payments will commence with the Interest Payment Date following the next succeeding Regular Record Date. Interest (including interest for partial periods) will be calculated on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months. Each payment of interest hereon will include interest to, but excluding, as the case may be, the relevant Interest Payment Date or Maturity.] [Interest payable, and punctually paid or made available for payment, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided for in the Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Note (or one or more Predecessor Securities with respect hereto) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such Interest Payment Date, which shall be the first day of the calendar month (whether or not a Business Day) in which such Interest Payment Date falls; except that interest due at Maturity will be paid to the Person to whom the principal of this Note is paid. Any such interest not so punctually paid or made available for payment will forthwith cease to be payable to the Person in whose name this Note (or one or more Predecessor Securities with respect hereto) is registered on such Regular Record Date and may either be paid to the Person in whose name this Note (or one or more Predecessor Securities with respect hereto) is registered at the close of business on a special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof shall be given to the Holder of this Note not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Notes may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in the Indenture.] 2
[For use with Global Securities: Payment of principal of and premium (if any) [and interest] on this Note will be made to The Depository Trust Company or its nominee, as the case may be, as the sole registered owner and the sole Holder of the Note represented hereby for all purposes under the Indenture.] [For use with certificated Notes: [Payments of interest on this Note other than at Maturity will be made by check mailed to the address of the registered Holder hereof as of the close of business on the relevant Regular Record Date as such address appears in the Security Register; and] [P][p]ayment of principal of and premium (if any) [and interest] on this Note at Maturity will be made in immediately available funds upon presentation and surrender of this Note (and, in the case of the exercise of the Survivor's Option (as defined below), upon submission of a properly completed election form if required) at the office or agency maintained by the Company for that purpose in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York together with appropriate written wire transfer instructions, provided that this Note is presented to the Trustee in time for the Trustee to make payments in such funds in accordance with its normal procedures. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a registered Holder of $10,000,000 or more in principal amount of Notes with the same Interest Payment Date (whether such Notes otherwise have identical or different terms and provisions) shall be entitled to payment of interest, if any, other than at Maturity by wire transfer of immediately available funds if the registered Holder has delivered appropriate wire transfer instructions in writing to the Trustee not less than 15 days prior to the relevant Interest Payment Date. Any wire transfer instructions received by the Trustee shall remain in effect until revoked by the registered Holder. Payment in accordance with written wire transfer instructions from a registered Holder shall be deemed to constitute full and complete payment of all amounts so paid.] Payment of the principal of and premium (if any) [and interest] on this Note will be made in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal for payment of public and private debts. Any payment on this Note due on a day that is not a Business Day will be made on the next succeeding Business Day and no additional interest shall accrue for the period from such day to that next succeeding Business Day. "Business Day" means each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday which is not a day on which banking institutions in The City of New York are authorized or obligated by law or executive order to close. Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Note set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall have the same effect as though fully set forth in this place. Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by or on behalf of the Trustee referred to below by manual signature, this Note shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed and has caused a facsimile of its corporate seal to be affixed hereto or imprinted hereon. Dated: 3
TRUSTEE'S CERTIFICATE OF GENERAL MILLS, INC. AUTHENTICATION This is one of the series designated herein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture. By:_______________________________ [Name] [Title] U.S. BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as Trustee Attest:___________________________ By:___________________________________ [Name] Authorized Officer [Title] OR _______________________________________ [SEAL] as Authenticating Agent for the Trustee By:____________________________________ Authorized Officer 4
[REVERSE OF NOTE] This Note is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the Company (herein called the "Notes"), issued and to be issued in one or more series under an Indenture, dated as of February 1, 1996 (herein called the "Indenture", which term shall have the meaning assigned to it in such instrument), between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association (formerly First Trust of Illinois, National Association), as Trustee (herein called the "Trustee", which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), and reference is hereby made to the Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Notes and of the terms upon which the Notes are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. This Note is one of the series designated on the face hereof. By the terms of the Indenture, the Company may, without the consent of the Holders of any Note, issue an unlimited principal amount of additional Notes of this series and of other separate series, which may have the same or different dates, amounts, Stated Maturities, interest rates and other terms as therein provided. Unless otherwise indicated above under the heading "Other Terms, If Any," in case an Event of Default, as defined in the Indenture, with respect to the Notes shall have occurred and be continuing, the amount of principal hereof which may be declared, and upon such declaration shall become, due and payable in the manner, with the effect and subject to the conditions provided in the Indenture, shall be the Amortized Face Amount (as defined below) hereof. The "Amortized Face Amount" of this Note is equal to the sum of (x) the Issue Price (as defined below) of this Note and (y) that portion of the difference between the Issue Price and the principal amount of this Note that has been amortized at the Stated Yield (as defined below) of this Note (computed in accordance with Section 1272(a)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and Section 1.1275-1(b) of the the Treasury Regulations regarding original issue discount issued by the Treasury Department (the "OID Regulations"), in each case as in effect on the original issue date of this Note) at the date as of which the Amortized Face Amount is calculated, but in no event can the Amortized Face Amount exceed the principal amount of this Note due at the Stated Maturity hereof. As used in the preceding sentence: (a) "Issue Price" means the principal amount of this Note due at the Stated Maturity thereof less the original issue discount of this Note specified on the face hereof and in the applicable Authentication Certificate, calculated as required by Section 1.1273-2 of the OID Regulations; and (b) "Stated Yield" means the yield to Stated Maturity specified on the face of this Note and in the applicable Authentication Certificate for the period from the original issue date of this Note, as specified on the face of this Note and in the applicable Authentication Certificate, to the Stated Maturity hereof based on the Issue Price hereof and the principal amount payable at the Stated Maturity hereof. If so provided above under the heading "Redemption Terms, If Any," this Note may be redeemed by the Company on and after the dates indicated on the terms indicated. Any redemption of this Note shall be effected on not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' notice to the Holder hereof. [Payment of the Redemption Price shall be made together with any accrued but unpaid "qualified stated interest" payments (as defined in the OID Regulations).] If so provided above under the heading "Survivor's Option (Yes or No)," this Note shall be repayable in whole 5
or in part on the terms set forth in the Survivor's Option Rider attached to this Note. In the event of redemption or repayment of this Note in part only, a new Note or Notes of like tenor in aggregate principal amount equal to and in exchange for the unredeemed portion hereof will be issued in the name of the Holder hereof upon the cancellation hereof; provided, that such Note or Notes shall only be issued in denominations of $1,000 and integral multiples thereof. The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each series to be affected under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding of each series to be affected. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of specified percentages in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of each series at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of all Securities of such series, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Note shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Note and of any Note issued upon the registration of transfer hereof of in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Note. The Notes are issuable in global or definitive form without coupons in denominations of $1,000 and integral multiples thereof. No Notes shall be issuable in denominations of less than $1,000. As provided in the Indenture, and subject to the limitations set forth below and in the Indenture, this Note is exchangeable for Notes of like aggregate principal amount and like tenor in denominations of $1,000 and integral multiples thereof, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same. Upon due presentment for registration of transfer of this Note at the office or agency maintained by the Company for that purpose in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, a new Note or Notes in authorized denominations for an equal aggregate principal amount and like interest rate and maturity will be issued to the transferee in exchange therefore, subject to the limitations provided in the Indenture and to the limitations described below, if applicable. Any exchange or transfer shall be made without charge except for any tax or other governmental charge imposed in connection therewith. [This Note is exchangeable for definitive Notes in registered form only if (x) the Depositary has notified the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary for this Global Note or if the Depositary has ceased to be a clearing agency registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, (y) the Company executes and delivers to the Trustee a Company Order that this Note shall be so exchangeable or (z) there shall have occurred and be continuing an Event of Default with respect to the Notes represented hereby. This Note shall be exchangeable into Notes issuable only in denominations of $1,000 and integral multiples thereof. If this Note is exchangeable pursuant to the preceding sentences, it shall be exchangeable for definitive Notes of like tenor in registered form of differing denominations aggregating a like amount.] The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of either the entire principal of this Note or of certain covenants and Events of Default with respect to this Note, in either case upon compliance with certain conditions set forth in the Indenture. 6
As provided in and subject to the provisions of the Indenture, the Holder of this Note shall not have the right to institute any proceeding with respect to the Indenture or for the appointment of a receiver or trustee or for any other remedy thereunder, unless such Holder shall have previously given the Trustee written notice of a continuing Event of Default with respect to the Securities of this series, the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Notes of this series at the time Outstanding shall have made written request to the Trustee to institute proceedings in respect of such Event of Default as Trustee and offered the Trustee reasonable indemnity, and the Trustee shall not have received from the Holders of a majority in principal amount of Notes of this series at the time Outstanding a direction inconsistent with such request, and shall have failed to institute any such proceeding, for 60 days after receipt of such notice, request and offer of indemnity. The foregoing shall not apply to any suit instituted by the Holder of this Note for the enforcement of any payment of principal hereof or any premium or interest hereon on or after the respective due dates expressed herein. In determining whether the Holders of the requisite principal amount of the Outstanding Notes have given, made or taken any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action under the Indenture, the principal amount of any Note (including this Note) that is an Original Issue Discount Security which shall be deemed to be Outstanding shall be the amount of the principal thereof which would be due and payable as of the date upon the acceleration of the Maturity thereof to such date pursuant to Section 502 of the Indenture. No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Note or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and premium (if any) [and interest] on this Note at the places, at the respective times, at the rate and and in the currency herein prescribed. The Company, the Trustee and any paying agent may deem and treat the registered holder hereof as the absolute owner of this Note at such holder's address as it appears on the Security Register (whether or not this Note shall be overdue) for the purpose of receiving payment of or on account hereof and for all other purposes, and neither the Company nor the Trustee nor any paying agent shall be affected by any notice to the contrary. All payments made to or upon the order of such registered holder shall, to the extent of the sum or sums paid, effectually satisfy and discharge liability for moneys payable on this Note. No recourse under or upon any obligation, covenant or agreement contained in the Indenture or in any indenture supplemental thereto or any Note, or because of any indebtedness evidenced thereby, shall be had against any incorporator, or against any past, present or future stockholder, officer or director, as such, of the Company or of any successor corporation, either directly or through the Company or any successor corporation, under any rule of law, statute or constitutional provision or by the enforcement of any assessment or by any legal or equitable proceeding or otherwise, all such personal liability of every such incorporator, stockholder, officer and director, as such, being expressly waived and released by acceptance hereof and as a condition of and as part of the consideration for the issuance of this Note. This Note may have such additional or different terms as are set forth above under "Other Terms, If Any." Any terms so set forth shall be deemed to modify and/or supersede, as necessary, any other terms set forth in this Note. 7
Terms used herein which are defined in the Indenture shall have the respective meanings assigned thereto under the Indenture. The Indenture is, and this Note shall be, governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York. 8
SURVIVOR'S OPTION RIDER If the Survivor's Option is applicable to this Note, the Representative (defined below) of a deceased owner of this Note or an interest in this Note shall have the option to elect repayment or repurchase of this Note on the terms and conditions set forth below following the death of such owner (the "Survivor's Option"). Unless specifically provided on the face of this Note, the Survivor's Option may not be exercised unless such deceased owner (i) owned this Note or his or her interest in this Note at the time of his or her death and (ii) acquired this Note or his or her interest in this Note at least six months prior to the date of its submission for repayment. If the Survivor's Option is applicable to this Note, upon the valid exercise of the Survivor's Option, the Company shall repay or repurchase, at its option, the Note (or portion thereof), properly tendered for repayment or repurchase by or on behalf of the person (the "Representative") that has the legal authority to act on behalf of the deceased owner of this Note or an interest in this Note under the laws of the appropriate jurisdiction (including, without limitation, the personal representative or executor of the deceased beneficial owner or the surviving joint owner of the deceased beneficial owner) at a price equal to the Amortized Face Amount (as defined above) hereof [plus accrued but unpaid "qualified stated interest" payments (as defined in the OID Regulations)], unless otherwise indicated above under the heading "Other Terms, If Any," subject to the following limitations: (a) The Company may, in its sole discretion, limit the aggregate principal amount of Notes as to which exercises of the Survivor's Option shall be accepted from all deceased beneficial owners in any calendar year (the "Annual Put Limitation") to an amount equal to the greater of $5,000,000 or 5% of the principal amount of all Notes Outstanding as of the end of the most recent calendar year, or such greater amount as the Company in its sole discretion may determine for any calendar year, and may limit to $500,000 the aggregate principal amount of acceptances of exercise of the Survivor's Option in any calendar year for any individual deceased beneficial owner (the "Individual Put Limitation"). (b) The Company shall not make principal repayments pursuant to exercise of the Survivor's Option in amounts that are less than $1,000, and, in the event that the limitations described in the preceding sentence would result in the partial repayment of any Note, the principal amount of such Note remaining Outstanding after repayment must be at least $1,000. (c) Any Note (or portion thereof) tendered pursuant to a valid exercise of the Survivor's Option may not be withdrawn. Each Note (or portion thereof) that is tendered pursuant to valid exercise of the Survivor's Option shall be accepted in the order that all such Notes are received by the Trustee, except for any Note (or portion thereof) the acceptance of which would contravene (i) the Annual Put Limitation, if applied, or (ii) the Individual Put Limitation, if applied, with respect to the relevant individual deceased beneficial owner. If, as of the end of any calendar year, the aggregate principal amount of Notes (or portions thereof) that have been tendered pursuant to the 9
valid exercise of the Survivor's Option during such year has exceeded either the Annual Put Limitation, if applied, or the Individual Put Limitation, if applied, for such year, any exercises of the Survivor's Option with respect to Notes (or portions thereof) not accepted during such calendar year because such acceptance would have contravened either such limitation, if applied, shall be deemed to be tendered on the first day of the following calendar year in the order in which all such Notes (or portions thereof) were originally tendered. Upon acceptance for repayment or repurchase pursuant to exercise of the Survivor's Option, this Note shall be repaid or repurchased on the first Interest Payment Date that occurs 20 or more calendar days after the date of such acceptance unless such date is not a Business Day, in which case the date of repayment or repurchase shall be the next succeeding Business Day. In the event that this Note (or any portion hereof) tendered for repayment or repurchase pursuant to valid exercise of the Survivor's Option is not accepted or repayment or repurchase of this Note (or any portion hereof) will be delayed, the Trustee shall deliver a notice by first-class mail to the registered holder hereof, at its last known address as indicated in the Security Register, that states the reason this Note (or portion hereof) has not been accepted for payment or the repayment will be delayed. Subject to the Company's rights hereunder to limit the aggregate principal amount of Notes as to which exercises of the Survivor's Option shall be accepted in any one calendar year, all questions as to the eligibility or validity of any exercise of the Survivor's Option will be determined by the Trustee, in its sole discretion, which determination shall be final and binding on all parties. If this Note (or a portion hereof) is owned or beneficially owned by tenants by the entirety or joint tenants, this Note (or relevant portion hereof) will be regarded as beneficially owned by a single owner. Accordingly, the death of a tenant by the entirety or joint tenant will be deemed the death of the owner or beneficial owner and the entire principal amount so owned will become eligible for repayment or repurchase. The death of a person owning or beneficially owning this Note (or a portion hereof) by tenancy in common will be deemed the death of the owner or beneficial owner only with respect to the deceased owner's interest in this Note (or relevant portion hereof) so owned, unless a husband and wife are the tenants in common, in which case the death of either will be deemed the death of the owner or beneficial owner and the entire principal amount so owned will be eligible for repayment or repurchase. If this Note (or a portion hereof) is owned or beneficially owned by a trust, it will be regarded as owned or beneficially owned by each beneficiary of the trust to the extent of that beneficiary's interest in the trust (however, a trust's beneficiaries collectively cannot be beneficial owners of more Notes than are owned by the trust). The death of a beneficiary of a trust will be deemed the death of the owner or beneficial owner of this Note (or relevant portion hereof) owned or beneficially owned by the trust to the extent of that beneficiary's interest in the trust. The death of an individual who was a tenant by the entirety or joint tenant in a tenancy which is the beneficiary of a trust will be deemed the death of the beneficiary of the trust. The death of an individual who was a tenant in common in a tenancy which is the beneficiary of a trust will be deemed the death of the beneficiary of the trust only with respect to the deceased 10
holder's beneficial interest in this Note, unless a husband and wife are the tenants in common, in which case the death of either will be deemed the death of the beneficiary of the trust. The death of a person who, during his or her lifetime, was entitled to substantially all of the beneficial interest in this Note (or a portion hereof) will be deemed the death of the owner or beneficial owner of this Note (or relevant portion hereof), regardless of the registration of ownership, if such beneficial interest can be established to the satisfaction of the Trustee. Such beneficial interest will exist in many cases of street name or nominee ownership, custodial arrangements, ownership by a trustee, ownership under the Uniform Transfers to Minors Act and community property or other joint ownership arrangements between spouses. Beneficial interest will be evidenced by such factors as the power to sell or otherwise dispose of this Note, the right to receive the proceeds of sale or disposition and the right to receive interest and principal payments on this Note. If this Note is represented by a Global Note, the Depositary or its nominee is the registered holder hereof and therefore is the only entity that can exercise the Survivor's Option with respect to this Note. To obtain repayment or repurchase pursuant to exercise of the Survivor's Option with respect to this Note, the Representative must provide to the broker or other entity through which the beneficial interest in this Note is held by the deceased beneficial owner: (i) instructions to such broker or other entity to notify the Depositary of such Representative's desire to obtain repayment or repurchase pursuant to exercise of the Survivor's Option, (ii) appropriate evidence satisfactory to the Trustee that (A) the Representative has authority to act on behalf of the deceased beneficial owner, (B) the death of such beneficial owner has occurred (including the date of such death), (C) the deceased was the beneficial owner of an interest in this Note at the time of death and (D) the interest in this Note was acquired by the deceased beneficial owner at least six months prior to the date of its submission for repayment, (iii) if the interest in this Note is held by a nominee of the deceased beneficial owner, a certificate satisfactory to the Trustee from such nominee attesting to the deceased's beneficial ownership in this Note, (iv) a written request for repayment or repurchase signed by the Representative, which signature must be guaranteed by a member firm of a registered national securities exchange or of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. (the "NASD") or a commercial bank or trust company having an office or correspondent in the United States, (v) if applicable, a properly executed assignment or endorsement, (vi) tax waivers and such other instruments or documents that the Trustee reasonably requires in order to establish the validity of the beneficial ownership of this Note and the claimant's entitlement to payment and (vii) any additional information the Trustee reasonably requires to document beneficial ownership or authority to make the election and to cause the repayment or repurchase of this Note. Such broker or other entity shall provide to the Trustee (i) the Repayment Election Form attached as Annex A and (ii) evidence satisfactory to the Trustee from such broker or other entity stating that it represents the deceased beneficial owner. Such broker or other entity shall be responsible for disbursing any payments it receives pursuant to exercise of the Survivor's Option to the appropriate Representative. 11
ABBREVIATIONS The following abbreviations, when used in the inscription on the face of this instrument, shall be construed as though they were written out in full according to applicable laws or regulations:
TEN COM - as tenants in common Unif Tran Min Act-_____ Custodian_____ (Cust) (Minor) TEN ENT - as tenants by the entireties Under Uniform Transfers to Minors Act JT TEN - as joint tenants with right of survivorship ___________________ and not as tenants in common (State)
Additional abbreviations may also be used though not in the above list. FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned hereby sell(s), assign(s) and transfer(s) unto Please insert Social Security or Other identifying Number of Assignee _________________________ / / ________________________________________________________________________________ PLEASE PRINT OR TYPEWRITE NAME AND ADDRESS INCLUDING POSTAL ZIP CODE OF ASSIGNEE ________________________________________________________________________________ ________________________________________________________________________________ the within note of GENERAL MILLS, INC. and does hereby irrevocably constitute and appoint _________________________________________ attorney to transfer said Note on the books of the Company, with full power of substitution in the premises. Dated: _____________________ ______________________________ ______________________________ NOTICE: The signature to this assignment must correspond with the name as written upon the face of the within instrument in every particular, without alteration or enlargement or any change whatever. 12


