FILE:GIS/GIS-8K-20040921080949.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[   ]     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17CFR230.425)
[   ]     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17CFR240.14a-12)
[   ]     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17CFR240.14d-2(b))
[   ]     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17CFR240.13e-4(c))
Item 2.02      Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On September 21, 2004, General Mills, Inc. issued a press release reporting financial results for its first quarter ended August 29, 2004. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
The information in this current Report on Form 8-K and the exhibit attached hereto shall not be deemed to be filed for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to liabilities of that Section 11 and 12(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Item 9.01      Financial Statements and Exhibits.
            (c)       .   The following exhibit is filed as part of this report:
Exhibits
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: September 21, 2004

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
September 21, 2004
    (Media) Marybeth Thorsgaard (763) 764-6364 (Analysts) Kris Wenker (763) 764-2607
Contacts
:
        MINNEAPOLIS, MINN.  General Mills, Inc. (NYSE: GIS) today reported results for the first quarter of fiscal 2005. Net sales for the 13 weeks ended Aug. 29, 2004, grew 3 percent to $2.59 billion, in line with 3 percent growth in worldwide unit volume. Earnings after tax were $183 million, down from $227 million last year due to significant increases in commodity and other input costs, and costs related to restructuring actions taken during the quarter. Diluted earnings per share (EPS) declined from 59 cents in last year's first quarter to 47 cents this year.
        Net results for both years include certain identified costs (described in detail below). These costs in fiscal 2005 are the restructuring and other exit costs identified on the consolidated statements of earnings, and associated expenses included in cost
of sales. These costs totaled $45 million pretax, $29 million after tax. Last year's first quarter included $15 million pretax, $10 million after tax of Pillsbury merger-related costs in selling, general and administrative expenses. Excluding these identified costs from both periods, first quarter diluted EPS would total 55 cents in 2005 and 62 cents in 2004.
        Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Steve Sanger said, "Our plans called for earnings below year-ago levels in the first quarter, as our higher commodity costs are not yet being offset by our pricing actions and productivity initiatives. This was particularly true for our U.S. Retail segment, where response to our first-quarter merchandising programs was stronger than planned. In addition, more than half of this year's planned restructuring expense fell in the first quarter. In the second quarter, we expect pricing and productivity savings to begin contributing to our bottom line, resulting in renewed earnings growth."
General Mills recorded certain identified costs in the first quarter of both 2005 and 2004. We separately identify these costs because we believe doing so improves the comparability of year-to-year results of operations. In 2005, these expenses included restructuring and other exit costs resulting from the announced closure or realignment of five manufacturing facilities, and expenses included in cost of sales primarily associated with the accelerated depreciation of assets at two of the affected facilities (described below following the Consolidated Statements of Earnings). In 2004,
Restructuring, Other Exit and Merger-related Costs
identified items included costs relating to the Pillsbury merger (such as consulting, system conversions, relocation, training and communications).
        A reconciliation of earnings and EPS with and without these costs appears in the table below. Earnings and EPS excluding identified items are measures of performance that are not defined by generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and should be viewed in addition to, and not in lieu of, our net earnings and diluted EPS as reported on a GAAP basis. Please refer to our consolidated financial statements and accompanying footnotes for additional information regarding our classification of these items and for presentation of results in accordance with GAAP.
Net sales for General Mills' domestic retail operations grew 2 percent to $1.76 billion for the quarter, as 4 percent unit volume growth and modest contributions from pricing and
U.S. Retail Segment Results
mix were partially offset by higher promotional expense in the period. This promotional spending included introductory support for 92 new items as well as increased expense to maintain previously committed merchandising programs following recent list price increases. Operating profits declined to $354 million, reflecting higher commodity costs and promotional spending, plus $9 million pretax expense associated with the voluntary recall of two Pop Secret popcorn flavors introduced in May.
        Pillsbury USA made the strongest contribution to domestic retail unit volume growth, with an 11 percent overall increase led by Totino's pizza and hot snacks, and Pillsbury refrigerated cookies and biscuits. Big G cereal volume rose 3 percent, led by the successful introduction of reduced-sugar versions of Cinnamon Toast Crunch, Trix and Cocoa Puffs, and by growth on established brands such as Honey Nut Cheerios and Cinnamon Toast Crunch. Baking Products volume was up 13 percent, helped by good merchandising in supercenter and club channels, and contributions from new products. Yoplait yogurt volume grew 8 percent behind strength in the Go-Gurt line and good performance from our Light and Whips! varieties. Meals volume was flat compared to 7 percent growth last year. Snacks unit volume fell 1 percent, compared to 8 percent growth in last year's first quarter.
        Consumer purchases of the company's products also grew in the quarter, as composite retail sales for major product lines were up 2 percent.
First quarter net sales for the company's Bakeries and Foodservice segment fell 2 percent to $421 million. Unit volume declined 5 percent. That was partially offset by
Bakeries and Foodservice Segment Results
pricing, mix and trade spending efficiency. Volumes in convenience stores and vending channels grew by 33 percent, but unit volumes declined 11 percent in bakery channels, and shipments to restaurants and foodservice distributors were down 7 percent. Operating profits totaled $23 million, down from $29 million in last year's first quarter due to lower volumes and higher supply chain costs.
Net sales for General Mills' consolidated international businesses grew 10 percent to $404 million. Unit volume increased 3 percent, with gains in Canada, Asia and Latin America more than offsetting a slight decline in Europe. Foreign exchange added 4 points of sales growth. Operating profits grew to $36 million in fiscal 2005, up from $24 million last year. About half of this profit growth is because recognized marketing expense is lower year-over-year in this period.
International Segment Results
Earnings after tax from joint ventures totaled $26 million in the first quarter, compared to $20 million a year earlier. Profits for our Cereal Partners Worldwide (CPW) joint venture with Nestl and our Snack Ventures Europe (SVE) joint venture with PepsiCo together totaled $20 million, up 33 percent from the first quarter a year ago. That growth was driven by an 8 percent volume gain for CPW. SVE volume fell by 2 percent, compared to a 13 percent gain in last year's first quarter. Unit volumes for the Hagen-Dazs joint ventures in Asia grew by 5 percent. 8 Continent, the company's joint venture with
Joint Venture Summary
th
Dupont, achieved more than 50 percent volume growth and a 4 point increase in dollar share of the refrigerated soymilk category.
Interest expense for the quarter totaled $113 million, 16 percent below last year's first quarter due to lower debt levels. The effective tax rate for the first quarter excluding identified costs was 34.8 percent, consistent with the company's expectations for the full year. Diluted shares outstanding grew 1.3 percent to 387 million.
Corporate Items
Looking ahead, Sanger said, "We are focused on realizing the benefits of our earlier pricing actions and capturing savings through our productivity initiatives. With the successful execution of those efforts and with our innovative lineup of new products, we expect the second quarter to show good progress toward our annual goals."
Outlook
        Sanger said the company continues to target low-single-digit net sales growth for fiscal 2005, which includes one less week than fiscal 2004. The company also reaffirmed its estimate for full-year diluted EPS of $2.75 to $2.80. This estimate includes identified items expense of approximately 10 to 15 cents per share.
General Mills will hold a briefing for investors today, September 21, 2004, beginning at 8:30 a.m. EDT. You may access the web cast from General Mills' corporate home page: .
www.generalmills.com
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 that are based on management's current expectations and assumptions. These forward-looking statements, including the statements under the caption "Outlook" and statements made by Mr. Sanger, are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the potential results discussed in the forward-looking statements. In particular, our predictions about future volume and earnings could be affected by a variety of factors, including: competitive dynamics in the consumer foods industry and the markets for our products, including new product introductions, advertising activities, pricing actions and promotional activities of our competitors; product development and innovations; consumer acceptance of new products and product improvements; changes in customer demand for our products; changes in consumer behavior, trends and preferences, including weight loss trends; effectiveness of advertising, marketing and promotional programs; consumer perception of health-related issues, including obesity; changes in purchasing and inventory levels of significant customers; acquisitions or dispositions of businesses or assets; changes in capital structure; changes in laws and regulations, including changes in accounting standards; ability to achieve productivity improvements; economic conditions, including changes in inflation rates, interest rates or tax rates; benefit plan expenses due to changes in plan asset values and/or discount rates used to determine plan liabilities; fluctuation in the cost and availability of supply chain resources, including raw materials, packaging and energy; foreign economic conditions, including currency rate fluctuations; political unrest in foreign markets and economic uncertainty due to terrorism or war. Our predictions about future debt reduction could be affected by a variety of factors including items listed above that could impact future earnings. Our debt reduction goals could also be affected by changes in economic conditions, including interest rates, laws and regulations. The company undertakes no obligations to publicly revise any forward-looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances.


