FILE:GIS/GIS-8K-20041221133542.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Item 2.02       Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On December 21, 2004, General Mills, Inc. issued a press release reporting financial results for its second quarter ended November 28, 2004. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
The information in this current Report on Form 8-K and the exhibit attached hereto shall not be deemed to be filed for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to liabilities of that Section 11 and 12(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Item 9.01       Financial Statements and Exhibits.
                (c)     .  The following exhibit is filed as part of this report:
Exhibits
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
December 21, 2004
(Media) Marybeth Thorsgaard (763) 764-6364
Contacts:
    (Analysts)       Kris Wenker (763) 764-2607
        MINNEAPOLIS, MINN.  General Mills, Inc. (NYSE: GIS) today reported results for the second quarter of fiscal 2005. Net sales for the 13 weeks ended Nov. 28, 2004, increased 4 percent to $3.17 billion. Earnings after tax increased 19 percent to $367 million, as higher commodity and other input costs were more than offset by increased sales, lower restructuring and other identified items expense, and a lower effective tax rate due to the resolution of certain tax items. Diluted earnings per share (EPS) totaled 97 cents compared to 81 cents in last year's second quarter.
        Net results for both years include certain identified costs (described in detail below). For the second quarter of 2005, these costs totaled $11 million pretax, $7 million after tax. Last year's second quarter included identified costs of $28 million pretax, $18 million after tax. Excluding these identified items from
both periods, second quarter diluted earnings per share would total 99 cents in 2005 and 85 cents in 2004.
        Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Steve Sanger said, "In the second quarter, the pricing and productivity initiatives we've implemented to offset higher input costs began contributing to our bottom line. Our 4 percent net sales growth outpaced the 1 percent increase in our worldwide unit volume. And productivity initiatives contributed to 6 percent growth in operating profit for the quarter."
        Through the first half of fiscal 2005, General Mills' net sales grew 3 percent to $5.75 billion. Earnings after tax increased 3 percent to $550 million, and diluted EPS increased 3 percent to $1.44 per share. Identified items expense in the first half of 2005 totaled $56 million pretax, $36 million after tax, compared to $43 million pretax, $28 million after tax in the first half of 2004. Excluding identified items expense from both years, first-half diluted earnings per share would total $1.54 in 2005, up 5 percent from $1.47 in 2004.
General Mills recorded certain identified costs in the second quarter and first half of both 2005 and 2004. We separately identify these costs because we believe doing so improves the comparability of year-to-year results of operations. In 2005, these expenses included restructuring costs associated with a previously announced international production consolidation, domestic supply chain initiatives and accelerated depreciation of assets associated with those supply chain actions. In 2004, identified items included costs relating to the Pillsbury merger (such as consulting, system conversions, relocation, training and communications) recorded in selling, general and administrative expense, and restructuring costs primarily related to plant closures in the Netherlands and Atwater, Calif.
Identified Items
        A reconciliation of earnings and EPS with and without these costs appears in the table below. Earnings and EPS excluding identified items are measures of performance that are not defined by generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and should be viewed in addition to, and not in lieu of, our net earnings
and diluted EPS as reported on a GAAP basis. Please refer to our consolidated financial statements and accompanying footnotes for additional information regarding our classification of these items and for presentation of results in accordance with GAAP.
 Primarily accelerated depreciation included in cost of sales  Included in SG&A
(1)
(2)
Note: Numbers may not add due to rounding
Net sales for the company's U.S. Retail segment grew 3 percent to $2.28 billion for the quarter. Unit volume was up 2 percent. Operating profits for the segment increased 5 percent to $567 million.
U.S. Retail Segment Results
        Pillsbury USA and Baking Products made the strongest contributions to second-quarter unit volume growth. Pillsbury USA unit volume was up 4 percent led by refrigerated dough, frozen baked goods and Totino's pizza and hot snacks. Baking Products volume, primarily Betty Crocker desserts, increased 8 percent driven by effective merchandising programs. Volume for Yoplait yogurt
was up 6 percent with cup yogurt and Go-GURT yogurt-in-a-tube continuing to post good growth. Meals volume was up modestly with good gains on Old El Paso Mexican products, Green Giant frozen vegetables and Betty Crocker dinner mixes. Progresso soup unit volume was flat for the quarter, compared to double-digit volume growth in the period last year when eight Rich and Hearty varieties were being introduced. Big G cereal volume was flat for the quarter, and Snacks unit volume decreased 1 percent reflecting high levels of competitive new product activity.
        Consumer retail purchases of the company's products grew 1 percent in the quarter, despite strong year-ago performance when composite consumer sales for the company's major product lines increased 4 percent.
        Through the first half, net sales for the U.S. Retail segment grew 3 percent to $4.04 billion. Operating profit totaled $921 million in 2005 compared to $940 million in last year's first half.
Net sales for General Mills' Bakeries and Foodservice operations fell 3 percent in the second quarter to $456 million, as positive pricing and mix were offset by a 7 percent decline in unit volume. Volumes in convenience stores and vending channels increased 7 percent. Unit volume in bakery channels was down 5 percent, an improving trend compared to an 11 percent decline in the first quarter. Shipments to restaurants and foodservice operators were down 11 percent. Operating profits totaled $46 million, up from the first quarter but below last year's second-quarter results of $52 million.
Bakeries and Foodservice Segment Results
        Through the first six months of fiscal 2005, Bakeries and Foodservice net sales were 2 percent below the prior year, and unit volume was down 6 percent. First half operating profits totaled $69 million in 2005 and $81 million in 2004.
Net sales for the company's consolidated international businesses were up 13 percent to $436 million in the second quarter. Unit volume increased 5 percent
International Segment Results
with good gains in the Asia/Pacific region and Latin America. Favorable currency effects contributed seven points of sales growth. Operating profits for the segment increased to $49 million this year compared to $30 million a year ago.
        Through the first half of the fiscal year, total unit volume for the segment was up 4 percent, sales grew 12 percent and operating profits reached $85 million, up more than 50 percent from last year's first half.
Earnings from joint ventures grew 50 percent in the second quarter to $24 million after tax. Unit volumes for Cereal Partners Worldwide (CPW), our joint venture with Nestle, and Snack Ventures Europe (SVE), our joint venture with PepsiCo, were up 6 percent and 1 percent, respectively. Unit volume for the company's Haagen-Dazs ice cream joint ventures fell 8 percent due to bad weather in Japan. 8 Continent, the company's soy products joint venture with DuPont, posted double-digit volume growth as 8 Continent soymilk continues to gain market share.
Joint Ventures
th
th
        Through the first six months, earnings from joint ventures increased 39 percent to $50 million after tax.
Interest expense for the second quarter totaled $125 million. Through the first half of 2005, interest expense totaled $238 million, down 9 percent from last year due to lower debt levels. The effective tax rate for the quarter was 33 percent, compared to 35 percent in the second quarter of fiscal 2004. The lower rate was due primarily to the resolution of certain tax issues for which liabilities had previously been established. During the second quarter, the company repurchased 16.6 million shares from Diageo plc. As a result, average diluted shares outstanding for the period were 377 million compared to 383 million last year.
Corporate Items
Looking ahead to the second half of fiscal 2005, Sanger said, "Our plans call for continuing contributions from both productivity and pricing. In particular, we expect our list price increases and higher merchandised price points to be increasingly reflected at retail. We'll also have one less selling week in this year's fourth quarter compared to last year. To counter those challenges, we're bringing strong levels of news and innovation to our product lines, such as making all Big G cereals a good source of whole grain."
Outlook
        The company reaffirmed its target for full-year diluted EPS of $2.75 to $2.80, including identified items expense of approximately 10 to 15 cents per share. This guidance does not include an anticipated one-time gain from the redemption by PepsiCo of General Mills' 40.5 percent interest in the SVE joint venture. That transaction was announced on Dec. 13, 2004, and is expected to be completed in early calendar 2005.
General Mills will hold a briefing for investors today, Dec. 21, 2004, beginning at 3:00 pm EST. You may access the web cast from General Mills' corporate home page: .
www.generalmills.com
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 that are based on management's current expectations and assumptions. These forward-looking statements, including the statements under the caption "Outlook" and statements made by Mr. Sanger, are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the potential results discussed in the forward-looking statements. In particular, our predictions about future volume and earnings could be affected by a variety of factors, including: competitive dynamics in the consumer foods industry and the markets for our products, including new product introductions, advertising activities, pricing actions and promotional activities of our competitors; actions of competitors other than as described above; economic conditions, including changes in inflation rates, interest rates or tax rates; developments in and the outcome of the pending SEC investigation; product development and innovation; consumer acceptance of new products and product improvements; consumer reaction to pricing actions and changes in promotion levels; acquisitions or dispositions of businesses or assets; changes in capital structure; changes in laws and regulations, including changes in accounting standards and labeling and advertising regulations; changes in customer demand for our products; effectiveness of advertising, marketing and promotional programs; changes in consumer behavior, trends and preferences, including weight loss trends; consumer perception of health-related issues, including obesity; changes in purchasing and inventory levels of significant customers; fluctuations in the cost and availability of supply chain resources, including raw materials, packaging and energy; benefit plan expenses due to changes in plan asset values and/or discount rates used to determine plan liabilities; foreign economic conditions, including currency rate fluctuations; and political unrest in foreign markets and economic uncertainty due to terrorism or war. Our predictions about future debt reduction could be affected by a variety of factors including items listed above that could impact future earnings. Our debt reduction goals could also be affected by changes in economic conditions, including interest rates, laws and regulations. The company undertakes no obligations to publicly revise any forward-looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances.
Note:
Note: Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform with the current period presentation.


