FILE:GIS/GIS-8K-20040623172655.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
Item 5.    Other Events.
        On June 23, 2004, the Registrant announced that Paul S. Walsh and John M. Keenan resigned from the Registrant's Board of Directors. A copy of the press release is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
        In connection with the resignations of Messrs. Walsh and Keenan, the Registrant and Diageo entered into a Second Amendment to Stockholders Agreement to terminate Diageo's right to designate two nominees for election to Registrant's Board of Directors. A copy of the Second Amendment to Stockholders Agreement, dated June 23, 2004, by and among the Registrant, Diageo plc and Diageo Atlantic Holding B.V. is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.2 and incorporated herein by reference.
        On June 23, 2004, the Registrant announced that it had filed a Universal Shelf Registration Statement. The registration statement also covers the sale, subject to conditions set forth in the registration statement, of an aggregate of 49.91 million shares of Registrant's common stock by Diageo plc. A copy of the press release is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.3 and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 7.    Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Information and Exhibits.
        Pursuant to the requirements of Section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
June 23, 2004
MINNEAPOLIS, MN General Mills (NYSE:GIS) confirmed that it has received and accepted the resignations of Paul S. Walsh, Chief Executive Officer, Diageo plc and John M. Keenan, Chief Executive Officer, Grand Cru Consulting, Ltd. from its board of directors. Both resignations were made in conjunction with General Mills' filing of a shelf registration statement today. In connection with these resignations, General Mills and Diageo have amended the Stockholders Agreement between them terminating Diageo's right to designate two nominees for election to General Mills' board of directors. With these resignations, General Mills' board now has thirteen members.

Exhibit 99.2
            THIS SECOND AMENDMENT TO STOCKHOLDERS AGREEMENT, dated as of June 23, 2004 (this "Amendment"), by and among General Mills, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), Diageo plc, a public limited company incorporated under the laws of England and Wales ("Parent"), and Diageo Atlantic Holding B.V., a private company with limited liability organized under the laws of The Netherlands and an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Parent ("DAHBV" and, together with Parent, the "Shareholder Group"). Unless otherwise specified, capitalized terms used herein shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the Stockholders Agreement (as defined hereunder).
            WHEREAS, the Company, Parent and Gramet Holdings Corp., a Delaware corporation and an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Parent ("Gramet") are the parties to that certain Stockholders Agreement, dated as of October 31, 2001 (the "Stockholders Agreement");
            WHEREAS, DAHBV holds the shares of Common Stock originally held by Gramet subject to the provisions of the Stockholders Agreement as successor in interest to Gramet; and
            WHEREAS, the parties to the Stockholders Agreement desire to amend the Stockholders Agreement as set forth in this Amendment and to provide for such other agreements among the parties as set forth herein.
            NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants and agreements set forth herein and for other good and valuable consideration, receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
            IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this Amendment to be duly executed by their respective authorized officers as of the date set forth at the head of this Amendment.

Exhibit 99.3
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
June 23, 2004
MINNEAPOLIS, MINN.  General Mills (NYSE: GIS) said today that the company has filed a universal shelf registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) for the sale of up to $5,943 million of securities by the company. This total includes approximately $3,443 million aggregate initial offering price of debt securities registered but never issued under the company's existing shelf registration statement effective February 11, 2002. Net proceeds from any sale of these securities will be used for general corporate purposes.
        In addition, the registration statement filed by General Mills today covers the sale, subject to the conditions set forth in the registration statement, of an aggregate 49.91 million General Mills common shares owned by Diageo plc. General Mills and Diageo have entered into a formal agreement, under which the two companies have agreed to work in good faith toward completing a transaction to market such shares.
        A registration statement relating to these securities has been filed with the SEC but has not yet become effective. These securities may not be sold, nor may offers to buy be accepted, prior to the time the registration statement becomes effective.
        This news release does not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any securities issued in accordance with the registration statement, nor will there be any sale of these securities in any state in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such state.


