FILE:GIS/GIS-8K-20051213101629.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:   (763) 764-7600
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
On December 12, 2005, General Mills, Inc. (the "Company") entered into a Second Supplemental Indenture (the "Second Supplemental Indenture") with BNY Midwest Trust Company, the trustee (the "Trustee") for the Company's Zero Coupon Convertible Senior Debentures Due 2022 (the "Debentures"). The Second Supplemental Indenture amends and supplements the Indenture, dated as of October 28, 2002 (as amended, the "Indenture"), between the Company and the Trustee relating to the Debentures by (i) eliminating a provision in the Indenture that prohibited the Company from paying cash upon conversion of the Debentures if an event of default, as defined in the Indenture, exists at the time of conversion and (ii) clarified the Indenture by providing that the Company's elections to satisfy repurchase obligations and conversions of Debentures in cash, stock or a combination of cash and stock become irrevocable after the Company has given notice of such elections. A copy of the Second Supplemental Indenture is attached hereto as Exhibit 4.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
On December 12, 2005, the Company made an irrevocable election (i) to satisfy all future obligations to repurchase Debentures solely in cash and (ii) to satisfy all future conversions of Debentures (a) solely in cash up to an amount equal to the accreted value of the Debentures and (b) at the Company's discretion, in cash, stock or a combination of cash and stock to the extent the conversion value of the Debentures exceeds the accreted value. A copy of the irrevocable election is attached hereto as Exhibit 4.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
On December 12, 2005, the Company issued a press release providing a preliminary report of the Company's financial performance for the second quarter of fiscal 2006. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
On December 12, 2005, the Company issued a press release updating guidance for the Company's projected financial performance for fiscal 2006 and announcing an increase in the Company's quarterly dividend. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 4.1
        This Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of December 12, 2005 (this ""), is entered into between GENERAL MILLS, INC., a Delaware corporation (the ""), and BNY MIDWEST TRUST COMPANY, an Illinois trust company, as Trustee (the "").
Supplemental Indenture
Company
Trustee
        , the Company and the Trustee have entered into that certain Indenture, dated as of October 28, 2002 (as amended and supplemented from time to time, the ""), providing for the issuance of the Company's Zero Coupon Convertible Senior Debentures due 2022 (the "");         
WHEREAS
Indenture
Securities
        , Section 9.02 of the Indenture provides that with the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority of the principal amount at maturity of the Securities then outstanding, the Indenture or the Securities may be amended, modified or supplemented as specified in such Section 9.02;         
WHEREAS
        , pursuant to its Consent Solicitation Statement dated as of November 21, 2005, the Company has solicited the consents from Holders of the Securities to the amendment set forth in this Supplemental Indenture (the "");
WHEREAS
Amendment
        , the Company has received the written consent to the Amendment from Holders of a majority of the principal amount at maturity of the outstanding Securities; and
WHEREAS
        , all conditions necessary to authorize the execution and delivery of this Supplemental Indenture have been complied with and pursuant to Section 9.06 of the Indenture, the Trustee is authorized to execute and deliver this Supplemental Indenture.
WHEREAS
        , for and in consideration of the premises set forth above, each of the Company and the Trustee agrees for the benefit of the other party and for the equal and ratable benefit of the Holders of the Securities as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE
           All capitalized terms which are used herein and not otherwise defined herein are defined in the Indenture and are used herein with the same meanings as in the Indenture.
Section 1.01.
           The last sentence of the first paragraph of Section 3.09(a) of the Indenture is hereby amended and restated in its entirety to read as follows:
Section 2.01.
           Paragraph (b) of Section 10.06 of the Indenture is hereby amended and restated in its entirety to read as follows:
Section 2.02.
        "(b)   The Company will inform the Holders no later than two Business Days following the Conversion Date ("") of its election to pay cash in lieu of delivery of the Common Stock otherwise issuable upon conversion, unless the Company has already informed Holders of its election in connection with the Company's redemption of the Securities pursuant to Section 3.01 herein. Holders may retract their conversion notice at any time during the two Business Day period beginning on the day after the final day of the Cash Settlement Notice Period (""); no such retraction can be made (and a conversion notice shall be irrevocable) if the Company does not elect to deliver cash in lieu of Common Stock (other than cash in lieu of fractional shares). If the conversion notice has not been retracted, then settlement (in cash and/or Common Stock) will occur on the day following the final day of the Cash Settlement Averaging Period. The Company may not change its election pursuant to this Section 10.06 with respect to the consideration (or components or amounts of components thereof) to be delivered upon conversion of a Security once the Company has given its notice of such election (whether given during the Cash Settlement Notice Period or prior to the Cash Settlement Notice Period) to Holders."
Cash Settlement Notice Period
Conversion Retraction Period
           The Indenture, as supplemented and amended by this Supplemental Indenture, is in all respects adopted, ratified and confirmed, and all of the terms, provisions and conditions thereof shall be and remain in full force and effect, and this Supplemental Indenture and all its provisions shall be deemed a part thereof. For the avoidance of doubt, the parties confirm that the Amendment, and the payment by the Company and the receipt by the Holders of the Securities of a fee in respect of the consent of the Holders to such an Amendment, are not intended by the parties to (i) discharge, rescind, cancel or extinguish all or any part of the indebtedness represented by the Securities or (ii) to effect a novation, reissuance or disposition of
Section 3.01.
the indebtedness represented by the Securities or to create new indebtedness in respect of the indebtedness represented by the Securities.
           In case any provision in this Supplemental Indenture shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
Section 3.02.
           THIS SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK WITHOUT REGARD TO THE CONFLICTS OF LAWS AND RULES OF SAID STATE.
Section 3.03.
           The parties may sign any number of copies of this Supplemental Indenture. Each signed copy shall be an original, but all of them together represent the same agreement.
Section 3.04.
        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company and the Trustee have caused their names to be signed hereto by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized as of the day and year first above written.

Exhibit 4.2
         to the Holders of the Zero Coupon Convertible Senior Debentures Due 2022 (the ") that in accordance with Sections 3.09 and 10.06 of the Indenture, dated as of October 28, 2002 between General Mills, Inc. (the "") and BNY Midwest Trust Company, as trustee (the ""), as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of September 14, 2005, and the Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of December 12, 2005, and as further amended or supplemented from time to time (the "Indenture"), the Company elects to deliver (i) cash in settlement of the Company's obligations, if any, to repurchase the Securities pursuant to Sections 3.07 and 3.08 of the Indenture, and (ii) a combination of cash and shares of Common Stock to the extent set forth in this Notice upon conversion of the Securities by a Holder in accordance with Article 10 of the Indenture. Capitalized terms not otherwise defined in this Notice will have the meanings set forth in the Indenture.
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN
"Securities
Company
Trustee
Section 3.09 of the Indenture permits the Company to elect to settle its repurchase obligations under Sections 3.07 and 3.08 of the Indenture in cash, Applicable Stock or a combination of cash and Applicable Stock. The Company hereby irrevocably elects to settle its repurchase obligations, if any, under Sections 3.07 and 3.08 of the Indenture solely in cash.
Section 10.06 of the Indenture permits the Company to elect to deliver cash, Common Stock or a combination of cash and Common Stock upon a conversion of the Securities pursuant to Article 10 of the Indenture. The Company hereby elects to deliver for each $1,000 Principal Amount at Maturity of Securities converted, to any Holder that converts Securities in accordance with Article 10 of the Indenture, the following:
This Notice relates only to the cash that the Company has elected to deliver upon a repurchase of the Securities pursuant to Sections 3.07 and 3.08 of the Indenture and to the cash and shares of Common Stock (if any) that the Company has elected to deliver upon conversion of the Securities pursuant to Article 10 of the Indenture, and does not amend or modify any provisions of the Indenture, which shall remain in full force and effect.
Dated:   December 12, 2005
*The CUSIP numbers listed above are for information purposes only. Neither the Company nor the Trustee will be responsible for the selection or use of these CUSIP numbers, nor is any representation made as to their correctness on the Securities or as indicated in any redemption notice.

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
December 12, 2005
   (Media) Marybeth Thorsgaard 763-764-6364 (Analysts) Kris Wenker 763-764-2607
Contacts
:
        MINNEAPOLIS, MINN.  The General Mills Board of Directors today approved an increase in the company's quarterly dividend to 34 cents per share, payable on Feb. 1, 2006, to shareholders of record Jan. 10, 2006. The previous quarterly dividend rate of 33 cents per share was established effective with the Aug. 1, 2005, payment and represented a 6 percent increase over the quarterly dividend rate paid in General Mills' 2005 fiscal year.
        General Mills said its second dividend rate increase within the past six months is a reflection of the company's good earnings momentum and cash flow through the first half of the 2006 fiscal year. The company said that while second-quarter segment operating profits will be below strong prior-year levels, second-quarter net earnings are expected to increase to between 96 and 97 cents per share, including an estimated 4 to 5 cents of dilution associated with accounting for contingently convertible debt. General Mills plans to announce its second-quarter results on December 22, 2005.
        "Our first-half performance is running ahead of plan, which gives us the opportunity to further increase shareholder dividends this year, while we also reinvest some of our earnings in brand-building marketing programs," said General Mills Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Steve Sanger. "Our earnings expectations for the second half include significant year-over-year increases in consumer marketing expense and input costs. But based on our good first-half performance, we are modestly raising 2006 earnings guidance to a range of $2.80 to $2.85 per share, including an estimated 8 cents of dilution associated with accounting for contingently convertible debt."
        Previously, the company's 2006 guidance was for earnings of $2.78 to $2.83 per share, including an estimated 7 cents of dilution associated with accounting for contingently convertible debt.
        General Mills recently completed a consent solicitation related to its zero coupon convertible debentures, and made an irrevocable election to satisfy in cash future repurchases or conversion of the debentures that remain outstanding. As a result of these actions, beginning in General Mills' 2006 fiscal third quarter no shares of common stock underlying the debentures will be considered outstanding for purposes of calculating General Mills' diluted earnings per share. This is consistent with the estimated 8 cents of dilution in 2006 for contingently convertible debt as noted above.
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 that are based on management's current expectations and assumptions. These forward-looking statements, including the statements regarding our second-quarter earnings and 2006 earnings guidance, are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the potential results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Our future results could be affected by a variety of factors, including: competitive dynamics in the consumer foods industry and the markets for our products, including new product introductions, advertising activities, pricing actions and promotional activities of our competitors; actions of competitors other than as described above; economic conditions, including changes in inflation rates, interest rates or tax rates; product development and innovation; consumer acceptance of new products and product improvements; consumer reaction to pricing actions and changes in promotion levels; acquisitions or dispositions of businesses or assets; changes in capital structure; changes in laws and regulations, including changes in accounting standards and labeling and advertising regulations; changes in customer demand for our products; effectiveness of advertising, marketing and promotional programs; changes in consumer behavior, trends and preferences, including weight loss trends; consumer perception of health-related issues, including obesity; changes in purchasing and inventory levels of significant customers; fluctuations in the cost and availability of supply chain resources, including raw materials, packaging and energy; benefit plan expenses due to changes in plan asset values and/or discount rates used to determine plan liabilities; foreign economic conditions, including currency rate fluctuations; and political unrest in foreign markets and economic uncertainty due to terrorism or war. The company undertakes no obligations to publicly revise any forward-looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances.


