FILE:GIS/GIS-8K-20050922080030.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (763) 764-7600
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Item 2.02      Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On September 22, 2005, General Mills, Inc. issued a press release reporting financial results for its first quarter ended August 28, 2005. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
The information in Item 2.02 of this Current Report on Form 8-K and Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto shall not be deemed to be filed for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to liabilities of that Section or Sections 11 and 12(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Item 9.01      Financial Statements and Exhibits.
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: September 22, 2005

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
September 22, 2005
: (Media) Marybeth Thorsgaard: (763) 764-6364 (Analysts) Kris Wenker: (763) 764-2607
Contacts
        MINNEAPOLIS, MINN.  General Mills, Inc. (NYSE: GIS) today reported results for the first quarter of fiscal 2006. Net sales for the 13 weeks ended Aug. 28, 2005, increased 3 percent to $2.66 billion over the same period a year ago, as unit volume grew 1 percent worldwide. Segment operating profits increased 21 percent to $500 million. Earnings after tax totaled $252 million, up 38 percent from $183 million last year. Diluted earnings per share (EPS) increased to 64 cents this year from 45 cents in last year's first quarter.
        EPS results for both years include the effect of accounting for contingently convertible debt. This accounting reduced 2006 first quarter EPS by 4 cents and reduced prior year EPS by 2 cents.
        Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Steve Sanger said, "Our year is off to a strong start. We are achieving our planned price realization and margin growth across all three of our operating segments."
        The company renewed its open-market share repurchase program in the first quarter. Purchases made throughout the quarter totaled 15.9 million shares at an average price of $46.95. This included 4 million shares purchased late in the quarter through a secondary offering. Average diluted shares outstanding were 402 million for the quarter, down 3 percent from 416 million in the first quarter of last year.
Net sales for General Mills' domestic retail operations grew 2 percent to $1.80 billion for the quarter, reflecting net price realization and favorable mix of sales. Volume matched strong year-ago levels, that were up 4 percent. Operating profits increased 15 percent to $406 million, reflecting favorable production mix and productivity.
U.S. Retail Segment Results
        Yoplait led net sales growth, with a 19 percent increase driven by , and new items including and and Smoothies. Meals division net sales grew 4 percent, led by soup and frozen vegetables. Snacks net sales grew 3 percent, with good performance by the and businesses. Pillsbury USA net sales finished down 1 percent compared with 9 percent growth in the first quarter of last year. Baking Products net sales matched last year's first-quarter results, which were up double-digits from fiscal 2004. Big G cereal sales also matched prior-year results, as a 6 percent volume decline was offset by good price realization. The first-quarter launch of seven new cereal items, including three new varieties of cereal and two flavors of , is expected to contribute to renewed sales growth for Big G in the remainder of the year.
Yoplait Light
Chocolate Whips
Yoplait
Go-Gurt
Progresso
Green Giant
Nature
Valley
Chex Mix
Total
Yogurt
Burst Cheerios
        Total consumer purchases of the company's products also grew in the quarter, as composite retail sales for major product lines were up 1 percent.
Net sales for General Mills' consolidated international businesses grew 11 percent to $446 million. Unit volume increased 7 percent, and foreign exchange contributed 3 points of growth. Operating profits grew to $61 million, up from $36 million last year, as the result of sales growth and margin improvement driven by productivity.
International Segment Results
First quarter net sales for the company's Bakeries and Foodservice segment totaled $417 million compared to $421 million a year earlier. Operating profits reached $33 million, up from $23 million in last year's first quarter as favorable product mix and operating efficiencies offset a 3 percent volume decline.
Bakeries and Foodservice Segment Results
Earnings after tax from joint ventures totaled $18 million in the first quarter, down from $26 million a year earlier due to the absence of earnings from the divested Snack Ventures Europe (SVE) joint venture. The Cereal Partners Worldwide (CPW) joint venture with Nestl achieved sales growth of 8 percent. Sales for the Hagen-Dazs joint ventures in Asia matched prior-year levels. 8 Continent, the company's joint venture with DuPont, delivered double-digit sales growth in the quarter, and increased its share of refrigerated soymilk category sales to 17 percent.
Joint Venture Summary
th
Interest expense for the quarter totaled $90 million, 20 percent below last year's first quarter primarily due to lower debt levels. The effective tax rate for the first quarter was 35.7 percent, in line with the company's expectations for the full year. Corporate unallocated items in the first quarter totaled $37 million, compared to $20 million last year. The increase primarily reflects higher employee benefit expense and a $10 million charge to write down the asset value of a low-income housing investment. Restructuring and other exit costs totaled $9 million pre-tax in the first quarter of 2006 compared to $40 million pre-tax in the first quarter of 2005.
Corporate Items
Operating cash flow for the first quarter was $138 million, up from $39 million in the same period last year. Capital expenditures for the quarter were $45 million. Dividend expense rose to $123 million, as the recent 6 percent increase in the quarterly dividend rate was partially offset by share repurchases.
Cash Flow Summary
Sanger indicated that second-quarter comparisons for the company are particularly difficult, reflecting 4 percent sales growth and a 20 percent gain in earnings per share a year ago. "In addition, we expect to feel increasing margin pressure from rising fuel prices," Sanger noted. "However, we believe we can weather the challenges and achieve our earnings goals for the year."
Outlook
        Sanger said the company continues to target low single-digit net sales growth and mid single-digit operating profit growth for fiscal 2006. The company reaffirmed its estimate for full-year diluted EPS of $2.78 to $2.83, including an estimated 7 cents of impact from accounting for contingently convertible debt.
General Mills will hold a briefing for investors today, September 22, 2005, beginning at 8:30 a.m. EDT. You may access the web cast from General Mills' corporate home page: .
www.generalmills.com
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 that are based on management's current expectations and assumptions. These forward-looking statements, including the statements under the caption "Outlook" and statements made by Mr. Sanger, are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the potential results discussed in the forward-looking statements. In particular, our predictions about future net sales, volume and earnings could be affected by a variety of factors, including: competitive dynamics in the consumer foods industry and the markets for our products, including new product introductions, advertising activities, pricing actions and promotional activities of our competitors; actions of competitors other than as described above; economic conditions, including changes in inflation rates, interest rates or tax rates; product development and innovation; consumer acceptance of new products and product improvements; consumer reaction to pricing actions and changes in promotion levels; acquisitions or dispositions of businesses or assets; changes in capital structure; changes in laws and regulations, including changes in accounting standards and labeling and advertising regulations; changes in customer demand for our products; effectiveness of advertising, marketing and promotional programs; changes in consumer behavior, trends and preferences, including weight loss trends; consumer perception of health-related issues, including obesity; changes in purchasing and inventory levels of significant customers; fluctuations in the cost and availability of supply chain resources, including raw materials, packaging and energy; benefit plan expenses due to changes in plan asset values and/or discount rates used to determine plan liabilities; foreign economic conditions, including currency rate fluctuations; and political unrest in foreign markets and economic uncertainty due to terrorism or war. The company undertakes no obligations to publicly revise any forward-looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances.
See accompanying notes.


