FILE:GIS/GIS-8K-20050915103928.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
        On September 14, 2005, General Mills, Inc. (the "Company") entered into a First Supplemental Indenture (the "First Supplemental Indenture") with BNY Midwest Trust Company, the trustee (the "Trustee") for the Company's Zero Coupon Convertible Senior Debentures Due 2022 (the "Debentures"). The First Supplemental Indenture amends and supplements the Indenture (the "Indenture"), dated as of October 28, 2002, between the Company and the Trustee relating to the Debentures by extending the period during which a holder of the Debentures may surrender such Debentures to the Company (and withdraw such surrender) in the event of a repurchase of Debentures by the Company at the option of such holder (i) on a scheduled purchase date ("Scheduled Put") or (ii) upon a change of control of the Company ("Change of Control Put"). Under the First Supplemental Indenture, in the event of a Scheduled Put or a Change of Control Put, a holder may (i) surrender its Debentures to the Company from the opening of business on the date that is 20 business days prior to the relevant purchase date until the close of business on such purchase date and (ii) withdraw its surrender of such Debentures at any time prior to the close of business on the relevant purchase date, in each case by following the procedures set forth in the Indenture. The changes embodied in the First Supplemental Indenture are intended to make the above-referenced surrender and withdrawal period for the Debentures consistent with the requirements of Rule 13e-4 and Rule 14e-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
        A copy of the First Supplemental Indenture is attached hereto as Exhibit 4.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
        On September 15, 2005, the Company issued a press release relating to the obligation of the Company to purchase, at the option of the holders thereof, Debentures at a purchase price of $712.97 in cash per $1,000 principal amount at maturity outstanding. Holders may surrender their Debentures for purchase from September 29, 2005 through 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on Friday, October 28, 2005. The Company will file a Tender Offer Statement on Schedule TO with the Securities and Exchange Commission that will more fully describe the Company's obligation.
        In the press release, the Company also announced that although upon conversion of the Debentures in any of the circumstances described in the Indenture, the Company may choose to deliver, in lieu of shares of the Company's common stock, cash or a combination of cash and shares of the Company's common stock as set forth in the Indenture, to the extent permitted under the Indenture, the Company intends to satisfy its conversion obligation entirely in cash. The Company also intends to pay in cash the purchase price for any future Scheduled Put or Change of Control Put.
        A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 4.1
                This First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of September 14, 2005 (this ""), is entered into between GENERAL MILLS, INC., a Delaware corporation (the ""), and BNY MIDWEST TRUST COMPANY, an Illinois trust company, as Trustee (the "").
Supplemental Indenture
Company
Trustee
                , the Company and the Trustee have entered into that certain Indenture, dated as of October 28, 2002 (the ""), providing for the issuance of the Company's Zero Coupon Convertible Senior Debentures Due 2022 (the "");         
WHEREAS
Indenture
Securities
                , Section 9.01(j) of the Indenture provides that the Company and the Trustee may amend the Indenture or the Securities without the consent of any Securityholder with respect to matters or questions arising under the Indenture which the Company and the Trustee may deem necessary or desirable and which will not adversely affect the interests of the Holders of the Securities;         
WHEREAS
                , Section 3.15 of the Indenture requires, among other things, that the Company comply with Rule 13e-4 and Rule 14e-1 under the Exchange Act (the "") when complying with Sections 3.07 and 3.08 of the Indenture if the offer under such Sections constitutes an "issuer tender offer" for purposes of the Tender Offer Rules at the time;
WHEREAS
Tender Offer Rules
                , certain provisions of Section 3.07 and 3.08(c) of the Indenture are inconsistent with the requirements of the Tender Offer Rules as currently in effect; and
WHEREAS
                , the Company and the Trustee desire to supplement and amend the Indenture to remove the above-referenced inconsistency and such amendment will not adversely affect the interests of the Holders of the Securities.
WHEREAS
                ,for and in consideration of the premises set forth above, each of the Company and the Trustee agrees for the benefit of the other party and for the equal and ratable benefit of the Holders of the Securities as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE
                    All capitalized terms which are used herein and not otherwise defined herein are defined in the Indenture and are used herein with the same meanings as in the Indenture.
Section 1.01.
                    The first sentence of subparagraph (1) of Section 3.07 of the Indenture up to the word "stating" shall be amended and restated in its entirety to read as follows:
Section 2.01.
                    The penultimate paragraph of Section 3.07 of the Indenture shall be amended and restated in its entirety to read as follows:
Section 2.02.
                        The first sentence of Section 3.08(c) of the Indenture up to the word "Date:" shall be amended and restated in its entirety to read as follows:
Section 2.03.
                    The penultimate paragraph of Section 3.08(c) of the Indenture shall be amended and restated in its entirety to read as follows:
Section 2.04.
                    The Indenture, as supplemented and amended by this Supplemental Indenture, is in all respects adopted, ratified and confirmed, and all of the terms, provisions and conditions thereof shall be and remain in full force and effect, and this Supplemental Indenture and all its provisions shall be deemed a part thereof.
Section 3.01.
                    In case any provision in this Supplemental Indenture shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
Section 3.02.
                    THIS SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK WITHOUT REGARD TO THE CONFLICTS OF LAWS AND RULES OF SAID STATE.
Section 3.03.
                    The parties may sign any number of copies of this Supplemental Indenture. Each signed copy shall be an original, but all of them together represent the same agreement.
Section 3.04.
                IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company and the Trustee have caused their names to be signed hereto by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized as of the day and year first above written.    

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
September 15, 2005
Contacts: (media) Marybeth Thorsgaard: 763-764-6364 (analysts) Kris Wenker: 763-764-2607
        MINNEAPOLIS, MINN.  General Mills, Inc. (NYSE: GIS) announced today that it had notified holders of its Zero Coupon Convertible Senior Debentures Due 2022 (CUSIP Nos. 370334 AT1 and 370334 AU8) (the "Debentures") that they have the right to surrender their Debentures for purchase by General Mills pursuant to the terms of the Indenture (the "Indenture") for the Debentures (the "Put Option"). The Put Option expires on October 28, 2005.
        As required by law, General Mills will file a Tender Offer Statement on Schedule TO with the Securities and Exchange Commission later today. In addition, documents specifying the terms, conditions and procedures for surrendering and withdrawing Debentures for purchase will be available through The Depository Trust Company and BNY Midwest Trust Company, the paying agent for the Debentures. Holders are encouraged to read these documents carefully before making any decision with respect to the surrender of Debentures because these documents contain important information regarding the details of General Mills' obligation to purchase the Debentures. Neither General Mills nor its board of directors or employees have made or are making any representation or recommendation as to whether or not any holder should surrender any Debentures.
        The Put Option entitles each holder of the Debentures to require General Mills to purchase all or any part of such holder's Debentures at a price equal to $712.97 in cash per $1,000 principal amount at maturity. If all outstanding Debentures are surrendered for purchase pursuant to the Put Option, the aggregate cash purchase price will be approximately $1.6 billion.
        Under certain circumstances set forth in the Indenture, the Debentures become convertible into shares of common stock, $.10 par value per share, of General Mills. The Debentures are not currently convertible into common stock of General Mills and may never become convertible into common stock of General Mills.
        Upon a conversion, General Mills may choose to deliver, in lieu of shares of common stock, cash or a combination of cash and shares of common stock. To the extent permitted under the Indenture, General Mills intends to satisfy its conversion obligation entirely in cash. General Mills also intends to pay in cash the purchase price for any Debentures surrendered to General Mills by holders in the future for purchase under the terms of the Indenture.
        The opportunity of holders to surrender Debentures for purchase pursuant to the Put Option will commence on September 29, 2005, and will terminate at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on Friday, October 28, 2005 (the "Purchase Date"). In order to exercise the Put Option, a holder must follow the procedures set forth in General Mills' notice to holders, dated September 15, 2005 (the "Company Notice"). Holders may withdraw any Debentures previously surrendered for purchase at any time prior to 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the Purchase Date. The settlement date is expected to be October 31, 2005.
        Questions regarding the Put Option may be directed to BNY Midwest Trust Company at (212) 815-5788.
        This announcement is not an offer to purchase or a solicitation of an offer to sell the Debentures. The offer to purchase is made solely by the Company Notice.
        Statements in this press release regarding General Mills' business which are not historical facts are "forward-looking statements" that involve risks and uncertainties. For a discussion of such risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ from those contained in the forward-looking statements, see "Cautionary Statement Relevant to Forward-Looking Information for the Purpose of Safe Harbor' Provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995" in General Mills' Annual Report on Form 10-K for the most recently ended fiscal year.


