FILE:GIS/GIS-8K-20051222075042.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (763) 764-7600
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
On December 22, 2005, General Mills, Inc. issued a press release reporting financial results for its second quarter ended November 27, 2005. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
The information in Item 2.02 of this Current Report on Form 8-K and Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto shall not be deemed to be filed for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to liabilities of that Section or Sections 11 and 12(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: December 22, 2005

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
December 22, 2005
:   (Media) Marybeth Thorsgaard (763) 764-6364 (Analysts) Kris Wenker (763) 764-2607
Contacts
        MINNEAPOLIS, MINN.  General Mills (NYSE: GIS) today reported results for the second quarter of fiscal 2006. Net sales for the 13 weeks ended Nov. 27, 2005, were $3.27 billion, up 3 percent from results for the same period a year ago. Unit volume grew 2 percent worldwide. Segment operating profits of $647 million were 2 percent below strong prior-year results, reflecting higher advertising spending and freight costs. Earnings after tax increased 1 percent to $370 million. Diluted earnings per share (EPS) rose 5 percent to 97 cents this year compared to 92 cents in last year's second quarter.
        EPS results for both years include the effect of accounting for contingently convertible debt. This reduced second-quarter EPS by 5 cents in each period.
        Through the first six months of fiscal 2006, General Mills' net sales were up 3 percent to $5.94 billion. Segment operating profits increased 7 percent to $1.15 billion. Earnings after tax grew 13 percent to $622 million, and diluted earnings per share rose 18 percent to $1.60 including 9 cents of dilution associated with accounting for contingently convertible debt.
        Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Steve Sanger said, "We're pleased with our performance in the second quarter. The 3 percent net sales gain was on top of a 4 percent increase in last year's second quarter, and all three of our business segments posted sales growth for the period. And while higher input costs and increased advertising spending pressured margins, earnings per share exceeded our plan for the quarter."
U.S. Retail Results
Net sales for General Mills' domestic retail operations grew 3 percent in the second quarter to $2.34 billion, reflecting 2 percent unit volume growth and net price realization. Operating profits totaled $545 million, down 4 percent from prior-year profits that were up 5 percent from 2004 levels.
        The Meals division made the strongest dollar contribution to net sales growth, with a 9 percent increase driven by Progresso soup and Helper dinner mixes. Yoplait net sales grew 16 percent, reflecting continued strong performance from core product lines and new Chocolate Whips! yogurt. Snacks net sales grew 8 percent, led by Nature Valley granola bars and Chex Mix. Baking Products net sales rose 3 percent in the second quarter, reflecting price realization and favorable mix, including strong performance from new Warm Delights single-serve microwaveable desserts. Big G
cereal net sales were 2 percent below prior-year results. Pillsbury USA net sales declined 4 percent for the quarter, with lower results from refrigerated cookies and Totino's. Total consumer purchases of the company's products grew in the quarter, as composite sales for major product lines were up 4 percent.
        Through the first six months of 2006, General Mills U.S. Retail net sales were up 2 percent to $4.14 billion and operating profits were up 3 percent to $951 million.
International Segment Results
Net sales for General Mills' consolidated International businesses grew 8 percent in the second quarter to reach $472 million. Unit volume rose 5 percent, and foreign exchange contributed 2 points of growth. Operating profits grew to $56 million, a 14 percent increase from year-ago results.
        Through the first six months, International segment net sales grew 9 percent to reach $918 million and operating profits rose 38 percent to exceed $117 million.
Bakeries and Foodservice Segment Results
Second-quarter net sales for General Mills' Bakeries and Foodservice segment totaled $465 million, up 2 percent from year-ago results. Unit volume essentially matched prior-year levels. Operating profits also matched prior-year results and totaled $46 million.
        Through the first six months, Bakeries and Foodservice net sales were up slightly to $882 million and operating profits were up 14 percent to $79 million.
Joint Venture Summary
Earnings after tax from joint ventures totaled $21 million in the second quarter, down from $24 million a year earlier due to the absence of earnings from the divested Snack Ventures Europe (SVE) joint venture. Cereal Partners Worldwide, the company's ready-to-eat cereal joint venture with Nestle, posted a 4 percent net sales gain for the period. Net sales for the Haagen-Dazs joint ventures in Asia also grew 4 percent, and net sales for 8 Continent, the company's joint venture with DuPont, rose 9 percent.
th
        Through the first half, earnings from joint ventures totaled $39 million after tax.
Corporate Items
Interest expense for the quarter totaled $103 million, 18 percent below last year's second quarter primarily due to lower debt levels. Corporate unallocated expense in the second quarter totaled $2 million. In last year's second quarter, corporate unallocated expense totaled $20 million, including $8 million of identified items expense (primarily accelerated depreciation).
        Restructuring and other exit costs totaled $2 million pre-tax in the second quarter of 2006 compared to $3 million pre-tax in the second quarter of 2005. The effective tax rate for the second quarter was 35.4 percent, essentially in line with the company's expectations for the full year. Last year's second-quarter tax rate was lower due to the resolution of certain tax items.
Cash Flow Summary
Cash flow from operations totaled $763 million through November 2005, up from $523 million in the prior year. Capital expenditures through the first six months totaled $113 million, compared to $154 million in the first half of fiscal 2005.
Outlook
Commenting on the year, Sanger noted, "Through the first half, we achieved net sales growth, price realization and margin expansion in all three of our operating segments. This performance drove strong growth on our bottom line and has put us ahead of plan as we move into the second half of 2006.
        "Our earnings expectations for the second half include significant year-over-year increases in consumer marketing expense and input costs," he continued. "But based on our good first-half performance, we raised our 2006 earnings guidance as announced on December 12 to a range of $2.80 to $2.85 per share, including an estimated 8 cents of dilution associated with accounting for contingently convertible debt." The company also recently announced an increase in the quarterly dividend to a rate of 34 cents per share.
General Mills will hold a briefing for investors today, December 22, 2005, beginning at 8:30 a.m. EST. You may access the web cast from General Mills' corporate home page: www.generalmills.com.
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 that are based on management's current expectations and assumptions. These forward-looking statements, including the statements under the caption "Outlook" and statements made by Mr. Sanger, are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the potential results discussed in the forward-looking statements. In particular, our predictions about future net sales, volume and earnings could be affected by a variety of factors, including: competitive dynamics in the consumer foods industry and the markets for our products, including new product introductions, advertising activities, pricing actions and promotional activities of our competitors; actions of competitors other than as described above; economic conditions, including changes in inflation rates, interest rates or tax rates; product development and innovation; consumer acceptance of new products and product improvements; consumer reaction to pricing actions and changes in promotion levels; acquisitions or dispositions of businesses or assets; changes in capital structure; changes in laws and regulations, including changes in accounting standards and labeling and advertising regulations; changes in customer demand for our products; effectiveness of advertising, marketing and promotional programs; changes in consumer behavior, trends and preferences, including weight loss trends; consumer perception of health-related issues, including obesity; changes in purchasing and inventory levels of significant customers; fluctuations in the cost and availability of supply chain resources, including raw materials, packaging and energy; benefit plan expenses due to changes in plan asset values and/or discount rates used to determine plan liabilities; foreign economic conditions, including currency rate fluctuations; and political unrest in foreign markets and economic uncertainty due to terrorism or war. The company undertakes no obligations to publicly revise any forward-looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances.
See accompanying notes.
See accompanying notes.
See accompanying notes.


