FILE:GIS/GIS-8K-20061212160923.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
_____________________
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
 
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): December 11, 2006
 
 
 
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (763) 764-7600
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On December 11, 2006, the General Mills Board of Directors amended Article I, Section 6 of the Company's Bylaws to provide for the election of directors by a majority of votes cast in uncontested elections. A majority of the votes cast means that the number of shares voted "for" a director must exceed the number of shares voted "against" that director, excluding abstentions.
 
Previously, directors were elected under a plurality vote standard, meaning the candidates receiving the highest number of votes were elected whether or not they received a majority of the votes cast. Contested elections, where the number of nominees standing for election exceeds the number of directors to be elected, will continue to use the plurality vote standard.
 
If an incumbent director is not elected, the director must promptly offer his or her resignation to the Board. The Corporate Governance Committee will then make a recommendation to the Board on whether to accept or reject the resignation, or whether other action should be taken. The Board will publicly disclose its decision and the rationale behind it within 90 days of the certification of the election results. The director who offers his or her resignation will not participate in the Board's decision.
 
This description is qualified in its entirety by reference to the text of the Bylaw amendment. The Bylaw amendment and an accompanying press release are filed with this Current Report as Exhibit 3.1 and Exhibit 99.1 respectively.
  
 
 
SIGNATURE
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: December 12, 2006
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 3.1
 
Bylaw Amendment on Majority Voting for the Election of Directors
 
SECTION 6.   Voting at Stockholders' Meetings:   
The board of directors shall determine the voting power of any cumulative preference stock in accordance with article IV of the certificate of incorporation.
 
(a)         Except as set forth below in this paragraph (a), election of directors at all meetings of the stockholders at which directors are to be elected shall be by ballot and, subject to the rights of the holders of any class or series of stock to elect directors separately, each director shall be elected by a majority of the votes cast with respect to the director by stockholders entitled to vote and present in person or represented by proxy. For purposes of this by-law, a majority of the votes cast means that the number of shares voted "for" a director must exceed 50% of the votes cast "for" and "against" that director, excluding abstentions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if as of the tenth day prior to the date that the corporation first mails out its notice of meeting, the number of nominees standing for election at any meeting of the stockholders exceeds the number of directors to be elected, the directors shall be elected by a plurality of the votes cast at the meeting. If a director is not elected, the director shall promptly tender his or her resignation to the chairman of the board following certification of the vote. The corporate governance committee shall make a recommendation to the board of directors on whether to accept or reject the resignation, or whether other action should be taken. The board of directors shall act on the committee's recommendation and publicly disclose its decision and the rationale behind it within 90 days from the date of the certification of the election results. The director who tenders his or her resignation shall not participate in the board's decision.
.
Election of Directors
 
(b)         At all meetings of stockholders, all other questions, except as otherwise provided by law or the certificate of incorporation, shall be determined by a majority of the votes cast by stockholders entitled to vote and present in person or represented by proxy.
.
Other Matters
 
(c)         Votes may be cast by any stockholder entitled to vote in person or by his proxy appointed by an instrument in writing, subscribed by such stockholder or by his attorney thereunto authorized, or by proxy sent by cable, telegram or by any means of electronic communication permitted by law, which results in a writing from such stockholder or by his attorney, and delivered to the secretary of the meeting. No proxy shall be voted after three (3) years from its date, unless said proxy provides for a longer period. In determining the number of votes cast for or against a proposal or nominee, shares abstaining from voting on a matter (including elections) will not be treated as a vote cast. A non-vote by a broker will be counted for purposes of determining a quorum but not for purposes of determining the number of votes cast.
.
Vote Tabulation

Exhibit 99.1
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
DECEMBER 11, 2006
 
Contacts:
(Analysts) Kris Wenker (763) 764-2607
(Media) Thomas Forsythe (763) 764-6364
 
 
GENERAL MILLS BOARD OF DIRECTORS APPROVES DIVIDEND INCREASE
 
New Share Repurchase Authorization Approved
 
General Mills Bylaws Amended to Require Majority Vote for Election of Directors
 
MINNEAPOLIS, MINN.---The Board of Directors of General Mills (NYSE: GIS) today approved an increase in the company's quarterly dividend to 37 cents per share, payable Feb. 1, 2007, to shareholders of record Jan. 10, 2007. Previously, the quarterly dividend rate was 35 cents per share. This marks the fourth increase in General Mills' quarterly dividend rate since June 2005. General Mills and its predecessor companies have now paid dividends without interruption or reduction for 108 years.
 
In other actions at the board meeting, directors approved a new authorization for the company to repurchase up to 75 million shares of its common stock. This replaces the prior authorization, which permitted the company to repurchase shares up to a treasury share balance of 170 million. General Mills' treasury share balance was 157 million at the end of its most recently reported quarter (August 2006). Purchases under the new authorization can be made in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions, including the use of call options, other derivative instruments, Rule 10b5-1 trading plans and accelerated repurchase programs.
 
Directors also amended the company bylaws to provide for the annual election of directors by a majority vote standard in uncontested elections, beginning with the 2007 annual meeting of shareholders. Previously directors were elected under a plurality vote standard.
 
xxxx


