FILE:GIS/GIS-8K-20060921075213.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
_____________________
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
 
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): September 21, 2006
 
 
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (763) 764-7600
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
On September 21, 2006, General Mills, Inc. issued a press release reporting financial results for its first quarter ended August 27, 2006. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
The information furnished in Item 2.02 of this Current Report on Form 8-K and Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto shall not be deemed to be filed for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to liabilities of that Section or Sections 11 and 12(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 
 
 
SIGNATURE
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: September 21, 2006
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
September 21, 2006
 
Contacts
: (Media) Thomas Forsythe (763) 764-6364
 
(Analysts) Kris Wenker (763) 764-2607
 
GENERAL MILLS REPORTS RESULTS FOR FISCAL 2007 FIRST QUARTER
 
Net Sales Increased 7 Percent to $2.86 Billion
 
Diluted Earnings Per Share Grew 16 Percent to 74 Cents
 
 
MINNEAPOLIS, MINN.---General Mills, Inc. (NYSE: GIS) today reported results for the first quarter of fiscal 2007. Net sales for the 13 weeks ended Aug. 27, 2006, increased 7 percent to $2.86 billion, as worldwide unit volume rose 4 percent. Segment operating profits grew 7 percent to $532 million. Net earnings totaled $267 million, up 6 percent despite higher interest expense and the adoption of a new accounting standard for stock-based compensation (SFAS 123R) in this year's first quarter. Diluted earnings per share (EPS) totaled 74 cents, up 16 percent from 64 cents a year ago.
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Steve Sanger said, "This is a solid start to the year, driven by good unit volume and sales gains in each of our three operating segments---U.S. Retail, International, and Bakeries & Foodservice. The sales strength reflects continued growth momentum in our established businesses, along with new product introductions under way in markets around the world."
-more-
U.S. Retail Segment Results
Net sales for General Mills' domestic retail operations grew 5 percent to $1.91 billion for the first quarter, with unit volume up 3 percent. Operating profits grew faster than sales, increasing 8 percent to $447 million. The margin expansion reflects favorable production mix and efficient plant performance.
The Meals division recorded a 7 percent net sales increase, led by Helper dinner mixes and Progresso ready-to-serve soups. Yoplait division net sales grew 8 percent with continued strong performance by the Yoplait Light product line and contributions from new Whips! and Thick n' Creamy varieties. Snacks division net sales grew 7 percent including contributions from new items such as coffee-flavored Caribou Bars and Select Chex Mix varieties. Big G cereals recorded a 4 percent net sales increase with gains by established brands such as Honey Nut Cheerios and Fiber One, and contributions from new products including Fruity Cheerios. Net sales for Pillsbury USA (refrigerated dough, Totino's frozen pizza and snack rolls) matched prior-year levels, and Baking Products net sales grew 1 percent. Net sales for the company's Small Planet Foods organic business grew 34 percent in the quarter.
 
International Segment Results
Net sales for General Mills' consolidated international businesses grew 13 percent to $505 million. Unit volume increased 7 percent, including strong contributions from new products, and foreign exchange contributed 4 points of net sales growth. Operating profits totaled $56 million. This was $3 million below year-ago levels, due to strong levels of new-product marketing support in this year's quarter and comparison to a 74 percent profit increase in the period last year.
-more-
Bakeries & Foodservice Segment Results
First-quarter net sales for Bakeries & Foodservice grew 9 percent to $445 million, reflecting 4 percent unit volume growth, pricing and favorable mix. Operating profits grew 7 percent to $29 million despite significantly higher commodity and fuel costs.
 
Joint Venture Summary
After-tax earnings from joint ventures totaled $19 million in the first quarter, matching prior year results. This year's results include a $2 million after-tax charge that is part of a previously announced restructuring of the Cereal Partners Worldwide (CPW) manufacturing plants in the United Kingdom. Net sales for CPW grew 7 percent in the quarter. Net sales for the Haagen-Dazs joint ventures in Asia declined 4 percent. The 8 Continent joint venture with DuPont (U.S. soy beverages) posted a 2 percent net sales increase.
th
 
Corporate Items
Corporate unallocated expense totaled a net $43 million for the quarter compared to $37 million net expense a year ago. Fiscal 2007 results include the incremental effects of adopting SFAS 123R for stock-based compensation, which represented $40 million pretax expense in the quarter. Prior year first-quarter corporate expense included a $10 million charge to write down the asset value of a low-income housing investment.
Restructuring and other exit items contributed income of $2 million in the quarter, including a $9 million gain on the sale of a former manufacturing facility in Spain and a $6 million charge associated with divestiture of a par-baked bread business that was part of our Bakeries and Foodservice segment.
Interest expense for the quarter totaled $105 million, up 17 percent due to higher rates. The effective tax rate for the quarter was 35.8 percent.
-more-
Cash Flow Items
Operating cash flow for the first quarter was $104 million, down from $158 million in the same period last year due to higher working capital use. During the first quarter, General Mills repurchased 14 million of the company's common shares at an average price of $52.08 per share. Dividends grew to $126 million, reflecting two increases to the quarterly dividend rate effective in February 2006 and August 2006. Capital expenditures during the quarter were $61 million.
 
Outlook
"This is an excellent start to the fiscal year, as we are seeing strong operating performance across all business segments," Sanger said. General Mills reaffirmed its fiscal 2007 guidance for low single-digit net sales growth, mid single-digit growth in segment operating profits, and diluted EPS of $3.03 to $3.08, including an estimated 11 to 12 cent impact from the adoption SFAS 123R for stock-based compensation.
 
Total company segment operating profit is a non-GAAP measure. A reconciliation of this measure to the relevant GAAP measure, operating profit, appears in the attached consolidated operating segment results schedule.
 
General Mills will hold a briefing for investors today, Sept. 21, 2006, beginning at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time. You may access the web cast from General Mills' corporate home page: .
www.generalmills.com
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 that are based on management's current expectations and assumptions. These forward-looking statements, including the statements under the caption "Outlook" and statements made by Mr. Sanger, are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the potential results discussed in the forward-looking statements. In particular, our predictions about future net sales and earnings could be affected by a variety of factors, including: competitive dynamics in the consumer foods industry and the markets for our products, including new product introductions, advertising activities, pricing actions and promotional activities of our competitors; economic conditions, including changes in inflation rates, interest rates or tax rates; product development and innovation; consumer acceptance of new products and product improvements; consumer reaction to pricing actions and changes in promotion levels; acquisitions or dispositions of businesses or assets; changes in capital structure; changes in laws and regulations, including labeling and advertising regulations; changes in accounting standards and the impact of significant accounting estimates; product quality and safety issues, including recalls and product liability; changes in customer demand for our products; effectiveness of advertising, marketing and promotional programs; changes in consumer behavior, trends and preferences, including weight loss trends; consumer perception of health-related issues, including obesity; consolidation in the retail environment; changes in purchasing and inventory levels of significant customers; fluctuations in the cost and availability of supply chain resources, including raw materials, packaging and energy; disruptions or inefficiencies in the supply chain; benefit plan expenses due to changes in plan asset values and discount rates used to determine plan liabilities; resolution of uncertain income tax matters; foreign economic conditions, including currency rate fluctuations; and political unrest in foreign markets and economic uncertainty due to terrorism or war. The company undertakes no obligation to publicly revise any forward-looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances.
 
XXXX
See accompanying notes.
See accompanying notes.
See accompanying notes.
See accompanying notes.


