FILE:GIS/GIS-8K-20070928081749.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
_____________________
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
 
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): September 24, 2007
 
 
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (763) 764-7600
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
On September 24, 2007, at the 2007 Annual Meeting of Stockholders (the "Annual Meeting") of General Mills, Inc. (the "Company"), Company stockholders adopted the General Mills, Inc. 2007 Stock Compensation Plan (the "2007 Plan"). A description of the 2007 Plan can be found in the Company's Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on August 14, 2007. A copy of the 2007 Plan is filed as Exhibit 10.1 hereto and is incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
Election of Chief Executive Officer
 
On September 24, 2007, the Board of Directors of the Company elected Kendall J. Powell Chief Executive Officer of the Company to succeed Stephen W. Sanger. Mr. Sanger plans to continue to serve as the Company's Chairman of the Board through the Company's fiscal year ending in May 2008. A copy of the press release announcing Mr. Powell's election is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference herein.
 
Mr. Powell, age 53, joined General Mills in 1979. Mr. Powell has held a variety of general management assignments over his 28-year career with the Company, including President of the Yoplait Division from 1996 to 1997; President of Big G Cereals from 1997 to 1999; and Chief Executive Officer of the Company's Cereal Partners Worldwide joint venture from 1999 to 2004. Mr. Powell was named an Executive Vice President of the Company in 2004 and was appointed Chief Operating Officer---U.S. Retail in May 2005. He served as President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company from June 2006 until his election as Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Powell is a director of Medtronic, Inc.
 
Agreement with Former Chief Financial Officer
 
With the previously announced retirement of James A. Lawrence, former Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer of the Company, two-thirds of the 25,000 restricted stock unit award granted to Mr. Lawrence in June 2006, or 16,667 shares, will be forfeited. The remaining one-third of this restricted stock unit grant will vest in 2010 if Mr. Lawrence adheres to a 3-year non-disclosure and non-solicitation agreement.
 
 
 
SIGNATURE
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date:  September 27, 2007
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 

Exhibit 10.1 GENERAL MILLS, INC. 2007 STOCK COMPENSATION PLAN
Stock Options, Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units and Stock Appreciation Rights are sometimes referred to as Awards. To the extent any Award is subject to section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (Code section 409A), the terms and administration of such Award shall comply therewith and IRS guidance thereunder.
1
2
3
For determining the amount of the payment, Common Stock delivered pursuant to (ii) or (iii) shall have a value equal to the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock on the date of exercise.
4
Subject to the restrictions set forth in this Section, each Participant who receives Restricted Stock shall have all rights as a stockholder with respect to such shares, including the right to vote the shares and receive dividends and other distributions.
Each Participant who is awarded Restricted Stock Units that are settled in shares of Common Stock shall be eligible to receive, at the expiration of the applicable restricted period (or such later time as provided herein), one share of Common Stock for each Restricted Stock Unit awarded, and the Company shall issue to each such Participant that number of shares of Common Stock. Each Participant who is awarded Restricted Stock Units that are settled in cash shall receive an amount equal to the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on the date the applicable restricted period ends, multiplied by the number of Units awarded. Participants who receive Restricted Stock Units shall have no rights as stockholders with respect to such Restricted Stock Units until such time as share certificates for Common Stock are issued to the Participants (if applicable); provided, however, that as of the first day of each quarter, during the applicable restricted period for all Restricted Stock Units awarded hereunder, the Company shall pay to each such Participant an amount equal to the sum of all dividends and other distributions paid by the Company during the prior quarter on that equivalent number of shares of Common Stock.
The Committee may in its discretion permit a Participant to defer receipt of any Common Stock or cash issuable upon the lapse of any restriction of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units, subject to such rules and procedures as it may establish. In particular, the Committee shall establish rules relating to such deferrals intended to comply with the requirements of Code section 409A, including without limitation, the time when a deferral election can be made, the period of the deferral, and the events that would result in payment of the deferred amount.
5
6
7
then the Participants Stock Options and Stock Appreciation Rights shall terminate three months after such termination (but in no event beyond the original full term of the Stock Options or Stock Appreciation Rights) and no Stock Options or Stock Appreciation Rights shall become exercisable after such termination, and all shares of Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units which are subject to restriction on the date of termination shall be forfeited.
8
Notwithstanding the foregoing, any Section 409A Restricted Stock Units that vest under this Section 12(b) shall be paid on the Participants separation from service (within the meaning of Code section 409A), or in the case of a Participant who is a specified employee (within the meaning of Code section 409A) shall be paid on the first day of the seventh month following the month of separation from service.
9
No termination, modification, suspension, or amendment of the Plan shall alter or impair the rights of any Participant pursuant to an outstanding Award, in any material respect, without the consent of the Participant. There is no obligation for uniformity of treatment of Participants under the Plan.
10
Payments and other benefits received by a Participant under an Award shall not be deemed part of a Participants regular, recurring compensation for purposes of any termination, indemnity or severance pay laws and shall not be included in, nor have any effect on, the determination of benefits under any other employee benefit plan, contract or similar arrangement provided by the Company or any Subsidiary, unless expressly so provided by such other plan, contract or arrangement.
Attention: Corporate Compensation General Mills, Inc. Number One General Mills Boulevard Minneapolis, MN 55426
11

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
September 24, 2007
Contacts
: (Media) Tom Forsythe (763) 764-6364
Kirstie Foster (763) 764-6364
(Analysts) Kris Wenker (763) 764-2607
 
KEN POWELL NAMED CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER OF GENERAL MILLS
STEVE SANGER CONTINUES AS CHAIRMAN
 
MINNEAPOLIS, MINN.  General Mills (NYSE: GIS) said today that its board of directors has elected Kendall J. Powell Chief Executive Officer of the company. Powell, age 53, joined the company in 1979 and was most recently President and Chief Operating Officer. He succeeds Steve Sanger, age 61, who has served as General Mills Chairman and Chief Executive Officer since May 1995. Sanger will continue as Chairman through the end of the current fiscal year in May 2008.
"The board and I have great confidence that Ken will be an outstanding chief executive officer of General Mills," said Sanger. "He has extensive knowledge of our global food categories, our customers, and our worldwide operations. This deep-seated understanding of our business, coupled with Ken's commitment to our culture and the development of our people, make him uniquely qualified to lead General Mills in the next phase of our long-term growth."
Powell has held a variety of general management assignments over his 28-year career with General Mills, including President of the Yoplait Division from 1996 to 1997; President of Big G Cereals from 1997 to 1999; and Chief Executive Officer of the company's Cereal Partners Worldwide (CPW) joint venture with Nestle based in Switzerland from 1999 to 2004. Today, CPW generates $1.6 billion in annual net sales and sells ready-to-eat breakfast cereal in more than 130 international markets. Powell was named an Executive Vice President of General Mills in 2004 and was appointed Chief Operating Officer---U.S. Retail in 2005. He was named President and Chief Operating Officer of General Mills in June 2006. Powell holds a bachelor's degree in biology from Harvard and an MBA from Stanford.
In comments to shareholders attending General Mills' 79 annual meeting held today in Minneapolis, Powell said, "I am honored and excited to serve as General Mills' Chief Executive Officer. And I realize Steve will be a tough act to follow." Powell noted that since Sanger became Chief Executive Officer in May 1995, company sales have more than doubled to exceed $12 billion in fiscal 2007, earnings have tripled to more than $1.1 billion, and total return to shareholders (stock price appreciation plus reinvested dividends) averaged 10 percent compounded annually over the period. General Mills also grew dramatically in global scope, increasing international sales ten fold over the past 12 years.
th
"It has been a great privilege for me to serve as Chief Executive Officer of General Mills," Sanger said, "and I look forward to seeing General Mills continue to grow and prosper in the years ahead."
 
About General Mills
 
General Mills, with annual net sales exceeding $12 billion, is a leading global manufacturer and marketer of consumer foods products.  Based in Minneapolis, Minn., its global brand portfolio includes Big G cereals such as Cheerios, Cinnamon Toast Crunch and Fiber One; Progresso soups; Helper dinner mixes; Yoplait yogurt; Nature Valley granola bars; Pillsbury refrigerated dough; Totinos frozen pizza and snacks; Betty Crocker dessert mixes; Green Giant vegetables; Hagen-Dazs ice cream; Old El Paso Mexican foods; and Cascadian Farms and Muir Glen organic foods. General Mills is a leading supplier of food products to the foodservice and commercial baking industries, and sells products in more than 100 international markets around the globe.


