FILE:GIS/GIS-8K-20070802133903.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
_____________________
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
 
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): August 1, 2007
 
 
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (763) 764-7600
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Resignation of Principal Financial Officer
 
On August 1, 2007, General Mills, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release stating that James A. Lawrence, Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer of the Company, has announced that he is retiring from the Company and will be accepting a senior-level position with another major international firm. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
Appointment of New Principal Financial Officer and Principal Accounting Officer
 
With the retirement of Mr. Lawrence, Donal L. Mulligan, formerly the Company's Senior Vice President, Financial Operations, has been elected Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company effective August 1, 2007 and has become the Company's principal financial officer.
 
Mr. Mulligan, age 46, joined General Mills in 1998. He served as Chief Financial Officer of General Mills International until 2004, when he was named Vice President, Finance for General Mills' Technical Community. He was appointed Vice President and Treasurer of General Mills in January 2006 and was named Senior Vice President, Financial Operations, in July 2007. From 1987 to 1998, Mr. Mulligan worked at PepsiCo, holding several international positions.
 
Kenneth L. Thome, who since 1993 has served as the Company's Senior Vice President, Financial Operations, has agreed to postpone his previously announced retirement. He will serve as Senior Vice President, Deputy Chief Financial Officer, and will continue to serve as the Company's principal accounting officer.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURE
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
General Mills Vice Chairman and CFO Jim Lawrence to Retire
 
Don Mulligan Elected Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
 
Ken Thome Named Senior Vice President, Deputy Chief Financial Officer
 
MINNEAPOLIS, MINN --- General Mills today said that Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer Jim Lawrence has announced plans to retire from the company and has accepted a senior-level position with another major international firm. Don Mulligan has been elected executive vice president and chief financial officer of General Mills, effective Aug. 1, 2007.
 
Lawrence joined General Mills in 1998 as executive vice president and chief financial officer. He was elected vice chairman of General Mills in May 2006. "Jim has made important strategic contributions to General Mills and enhanced the excellence of our financial organization," said Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Steve Sanger. "We thank Jim for his leadership, and we wish him success in his new endeavor."
 
Mulligan joined General Mills from the Pillsbury Company in 2001. He served as vice president, Financial Operations for the International division until 2004, when he was named vice president, Financial Operations for Operations and Technology. He was appointed vice president and treasurer in January 2006, and was elected senior vice president, Financial Operations earlier this year. Mulligan joined Pillsbury in 1998 following 11 years with PepsiCo, Inc. and YUM! Brands, Inc., where he held various international finance positions.
 
"It is a reflection of our overall talent depth and the strength of our financial function that we have an executive of Don's capability to take on this important leadership role in the company," said Sanger.
 
Ken Thome, who since 1993 has served as General Mills senior vice president, Financial Operations, has agreed to postpone his retirement planned for Aug. 1, 2007, and will serve as senior vice president, deputy chief financial officer for the next 12 months. "Ken has served in a wide variety of finance leadership roles throughout his 38-year career at General Mills and will provide strong continuity during this transition," Sanger said.
 
About General Mills
General Mills, with annual net sales of $13.4 billion, is a leading global manufacturer and marketer of consumer foods products. Based in Minneapolis, General Mills' mission is to innovate to make people's lives healthier, easier and richer around the world  Nourishing Lives. Its global brand portfolio includes Big G cereals, Betty Crocker, Pillsbury, Green Giant, Hagen-Dazs, Nature Valley, Old El Paso and more. It has more than 100 U.S. consumer brands, more than 30 of which generate annual retail sales in excess of $100 million. General Mills also is a leading supplier of baking and other food products to the foodservice and commercial baking industries.
 
 


