FILE:GIS/GIS-8K-20080319074410.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
_____________________
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
 
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): March 19, 2008
 
 
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (763) 764-7600
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
On March 19, 2008, General Mills, Inc. issued a press release reporting financial results for its third quarter ended February 24, 2008. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
The information furnished in Item 2.02 of this Current Report on Form 8-K and Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto shall not be deemed to be filed for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to liabilities of that Section or Sections 11 and 12(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURE
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date:   March 19, 2008
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
March 19, 2008
Contacts
: (Analysts) Kris Wenker (763) 764-2607
 
(Media) Kirstie Foster (763) 764-6364
 
 
GENERAL MILLS REPORTS STRONG GROWTH IN FISCAL 2008 THIRD QUARTER
 
Net Sales Increased 12 Percent to $3.41 Billion
 
Net Earnings Totaled $1.23 per Share Including Certain Non-cash Items
 
Company Updates 2008 Full-year Guidance
 
MINNEAPOLIS, MINN.---General Mills (NYSE: GIS) today reported results for the third quarter of fiscal 2008. Net sales for the 13 weeks ended Feb. 24, 2008, rose 12 percent to $3.41 billion, fueled by 6 percent pound volume growth. Gross margin expanded to 39.8 percent of sales, as mark-to-market valuation of commodity positions, productivity and pricing offset significantly higher input costs. Segment operating profits grew 14 percent to $594 million including a 13 percent increase in consumer marketing investment. Net earnings grew 61 percent to $430 million including non-cash gains from mark-to-market valuation of commodity positions and a favorable ruling related to a tax contingency. (These non-cash items are discussed in the section titled Corporate Items below). Diluted earnings per share (EPS) totaled $1.23 including $0.36 from the commodity and tax items. Excluding these items, earnings per share would have totaled $0.87 in the quarter, up 18 percent from $0.74 per share a year ago.
-more-
Chief Executive Officer Ken Powell said, "This was a terrific quarter for General Mills, fueled by continued strong demand for our products in markets all around the world." Each of the company's business segments reported net sales and operating profit growth for the quarter. These gains came on top of good growth in last year's third quarter, when General Mills' net sales grew 6 percent and earnings per share rose 9 percent.
Through the first nine months of fiscal 2008, General Mills' net sales increased 8 percent to $10.18 billion, and pound volume grew 3 percent. Segment operating profits grew 7 percent to $1.89 billion. Net earnings through nine months grew 21 percent to $1.11 billion. Diluted EPS for the year-to-date totaled $3.19, including $0.39 from the non-cash commodity and tax items. Excluding these items, nine-month earnings per share would have totaled $2.80, up 10 percent from $2.55 last year.
"Our product innovation and consumer marketing investments are driving strong growth on the top line," Powell said, "and cost-savings efforts, together with pricing actions, are offsetting significantly higher input costs and protecting our margins. This performance has us on pace to deliver strong sales and earnings growth for fiscal 2008 in total."
 
U.S. Retail Segment Results
Third quarter net sales for General Mills' U.S. Retail operations grew 9 percent to $2.30 billion, with gains recorded by every division. Pound volume grew 8 percent. Operating profits grew 9 percent to $486 million.
Snacks division net sales grew 16 percent, reflecting continued strong consumer demand for Nature Valley grain snacks, Fiber One bars and fruit snacks. Baking Products division net sales also rose 16 percent fueled by double-digit volume growth. Yoplait division net sales grew 14 percent led by Yoplait Light yogurt, Yo-Plus yogurt with probiotic cultures and fiber, and introductory shipments of new Fiber One yogurt. Meals division net
-more-
sales rose 8 percent, reflecting growth by Progresso ready-to-serve soups and Green Giant frozen vegetables. Pillsbury USA division net sales also grew 8 percent, including gains by Pillsbury refrigerated dough products and Totino's pizza rolls. Net sales for Big G cereals grew 3 percent, led by Cheerios varieties and the Fiber One cereal franchise. Net sales for the company's Small Planet Foods organic business rose 14 percent.
Through nine months, U.S. Retail segment net sales increased 6 percent to $6.85 billion. Pound volume grew 3 percent. Operating profits increased 4 percent including product recall expenses and a 9 percent increase in consumer marketing investment year-to-date.
 
International Segment Results
Third-quarter net sales for General Mills' consolidated international businesses grew 20 percent to $613 million. Pound volume contributed 4 points of growth, pricing and mix added 5 points of growth, and foreign currency exchange accounted for 10 points of the increase. Sales in Latin America / South Africa and in the Asia / Pacific region rose at strong double-digit rates. Net sales in Europe rose 17 percent. In Canada, sales grew 13 percent for the quarter primarily reflecting favorable currency exchange.
Through the first nine months, International net sales rose 20 percent to $1.88 billion, including 9 points of growth from foreign exchange. Operating profits rose 30 percent to $208 million.
-more-
Foodservice Segment Results
Third-quarter net sales for the Bakeries and Foodservice segment grew 13 percent to $492 million, due to price increases and favorable mix. Pound volume essentially matched prior-year levels. Operating profits grew 68 percent to $56 million, reflecting gains associated with grain merchandising activities.
Through nine months, Bakeries and Foodservice net sales grew 6 percent to $1.45 billion and operating profits rose 16 percent to $138 million.
 
Joint Venture Summary
After-tax earnings from joint ventures totaled $30 million in the third quarter of 2008 compared to $16 million in the same period last year. This year's results include a net gain of $11 million after tax primarily from the sale of property associated with the previously announced restructuring of Cereal Partners Worldwide (CPW) manufacturing plants in the United Kingdom. Last year's third-quarter earnings from joint ventures included a $4 million after-tax charge associated with the restructuring.
Net sales for the company's joint ventures increased to $298 million from $249 million in last year's third quarter. CPW net sales grew 21 percent, and net sales for the company's Haagen-Dazs joint ventures in Asia grew 10 percent. During the third quarter, the 8 Continent soymilk business was sold. Our after-tax share of the gain recorded in the third quarter was $2 million.
th
Through nine months, joint venture earnings totaled $80 million in 2008 compared to $58 million in 2007. These totals include a net $8 million after-tax gain from the CPW restructuring activities in 2008 and after-tax expense of $7 million last year.
-more-
Corporate Items
Restructuring, impairment and other exit costs totaled $5 million in the quarter, compared to $1 million in the period a year ago. Total corporate unallocated items represented a net gain of $106 million in the quarter, compared to expense of $36 million last year. The gain this year reflects $151 million net mark-to-market gains on hedges on open commodity positions and current grain inventories. Net interest expense for the quarter was $103 million this year compared to $107 million last year. The effective tax rate for the quarter was 32.5 percent including a $30 million discrete benefit associated with a favorable court decision on a tax matter. Last year's third quarter tax rate was 33.6 percent. The company now estimates its effective tax rate for the full year, including the discrete item discussed above, will be approximately 34.0 to 34.5 percent.
 
Cash Flow Highlights
Cash flow from operations totaled $914 million through February 2008, compared to $1.15 billion through the first nine months of 2007. Increased working capital, primarily higher inventory levels and prices, was the key driver of change from last year. Year-to-date capital expenditures totaled $299 million compared to $249 million in the same period last year. Dividends through nine months grew to $395 million. On March 10, 2008, the company announced an increase in the quarterly dividend rate to $0.40 per share, payable May 1, 2008, to shareholders of record April 10, 2008. During the third quarter, General Mills repurchased approximately 3 million shares of common stock at an average price of approximately $55 per share. Average diluted shares outstanding for the third quarter totaled 350 million, down 3 percent from last year's third-quarter average.
 
-more-
Outlook
In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, General Mills expects input costs to be above both current year-to-date and year-ago levels. The company also plans to make strong investments in consumer marketing activities, in order to help drive continued net sales momentum through the final quarter of this year and into fiscal 2009.
"Our businesses are healthy and growing, and financial results through the first nine months have exceeded our plans," said Powell. "We have updated our earnings per share guidance for the full year, including an estimated $0.30 of non-cash commodity and tax items, to a range of $3.75 to $3.77 per share. Excluding the tax and commodity gains, our earnings guidance would be $3.45 to $3.47 per share." In fiscal 2007, General Mills earned $3.18 per share.
Total company segment operating profit is a non-GAAP measure. Reconciliation of this measure to the relevant GAAP measure, operating profit, appears in the attached consolidated operating segment results schedule. Earnings per share excluding certain non-cash items is a non-GAAP measure. Reconciliation of this measure to the relevant GAAP measure (earnings per share) appears in Note 9 to the attached consolidated financial statements.
 
General Mills will hold a briefing for investors today, March 19, 2008, beginning at 8:30 a.m. EDT. You may access the web cast from General Mills' corporate home page at
www.generalmills.com
.
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 that are based on management's current expectations and assumptions. These forward-looking statements, including the statements under the caption "Outlook" and statements made by Mr. Powell, are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the potential results discussed in the forward-looking statements. In particular, our predictions about future net sales and earnings could be affected by a variety of factors, including: competitive dynamics in the consumer foods industry and the markets for our products, including new product introductions, advertising activities, pricing actions and promotional activities of our competitors; economic conditions, including changes in inflation rates, interest rates or tax rates; product development and innovation; consumer acceptance of new products and product improvements; consumer reaction to pricing actions and changes in promotion levels; acquisitions or dispositions of businesses or assets; changes in capital structure; changes in laws and regulations, including labeling and advertising regulations; impairments in the carrying value of goodwill, other intangible assets, or other long-lived assets, or changes in the useful lives of other intangible assets; changes in accounting standards and the impact of significant accounting estimates; product quality and safety issues, including recalls and product liability; changes in customer demand for our products; effectiveness of advertising, marketing and promotional programs; changes in consumer behavior, trends and preferences, including weight loss trends; consumer perception of health-related issues, including obesity; consolidation in the retail environment; changes in purchasing and inventory levels of significant customers; fluctuations in the cost and availability of supply chain resources, including raw materials, packaging and energy; disruptions or inefficiencies in the supply chain; volatility in the market value of derivatives used to hedge price risk for certain commodities; benefit plan expenses due to changes in plan asset values and discount rates used to determine plan liabilities; failure of our information technology systems; resolution of uncertain income tax matters; foreign economic conditions, including currency rate fluctuations; and political unrest in foreign markets and economic uncertainty due to terrorism or war. The company undertakes no obligation to publicly revise any forward-looking statements to reflect any future events or circumstances.
 
xxx
GENERAL MILLS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
OPERATING SEGMENT RESULTS
(Unaudited) (In Millions, Except per Share Data)
 
 
 
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements
 
 
 
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
GENERAL MILLS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(Unaudited) (In Millions)
 
 
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
GENERAL MILLS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Unaudited)
 
 
 
 
For the nine-month period ended February 24, 2008, unallocated corporate items totaled $26.0 million of income, compared to $118.6 million of expense for the same period last year. The change is primarily due to gains of $99.3 million from hedges on open commodity positions, and $68.8 million from the revaluation of our grain inventories to market. We also recognized a previously deferred gain on the sale of a corporate investment of $10.8 million in fiscal 2008. These items were partially offset by $17.4 million of accelerated depreciation on long-lived assets associated with our previously announced restructuring action at our plant in Trenton, Ontario, and $10.9 million of costs related to the remarketing of minority interests as discussed in Note 5 below.
 
 
During the nine-month period ended February 24, 2008, we took additional restructuring actions beyond the item described above. We approved a plan to transfer
Old El Paso
production from our Poplar, Wisconsin facility to other plants and close the Poplar facility to improve capacity utilization and reduce costs. This action resulted in a charge of $2.7 million consisting entirely of employee severance. Due to declining financial results, we decided to exit our frozen waffle product line (retail and foodservice) and to close our waffle plant in Allentown, Pennsylvania. We recorded a charge of $10.8 million related to this closure. We completed an analysis of the viability of our Bakeries and Foodservice frozen dough facility in Trenton, Ontario, and will close the facility. We recorded a $9.8 million charge related to this action. We also incurred a $17.4
million non-cash charge related to accelerated depreciation on long-lived assets at our Trenton, Ontario plant. The accelerated depreciation charges are recorded in cost of sales in our Consolidated Statements of Earnings, and in unallocated corporate expenses in our Schedule of Operating Segment Results. We restructured our production scheduling and discontinued our cake product line at our Chanhassen, Minnesota Bakeries and Foodservice plant. We recorded a charge of $3.0 million as a result of these actions. We also completed the sale of our previously closed Vallejo, California plant and recorded a gain of $7.1 million.
 
During the nine-month period ended February 25, 2007, we recorded income related to restructuring and other exit activities of $2.3 million. We sold our previously closed plant in San Adrian, Spain, resulting in a gain of $8.1 million. We incurred a $5.9 million loss associated with the divestiture of our par-baked bread product line, including its plants in Chelsea, Massachusetts and Tempe, Arizona.
 
 
 
We and the third party holder of all of GMC's outstanding Class A limited membership interests (Class A Interests) agreed to reset, effective on June 28, 2007, the preferred rate of return applicable to the Class A Interests to the sum of 3 month LIBOR plus 65 basis points. On June 28, 2007, we also sold $92.3 million of additional Class A Interests to the same third party. There was no gain or loss associated with these transactions. As of February 24, 2008, the carrying value of all outstanding Class A Interests on our Consolidated Balance Sheets was $242.3 million, and the capital account balance of the Class A Interests upon which preferred distributions are calculated was $248.1 million.
 
On June 28, 2007, we repurchased for $150.0 million all of the outstanding Series A preferred stock of our subsidiary General Mills Capital, Inc. using proceeds from the sale of the Class A Interests and commercial paper. There was no gain or loss associated with this repurchase.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The effective tax rate for the nine-month period ended February 24, 2008 was 34.0 percent compared to 35.2 percent for the same period of fiscal 2007. The 1.2 percentage point decrease in the effective tax rate is primarily the result of the favorable District Court decision discussed in the preceding paragraph.
 
 
 
 


