FILE:GIS/GIS-8K-20100629161523.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On June 29, 2010, General Mills, Inc. issued a press release reporting financial results for its fiscal year and fourth quarter ended May 30, 2010. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
The information furnished in Item 2.02 of this Current Report on Form 8-K and Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto shall not be deemed to be filed for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to liabilities of that Section or Sections 11 and 12(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (d) .
Exhibits
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE June 29, 2010
: (Analysts) Kris Wenker (763) 764-2607 (Media) Kirstie Foster (763) 764-6364
Contacts
     MINNEAPOLIS, MINN.General Mills (NYSE: GIS) today reported strong results for the fourth quarter and full fiscal year ended May 30, 2010. On the last business day of the fiscal year, General Mills common stock split 2 for 1. All per-share data in this release have been adjusted to reflect the stock split.
Fiscal 2010 Financial Highlights
General Mills net sales in fiscal 2010 increased 1 percent to $14.8 billion. The contribution from volume (measured in pounds) matched prior-year levels, with the impact of one less week and the absence of divested product lines subtracting 3 points of growth. Price and mix contributed 1 point of net sales growth, and foreign currency translation had no meaningful impact on the net sales growth rate. Gross margin expanded to 39.7 percent, reflecting strong operating performance, effective cost-savings initiatives and supply-chain costs that were below prior-year levels. The company increased media expense by 24 percent in fiscal 2010. Including this investment, segment operating profit grew 8 percent to $2.9 billion. Restructuring, impairment and other exit costs totaled $31 million pretax. Tax expense included a $35 million charge related to recent federal health care legislation. Net earnings grew 17 percent to $1.5 billion, including a net decline in mark-to-market valuation of certain commodity positions. Diluted earnings per share rose 18 percent to $2.24. Earnings per share excluding mark-to-market effects and the tax charge related to health care reform would total $2.30. This represents a 16 percent increase from 2009 earnings of $1.99 per share excluding items affecting comparability (please see Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements below for a reconciliation of this non-GAAP number).
     Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Ken Powell said, "This was an exceptional year for our company. We achieved broad-based sales growth and expanded gross margin, which allowed us to invest at above-planned levels in media support and selling capabilities. And our 16 percent EPS increase significantly exceeded the high single-digit rate we target in our long-term growth model."
Fourth Quarter Highlights
 
Net sales for the fourth quarter totaled $3.6 billion, 2 percent below prior-year results that included the extra week. Contributions from pound volume matched year-ago levels, with the impact of one less week and divestitures subtracting 7 points of growth. Price and mix subtracted 3 points of net sales growth. Foreign currency translation added 1 point of sales growth. Gross margin of 36.2 percent was below year-ago levels, primarily reflecting mark-to-market effects. Media investment grew 10 percent in the quarter. Segment operating profit declined 9 percent to $606 million. Net earnings declined to $212 million, including the $35 million tax charge (5 cents per share) discussed above, as well as $25 million after-tax expense (4 cents per share) associated with a recent debt repurchase.
U.S. Retail Segment Results
Fiscal 2010 net sales for General Mills' U.S. Retail operations grew 3 percent to $10.3 billion. Pound volume contributed 1 point of net sales growth including the impact of one less week, which subtracted 2 points of growth. Price and mix contributed 2 points of net sales growth. Segment operating profit increased 8 percent to $2.4 billion, including a 22 percent increase in media spending.
     Net sales for Big G cereals rose 5 percent with good performance from core brands, and strong introductory sales from Chocolate Cheerios and Wheaties Fuel. Snacks sales grew 6 percent led by Fiber One bars, Nature Valley bars and various fruit snacks. Yoplait net sales grew 2 percent including good contributions from new Yoplait Delights yogurt parfaits and Yoplait Greek yogurt. Net sales for the Pillsbury division grew 1 percent led by Totino's pizza and hot snacks, and Pillsbury Toaster Strudel pastries. Meals division net sales grew 1 percent, as gains by Green Giant frozen vegetables, Old El Paso Mexican foods, and various convenient dinner items offset sales declines in ready-to-serve soup. Baking Products division net sales matched year-ago levels overall, but Betty Crocker brownies, cookie mixes and new gluten-free dessert mixes recorded good growth. For the company's Small Planet Foods organic and natural product lines, net sales grew 3 percent.
     Fourth quarter U.S. Retail net sales were 2 percent below last year's results. Pound volume contributed 1 point of growth including the impact of one less week, which subtracted 7 points of growth. Price and mix reduced the rate of net sales growth by 3 points. Segment operating profit was 9 percent below year-ago levels. Media expense rose 14 percent in the quarter. This brand-building investment is expected to help drive continued good net sales growth into fiscal 2011.
International Segment Results
Net sales for General Mills' consolidated International businesses grew 4 percent in fiscal 2010 to exceed $2.7 billion. Pound volume matched prior-year levels including the impact of divestitures, which subtracted 2 points from growth. Price and mix added 3 points to net sales growth, and foreign exchange translation increased net sales growth by 1 percentage point. On a constant-currency basis, net sales grew 3 percent overall, including gains of 2 percent in Canada, 2 percent in Europe and 9 percent in the Asia / Pacific region. International segment operating profit declined 17 percent reflecting unfavorable foreign currency effects and a 31 percent increase in media expense.
     In the fourth quarter, International segment net sales grew 4 percent. Pound volume grew 2 percent including the impact of divested businesses and one less week, which subtracted 3 points of growth. Price and mix subtracted 1 point of net sales growth and currency exchange contributed 3 points of net sales growth. On a constant-currency basis, net sales rose 1 percent for the quarter. Segment operating profit was down 14 percent for the period primarily due to negative foreign exchange effects.
 
Bakeries & Foodservice Segment Results
Net sales for the Bakeries and Foodservice segment in fiscal 2010 totaled $1.8 billion. Pound volume subtracted 8 points of net sales growth including the impact of divested product lines and one less week, which subtracted 10 points of growth. Price and mix reduced net sales growth by 6 points, reflecting lower prices on certain commodity-indexed items. Segment operating profit increased 46 percent to $250 million. Successful efforts to emphasize higher-margin product lines and customer channels, lower supply chain costs, and productivity savings contributed to the strong earnings increase.
     In the fourth quarter, Bakeries and Foodservice sales of $459 million were 12 percent below year-ago levels. Pound volume was down 8 percent including the impact of divestitures and one less week, which subtracted 12 points of growth. Segment operating profit of $56 million was 4 percent below year-ago levels.
Joint Venture Summary
After-tax earnings from joint ventures totaled $102 million in 2010, up 11 percent from 2009 results. General Mills' proportionate share of joint-venture net sales totaled $1.2 billion, up 4 percent from the prior year. Net sales for Cereal Partners Worldwide increased 6 percent, while net sales for Haagen Dazs Japan declined 4 percent. Foreign exchange contributed 2 points of growth to joint venture net sales.
     Fourth-quarter earnings from joint ventures grew at a double-digit rate to $15 million after tax, reflecting strong net sales growth for Cereal Partners Worldwide. Combined joint venture net sales grew 10 percent in the quarter, with foreign exchange contributing 9 points of growth.
Corporate Items
Restructuring, impairment and other exit costs totaled $31 million in 2010, and are described in Note 6 to the financial statements attached below. Unallocated corporate items represented expense of $224 million in 2010 compared to expense of $361 million in 2009. The decrease in expense primarily reflects a significantly smaller reduction in mark-to-market valuation of certain commodity positions for 2010 than was recorded in 2009. Several other items also affected comparability of results year over year. These items are discussed in Note 5 to the financial statements attached below.
     Net interest expense in 2010 totaled $402 million, up 5 percent from fiscal 2009 levels including the fourth-quarter debt repurchase costs. The effective tax rate for 2010 was 35.0 percent including the $35 million charge associated with recent health care legislation. This charge is described under Note 4 to the financial statements. Excluding certain items affecting comparability in both 2010 and 2009, the effective tax rate would be 33.4 percent in 2010 compared to 33.6 percent in 2009. For the fourth quarter, the effective tax rate excluding items affecting comparability would be 33.4 percent in 2010 and 31.2 percent in 2009.
Cash Flow Items
Fiscal 2010 cash flow from operations totaled $2.2 billion, up more than 19 percent from the prior year due to strong net earnings growth. Capital expenditures in 2010 totaled $650 million as the company added manufacturing capacity to support growth in its cereal, snack bar and yogurt businesses. Dividends paid totaled $644 million in 2010, reflecting a 12 percent increase in the annual dividend paid per share. The company repurchased 21 million shares of common stock during the year for $692 million.
Outlook
"We expect fiscal 2011 to be another year of quality growth for General Mills," said Powell. The company's plans for 2011 assume 4 to 5 percent inflation in supply-chain costs. Noncash pension and post-retirement expense will be higher in 2011, reflecting a 165 basis point decrease in the discount rate year-over-year. Net sales are expected to grow at a low single-digit rate. Segment operating profits are
 
forecast to grow faster than sales, increasing at a mid single-digit rate. Earnings per share are expected to increase to approximately $2.46 to $2.48 before any effects of mark-to-market valuation. This EPS guidance represents growth of 7 to 8 percent from 2010 results excluding mark-to-market effects and the tax charge related to health care legislation.
General Mills will hold a briefing for investors today, June 29, 2010, beginning at 4:30 p.m. Eastern Time. You may access the web cast from General Mills' internet home page: .
www.generalmills.com
Earnings per share excluding certain items, total company segment operating profit, earnings excluding certain items expressed as a percent of sales, international sales excluding foreign currency translation effects and effective tax rate excluding items affecting comparability are each non-GAAP measures. Reconciliations of these measures to their relevant GAAP measures appear in the financial schedules and Note 10 to the attached consolidated financial statements.
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 that are based on our current expectations and assumptions. These forward-looking statements, including the statements under the caption "Outlook" and statements made by Mr. Powell, are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the potential results discussed in the forward-looking statements. In particular, our predictions about future net sales and earnings could be affected by a variety of factors, including: competitive dynamics in the consumer foods industry and the markets for our products, including new product introductions, advertising activities, pricing actions, and promotional activities of our competitors; economic conditions, including changes in inflation rates, interest rates, tax rates, or the availability of capital; product development and innovation; consumer acceptance of new products and product improvements; consumer reaction to pricing actions and changes in promotion levels; acquisitions or dispositions of businesses or assets; changes in capital structure; changes in laws and regulations, including labeling and advertising regulations; impairments in the carrying value of goodwill, other intangible assets, or other long-lived assets, or changes in the useful lives of other intangible assets; changes in accounting standards and the impact of significant accounting estimates; product quality and safety issues, including recalls and product liability; changes in consumer demand for our products; effectiveness of advertising, marketing, and promotional programs; changes in consumer behavior, trends, and preferences, including weight loss trends; consumer perception of health-related issues, including obesity; consolidation in the retail environment; changes in purchasing and inventory levels of significant customers; fluctuations in the cost and availability of supply chain resources, including raw materials, packaging, and energy; disruptions or inefficiencies in the supply chain; volatility in the market value of derivatives used to manage price risk for certain commodities; benefit plan expenses due to changes in plan asset values and discount rates used to determine plan liabilities; failure of our information technology systems; resolution of uncertain income tax matters; foreign economic conditions, including currency rate fluctuations; and political unrest in foreign markets and economic uncertainty due to terrorism or war. The company undertakes no obligation to publicly revise any forward-looking statement to reflect any future events or circumstances.
 
 
See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements.
 
 
See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements.
 
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
 
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
 
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
 
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


