FILE:GIS/GIS-8K-20110629080727.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (763) 764-7600
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
On June 29, 2011, General Mills, Inc. issued a press release reporting financial results for its fiscal year and fourth quarter ended May 29, 2011. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and incorporated herein by reference.
The information furnished in Item 2.02 of this Current Report on Form 8-K and Exhibit 99 attached hereto shall not be deemed to be filed for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to liabilities of that Section or Sections 11 and 12(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: June 29, 2011
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
MINNEAPOLIS, MINN.General Mills (NYSE: GIS) today reported results for the fourth quarter and full fiscal year ended May 29, 2011.
Fiscal 2011 Results Summary
 
 
 
 
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Ken Powell said, "This past year represented a challenging operating environment for food manufacturers, as we experienced the return and rapid acceleration of cost inflation for various food ingredients and energy. We're generally pleased with our 2011 sales and profit results, which met the key targets we set for the year and represent performance consistent with our long-term growth model."
General Mills net sales in fiscal 2011 increased 2 percent to $14.9 billion. Increased pound volume contributed 1 point of net sales growth, and price and mix contributed 1 point of growth. Foreign currency translation had no meaningful impact on the net sales growth rate. Gross margin expanded to 40.0 percent, reflecting increased mark-to-market valuation for certain commodity positions as well as effective holistic margin management (HMM) cost-saving initiatives. Excluding mark-to-market effects, gross margin was 39.4 percent. Following a 24 percent increase in media investment during fiscal 2010, media expense declined 7 percent in 2011. Segment operating profit rose 4 percent to exceed $2.9 billion, led by the company's International and Bakeries and Foodservice segments. Net earnings grew 18 percent to $1.8 billion, including a net increase in mark-to-market valuation of certain commodity positions along with a net benefit from certain tax items. Diluted earnings per share grew 20 percent to $2.70. Earnings per share excluding the mark-to-market effects and tax items would total $2.48. (Please see Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements below for a reconciliation of this non-GAAP number).
Fourth-quarter Results Summary
 
 
 
 
Net sales for the fourth quarter of 2011 totaled $3.6 billion. Pound volume declined 4 percent from strong year-ago levels, reflecting reduced depth and frequency of trade promotion in the period. Price
realization and mix contributed 6 points of net sales growth. Foreign currency translation added 1 point of sales growth for the quarter. Gross margin of 37.5 percent was above year-ago levels due to mark-to-market effects, HMM cost savings and price realization. Media expense was 9 percent below year-ago levels that increased 10 percent. Segment operating profit grew 14 percent, reflecting double-digit increases for the Bakeries and Foodservice and International segments. Net earnings reached $320 million, up 51 percent from year-ago results that included a $35 million tax charge (5 cents per share) related to federal health care reform and $40 million pre-tax expense (4 cents per share) associated with a debt refinancing. Diluted earnings per share grew 55 percent to $0.48 per share. Earnings per share excluding mark-to-market effects and certain tax items in both years would total $0.52 in the fourth quarter of 2011 compared to $0.41 a year ago.
U.S. Retail Segment Results
Fiscal 2011 net sales and pound volume for General Mills' U.S. Retail operations generally matched strong year ago levels. Total U.S. Retail segment net sales were $10.2 billion. Net sales for the Big G cereal division were 2 percent below year-ago sales that grew 5 percent. Meals division net sales declined 1 percent, as growth for Old El Paso Mexican products, Progresso soup, and Wanchai Ferry and Macaroni Grill frozen entrees was offset by softness in Helper dinner mixes and Green Giant canned vegetables. Pillsbury division net sales declined 2 percent, reflecting lower sales for Totino's frozen pizza. Baking Products division net sales were 4 percent below year-ago results. Snacks division net sales grew 5 percent in fiscal 2011, led by Nature Valley and Fiber One grain snack bars. Yoplait division net sales grew 1 percent. And net sales for the Small Planet Foods organic and natural foods division rose 13 percent, led by double-digit growth by Lrabar fruit and nut bars. U.S. Retail segment operating profit of $2.3 billion was 2 percent below year-ago levels, reflecting higher input costs. Media expense, which rose 22 percent in 2010, was down 9 percent in 2011.
Fourth-quarter net sales results for the U.S. Retail segment reflected significant year-over-year differences in in-store merchandising activity and pricing. This year's fourth-quarter net sales declined 2 percent, as strong price realization was offset by a 6 percent decline in pound volume. In last year's fourth quarter, pound volume grew 8 percent on a comparable-weeks basis, while net sales grew 4 percent. U.S. Retail segment operating profit grew 4 percent for the quarter.
International Segment Results
Net sales for General Mills' consolidated International businesses grew 7 percent in 2011 to $2.9 billion. Pound volume contributed 6 points of net sales growth, and price and mix contributed 1 point of net sales growth. Foreign currency translation did not have a meaningful impact on fiscal 2011 net sales growth. On a constant-currency basis, net sales grew 7 percent overall, including gains of 7 percent in Europe and 9 percent in the Asia/Pacific region. International segment operating profit totaled $291 million, up sharply from year-ago results that included unfavorable foreign currency effects. Media investment was essentially unchanged versus last year.
In the fourth quarter, International segment net sales grew 16 percent to $778 million, with pound volume contributing 6 points of growth, price and mix adding 3 points and foreign currency translation contributing 7 points. Segment operating profit rose sharply to reach $72 million.
Bakeries and Foodservice Segment Results
Net sales for the Bakeries and Foodservice segment grew 6 percent in fiscal 2011 to $1.8 billion. Pound volume essentially matched prior-year levels, while pricing and mix contributed 6 points of net sales growth. Net sales to foodservice distributors and operators grew 3 percent, net sales to convenience store and vending customers grew 11 percent, and net sales to bakery and national restaurant accounts increased 6 percent. Segment operating profit rose 16 percent to $306 million, reflecting net price
realization, effective customer channel and product strategies, and increased grain merchandising earnings.
In the fourth quarter, Bakeries and Foodservice segment net sales grew 11 percent to $502 million, as a 4 percent decline in pound volume was offset by strong contributions from price realization and mix. Segment operating profit grew at a double-digit rate in the fourth quarter to reach $90 million.
Joint Venture Summary
After-tax earnings from joint ventures totaled $96 million in 2011. This was below 2010 levels primarily due to the previously reported increase in service cost allocation for Cereal Partners Worldwide (CPW), our joint venture with Nestle. General Mills' proportionate share of joint-venture net sales increased 4 percent to $1.2 billion, led by higher sales for CPW. Foreign exchange did not have a meaningful impact on fiscal 2011 net sales growth.
Fourth-quarter after-tax earnings from joint ventures increased to $30 million. CPW net sales grew 10 percent, with foreign exchange contributing 8 points of growth. Earnings growth for the quarter also reflected timing differences of tax-related expenses.
Corporate Items
Unallocated corporate items represented expense of $184 million in 2011 compared to expense of $203 million in 2010. This primarily reflects favorability in the mark-to-market valuation of certain commodity positions year-over-year. Several other items also affected comparability of results. Please see Note 5 below for discussion of these items.
Net interest expense in 2011 totaled $346 million, down from prior-year expense that included costs for the fourth-quarter debt refinancing. The effective tax rate for 2011 was 29.7 percent. Excluding certain items affecting comparability in both 2011 and 2010, the effective tax rate would be 33.2 percent in 2011 compared to 33.4 percent in 2010. For the fourth quarter, the effective tax rate excluding items affecting comparability would be 35.0 percent in 2011 and 33.4 percent in 2010.
Cash Flow Items
Fiscal 2011 cash flow from operations totaled $1.5 billion, including a $200 million voluntary contribution to the company's domestic pension plan made during the fourth quarter. In the fourth quarter, the company also made an expected federal tax payment, totaling $385 million, related to the settlement of an Internal Revenue Service (IRS) review of corporate income tax adjustments for fiscal years 2002 to 2008.
Capital expenditures in 2011 totaled $649 million, reflecting new manufacturing capacity to support fast-growing product lines such as grain snack bars and multi-pack yogurt, as well as investments in cost-savings related projects. Shareholder dividends totaled $729 million in 2011, reflecting a 17 percent increase in the annual dividend paid per share. On June 28, 2011, the company announced a 9 percent increase in the quarterly dividend rate, effective with the August 1, 2011 payment. The company repurchased 32 million shares of common stock during fiscal 2011 for $1,164 million.
Outlook
"We expect fiscal 2012 to be another year of good sales and earnings growth for General Mills," said Powell. "Our business plan assumes significantly higher costs for ingredients and energywe're estimating 2012 input cost inflation of 10 to 11 percent. We expect our HMM discipline of cost savings, mix management and price realization to largelybut not completelyoffset this cost pressure. We believe the operating environment in many developed markets will remain challenging over the next 12 months. As a result, our plan assumes 2012 pound volume will be slightly below 2011 levels. We
believe that expected net price realization, together with a strong line-up of new products and marketing initiatives, should drive mid single-digit growth in our net sales in 2012."
The company said that segment operating profits are expected to grow at a low single-digit rate in fiscal 2012, including increased media investment that is expected to grow at least in line with sales. Diluted earnings per share are expected to increase to approximately $2.60 to $2.62 before any effects of mark-to-market valuation. This EPS guidance represents growth of 5 to 6 percent from 2011 results of $2.48 per share excluding mark-to-market effects and certain tax items.
The guidance provided above for General Mills' fiscal 2012 results does not include any impact from the anticipated acquisition of a controlling interest in the international Yoplait business. The company continues to expect this transaction will be completed during the first quarter of fiscal 2012.
General Mills will hold a briefing for investors today, June 29, 2011, beginning at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time. You may access the web cast from General Mills' internet home page: .
generalmills.com
Earnings per share excluding certain items, gross margin excluding mark-to-market effects, total company segment operating profit, international sales excluding foreign currency translation effect and effective tax rate excluding certain items are each non-GAAP measures. Reconciliations of these measures to their relevant GAAP measures appear in the financial schedules and Note 9 to the attached Consolidated Financial Statements.
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 that are based on our current expectations and assumptions. These forward-looking statements, including the statements under the caption "Outlook," and statements made by Mr. Powell, are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the potential results discussed in the forward-looking statements. In particular, our predictions about future net sales and earnings could be affected by a variety of factors, including: competitive dynamics in the consumer foods industry and the markets for our products, including new product introductions, advertising activities, pricing actions, and promotional activities of our competitors; economic conditions, including changes in inflation rates, interest rates, tax rates, or the availability of capital; product development and innovation; consumer acceptance of new products and product improvements; consumer reaction to pricing actions and changes in promotion levels; acquisitions or dispositions of businesses or assets; changes in capital structure; changes in laws and regulations, including labeling and advertising regulations; impairments in the carrying value of goodwill, other intangible assets, or other long-lived assets, or changes in the useful lives of other intangible assets; changes in accounting standards and the impact of significant accounting estimates; product quality and safety issues, including recalls and product liability; changes in consumer demand for our products; effectiveness of advertising, marketing, and promotional programs; changes in consumer behavior, trends, and preferences, including weight loss trends; consumer perception of health-related issues, including obesity; consolidation in the retail environment; changes in purchasing and inventory levels of significant customers; fluctuations in the cost and availability of supply chain resources, including raw materials, packaging, and energy; disruptions or inefficiencies in the supply chain; volatility in the market value of derivatives used to manage price risk for certain commodities; benefit plan expenses due to changes in plan asset values and discount rates used to determine plan liabilities; failure of our information technology systems; foreign economic conditions, including currency rate fluctuations; and political unrest in foreign markets and economic uncertainty due to terrorism or war. The company undertakes no obligation to publicly revise any forward-looking statement to reflect any future events or circumstances.
 
 
See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements.
 
 
See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements.
 
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
 
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
 
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
 
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
 
 
 
 
 
For fiscal 2011, unallocated corporate expense was $184 million compared to $203 million last year. In fiscal 2011 we recorded a $95 million net decrease in expense related to mark-to-market valuation of certain commodity positions and grain inventories, compared to a $7 million net increase in expense last year. This was partially offset by a $69 million increase in corporate pension expense in fiscal 2011. In fiscal 2010, we recorded a $13 million recovery against a corporate investment.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Diluted EPS excluding certain items affecting comparability follows:
 
 
Earnings comparisons as a percent of net sales excluding certain items affecting comparability follows:
 
 
A reconciliation of total segment operating profit to the relevant GAAP measure, operating profit, is included in the Statements of Operating Segment Results.
The reconciliation of International segment and region sales growth rates as reported to growth rates excluding the impact of foreign currency exchange below demonstrates the effect of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations from year to year. To present this information, current period results for entities reporting in currencies other than United States dollars are converted into United States dollars at the average exchange rates in effect during the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year, rather than the actual average exchange rates in effect during the current fiscal year. Therefore, the foreign currency impact is equal to current year results in local currencies multiplied by the change in the average foreign currency exchange rate between the current fiscal period and the corresponding period of the prior fiscal year.
A reconciliation of the effective income tax rate as reported to the effective income tax rate excluding certain items affecting comparability:
 
 


